














Emotional Intelligence 2.0



6 Books in 1 Bundle

Reading People, Self Confidence Workbook, Master Your Emotions,  Dark Psychology Secrets, Stop Negative Thinking, Anger Management

THEO CURTIS







© Copyright 2020 - All rights reserved.
The content contained within this book may not be reproduced, duplicated or transmitted without direct written permission from the author or the publisher.
Under no circumstances will any blame or legal responsibility be held against the publisher, or author, for any damages, reparation, or monetary loss due to the information contained within this book. Either directly or indirectly.
Legal Notice:
This book is copyright protected. This book is only for personal use. You cannot amend, distribute, sell, use, quote or paraphrase any part, or the content within this book, without the consent of the author or publisher.
Disclaimer Notice:
Please note the information contained within this document is for educational and entertainment purposes only. All effort has been executed to present accurate, up to date, and reliable, complete information. No warranties of any kind are declared or implied. Readers acknowledge that the author is not engaging in the rendering of legal, financial, medical or professional advice. The content within this book has been derived from various sources. Please consult a licensed professional before attempting any techniques outlined in this book.
By reading this document, the reader agrees that under no circumstances is the author responsible for any losses, direct or indirect, which are incurred as a result of the use of information contained within this document, including, but not limited to, — errors, omissions, or inaccuracies.







Table of Contents

Stop Negative Thinking


Part I: An Introduction to Stress


Chapter 1: What is Stress?


Stress Management


Types of Stress


Acute


Chronic


Chapter 2: The Nature of Stress


The Link to Your Brain


Relationship between Stress and Emotions


Chapter 3: Stress Checklist


Cause of Stress


Cost of Stress


Part II: Stress Relief Techniques


Chapter 4: Mind Decluttering and Emotions


Signs of Mental Clutter


Cognitive Distortions


Ways to Clear Your Mind


Chapter 5: Relaxation


Moments of Relaxation Dedication


Taking Care of Yourself First


Finding a Relaxing Hobby


Using Exercise for Stress


Simple Yoga for Stress Relief


Chapter 6: Meditation and Mindfulness


Mindfulness Exercises


Positive Body Scan


Who, What, Where, When, Why, and How


Methods of Meditation for Stress Relief


Dedicated Meditative Spots


Chapter 7: Overcoming Worry, Anxiety, Anger, and Fear


Normalizing These Feelings


Stop Suppressing


How-To Work through These Feelings


Express Anger Healthily


Talk it out


Chapter 8: Anxiety and Negative Self-Talk


Types of Negative Self-Talk


What This Does to Your Perception


How to Overcome Social Anxiety


Stopping the Self-Hate


Chapter 9: Breathing Strategy


The Importance of Healthy Breathing


Finding the Right Breathing Strategy


Chapter 10: Work Stress Relief


Identifying the Problem


Methods of Stress Relief


Chapter 11: Time Management Approach


Why We Struggle with Time Management


Ways That You Can Better Manage Your Time


Chapter 12: Stress and Sleep


How They Are Related


Tips for Stress-Free Sleep


Chapter 13: Stress and Alcohol


What Alcohol Does


How to Avoid Using it for Stress


Chapter 14: Stress Relief Food


Stress and Eating


Foods to Avoid for Stress Reduction


Best Foods for Stress Management


Chapter 15: Final Advice


References









Self-Confidence Workbook


Introduction


Part One: Identifying Self-Confidence


Chapter 1: Understanding Yourself


Get a Personal Assessment


Do Individuality/Personality Writing Exercises


Define Your Strengths and Weaknesses


Evaluate Your Priorities and What's Important to You


Understanding Self-Confidence


Understanding Self-Esteem


Understanding the Power of Positivity


Become Mindful and Aware


Be Grateful


Start Small


Change Your Environment


Journal


Chapter Overview


Chapter 2: Personality and Self-Worth


What Is Self-Love?


What Is Self-Respect?


What Is a Self-Critic?


Chapter Overview


Chapter 3: What Confidence Is All About


Self-Esteem and Self-Confidence


How Negative Thoughts Affect Our Behavior


Chapter Overview


Part Two: Solution and Steps


Chapter 4: How to Overcome Your Thoughts and Accept Yourself


Changing Your State of Mind


Chapter Overview


Chapter 5: Why Anxiety Happens


What Is Anxiety?


What Are Anxiety Disorders?


How Anxiety Affects the Brain


Benefits of the Need to Change Your State of Mind


Things to Consider When Practicing Techniques on How to Change Your State of Mind


Chapter Overview


Chapter 6: Dealing with Fear


Overcoming Shyness


Escaping the Fear of the Inner Critic


Fear of Failure


Chapter Overview


Chapter 7: Awake Self-Love and Appreciation


Awake Your Self-Love


Transform from Who You Are to Who You Want to Be


Chapter Overview


Chapter 8: Creating a Plan


Creating a Confidence Boosting Schedule


How to Create a Self-Love Routine


How to Make Positive Flashcards for Everyday Use


Chapter Overview


Chapter 9: Self-Care


Learn Meditation


The Benefits of Exercise


What Is Yoga?


Developing Better Socialization Skills


Chapter Overview


Conclusion


References









The Art of

Reading People


Introduction


Identity


Emotional Intelligence


Giving and Receiving Feedback


Accepting Change


Getting Used to Setbacks


Dealing with Challenging Relationships


Handling Deadlines


Stress Relief


Chapter 1: Understanding Personality Types


Sensing


Intuitive


Thinking


Feeling


Personality Types


ISTJ (Introverted, Sensing, Thinking, and Judging)


INFJ (Introverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Judging)


INTJ (Introverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Judging)


ENFJ (Extroverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Judging)


ISTP (Introverted, Sensing, Thinking, and Perceiving)


ESFJ (Extroverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Judging)


INFP (Introverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Perceiving)


ESFP (Extroverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Perceiving):


ENFP (Extroverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Perceiving)


ESTP (Extroverted, Sensing, Thinking, and Perceiving)


ESTJ (Extroverted, Sensing, Thinking, and Judging)


ENTJ (Extroverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Judging)


INTP (Introverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Perceiving)


ISFJ (Introverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Judging)


ENTP (Extroverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Perceiving)


ISFP (Introverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Perceiving)


Personality and Perception


Chapter 2: Identify Your Personality Type


Likes and Dislikes


Introvert vs. Extrovert


Social Settings


Communication


Decision-Making


Workplace


Relationships


Chapter 3: Sensitivity Levels


Self-Sensitivity


Sensitivity with Others


Environmental Sensitivity


Benefits of Being Sensitive


How to Embrace and Understand Sensitivity


Chapter 4: Types of Temperament


Temperament Through Childhood


How to Curb Temperament


Most Common Temperament Types


Sanguine


Phlegmatic


Melancholy


Choleric


Chapter 5: Personality Comparison


The 16 Personality Types Compared by Introverted and Extroverted Behaviors


Sensing and Intuition


Feeling and Thinking


The 16 Personality Types Compared by Feeling and Thinking Behaviors


Judging and Perceiving


The 16 Personality Types Compared by Judging and Perceiving Behaviors


Chapter 6: Personality and Love


Compatibility Check


Overcoming Differences


Personality Positives


How to Be Harmonious


Chapter 7: Personality and Emotions


7 Common Emotions


Anger


Fear


Disgust


Happiness


Sadness


Surprise


Contempt


Correlation


Chapter 8: Personality and Workplace


Start from Within


Meditation


Journaling


Volunteering


Improved Relationships


Chapter 9: Personality and Parenting


Try to Understand


Personality: The Child


Personality: The Parent


How to Improve Parenting


Chapter 10: How to Identify Personality Types


Body Language


Responses


Mindfulness


Change


How to Classify Personality and Temperament


Golds


Reds


Greens


Blues


Chapter 11: How to Change Your Personality


Make Realistic Changes


Consider the Factors


Break Bad Habits


Surround Yourself with Good People


Conclusion


Impacts of Personality


Understanding Others


Applying Change









Master Your Emotions


Introduction


Chapter 1: Understanding the Mind


Conscious vs Subconscious


Ego and Emotions


Compassion, self-esteem, and acceptance


Your Empathy


Level of Insight


Self-Directedness


Priming and Emotion


How Thoughts Determine Our Outcomes


The Power of Beliefs


Powering Your Conclusions


Chapter 2: Understanding Emotions


Why Emotions Are Powerful


When Do We Become Emotional?


Changing What We Become Emotional About


Chapter 3: The Negative Emotions


Understanding Grief and Agony


Grief


Denial


Anger


Bargaining


Depression


Acceptance


Agony


The Wrath of Anger


Surprise and Fear


Surprise


Fear


Biochemical Fear


Emotional Fear


The Harm of Apathy


Realizing Disgust and Contempt


Disgust


Contempt


How Much Pride is Too Much Pride?


Chapter 4: The Mind, Anxiety, and Stress


What Causes Anxiety?


Environmental Factors


Genetics


Medical Factors


Brain Chemistry


Withdrawal Factors


Anxiety and Everyday Life


How Stress Affects Us


Stress on the Body


Stress on Mood


Stress on Behavior


Chapter 5: Dealing with Negative Emotions


Dealing with Grief and Agony


Grief


Agony


Dealing with Anger


Dealing with Surprise and Fear


Surprise


Fear


Dealing with Apathy


Dealing with Disgust and Contempt


Disgust


Contempt


Dealing with Pride


Chapter 6: Eliminating Anxiety and Stress


Working with Anxiety


Back to the Present


Meditate


Rethink Your Emotions


Be Realistic


Slow Things Down


Commit to an Act


Maintain Good Posture


Avoid Sugar


Organize Yourself


Challenge Negativity


Working with Stress


Identifying Stress


Group Your Stress


Recognize Your Responsibilities


Reduce the Intake of Addictive Substances


Workout or Exercise


Take Some Time Off Work


Practice Mindfulness


Avoid Punishing Yourself


Get Good Sleep


Chapter 7: Emotional Intelligence


What is EQ?


Self-Awareness


Self-Regulation


Motivation


Empathy


Social Skills


Making EQ Work for You


Avoid the "I" and Make It About "Us"


Be Curious About the Other Person


The Face-to-Face Approach


Understand People's Expectations


Practice with Your Emotions


Do Not Criticize Your Emotions


Empathize, Don't Sympathize


Manage Your Emotions


Chapter 8: Enter the Positive Emotions


Courageousness


Managing Positive Emotions


Chapter 9: Decluttering Your Mind


Reframing Negative Thoughts


Tactic #1: Watch Your Emotions


Tactic #2: Distance Yourself from Your Thoughts


Tactic #3: Learn to Say No


Tactic #4: The Rubber Band of Defense


Tactic #5: Understand What Triggers Your Negative Emotions


Teaching Your Mind New Habits


Lesson #1: Replace Your Thoughts


Lesson #2: Accept the Scenario


Lesson #3: Convert Your Thoughts


Lesson #4: Designate a Time to Think About Your Stress


Chapter 10: The Power of Simplicity


Decluttering Your Surroundings


Simplicity in Your Home


Simplicity in Your Digital Life


Time on Your Digital Devices


Simplicity in Your Activities


Simplicity in Your Actions


Chapter 11: Living with Emotions


Your Life with Emotions


Managing the Emotions of Others


Empathy


Listen More


Do Not Make Judgments


Talk Slowly


Create a Connection


Ask Questions That Explore


Letting Go of Certain People


Think About the Positive Results


Consider the Impact on Other People


Explain with Reason


Don't be a Lone Warrior


When You Are Alone


Allow Yourself to Grieve


Conclusion


References









Dark Psychology Secrets


Chapter 1 - Introduction to Dark Psychology


Defining Dark Psychology


Do We All Have a Dark Side?


Understanding Mind Manipulation


The Benefits and Value of Persuading Others


Chapter 2 - Understanding the Persuader and the Manipulator


Who These Individuals Are


The Goal of Manipulators


The Goal of Influencers


The Types of Mind Manipulators


Narcissist


Psychopath and Sociopath


Those Who Are Commonly Influenced


Symptoms of Dark Psychology


Chapter 3 - Dark Psychology Traits


Body Language of Manipulators


Matching Body Language


Frequent Staring


Quick Talking and Hand Movements


Persuasion Tactics Used


Using Your Emotions Against You


Charming and Love Bombing


Oversharing Then Reverse


Confusion and Un-Comfortability


NLP Tactics


Chapter 4 - Reasons for Analyzing People


Why Use Manipulation?


How to Protect Yourself Against Persuasion


Emotional Intelligence


Symptoms of Brainwashing


Chapter 5 - The Art of Manipulation and Persuasion


Deception and Lies


Mind Control and Brainwashing


Understanding Body Language


How to Predict Others


Chapter 6 - Dark Psychology Steps


Victimization


Fear and Relief


Likability and Flirtation


Persuasion Preparation


Know Their Baseline


Chapter 7 - Dark Psychology Case Studies


The Milgram Experiment


Are You a Narcissist?


Facebook's Unknown Manipulation Experiment


Chapter 8 - Final Advice on Dark Psychology


What You Put Out Will Come Back


Never Make Assumptions


What to Do If You Get Caught in a Lie


Work on Yourself First


Remember Your Rights


It's OK to Walk Away


References









Anger Management


Introduction


Chapter One: About Anger


Understanding Anger


Types of Anger


Open aggression


Passive aggression


Assertive anger


Why Anger?


Anger helps get what you want


Anger helps establish your boundaries


Anger can help accomplish things


Anger can strengthen relationships


Myths About Anger


Anger is always negative


Anger and aggression are the same


Anger management is futile


It is all in your head


Anger is released by venting out


Ignore it, and it will go away


Chapter Two: Nature of Anger


Connection Between Anger and Emotions


Covering up any hurt


Masking inner tension


The fear of any emotional intimacy


Masking self-consciousness


Being unassertive


Masking sadness or grief


Connection Between Anger and Happiness


Chapter Three: Checklist For Anger Detection


Common Behavior Exhibited When Angry


Using justification


Anger can be controlled


Insensitive to the hurt they cause


Pride comes into the picture


Quite indulgent


Quick to get offended


Cannot forget or forgive


Harsh on the outside


Anger Checklist


Identify the Causes for Your Anger


Unfair treatment


Response to pressure


Dishonesty and disappointment can trigger anger


Any threat to your self-esteem


Experiencing discrimination or any prejudice


Being attacked


Chapter Four: Reasons for Anger Management


Costs of Anger


Your Heart's health


Increases the risk of strokes


Harms your immunity


Worsens anxiety


Depression


Hurt your lungs


Shorten your lifespan


The Inability to Express Anger


Impact on communication


Affects your health


Impact on your emotions


Effect on values


Effect on trust


About Anger Management


Benefits of Anger Management


Empathy quotient


Better relationships


Gives insight


Better judgment


Less stress


Avoid aggressive communication


Understand your responsibility


Chapter Five: Anger Management Steps


Steps to Follow


Awareness


Avoidance


Forgiveness


Courage


Communication


Habits to Develop


Setting boundaries


Look under the surface


Learn to respond


A short pause


Reach out


Shift


Chapter Six: Awareness


Self-Awareness for Anger Management


Befriending anger


Body's level of arousal


Uncover the fear of hiding behind your anger


All or nothing attitude


Develop Self-Awareness


Objectivity matters


Maintain a journal


Practicing self-reflection


Meditation and mindfulness


Emotional Awareness


Chapter Seven: Avoidance Strategies


Basic Strategies


Think before speaking


Calmly express your anger


Exercise can be helpful


Taking a timeout


Think about the possible solutions


"I" statements


Never hold onto any grudges


Start using humor


Practicing relaxation


Two-Steps to Control Anger


Chapter Eight: The Art of Forgiveness


Learning to Forgive


Acknowledging your anger


Forget about revenge


The other's perspective


Accept the hurt


Steps to Forgive and Forget


Saying a prayer


Being grateful


Learn your lesson


Let go of any resentment


Obtaining revenge positively


Chapter Nine: Act of Courage


Improving your Emotional Courage


Stop overthinking


The threshold matters


List of pros and cons


Chapter Ten: Art of Communication


Control Anger Using Communication


Step one


Step two


Step three


Step four


Step five


Communicating When Angry


Feel your anger


Don't react to anger with more anger


"I" feel


Subject


Listen


Write your thoughts


Chapter Eleven: Connecting Emotions, Thoughts and Mind


Control Your Thoughts


Don't let negativity get a hold on you


Positive self-talk


Stay calm even under pressure


Letting go of petty things


Changing your perspective


Maintaining a positive outlook


Start thinking before you act


Examining all the alternatives


Select the right path and stick to it


Reflect on your experiences


Restore Self-Confidence


Invest your energy carefully


Visualization can help


Try copying others


"As-if"


Step into the future


Let go of the negative internal self-talk


Ending Anxiety and Worry


Overcome anxiety and worry


Meditation Helps


Chapter Twelve: Positive Ways to Express Anger


Express Anger Without Hurting Others


Deal with Anger Constructively


Don't avoid any confrontation


Avoid the blame game


Keep your calm


Keep things professional


Try Yoga


Conclusion


References









Stop Negative Thinking

A Guide to Stop Worrying, Eliminate Negative Thoughts and Emotional Stress, Achieve Stress Relief and Become a Happy Person
JAKE SHARP
DEBUT BESTSELLING AUTHOR







Part I: An Introduction to Stress
Chapter 1: What is Stress?
Stress can be challenging to define because so many of us feel it in various ways. Some people feel stress to the point that they might punch walls and lash out on other people. Others can end up internalizing their feelings of stress and might even take it out on themselves through self-harm.
Measuring stress levels can be even harder. How many times have you heard someone tell you, "it is not a big deal!" When you were in the middle of a panic attack, someone might have tried to calm you down by telling you that it was all in your head, or that you weren't thinking clearly. While they might be trying to help, this can make things worse. On top of the stress, we might end up feeling guilty for our emotions in the first place.
We know for sure that stress is a response within our bodies. There is a chemical reaction that occurs when you start to feel stressed out. This is our body's natural way of protecting us. The problem is, once we are aware of our stress, sometimes the bodily reactions still end up happening, which could cause our anguish to be worse as well.
Stress is something that requires us to find a resolution. When we feel pressure, we prompt our minds to start looking for a way to help us feel better. What can end up happening is that we are even more stressed out by finding this solution. As you can see, the effects of stress can start to cause everything to feel even worse.
Unfortunately, many of us feel stress but don't have the best ways that we can manage it. You might be highly aware of all the ways you feel stress and how it affects your life. Figuring out what to do about all of this so you can move on and live happily and healthily can be the hard part that we won't always be able to make it on our own.
Stress was originally thought to be a way to describe how something can bend, the flexibility of an object. Think of a flexible plastic ruler. You can bend it pretty far back. Eventually, the stress is going to be too much, and it can snap right in half. Don't let this be you! While 
you will always have stress, it is OK, because it will be what you can handle. If you don't start to manage it now, you can find yourself snapping under pressure.
Stress Management
The thing about stress is that it will never go away. We will always have stressors in our life. We're always going to need to pay the bills. We'll always have a few relationships where we might be more susceptible to small fights. There will always be the chance of an accident - a flooded basement, a broken AC unit, or a broken glass window. These are all small stressors that are very real and common. We will never be free from at least the chance of these happening, but we can manage our stress. If we don't, then we will always live in unhappy ways.
It can lead to something worse, something that affects your health. The reason that so many people struggle with stress and how to manage it is that they think a happy life is one without fear. This isn't true! It's just a life where managing stress is easy and natural.
Stress can also lead us to something better, a healthier solution. If you positively use your stress to learn more about yourself and get to a better problem-solving situation, then you can find that being stressed out isn't so bad after all. There's no waiting for a better life. It's time to take what you have now and work with it in the best way possible.
It's important to differentiate between stress and a stressor. Stress is the emotional reaction that you have, and the stressor is what triggers that feeling. Nothing causes stress other than your response. The outside sources are just things that might be more influential, but at the end of the day, you will always have %100 control over your emotional reaction.
Stress management is when we can start to put our stress in a good light. When you are stressed about work, you can look at the situation and think, "What can I do to make this better," rather than, "I'm freaking out, and I can't do this." Good stress is healthy and can act as a motivation.
Think of the difference between going on vacation versus going to 
work in the morning. Both of these activities can be stressful in their own way. You're stressed about packing everything, flight schedules, hotels, and preparing your scheduled activities. When you go to work, you are hoping that everything goes smoothly and that it is over faster than you think. The difference is the perspective that we carry. When you go on vacation, it is fun. When you go to work, it is not as fun, so it can be harder to have a positive attitude around this.
Your perception of these stressors is what is essential in overcoming them. You likely won't get to a place where you are as excited about going to work as you are embarking on vacation, but that doesn't mean that we can't still live a happy life. You'll find ways to have a more positive perspective.
Picture the last situation that you and multiple people became stressed at once. Maybe someone dropped the birthday cake at a party, or you got home with your family to find the dog had destroyed all the couch pillows. How did everyone react? Maybe your mom said, "oh it is no big deal," while dad threw a fit and had to leave the room. Perhaps someone cried while another person left. This kind of situation can show how we all react to stress in different ways. When you start to understand your stress better, you'll be able to find the perfect way to measure it.
Types of Stress
Stress is frequently going to be derived from having little to no sense of control over any given situation. When we feel as though our fate lies within the hands of others and our voices go unheard, it can cause us to have stress. This doesn't mean that you are the controlling and influential person that needs to be in charge. We all want the sense that we choose what happens with our life.
Stress is not to be confused with anxiety. Stress is something that we all feel right away. When we have way too much pressure or have an inability to know how to react to it in a healthy way, it can lead to prolonged anxiety. Remember it like this:
Stressors lead to stress.
Stress leads to anxiety.
Stress is a reaction to a threat, which causes a chemical reaction within our bodies. You start to send out the stress hormone cortisol whenever you are afraid or feel pressure. This keeps your body ready and prepared to fight off any threats that might occur in the process.
Your flight or fight response can give you some insight into what your stress is (Nordqvist, 2017). When threatened, an animal will either fight back and try to gain power over the situation, or remove itself entirely and run away. Humans have this similar response, but we don't have the same threats from primordial days. For this reason, we have a heightened sense of anxiety, even when there are no apparent threats.
This behavior is seen in animals as well. Imagine having a cat in your home. If you walked up to that cat, yelling, waving your arms, and making other frantic movements, the cat might scratch you, hiss, and bite. It might also just run away and hide under the biggest piece of furniture in the house. This is the fight or flight response that most living predators have. Look at plants. They won't run away, but there are still some plants, such as Venus flytraps or poison ivy, that have natural defense mechanisms to keep it protected from threats.
It's not always the level of demand you feel that is causing your high stress levels. For example, someone in the most powerful position at a company versus an entry-level worker might have completely different levels of stress, having nothing to do with the power that they hold within this institution.
In animals, it is challenging to measure because they don't have the same cognitive abilities that we do. We don't know what they're thinking, and we often assign human reactions to them. We think that they're hiding under the bed, so this means that they're scared. We don't know what they're feeling. They could be perfectly fine and just more comfortable there. It's still a way to remind us that this feeling of stress is natural throughout all walks of life, not just within humans. The reactions that we pick up from animals are on a scale based around the type of stress that we understand.
Take a look at a domesticated versus a wild cat. If you have a domesticated cat, it will likely come up to visitors after a while, and eventually adapts to new people. It knows when feeding time is so it 
won't have to resort to killing small prey in the process. A stray cat won't react the same way. It will run away from people and be fearful of new visitors. It will eat when it can, and attack mice or birds if they see them to make sure they get to eat that day. Both cats when presented with similar situations would have completely different reactions based on their learned behavior.
Then, of course, some stressors will always cause them to feel different kinds of emotions. Someone physically hurting a cat would cause both the stray and the domesticated to react based on their fight or flight instincts, whereas someone trying to pet them might cause the tamed cat to be fine, but the stray to run and hide in fear. We can see from this behavior that both cats still have that natural stress and will never be totally free from it.
In order to gauge your kind of stress, you can determine if it is acute or if it is chronic. Is your stress something that happens when triggered by different events? Or are you experiencing stress that instead causes you to feel terrible every day, all day long? We have broken these types of stress down so you can understand what it is that you are experiencing.
This will be important in the ways that you try and manage your stress later on. Acute stress has different quicker methods of fighting off, whereas chronic stress might leave you more panicked and take a bit longer to try and reduce.
Acute
Acute stress happens more quickly. This is the kind of stress you might feel when you run late for work frequently, or if you run out of money while waiting for the next paycheck. It is more situational and based on one instance rather than having this kind of stress all the time. Acute stress is very normal, but still isn't something that we should accept as regular in our lives.
This is a rather common type of stress that everyone has felt before, but not everyone understands how they have the power to change it. Acute stress is something that eventually goes away, so the emphasis here will be on preparing ourselves so that we don't feel that stress rather than trying to cure these kinds of feelings.
We get fearful over what has just happened when we have acute stress. Maybe your boss sent an email that asks for an individual meeting. Perhaps you realized that you locked yourself out. Or two friends are texting you because they're fighting. Maybe you spent too much money over the weekend. Acute stress is when something happens, and then you become stressed.
We get stressed over the things that are coming our way as well. All of these examples show how acute stress creates worry over the future. You start to worry about what your boss is going to say, are you getting fired? You become anxious knowing you are going to have to sit outside and wait for three hours while your apartment's maintenance man comes to let you in. You're worried your friends are never going to reconcile, and you'll be in the middle of it forever. You spent too much money, and now you can't afford to buy groceries for the rest of the week. All of these things that happened triggered a feeling of stress, and that stress builds on itself as you start to become fearful over the future.
Acute stress will eventually go away once we solve the problem. After the meeting with your boss, the stress diminishes, he actually gave you a raise! It turns out you left your back window open, so you go in the back after locking yourself out. Both of those friends made up, and everyone's happy again. You check your wallet and find that $50 bill you hadn't spent yet. After all of these instances, the stress will go away.
This kind of stress is far less damaging. It can even help to kickstart a thought in your brain. You can tell yourself, "everything is going to be fine," because you can imagine a clear solution that will help to make things better.
You can make this stress less frequent, and you can have ways of managing it better. When this kind of stress manifests itself into something more damaging, then this is when you might struggle more. Maybe you have that meeting with your boss, and it went OK, but then you can't stop thinking about all the silly things you said, wondering if you made yourself look worse. Your friends reconciled, but now you are worried that they're going to become such good friends that they leave you out. All of the examples we discussed are things that can become fixed, and yet you still feel stress over those 
situations, no matter how unrealistic your worried thoughts are. This is when chronic stress can occur.
Chronic
Chronic stress is when you can start to see the most intense kinds of physical effects. You will find that your back is sore, your stomach aches, you have headaches, and you struggle with your eating habits. Chronic stress affects every single part of your body when you don't find methods to control it.
Acute stress that goes unmanaged and is frequent, can often lead to chronic stress that is harder to manage. If you are not aware of that stress or where it came from, it can be easy just to think that this is who you are and how your personality operates.
Bigger things such as your state in life, your family, relationships, or career path might lead to chronic stress. If you have a job that you absolutely dread going to every day, it will take a severe toll on your health. If you are staying late at work because you don't want to go home to your family, this tells you a lot about your relationship stress. Dealing with poor health can cause us to be stressed too.
You will often feel helpless if you experience chronic stress. You worry that there is nothing you can do to better your life, causing you to feel discouraged and trapped where you are at. You might frequently feel as though you are stuck living this way, and stress becomes a normal part of who you are.
It will feel as though this is just the way that you live life. Maybe you've already accepted your fate as someone very unhappy with where they are in life. If you grew up in a family that also experienced stress, then it will warp your perception and make you believe that this is the only way there is to live. Chronic stress convinces us this is the way things are - but it is time to recognize that this doesn't have to be the truth.
Chronic stress can be part of who we are because of the things that we were taught and the way that we were raised as we were children. If you were taught that certain things had more importance than others, such as status and wealth, then this becomes important to you. It isn't the reality of your situation, but it is the reality of your 
perspective on your situation. You will find that the things we were taught to understand as children play a huge role in defining how we view the world now.
You might find that this becomes insidious and is a way that you react to all situations. Perhaps others describe you as high-strung or like someone who acts erratically. Maybe friends keep information from you because they don't want you to react so stressed out. Chronic stress will change your personality and quickly become the type of person that you are.
There will be a breaking point, eventually. If you don't manage your health, it won't just go away. This isn't only a part of who you are. It's something that is destroying the real person hidden behind all the panic and worry. There is no better time to start to manage stress than right now.







Chapter 2: The Nature of Stress
The nature of stress can be hard to see at first, but we must unpack it so that we can start to see the ways that it has affected our lives overall. Growing up, as children, you likely didn't think about stress in the same way as you do now. Just because you didn't have anxiety over bills, marriage, and other "adult" things don't mean that stress didn't start until you graduated from school. We have always felt stress, we just understand it more in ways that align with common stressors.
Stress can spread throughout your life. Work stress can cause a strain on your relationship, and a marriage that you and your partner always fight in can lead to poor performance at work. When it seeps into one part of your perspective, it will affect all other ways that you understand and manage your stress levels.
Stress can even spread to your dog. If you are constantly worried and feel as though you are sharing that anguish at home, then your pets could potentially be picking up on this. You are their leaders, so when you are worried, it is going to leave them scared as well.
This was measured by taking the cortisol levels of a dog's hair to determine the levels of stress that it might be feeling. When cortisol was higher in pet owners they found it was higher in dogs as well. If you don't manage your stress for any other reason, at least let the main focus be your friendly pups (Arnold, 2019).
Cortisol is a stress hormone. This is where it all starts. We release many different hormones throughout our bodies, but this one, in particular, is important for various reasons.
Cortisol readies your body to react to a physical threat that you might be feeling. Your muscles will become tense. You are given a jolt of energy to focus. So, when you are lying in bed at night and remember you forgot to send that email, you find yourself wide awake once again. Your heart rate will increase, and your breathing becomes more rapid.
Cortisol is a hormone, which means that it will affect other hormones in our body. Whatever is released in one part of your body will mix 
with other hormones already present as well. Two people might feel the same stress in the same situation, but their bodies could still react differently based on the hormonal balances that are already present within their body.
Your stomach is a microbiome. It is one of the most complex organs in your body and does way more than turn food into feces. There are hormones secreted that affect the rest of your body. You wouldn't think this was the case, but more studies show the way our minds can be directly related to our digestive systems. We all have had butterflies in our stomachs, but there are more intense stressful feelings that you might have experienced within your gut.
Stress can eat away at your stomach. If you are holding onto a secret, living a lie, or doing something else that is causing intense stress, this could affect your digestion. Not everyone will have this reaction to stress, however. There are plenty of other ways that pressure can affect our bodies.
Stress can affect your immune system. When we're giving all that energy to being stressed out, then it can be easy to weaken our body's defenses. This might result in having a lowered immune system that makes you more susceptible to things like catching a cold, or other health conditions.
Stress might trigger different reactions in your skin and hair. You might find that chronic tension causes your hair to fall out, or that you have frequent breakouts on your face in various forms of acne. Stress might cause you to pick at yourself, maybe always popping pimples or picking at your cuticles. The more you do this, the more you can sometimes inflate your stress.
Stress will affect women's hormones, as well. Women seem to be more sensitive to stress and react to it internally frequently (Gregoire, 2014). It's not certain if it is societal or something that happens biologically, but women are very good at bottling up their stress, which can seriously alter the rest of their life.
This hormonal imbalance can lead to a reduction in your sex drive or irregular periods. Biological women do have different hormones than biological men, so the reason for these imbalances is likely because of the way that cortisol reacts within our bodies.
It could even lead to a reduction in fertility. Many women will desperately want to get pregnant but then not be able to. The moment that they "give up," or maybe decide to adopt instead, they might become pregnant. There are also women who are afraid they are pregnant because of a missed period. Then, when they take a pregnancy test, and it is negative, they get their period because the stress has been reduced. These examples alone can help you better understand how different bodies will react to stress, even if it is the same stimuli presented to different individuals.
The root of all these issues starts in the brain, so let's take a look at the way that stress can negatively affect all these aspects.
The Link to Your Brain
Stress can have effects on our brain, but let's first understand how it is created within our minds. You can be taught how to be stressed out, mostly because different reactions viewed and learned throughout your life might lead you to be more stressful. Imagine that a child trips and falls. It's something serious, but if one person were responding with a worried tone, the child might start to cry. However, if another person laughs and picks up the kid and brushes them off they are more likely to be OK. It's not necessarily the fall that causes them to cry, but the reaction that they're taught from this scenario.
We often think of our brain as just one thing that exists. We chalk it up to our heart or stomach, which has one function. This isn't true at all. Your brain is made up of many different parts working together to create one harmonious organ. For example, your left side is more for logic and reasoning, whereas the right is for creativity.
Your brain is the control center, the root of it all. It is a group of different tasks working together for your overall health. The thing is, we can change our brain without doing much! If you wanted to change your stomach, for example, maybe making it healthier and even smaller, you'd want to start a diet that would last a few weeks. If you want to change your mind, you could do it right now. The thing is, patterns of thinking are harder to break. You could change your mind about whether or not you like someone right now, but patterns of thought that work off past ideas can prohibit you from actually 
making that change easily.
When you are overworking a part of your brain, it can mean that the rest of your mind isn't able to function as smoothly. When you are stressed, then, this means that the rest of your brain used for logic and reasoning won't be able to work properly.
Think about how, when you are in a panic, it can be hard to make decisions. Think about how you might have been under a deadline for work, stressed about getting it done, or getting in trouble for not having it done. This can make it harder to work, setting you back even further.
One crucial part of your brain that might be affected is the hippocampus. This is one that is mostly responsible for memory storage. It is also essential for learning new things as well as regulating emotions. Within this, neurons are created when we store memories and learn new things. Chronic stress could lead to the destruction of these new neurons (Cherry, 2019). Your hippocampus could shrink because of stress, and this will leave you even more anxious in the long run.
The longer that you experience stress, the more that it will damage your brain. Again, you will never be free from stress, so don't be afraid that each moment you slightly panic you are ruining your mind. The issue here is when we have chronic stress that isn't managed in any way. You only have one brain, and you should treat it as it deserves. The good part about your mind is that you can retrain it, rewire it, and help it to learn in entirely new ways.
Children who experience stress can alter the way that they think. If you grew up in a stressed-out household, then it is going to be a lot more challenging for you to overcome some of your hardest stressful thoughts than others.
Don't be too fearful over stress. It is the prolonged negative stress, the kind that makes you sick to your stomach, that will end up causing the most damage. Don't let yourself become stressed out over being stressed out!
Relationship between Stress and Emotions
Stress can be broken down into the emotions you are feeling. This is one way that we can start to manage stress and how it happens. Some people will be emotionally a wreck because of stress, whereas others will be completely calm.
Anxiety can happen after we experience constant stress and it can seriously affect emotions. You can start to become more worried and even paranoid after prolonged periods of having frequent generalized anxiety.
Depression can develop as a result of chronic anxiety. You might get to a point where you are so stressed that you no longer see anything good in life. When we fail to be happy in any capacity, it changes the way we think and it can cause us to be depressed.
Anger can be a product of stress. You might feel overstimulated as if there is nothing you can do. We can become angry in an attempt to try and gain back that control over our environment. When we have this anger as a result of stress, it can cause other damage within our lives that might end up only making things worse.
Sadness, shame, and jealousy are also common emotions. You might feel sad over something that a friend did, causing you to stress and question your worth and the relationship. Perhaps you are stressed out over something small, like a friend getting engaged, and you feel ashamed that you are more jealous rather than happy for them. Stress can start to cause this complicated web of emotion within ourselves that feels impossible to break.
Negative emotions will usually be the result of stress. We start to think of the worst so that we can be prepared for the worst. We are already feeling bad when we're stressed, so it is easier just to validate those bad feelings with more negative emotions rather than trying to find the energy to think clearly and positively.
We might feel as though something is getting taken away from us. We grow scared that we're going to lose something essential to our survival within our lives. We feel afraid. We become more and more scared that something is missing in our lives when we can't control the stress that we experience.
Stress can also occur because our emotions are out of control, and it becomes difficult to handle. Perhaps you are tired of emotionally 
reacting negatively, always being anxious, or struggling to be happy even though you live a life that others only dreamed. Having no control over our emotions can be incredibly stressful.
When you can't get a grip on your reaction, you can feel like you have no control over your life. It's not like we want to be stressed out people that can't handle unexpected stimuli. This is just simply how we feel, and it can be seemingly impossible to break free.
We often give other people the responsibility for our emotions. We blame them and think that it is someone else's fault that we feel a certain way. Even though others might hurt us, sometimes even intentionally, we are still in control of our emotional reactions at the end of the day. Someone might punch you, but you will always have the choice whether you punch back, or walk away.
We become controlled by triggers that might lead to emotions, and this will make us afraid of everything. Perhaps you can't be exposed to specific situations, such as ordering a coffee or giving a presentation, without this triggering you into a state of panic. This can stress us out when we're in those situations, but it can also stress us out because we live our lives doing our best to avoid this at all costs.
There is no shame in this! It is absolutely to let stress and emotion seep into your life (Olivo, 2014). It is hard to control! That is why we are helping you to become aware of this now so that later, you will be able to understand the methods of stress management that will work best for you.







Chapter 3: Stress Checklist
To come up with a stress relief plan, you first make a checklist of what your stress is, and the effects it had on your life. This is the cause and effect, or the cause and the cost. Step back and look at the stress you feel and why it is there. Once you have been able to identify these causes, it becomes much easier to see how it is tearing your life apart. Only once we understand this, we will be able to solve the root of our stress at the core.
Managing stress is easy, but it is helpful to know where to start. Managing stress before you are aware of all the ways that it has attached itself to your life is not so easy. Stress can be treated like other health conditions. If you don't know that you have a cold, then you won't be able to treat your cough correctly. It could be allergies, or the flu, and many other things. When you get to the medicine aisle you won't know what to buy to best help your cold. We have to understand what our stress is on an individual level to best understand how to control it.
If you had a wound that needed ointment to heal, you could rub that oil all over your body and hope that it gets better, but it is going to have the best response if you rub the ointment directly on the wound. Before you start to determine how to manage your stress, which we'll cover in part two, you have to learn where it comes from and how it has attached itself to your life.
Stress can be like a spider infestation in your home. You want to start to find the root of the spiders and the webs they have built. Spiders aren't all bad, however! They help regulate mosquitos and other pesky bugs around your house. You don't want to rid the world of spiders, but you also don't want them in your home and ruining your life.
This is going to be a layered process. You won't become aware of everything about stress and how it has formed in your life right off the bat. It's going to take some time for you to understand just how bad it might be. Think of it like you would if you were watching a movie. When you watch the first time, you see all the obvious signs of what might happen in the end. Then if you went back and watched 
it a second time, you'd pick up on all the small things throughout the movie that you completely missed the first time around.
You're first going to pick up on the small things that you have in your life that are stressors. This might be getting angry and honking your horn frequently while driving in traffic. Maybe you snap at someone when you are hungry or running late for work.
As you dig deeper, you will start to understand the stress you have over the future. Eventually, you will get to know yourself. You will be able to find that point in your life and realize every nook and cranny that stress has managed to wedge its way inside.
Keep track throughout this journey. A journal is recommended for this process. Even if you aren't someone who enjoys writing, you can still keep track of the way that you are feeling in a journal. Create a chart and rate your stress, anger, sadness, or other defining emotions each day. You will start to see patterns, and even this small data collection can give you great insight into your life and the way that you think.
Cause of Stress
Your lifestyle can be one of the first reasons that you are feeling stress. If you live like you have unlimited money but have less than $100 in your account at all times, this can cause you stress. If you choose to push off work until the very last minute, this can also lead to stress.
Work employment can be very stressful. Perhaps you despise your boss, coworkers, or what you do. Maybe you feel as though you are not advancing fast enough, or perhaps you have a workload that no one could manage if they tried. Workplace stress is a common feeling that everyone has experienced at one point in their life.
Your relationship with a loved one could be the cause of stress. Maybe you are in a loveless marriage of fifteen years, but you don't want to leave because you have children. Perhaps you and your mother have completely different world views that put a strain on your relationship. Maybe there's a toxic person in your life that is causing you immense stress.
Your relationship with your family in itself is stressful. Perhaps you don't see them as often as you want to, or they don't give you your personal space. Maybe you have way too many family members to keep up with, or you struggle because you feel alone.
Financial stress can be very challenging to deal with. This is a huge reason that people all over the world are struggling in their life. Money doesn't just mean being able to buy things. It can also represent power and success within our lives, depending on our perspective, so this could seriously affect the way that you view the world and yourself as well.
Major life changes, such as moving or getting married, can cause stress. When you don't feel as though you have control over these things, that will make it even worse. What can be happy for some can also be incredibly emotionally taxing for others.
Feeling as though you are in danger could be a reason that you are stressed. Maybe you live in a country where there is a consistent threat of war, or frequent terrorist attacks have left you paranoid. An abusive ex or parent could still cause you to feel as though you are in danger long after you've cut ties with them.
Stress over your insecurities can cause you to feel chronic anxiety. Maybe you hate your nose, your hairstyle, your weight, or some other defining physical feature about you. We can easily become fixated on these types of things, and they can become stressors before we know it.
Stress over the future and aging, in general, can be challenging. It's never easy to think about just how little time we have on this earth, especially when we feel as though we're not properly adequately in the way that we could.
Losing loved ones can be stressful. Whether it is someone that struggled with an illness or a freak accident, grieving those that have passed is never easy. This can cause intense stress in your life if you don't handle the grieving process well.
Struggling with other illness, or the illness of others can lead to stress. Maybe you suffer because of a disability, or someone with a handicap is your sole responsibility. Either situation can lead to feelings of stress, especially if we don't address the reality of how 
these things can make us feel.
Your physical environments might be the reason that you are experiencing chronic stress. If you live in a messy home or rundown house, then this could lead you to feel stress. Constant heat and humidity, or a place that always rains or snows could also be a reason that you are struggling to manage your stress.
Looking past on your childhood can reveal a lot about the stress you experience now and why you might feel it. You might be someone that came from a home in which you weren't able to experience your stress correctly. Maybe you were taught to express emotions, or you learned to overreact to the smallest things.
Whatever your source of stress is, look at it genuinely in order to determine how you can turn your life around. Take a step back and look at your life from an outsider's perspective. Why is it that you are feeling so much anguish?
This will affect your world, so you won't even always be aware of the things that cause stress in your life. If you struggle to see it, ask others if they are aware of your stress in any way.
Cost of Stress
Stress can cost us. It may damage our minds and hurt our bodies. It can destroy who you are and make you into a person that you don't want to be at all.
Stress isn't easily measured, as we already discussed, so we will sometimes struggle to recognize it in the medical world. When we can't point our finger and plainly state that stress is experienced in different stages, or a certain amount of hormone is released, it can be harder to determine how to resolve it.
Stress can put you at a higher risk for other health conditions that might occur as you get older or make individual health decisions. For example, if you have a heart condition, then you might end up putting yourself at risk for a heart attack if this isn't properly managed.
Your memory can be affected by stress if mismanaged. If you go through life stressed, you might end up discovering that you can't 
even remember some of the most significant events in your life because your brain was working too hard and not retaining the right information.
Many individuals will experience chronic headaches. They might have migraines that make them sensitive to light and noise. They might feel tension within their skulls that lead them feeling even more stressed out than they were before the pain started. 
We can often experience acute pain throughout our bodies that don't help us to feel any better. We hang onto that tension, and it can lead to sore muscles and an aching body. Your shoulders can be painful from being always tense. Jaw issues are prevalent among those that keep their teeth clenched. Neck issues and even back problems can all be related to stress as well.
You might find that you are often lethargic, struggling to keep up with a healthy sleep cycle. When you are always stressed out, your body is using its energy on making sure that you are prepared for whatever threat it is that you might be anxious over.
Stress can lead us to feel as though our libidos are diminished. You can lose attraction to a romantic partner and have little to no desire to have sex whatsoever. This doesn't mean that you don't love the person you are with; you can be too stressed to do anything.
Our stomach and our appetites can be among some of the most difficult struggles we are faced with. You might overeat because you are stressed, or maybe you can't eat anything at all without feeling like you are going to puke. Stress is strange because it could either cause us to gain weight or lose weight depending on how our bodies react to these different kinds of stressors.
We might feel changes to our heart rates, chest tightness, and other concerning cardiovascular risks. Your heart is sensitive, and we have to treat it with care. Too much stress will weaken it.
Stress can cause sweating, and that's never fun to have to deal with. Excessive perspiration might be something you are embarrassed about, especially if you are soaking through shirts easily and having to shake people's hands while yours are drenched in sweat. It could also cause skin issues, such as excess acne, which could stress us out in itself. If you have other health conditions, such as psoriasis, then 
you might find that stress causes it to flare up.
Your relationships might be suffering because of stress. You might constantly fight and bicker with those that you are closest with. Perhaps you struggle to talk about real issues that need to be worked out with a partner because you are stressed about what they think.
Work can be a burden, and you might feel exhausted having to finish things. If you are stressed out, it can cost you valuable work time that could be used to improve your performance. You might discover that you don't get promotions, or maybe you even get fired, because of the way that stress has manifested itself within your life.
Small tasks can be significant challenges. They can take a toll on your mental health and make you feel as though you aren't capable of anything. Getting out of bed, getting dressed, and even taking a shower can all become incredibly challenging if stress takes over your body and your mind.
You might not enjoy the things that used to make you happy. Maybe you've given up on something like painting all because you are too stressed out afterward about not being talented enough. Perhaps you used to enjoy playing guitar, but now the thought of messing up notes keeps you from picking up the guitar.
It can make you feel isolated and alone. Stress can give you the perspective that you are the only one experiencing this and that you can't relate to others. When we feel like we have no one to talk to, it can cause us to feel even more stressed out than we were initially.
You might experience feelings hopelessness, unable to know what to do to make yourself feel better. This is all completely normal! Even though it might seem as though others have their lives together, we never know what goes on behind closed doors. Stress is common, so you are not wrong or out of the ordinary for this experience. Although it is frequent, this doesn't mean that we have to accept the way it makes us feel. You have all the power you would ever need to manage stress and it is already within you!
Part II: Stress Relief Techniques
Chapter 4: Mind Decluttering and Emotions
When there's clutter around, it can be a little distracting. Even though you might not consciously be thinking about it, your eyes still see it, and on the smallest level, that is still taking up some brain power as you have to ensure that you are processing everything you see in front of you.
If you have stacks of magazines, a guitar you never play, and other unfinished projects lying around, it is going to make it more challenging to focus. You will still think, somewhere, even if it is in the darkest depths of the back of your mind, that you should be giving attention to this project. Even though you might not actively think, "I really need to start retaking my guitar lessons," your brain still thinks about that guitar, which could trigger other subconscious thoughts.
When you are not actively clearing your mind, it can be a lot harder to learn new things or pay attention to what you should be focusing on in front of you. Just as a cluttered home can keep you distracted, so can a mind that isn't correctly processing thoughts. Sometimes, we might obsess over an idea and let that become our main thinking point throughout the day. However, we all have to take a moment and make sure we hit the "reset" button every once in a while to give ourselves a clear-thinking pallet.
Think of your mind like a chalkboard. You write one thing down, maybe a quote. Next up, you have to write a formula, so you do so in the blank space underneath. You continue to add things but never erase anything. Eventually, you are not going to have any room to write anything else. If you don't properly work through what was already there on the board and clean it off, it will still show through the next thing you might write down. You want to ensure that you are giving your brain a chance to become completely clear. Wipe it clean like you would the chalkboard to make sure that you are not letting yourself become too distracted.
The benefits of decluttering your mind are clear. You will be able to see things in a new light. You can start to have a better sense of the things that are most important in your life. You will no longer have 
to worry about the small stressors that might have been distracting you before.
When your mind is filled with stressful thoughts, it only makes it easier to think of more stressful things. You can start on a pattern of stress that is seemingly endless. You will think of one stressful thought, and then remember all the other pressing issues that you have to attend to all because you have started down the road of stress. Before getting into what mental clutter looks like and how to overcome it, identify your clutter so you can have a sense of the things that you need to free your mind.
Signs of Mental Clutter
Mental clutter is sometimes common to see, but when that's all we know, it is hard to realize just how cloudy our brains can be. When you are in the middle of your mental mess, it is going to be a lot harder to pull yourself from this! Clutter can be like quicksand, whether it is physical or not. The more that you have surrounding you, the easier it is to sink deeper and deeper into it.
When you hold onto specific thinking patterns, then it can be harder to create a newer headspace. If you want to free yourself from chronic stress, it is time to pay attention to the thought processes that are keeping you stuck in the past. Overcoming stress and managing it in a healthy way will involve starting a new chapter in your life. You won't be able to think the same way that you do now if you want to move onto a more stress-free life. You have to create a new headspace, and that will start with cleaning out what is there already.
When you always feel sad and isolated, it might be a sign that you are letting other thoughts beyond reality dominate your thinking patterns. It is easy to feel lonely even when we are in a crowded room, but you have to remind yourself that you are not alone. We all have own mental anguish that we hide from others, so just because someone isn't expressing their pain in the same way that you are, this doesn't mean that they can't relate to the emotions that you might be feeling.
If you feel as though you might be struggling beyond the anguish 
anyone else feels, then you might be throwing yourself what some refer to as "pity parties." When we start to convince ourselves that "no one understands me," or that others aren't able to feel pain as deeply as you do, then you are the one that is isolating yourself. We all feel pain differently, but everyone has their problems, struggles, and agony. If you are poor and see someone wealthy thinking they have it all, then even this is a misguided way of thinking. Just because someone is wealthy doesn't mean they are free from pain, just as someone poor doesn't necessarily have to be depressed. Money certainly makes life more comfortable, but as you can see, it is the perspective that matters the most.
When you struggle to make a decision, even something as simple as what to eat for dinner, you might be having an issue with mental clutter. The smallest tasks can be rather challenging to overcome when you are mentally cluttered. Work stress can make it hard to decide what to cook for dinner, and before you know it, you are arguing with your partner in the frozen section at the grocery store because you can't decide between two different types of pizza. The issue here isn't the pizza. It's the unmanaged stress that has carried over - the mental clutter.
Uncertainty and having no faith in the decisions we might want to make can present their challenges for us (Morin, 2018). We all second-guess ourselves and reflecting on our choices can be important in helping us prevent ourselves from making mistakes in the future. However, it can get to a point where we have zero faith in ourselves and can't make a decision just because we're so insecure about picking the right answer!
If you keep up with consistent fantasies well beyond your present reality, then you might need to do some mind-cleaning. It's easy to daydream while waiting in line at the DMV or at a party you were forced to go to in the first place. Long thought out fantasies and frequent episodes of escaping to a different world in your mind is a hint that you might have some mental clutter that needs to be let go.
These are some other cognitive disorders that can present challenging thinking patterns. When you become aware that these are negative or unhealthy thinking patterns, it will be easier to recognize them and work through them.
Cognitive Distortions
A cognitive distortion is a pattern of thinking in which reality is twisted to suit a perspective that you might already have. When you are stressed, it can be easy to see the world through the eyes of someone experiencing multiple stressors. You will imagine only negativity as opposed to being able to think about the positive aspects of your life. Our minds are focused on reinforcing thoughts that are a bit negative.
Why we think in way is up to the individual. Not everyone experiences these cognitive disorders, but once you do, it can be easier to start to create a web of negative thinking. Rather than seeing the positive reality of some situations, you might start to pick out only the bad things that happened to validate these perspectives.
Our brains are self-preserving, so it can sometimes be natural to try and reinforce some of the things that we believe to be true. Your brain wants to protect itself at the end of the day. This is why we work, so we can eat, provide shelter, and do other things necessary for our health. It's why we love, so we can feel better, and get the support needed while making an emotional connection with others. Your brain wants to make sure that you are taken care of and that you are protected in all aspects. We do still think of others, but a lot of the patterns of thought we have come from a place of maintaining our perspective.
When you have a negative perspective, your brain is then going to be more likely to validate that rather than challenge that. Think about a friend who comes to you discussing issues with a relationship. The first thing you would probably do is support them, tell them that they're right about their feelings and things like that. You might challenge them, later on, to see things from the other person's side, but it is natural first to find ways to validate these thoughts. Your brain will then do that. So, if you come home from work and think, "I hate my life, today was terrible," then you will think this the rest of the night. You will see a sink full of dishes and an empty fridge and get discouraged. You'll look for something to watch and think to yourself how there is never anything good on TV. You'll keep validating the idea that today was terrible rather than 
looking for ways to think about how today was great.
These things - the sink full of dishes, an empty fridge, and a lack of something to watch - these can all be bad things. They can also be good! A sink full of dishes means that you enjoyed the food in the past and had a plate to put it on. An empty fridge means that you can store food when you want. A TV means that we can watch amazing shows with nearly unlimited resources for finding new things to watch. The reality of the situation exists, and you can decide to either see the positive or the negative perspective.
"All or nothing" kind of mentalities can cause mental confusion. As humans, we often label things because this is easier for us to understand. You can label things as either black or white, big or small, plentiful or scarce, feminine or masculine, good or bad. However, if we only allow ourselves to see the world in two ways like this, it gives us an "all or nothing" mentality. If you are late to work once, you might label yourself as a bad worker or someone irresponsible. If someone is rude to you once, you might label them as a bad person. If you watched one episode of a new TV show and didn't like it, then that means the entire show is bad. This mentality limits us and rather than helping us to understand something, this extreme labeling keeps us from having intellectual discussions. To combat this thought process, notice when you are labeling something. Have you given it a fair chance? Could it be something in the middle?
When we make assumptions and overgeneralize an entire situation, this can keep us thinking negatively. Assumptions are another way that we might try to take a mental shortcut to understand something better, but again, all that happens is we end up limiting our intellectual capabilities. Your assumptions might often be right, but don't feel the need to make them all the time. This can lead to a stressful life if unmanaged.
It's always good to be prepared, but sometimes, our brains get good at picturing the worst possible thing that could happen. Try instead to imagine the best case. Then, the truth will likely be somewhere in the middle. Sometimes we think so negatively because it is a way to prepare ourselves. Rather than being disappointed that things didn't turn out in our favor, it is easier to never get your hopes up in the 
first place. The issue here isn't the perspective, it's the situation that determines your emotion.
Let's take the example of inviting a particular friend to your birthday party. Maybe that friend flakes frequently and you can't trust they're coming just because they say they are. You could choose to be optimistic and hope they come. You could be pessimistic and assume that they aren't coming because of their past. Or you can deal with reality as it comes, and accept that if they don't come, you'll be fine, but if they do, you'll be even better. Being either angry or hopeful are strong emotions, and you are not wrong for having them. However, you might fall into a pattern of always being angry that could damage you in the long run.
Giving control to anyone but ourselves over our actions and decisions can be a cognitive distortion. Another person might do something harmful or damaging to you, but this doesn't mean that they control your emotions. You might think, "They made me feel mad," but they didn't make you punch a hole in the wall. Separate the emotion from the action, and you will start to see reality more frequently and easier.
A weighted mind, believing that something is fair or owed to you, can be a challenging way of thinking. We are owed our fundamental human rights from other people, but the idea that we aren't living justly can damage our perspective. Fairness is measured in a complex way. Just because someone has something you don't doesn't mean that things aren't fair. You might have something else that they don't have. Don't measure fairness as a black and white 50/50 scenario. It is much more complicated than that.
Placing blame on others is a sign that you might be thinking with cognitive distortions. It might be someone else's fault for an accident that occurred, but they can't be blamed for everything that happened after that. You could do this if you wanted, but in reality, it is only going to hold you back. You are giving power to them rather than taking it for yourself, and if you do this too often, you will end up feeling helpless.
Once you become aware of these distortions, it starts to get a lot easier to overcome them. You won't be able to switch the way that you think overnight. The first step is recognition, and from there, 
you can work to think a little clearer and brighter every day. Here are a few more methods of clearing your mind that will help you to de-clutter.
Ways to Clear Your Mind
This is a good place where becoming aware of your thought patterns through the use of a journal. You should start to keep track of all the cognitive distortions that you had. What thinking pattern did you notice, and how are you able to turn it around?
Remember always to question reality. How would someone else see this situation in the same way? How might you be able to describe this pattern to someone else? Challenge your thoughts and gain a sense of what is happening rather than basing everything off your perspective.
Let go of old thoughts. This doesn't mean that you have to forget everything that ever comes into your mind. You should merely be emphasizing working past those previous emotions and creating new feelings within yourself to heal and overcome.
Forgive people. You have an unlimited amount of storage for your memory, so you won't need to worry about running out of space to remember. However, if you don't forgive, that means you think about what happened consistently. Forgiving doesn't mean pretending it didn't happen. It means that you are letting go of the hurt that you felt at the time so that you can move on. It means finding a new emotional balance in which you can grow and heal rather than festering in what happened.
Remember to focus on small goals right now. You might have a million ideas in your head for things that you want to do, but you should focus on one thing at a time. It will be easier in the long run to focus on the most important tasks and completing them before moving on rather than doing it all at the same time. This can cause mental clutter and confusion that can make it more challenging to move on.
Remember that your situations that you experience now, no matter how bad, will play into building the person that you will become. Even the most hurt that you have ever felt in your life still taught 
you something. The most significant pain you've ever experienced managed to give you clarity in some way. It won't always be easy to see, especially right after the pain is experienced, but all that you live through is important in creating the person that you are right now.
Ask yourself what this mental clutter has ever done for you? How has being distracted and caught up on other thoughts kept you from becoming the person that you want to be? What things might you have been able to do in your life if you would have been able to think freely and clearly?
Take time to do mindless activities, such as playing a game, watching a bad movie, or just zoning out and listening to music. Not every second of your day needs to be packed with stimulating content. Give your mind a break and a chance to reset, and you will find that it becomes easier to manage stress as you do so.







Chapter 5: Relaxation
We could all use a little more relaxation time in our lives. Some individuals struggle to relax because our fast-paced world puts so much pressure on us to do something all the time. This doesn't have to be the way that we live! It's perfectly fine, and healthy, to get some relaxation in when you can. Going to sleep at night doesn't mean that you are relaxing either! This is the bare minimum of the relaxation things that we should be doing. The focus should be on carving out more time than just what you are already doing to relax and de-stress.
Remember the days when someone already made food for us without thinking about it? We could sleep in on warm summer vacation days, our laundry magically cleaned and folded itself, and other great benefits of just being a kid. The thing is, we never took the time to relax and enjoy these things because it was our way of life. We figured this was the way life was supposed to be. We have more responsibilities now, but we are also more aware of how we should be grateful for certain things in life, while also emphasizing the importance of reducing the stress that we are regularly feeling.
Even though you might have a lot more going on right now, you still need to remember to appreciate the little things in life. What is the point of working so hard in the first place if you can't relax and enjoy it? Why do we push ourselves if it means that we're never going to reward ourselves with moments of happiness and relaxation?
Keep track of the things that you are most grateful for. When you can keep up with this, you will find that it becomes much easier to relax about life's biggest stressors. Every time you want to complain about something bad that's happened, look for the positive of that. Even if it is a tragic event, what might you have been able to learn from this experience? If not you, how might others have at least benefited from this process?
The benefits of relaxation are clear. You will start to live a happier life because the moments that you dedicate to relaxation are great. But even better than that, you will find that you are enjoying your life outside of these peaceful moments. Rather than being stressed 
out all the time, you might be able to start to enjoy your life and the things that come into it.
You will lower your heart rate, which can help to regulate your blood pressure as well. You can increase the way that your body's systems work overall. You might improve your immune system, and the way that your brain will benefit from this are immeasurable.
When you are actively relaxing, it makes it easier to take in information about even the most stressful things that cause you to feel negative. When your mind is clear, and you can focus on really combining logic and creative patterns of thinking, and you will get better results than when you are stressed out all the time.
You can have a clear head, which will help you remember things better as we discussed previously. You can be focused and centered on reality, and this will give you the best life possible that you deserve.
Moments of Relaxation Dedication
We sometimes wait for relaxation to come to us. We keep pushing it further and further back. We might sit down for a movie, only to tell ourselves that we can go back to that later and choose to continue to work instead. Relaxing can be hard when we think about all the other things that we could be doing! You have to remember that if you don't carve out specific time to relax, then all those other things you have to do will be so much more taxing because you are so tired!
Make sure that you spend time alone. It might be uncomfortable for some people, but you should get to know yourself. Take yourself on a date and have a fun time where you treat yourself to something a little special. Go to a nice dinner alone, do a little shopping, and watch a movie in bed while you fall asleep one night a month. If you can't enjoy spending time with yourself, then this means that you aren't comfortable with who you are. If this is the case, then it will be even harder to start to manage the stress that you feel.
Do things like taking baths or getting massages - cliché relaxing things! These will help you feel good about yourself and will relax you physically. When your body is in a state of complete relaxation, it will be easier for your mind to follow this pattern as well.
Find things that you enjoy, and only you. Have something that you can dedicate to yourself. Maybe it is a band, a show, or even a weird food. Whatever it is, keep something personal to you that you can enjoy more than others. It will give you an intimate way to connect with yourself and start to create a new relationship.
Give yourself a set cut-off time. If you have a specific task to complete, work on it until the chosen time and not just until it is done. If you have a project that you have to do and you say that you are just going to finish it today, then you might find ways of procrastinating, or you might buckle under pressure and not get as much done. When you say, I'm working until ten then relaxing, it can be a little more of a promise to yourself that you will have that time to decompress so you don't have to put that intense pressure on yourself to get it done. You're saying that even if you don't complete it, you will still be allowed to have time to relax, and this will make it easier for you not to be so stressed and panicked as you complete the task.
Spend a little extra time on the things that you already do to take care of yourself. This means showering, cooking, and anything else that's a requirement for basically being alive. Don't just work through these things as fast as you can. Take a minute to sit down and enjoy them, and it will make everything else in your life more enjoyable.
Set boundaries with other people as well. It's OK to want to be alone. Just because you are not doing anything at the moment doesn't mean that you have to hang out with someone because they ask. It's good to get out there and participate, mainly because life is so short. However, you don't have to say "yes" every single time someone asks if you want to hang out.
Turn your phone completely off. Turn the internet off in general if you want! It can be easy to get hung up with the things we see on the internet, but we have to remember that it is all perspective and sometimes that can take a toll on our emotional health.
Always keep a bottle of water with you and it is a good idea to keep snacks around as well. You never realize how much stress comes from hunger. Take care of yourself like you would someone you love, and you will realize that you will start to feel so much less 
stress.
Taking Care of Yourself First
Don't be a yes-man. It's always nice to have that friend who will do anything for you at the drop of a hat but remember that you need to take care of yourself too! Don't say "yes" to things that can cause you pain or put you in an uncomfortable situation.
It's easier to be passive sometimes. Sometimes you might want to say "yes" and get the task over with rather than dealing with the fallout of what might happen if you say "no." Don't feel bad if this sounds like you but remember that you don't have to be the person to say "yes" all the time.
Always consider the plane analogy. When you ride in a plane, the attendants will always tell you to put the mask on yourself first before you put it on your children, or anyone that needs help around you. This sounds a little crazy, right? You would think that you'd want to help children first! However, if you did this, then you would run out of oxygen and pass out or even die before you got the chance to put your mask on. You will be able to help more people when you help yourself first. 
Whenever you say, "it is just easier for me to do it," to yourself in any given situation, ask afterward, "am I OK with doing this forever?" We often think about the moment and how we can remedy it best, but you should think of yourself in the future. It might be easier to do it in that moment, but will life in general be easier for you if you do this every time?
Consider your needs all the time. Check and make sure that you are taken care of first, and then you can start to say "yes" to other people. If you ever struggle to say "yes" to someone because you feel guilty and want to turn them down, imagine if they would do the same thing for you, in the same situation. Of course, if you have a hefty savings account and make a decent living when your friend asks to borrow $50, if you asked them, they wouldn't be able to say "yes." But if they were in the same situation as you, would they say yes? That is what you will need to ask yourself. If you don't think that they would do the same for you, then don't feel guilty about not doing the same for them.
Don't be afraid to cut people out of your life. If people are upset that you aren't as much of a "yes-man" as you were, then let this be a reminder that it is good you are getting them out of your life now.
Sometimes we don't want to be the bad guy, but eventually, that is what we can turn into if we don't take care of ourselves. Maybe you don't want to be the one to hurt a friend, but if you are hurting yourself in the long-run, then you are still causing damage to someone that doesn't deserve it - you.
Finding a Relaxing Hobby
Everyone needs something that they're passionate about, and that they enjoy doing. Make sure that you take some time in your life to find it. Whether it is doing sudoku or going rock-climbing, your passion is your own, and you should allow yourself time to explore these opportunities.
Playing an instrument is a great hobby to keep you focused and connected to yourself. It will also make you feel good about yourself because you will be able to start to accomplish minor tasks.
Consider trying out a new artistic hobby. When you can get creative through mediums like painting or sculpting, you can also reduce stress by expressing your feelings. This can give you a clear head because you are focused on creating something new, and it will build confidence because it becomes a physical achievement that you can show off and be proud of.
When you write, you can really start to figure out yourself and your thoughts better. If you are someone that doesn't completely cringe at the thought of writing, then you should try to write at least five minutes every day. Do it right after you wake up in a dream journal or having your moments of writing be the last thing that you do before you go to bed. Take time to reflect and share your feelings, and emotions and you will find that it becomes so much easier to de-stress from the things that cause you consistent mental anguish.
Cooking is a great way to take care of yourself while developing more skills. Just like the other creative activities, you will be able to show that you've accomplished something, while also distracting yourself from stressful thoughts that could manifest into something more 
serious.
Gardening keeps you connected to the Earth as well. You can watch something as it grows from being a seed to something more substantial, and this will help to remind you of the beauty of life.
Another great hobby that also doubles as a proven method of stress-relief is exercise. It's not just important for your mental health, but a requirement for good physical health as well.
Using Exercise for Stress
Exercise is something that can cause us to stress out in the first place. Maybe you get anxiety at the thought of going to the gym, or perhaps having to put on tennis shoes to go for a walk is something that causes you a ton of mental anguish. It's important that if this is the case, you start to change your perception of exercise.
If we don't start exercising now, it will make more of an issue later on with our health, and that's only going to lead to us feeling even more stressed out! Exercising de-stresses you physically, but it also provides an excellent way for your mind to reduce the stress that it might feel as well.
When you are stressed, you produce cortisol. When you exercise, you produce endorphins. These will help to combat those feelings and make you happier in the end. It's good for your body, but even better for your mind.
Exercising gives you something to focus on. When you are angry, you can go to the gym and start running. This will keep you more distracted and rather than letting your mind wander to the deepest and darkest places. You will be able to power through the thing that was causing you to feel so bad in the first place. When you are overly stressed, you can release that tension by doing things like joining a boxing class and taking it out on a punching bag!
Start with simple methods of exercise. This can be something as simple as going for a ten-minute walk every day. If you do choose walking as your method of training, you will find that this helps to keep you mindful as well.
If you struggle with motivation, look for other groups. Maybe there 
is free yoga in the park or even an exercise class at your library. Spin cycle classes are popular and help those watching become motivated to keep exercising. You'll be surprised at the way that a group of like-minded people can motivate themselves to do better than they were before.
Dancing will always be a wonderful way to work out your entire body. It will help you let loose so that you aren't afraid of what others are thinking. You can express yourself through dance and become more connected with your body in the process. Another great exercise that helps to de-stress is yoga.
Simple Yoga for Stress Relief
Yoga is a healthy way that you can relax your body and also workout to get those feel-good endorphins flowing. It helps to activate the vagus nerve, which is essential for stress relief and feeling calmer in general.
Start with simple breathing exercises to get you into the mindset for someone who can focus on yoga. This will involve breathing in and out in a pattern that helps to elicit feel-good emotions.
Make a fist with your right hand and stick out your thumb, and your pinky and index finger. Press down and close your left nostril with your pinky and index finger. Breathe in through your left nostril as you count down from five. Then, take your thumb and close your right nostril. Breathe out through the left for the same amount of time after releasing your pinky and index finger.
From there, find a place that you can be centered and calm. This might be the middle of your kitchen floor if you have to. Wherever you choose, have a place specifically dedicated to yoga and relaxation.
Keep the bottom of your feet centered, your hands in front of you. Place the bottom of your feet together and let your hands fall gently into your lap. Continue to breathe in and out as you feel your body become more relaxed.
Bend forward and spread your hands so that they are placed on each corner of the mat. You should be in a position where your hands are stretched out in front of you and your behind is sticking up. For each 
yoga position that you move, take time to breathe in and out as you go.
Take yourself to a standing position and focus on your breathing. Bring your hands out in front of you and feel as your balance centers between either foot.
Now you are going to use your hands to hold onto either earlobe. Take your right pointer finger and thumb and hold onto your left ear. Now take your left pointer finger and thumb and hold your right ear. You should have made an x across your chest.
Squat down so that your weight is still on your feet, but your butt is as close to the floor as possible. Hold this position while you breathe for a moment or two.
These simple exercises can help give you an introduction to more intense positions that you can gradually fall into. When you can incorporate a more relaxing form of exercise such as this in your life, it will be much easier to start to de-stress overall.







Chapter 6: Meditation and Mindfulness
The reason that we might experience such a high level of stress is that we aren't allowing ourselves to be present at the moment. Rather than focusing on the things that are going on around us, we might get hung up on things that have already happened or situations which might still come about.
It can be easy to go over what we have already lived through. You might play through past scenarios and think about, "What if," or "I could've, I should've, I would've," situations. You might wish that you could go back in time and do something completely different than how it played out originally.
Fearing the future and what is to come can be just as terrifying. You can play the "what if" game with things that might happen down the line as well. You might worry about what could go wrong in small ways, or often find yourself zoning out and thinking about the worst-case-scenario.
Don't allow yourself to keep these kinds of feelings around. Instead, keep your mind centered on reality. When you keep yourself in the moment and stay present in what is unfolding around you, it becomes that much easier to de-stress and remove yourself from any situation causing mental anguish.
If you've tried mindfulness before and found that it didn't give you the total results you wanted, remember that this is something that needs to be practiced often. The first time that you practice mindfulness, your anxiety isn't going to be cured. Unfortunately, it is not a pill for instant release that will be able to carry you throughout the rest of the day the first time you try it. The more that you practice this, the easier it will be for you to find relaxation through these methods.
The first benefit of mindfulness you will see is that you are enjoying the present moment more. You can have more fun in situations that are already exciting, and you can even find ways to make it through the most challenging and painful conditions.
It will be a chance for your brain to clean itself up and come back 
even better than before. You will remove yourself from the past or future scenarios in which your mind is stuck and be able to bring yourself right to this present moment.
The benefit of meditation is that you will eventually enable yourself to meditate anywhere you want at any moment to stay grounded in the present. If you are having a panic attack at work, you can go to your car and have a moment of meditation or mindfulness. If you are stressed at a family event, you can head into the bathroom and try to de-stress.
This is helpful for chronic stress because it is a way to breakdown the tension that we have built. Even when you aren't stressed, you should practice being mindful, and meditation is necessary every day even when you might be in a very good mood and a peaceful environment.
Mindfulness Exercises
Mindfulness merely involves looking around at the things which already surround you and becoming more aware of the reality of the things occurring in this present moment. You are making your mind focus on the things that matter, and this moment that you are currently present in rather than focusing too specifically on minor things that you have no control over.
Mindfulness can be as simple as playing a computer or phone game. When you play sudoku or do a crossword puzzle, this can be helpful as well. When we are stressed, it can be as if we are free-falling down a pit of hopelessness that could eventually lead us to be depressed. If you are mindful, it is like you are grabbing onto something so that you at least stop falling in this moment, giving you the mental clarity needed to get back out of this hole.
Look at the objects in the room around you. A simple exercise you can do to pull you back into the moment is to pick out all the things with the same color. Maybe you see everything that is green. This could be a houseplant, a pen, a throw pillow, a picture frame. That's it! Doing this quick activity can be enough to stop panic or rumination and bring you right back to where you are.
Group mindfulness activities are great as well. If you have a group of 
friends who are all anxious frequently, or if everyone is always turning and looking at their phones whenever they get the chance, these could help. When one person is anxious around others that also experience stress, then this can be something that allows everyone to calm down at once. Look for more games that involve multiple players that you can participate in so that everyone is having a better time. You might try playing charades, a board game, or something else that keeps the attention of everyone in the room. Games, where you can work together to figure out a solution, will be the best option.
Keep an extra table out with a puzzle set up that anyone can go up to and try to figure out as they please. Rubik's cubes and other hand-held puzzles are great as well. Keep picture books as coffee table ornaments so guests will always have something to keep their attention. Always look for new ways to be mindful. In the next few sections, we're going to cover some more complex exercises that can help.
Positive Body Scan
A body scan is a great way to keep you mindful and ensure that you are present. It will involve looking at your body and starting from the top, working your way down so that you can better focus on keeping yourself grounded.
For this, what you will want to do, which differs from traditional methods of mindfulness, is to decide on one thing that you like about yourself as you go through each body part and focus on that. A traditional body scan might make you aware of these body parts and tell you to flex these muscles or something else to acknowledge this part of your body. This exercise is different. Instead, say one thing that you like about this body part. Even if you are having deep issues with your body or there is a specific part that you wish were different, look for the one thing that you do like.
Start with your head. What is it that you like about your head? Maybe you have mesmerizing eyes, a cheerful smile, or your hair is well-kept. Look inside your head as well. Do you have great ideas? Are you a compassionate listener? What quality do you like about your mind rather than just the physical aspect?
What about your shoulders and arms? Maybe there's just a small freckle on your shoulder you like, or you have good posture. If you can't think of physical features, again, what can these arms do? Maybe they hold onto your loved ones, or you use them to create inspiring art.
Your chest? Perhaps you like your toned chest, or maybe you are proud of the breasts or pectoral muscles that you have. Inside the chest, what about your heart? Do you love others fiercely? Do you have empathy, unlike anyone else?
Your stomach? Maybe you are a great chef and always know what food to cook. Perhaps you have a gut feeling and sharp intuition that has helped you through some challenging scenarios.
Your legs, hips, and thighs? Again, even if you don't like these physically, where have these legs taken you? How have they allowed you to bend and sit?
Don't forget to even go all the way to the tips of your toes. Where have your feet taken you? As you work your way through your body, you will become more present in the moment while also allowing yourself to become aware of the reality that you live in.
Who, What, Where, When, Why, and How
This will be an exercise you can do, no matter where you are, at any time. Pick out one object that you see.
Answer the "who" of this object. Who bought it? Who made it? Who uses it?
Now ask yourself the "what." What is it? What's its purpose? What are all the parts of it? The inner workings?
Where did this object come from? Where is it now? Where was it before that?
When was this item purchased? Consider all questions of time as you go through this. When will it last until?
Why is this object here? Why was it made? Why did someone buy it?
How does this object affect what's around it? How are you able to get use from it?
You don't have to go into a detailed explanation for this. You can start small and get more complicated if you need to come back to this moment even more. This is just a simple and fun activity that will keep you thinking about the "now" rather than anything else that might be causing you stress.
Methods of Meditation for Stress Relief
Meditation is something that you are going to have to practice. Meditating, for the first time, can be hard and might even make you feel uncomfortable. If you struggle to start this, then trying out a guided meditation can be great in order to keep you present and in the moment.
It will all start with you identifying the purpose of why you will begin to meditate. Are you trying to connect deeper with yourself? Are you doing this so that you can eliminate the stress in your life? Perhaps you are meditating so that you will be able to get peace over past trauma. It will all start with intention, and then you can move onto the actual practice.
Find a spot to meditate. This can be anywhere that you want, as long as it is a spot that you will use specifically for meditation and nothing else.
Make sure that all distractions have left your brain. Sit comfortably and as any thought comes into your brain, simply push it away. Each time a thought passes into your brain, good or bad, push it out. The focus here is going to be on thinking about nothing at all. The only thing that you need to do in this situation is to relax.
Focus on different breathing exercises and stick with one that makes you feel comfortable. Keep up with the same breathing pattern to keep you more and more centered on becoming relaxed.
Keep your eyes closed. Avoid the temptation to open them as this might give you a visual stimulus that breaks your meditation.
As thoughts come into your mind, push them back out as best as you can. You might only be able to go ten seconds before another thought passes into your mind, but that's fine. Watch as it passes out just as easily.
Again, you might start only being able to do it for five minutes or less. Eventually, you will be able to meditate for over thirty minutes at a time. This process will help relax your mind, body, and soul.
Dedicated Meditative Spots
Having a spot that is solely dedicated to nothing, but meditation will be very helpful in ensuring that you can get to this kind of mental state without much effort.
Start by picking a place that is entirely its own. Even if it is the opposite end of a couch or right next to your bed, this is fine. It just needs to be a place that you will entirely dedicate to meditation. If you pick a place that you frequently use for another person, then it is going to be challenging to shut these thoughts out of your mind, and you will find that you are focusing on other things rather than meditating. Ensure that it has good energy. You won't want to do this in a place that you are frequently stressed out.
Get rid of all distractions. There shouldn't be anything in your mind that is going to keep you from focusing on this relaxing process. Keep piles of laundry, dirty dishes, books, magazines, and anything else that will visually distract you out of the picture.
Add in things that make you feel better. This might be a plant, some soft lighting, gentle music, a candle, and anything else that will elicit good feelings and healthy energy.
After you continue to dedicate this spot to meditate, you will find that it is easier to jump into this kind of mentality better without putting in as much effort.







Chapter 7: Overcoming Worry, Anxiety, Anger, and Fear
These can all be emotions that we don't want to have to deal with. Worry, anxiety, anger, and fear can make you stressed just by reading those words. They make us feel terrible things within ourselves and lead to more challenging emotions that are harder to deal with than just stress itself.
They will frequently show themselves in ways that we don't understand. You might be afraid to do something, but rather than knowing this, maybe you've convinced yourself that this is immoral or wrong. You might dislike someone, but only to realize that you are just angry with them. We won't always be aware of the way that these feelings will present themselves within our mind.
Anger can become a defense against our worry, anxiety, and fear. It is a feeling your mind helps prepare you to attack in a situation where you need to defend yourself.
When you are worried, you start to fear that you might lose something. You will feel as though someone is taking something away. Maybe you are scared of losing a tangible thing, such as money, or perhaps it is a relationship with someone you love that you are most worried will fade away.
Anxiety can appear when you are stuck in your mind and not present. You are living in a fantasy. You are thinking about things that have already happened, or might happen and is entirely outside of your control.
Fear is when you are unreasonably afraid of something that is beyond your control as well. This is usually in an extreme form, and you are thinking of the worst-case scenario, something that might cause you pain.
All of these are interchangeable, but knowing the root of why they are present can help us overcome them. Start to question and challenge your thoughts more to determine where they came from, why they're there, and how they're making your life more challenging.
Normalizing These Feelings
These are all things that we have. We have to start normalizing them and stop pretending that we are bad or wrong for having them in the first place. Everyone experiences different emotions, so we can't make ourselves feel ashamed for the ones that we have our self.
Don't try to avoid what comes naturally to you. These emotions are there because they control your reactions. They will help you learn more about yourself and bring you closer to finding a solution that works best for everyone.
Always question your thoughts. Challenge where they came from and you will start to see the root in which they've grown. When we do this, it will be easier to resolve our most significant issues.
Remember the difference between the emotion that you are having and the reaction. You can feel anger, but this doesn't justify the act of hitting someone else because of this anger felt.
Also, ensure that you are highly aware that feelings are not facts. Just because you feel a certain way doesn't mean that this is the truth of the situation. You are angry with yourself and feel you are a bad person for not having accomplished more, this doesn't mean that you are a bad person.
This also means that you are justified and validated in your feelings. It's OK to feel this way, but it doesn't have to define the rest of your life. You are certainly allowed to be angry, jealous, shameful, resentful, and all other negative feelings and no one can tell you otherwise. It will always be a reaction to that emotion in which you need to start questioning more.
Those that tell you that your feelings are wrong are not supporting you the right way. They might not agree with how you feel, but they should still at least listen to what it is that you have to share to determine how you can work through it.
You will still have moments of feeling irrational, and who knows, maybe you are in that situation. However, it is still entirely reasonable to have the feeling you do, and rather than thinking you are wrong for having them, confront them at the core.
Stop Suppressing
These emotions won't go away. If you push them deep inside of you and never let them be properly expressed, then this will only make you feel worse. Just because it is easier to suppress your emotions rather than share them with those around you doesn't mean that this is the right thing to do. You deserve to be happy, and this involves sharing the things that you feel.
Just like we mentioned in the previous chapters, you can't be someone that is always pleasing others. You need to live for yourself too! It might be easier to pretend as though you are not angry because expressing your feelings might hurt someone else. Maybe you are on vacation, and everyone ignored your suggestion for dinner and chose a different place. The easy thing to do is to ignore this and go with the flow. You would also be valid in voicing your opinion and letting someone know that they hurt you by completely ignoring you. This is a minor instance and not something that would cause a crazy fight, but it is still an example of how expressing your feelings will always be better than trying to pretend as though they're not there.
Letting go of control is essential in this process. If you suppress your emotions, it can feel as though you have control over them. This is not the case! Instead, you are letting them control you.
Remember what we said at the beginning of the book - stress used to refer to how much something could bend. If you add too much stress, you will eventually snap. You might get sick, have a mental breakdown, or freak-out on others around you. Don't let this be you!
You are shaking a soda bottle each time you don't let your emotions become suppressed. If you shake a soda bottle too much, eventually it is going to burst.
They won't go away. They will creep into every part of your life. Stress is something that can blend in with every aspect of your life if you continue to pretend it isn't there and let it suppress your emotions.
Think about having an infected wound. You can put makeup on it if you want, but the infection will still spread just because you can't see 
it.
How-To Work through These Feelings
Avoiding things will only make it harder to confront as they come face to face with you. If you want to work through these feelings, you are going to have to start coming face to face with them. When you can confront them and how you react will be the first door to go through on your journey of de-stressing.
Remember that you are the one that is in control. Do not let these emotions determine how you are going to react. Even when you feel as though you have no power in a situation, you will always be able to choose how you are going to let this feeling affect you. Though it is hard, even in the most challenging of scenarios, you will have the power to work through them.
It can be easier to continue to validate these feelings but remember that you should also be emphasizing the positive aspects of your life. It's easy to fall into a pattern of negative thinking, only focusing on stress and that becoming worse as you go along. However, you also want to make sure that you are checking in with yourself and looking at the positive aspects of different feelings you might be having.
Remember that these emotions can help you to find greater meaning and truth about who you are. They will give you direct insight into the things that make up the person that you are.
Who knows if everything necessarily happens for a reason, but it is clear to see that we can find a reason for everything that we have experienced. Look at your past and all of the moments that seemed huge still turned out OK. This is an important thing to remember as you navigate through more stressors in your life.
Remember that you are not alone. Some people can feel as though they are weak if they have to reach out and ask for help. This is never going to be the case. You are going to show your strength through your ability to ask others for help when you genuinely need it.
Express Anger Healthily
Anger is not bad! It is the reaction that is bad. Being angry helps to give you some insight into the things that you are most passionate about. When you can express your anger in a healthy way, it gives others the chance to know what upsets you and what doesn't. When you freak out or use violence instead of words, it instantly diminishes your point. You invalidate your feelings by having a severe reaction, and it will be harder for others to understand where you are coming from.
Being jealous of what a friend has is not bad. Deciding to break what they have rather than working through your feelings for personal growth is bad, however. We will all have moments where we might experience envy that turns our face green, but we will still need to remember to work through that emotion our self and not let it become someone else's emotion as well.
Your anger is always going to be hiding some more profound truth with a significant meaning. Underneath everything that you experience, whether it is emotional or not, there will be a feeling there that hides some truth about who you are. When you learn how to better tap into this, it will be much easier in the long run to start to confront and work through your more challenging emotions.
Anger is something that we can use to protect ourselves. It builds our defenses. Instead, use this anger to give you confidence. Remind yourself that your feelings are valid, and rather than trying to prove a point, share your side and openly listen to what others have to say as well.
There will always be a deeper meaning to your anger - it is a secondary emotion. The first emotion is usually going to be something like worry or fear. The anger is the emotion that follows that and might be a way that you are trying to justify the feelings that you are having mentally.
Don't express your anger - express those underlying feelings. When you are angry, always ask yourself why. If you can't answer, then you need to do some deeper digging. No one is angry "just because."
Violence is prevalent, and this is because we don't know how to talk about what we're feeling (Seltzer, 2008). Rather than sitting down to talk to someone about the way that we feel, it can be easier to show that emotion through violence.
Confront your issues first, deep within yourself. Then, start to share them. You will find that more people are willing to talk it out with you than you think.
It is only when you begin to talk about them out loud that you might truly realize what it is that you are feeling. You can come to a more important conclusion for yourself, that can help connect you back to others in your life.
Talk it out
It's scary to talk about your feelings, so we're going to discuss a few tips that you can start to share your anger. When you are free from the grips of anger in a situation, it will be all the easier to manage your stress in a healthy way.
Ensure that you are honest with yourself first. There will always be a voice in the back of your head that will be sharing the truth. Don't let yourself become someone that ignores their inner voice. Honestly confront your feelings and be truthful with the emotions that you have.
Use "I feel" statements. When you tell someone how you feel, then they can't say that you are wrong. You won't want to blame others and say, "this happened, and so I'm mad." You will want to say, "I experienced this situation, which led me to feel like this."
Don't blame the other person. When you cast blame, you are starting a fight. That person is going to put up their defenses. Rather than listening to you throughout the conversation, they are going to look for ways to prove you wrong and prove themselves right.
If the conversation doesn't seem to be productive, take a break. Let go of the idea that you "can't go to bed mad." There's no point in continuing a discussion when everyone starts talking about why they're right. The point of a conversation isn't to prove a point and make one person look smarter. It should be about sharing feelings and getting to a mutual understanding.
Make sure that you are listening to them. If you don't feel as though they're listening to you, ask them questions. "Do you understand where I'm coming from? Is what I'm saying making sense?" You'll want to check in with the other person to ensure that both of you are 
paying attention.
Not everyone is going to be able to do this. Some people have a tough time talking about their feelings. Don't force them to talk if they aren't ready.
Remember to show that you accept responsibility and talk about some positive things as well. "I really appreciate that you are listening to me now, but sometimes I feel like I could use a little more help from you. Does this make sense? Is there anything that I can do to help you feel more supported?" Statements like this show you understand that you have your own improvements to make, which makes it easier for the other person to open up and share.







Chapter 8: Anxiety and Negative Self-Talk
It can be easy to talk about how much we hate ourselves! For some reason, it is easier to talk about the things that you don't like, rather than the things you do. Perhaps it is the way that we were raised, our current society, or a natural biological phenomenon.
Self-deprecating jokes are the way to connect to others. When you can start to poke fun at yourself, then others might begin to relate and be able to do the same thing with themselves. There's still a line between poking fun at yourself and tearing apart your self-worth because of the flaws that you hate the most about yourself.
We can also start to relate to individuals that we might otherwise have differences with when we can gossip about other people. While you might like to discuss some harmless office gossip, make sure that this kind of negative talk doesn't go too far.
The problem with this kind of negative talk is that it is not giving us a positive perspective. We can start to lose sight of reality when we are only considering the worst aspects. If all you do is talk negatively about yourself and others, then this will weigh heavily on the way that you view yourself. When you are judgmental towards other people and make them feel bad for doing the things that they do, then you will speak this way to yourself.
Saying things like, "I'm not good enough," or "I don't deserve this," can be harmful in the long run. You will eventually believe these kinds of things as you are saying them. We start to say negative affirmations. This is a statement that affirms something. The more you tell yourself these affirmations, the more that you will fully believe them. That really change your perspective on the world and yourself.
Turn these affirmations around and start to say positive things. It can feel weird at first. We're taught not to talk ourselves up too much because we don't want to seem too prideful. It's important not to be so egotistical and think that we're better than anyone, but that doesn't mean that we don't deserve to feel pride.
Before we discuss more methods for stress reduction in this specific 
area, let's make sure we're fully aware of what negative self-talk is.
Types of Negative Self-Talk
Some individuals will describe themselves as being self-aware. The issue is that many people think as though negative self-talk is being self-aware. Just because you are aware of your flaws does not mean that you are self-aware. It might make your awareness even worse when all you can focus on is the negative. To be self-aware is to be objective. You understand that you have some things that you need to work on, but you are also aware of the many benefits that you might add to the lives of others.
To have a high level of emotional intelligence, you also know that you can see the positive aspects of your life as well. Emotional intelligence is our ability to understand our emotions as well as the emotions of other people. Those with high emotional intelligence will usually have less stress in their lives because they are aware of where it came from and how to reduce it on their own.
It's good to be critical, but with things like saying, "we might have been able to do a little better," rather than, "we suck and shouldn't have even bothered in the first place." You should never talk to yourself in such negative ways because that's not productive. It's only going to make you feel worse and make it more challenging to change in a way you deserve.
Ask yourself in what area of negative self-talk you struggle with the most. Do you make yourself feel stupid and judge what you say? Do you hate what you see in the mirror and continuously speak poorly about yourself? Whatever area of negative self-talk you participate in most, recognize it so you can understand why.
Where did this come from? The voice that is telling you negative things likely didn't just start on its own. It is a combination of the things that we have gathered from the world throughout our lives.
There are pressures from society. Growing up in certain schools, you might have had people judge or bully you that warped the way you think about yourself.
Our parents can create these voices. Even the well-intentioned 
parents might play a role in the way that we view our self-worth.
A lot of the time, it is we who suffer the most and causes that perspective. The more you judge yourself, the more you will judge other people and vice versa. No one is perfect, everyone has flaws, and we all deserve to be given a chance and treated with kindness.
What This Does to Your Perception
When you can't stop thinking negatively and talking to yourself in such harsh ways, it can lead to a close-mind about yourself, and about the world in general. You will warp the way that you view everything in life, and this can eventually become somewhat toxic.
You will start to believe everything you say. The more you let that negative voice take the mic and lead how you think, the more that you will begin to silence the positive view that provides you with reason.
This can stress you out. You'll want to continually do better when you tell yourself over and over that you can't do anything right. You'll feel as though you are never good enough, and this pressure to be perfect can add a ton of stress on your life.
You will create incredibly high standards for yourself that are almost impossible to reach. You will become disappointed when you can't reach these goals and think that there is something wrong with you. This will make you feel even worse, sending you into a toxic cycle that induces high levels of stress.
You will make yourself feel worse and worse after you've done something rather than building yourself up and getting to a place where you feel better about yourself. You won't be able to accomplish anything if you are making yourself feel terrible all the time.
Eventually, it can lead to feelings of depression and anxiety. You will be too depressed to do anything, and anxiety can keep you trapped as well. Start to reverse these thoughts you have about yourself to live a more stress-free life.
How to Overcome Social Anxiety
If you hate yourself and never give yourself the chance to feel better, this can end up leading to social anxiety. You might start to become afraid to leave your house, go to parties, and even hang out with your closest friends and family members all because of the intense social anxiety that you are feeling.
You might struggle with social anxiety if you fear going out in public, talking to other people, or just generally being in the presence of other people. It can be hard to schedule a doctor's appointment on the phone or even respond to a comment on social media when you have crippling social anxiety.
Social anxiety can keep us from doing the things that we love the most. You might want to see a band live but choose to skip the show because you fear others that will be there. Maybe you want to go grocery shopping for a nice dinner but instead, choose to order takeout again because it means not having to be in public around others.
When you always put yourself down, then you might get to a point where you don't want to be around others at all. This can make you feel completely isolated and alone, another emotion that can add even more stress to whatever feelings might have already been there.
Remember, first and foremost, that everyone is going to be more focused on themselves than you are of them. When you are afraid of something like a hissing cat or a spider, these things seem scary. However, they are only doing this because they are scared. Spiders might look like creepy little bugs, but they're more frightened of you than you are of them. Remember the same can be said about other people. While you might be feeling anxious, maybe not in your best outfit for a part, remember that everyone else that goes to this party is likely going to be anxious about the way that they dressed as well.
Don't assume control over other people's happiness. You are not in charge of making sure everyone has a good time, and a small joke that you make isn't going to ruin the party. Social anxiety can make us feel as though we are the ones that have to make sure everyone's emotions are in check, but remember, only the individual has the power over the way that they feel.
Always question your thoughts. Look at where they came from and 
work through them at the root. How would you treat someone else that was in the same situation? What advice would you give to a friend? Never say anything to yourself that you wouldn't feel comfortable saying out loud to a friend. Next time you look in the mirror and think, "I'm so ugly," ask yourself, would you call your friend, "so ugly?" Hopefully not. So then why is it OK to say this to yourself?
Start to expose yourself to social settings in small amounts. Maybe at first, it will just be ordering something crazy off the menu at a coffee shop. Next, you might try to go to a group setting. Maybe eventually you are able to throw your party. Whatever you have to do, start small and work your way up the social ladder.
Afterward, remember that you have already lived through the experience, and there is no going back. Don't sit there and ruminate over what happened. The moment has passed, and you can move onto bigger and better things.
Ask questions, and get to know more about others. This is a good way to practice being more social. If you are afraid to talk in a conversation, then ask. Think of anything you want to know about them, and actively listen to what they're saying when they speak. This alone can help you feel more comfortable and keep you grounded in the present.
Stopping the Self-Hate
Remember that your thoughts aren't always necessarily true. Just because you think the same thing over and over about yourself doesn't mean that this is something that you should believe. We all have different things about ourselves that we don't like, but you must remember your biggest insecurities aren't things that you have to tear yourself up over.
Question where these thoughts come from and rephrase them in a way that makes you feel comfortable saying them to someone else. If you aren't comfortable sharing these thoughts with others, then they might be too negative.
Accept the things that have already happened. You can't go back in the past, so forgive yourself. The mistakes you might have made 
already occurred, so there is no point in trying to change things or wish they hadn't happened. You don't have to let this define your present and future life, so make sure that you let go of the things that are out of your control.
Allow yourself to be imperfect. You wouldn't expect perfection from those that you are closest with right? So why do you think that you have to be perfect?
Look for ways to improve in smaller, healthier habits rather than expecting to become a different person overnight. Practice with positive affirmations. Always tell yourself, "I can do this," and "I am worth it."
Sometimes, looking at the worst-case-scenario will help you understand that it isn't so bad after all. If you make an embarrassing joke at the party, is that the worst-case scenario? Absolutely not! So, don't be afraid to do things like this. It's better to share a few things, maybe one of them being embarrassing, rather than staying completely isolated all night.
Remember that it is going to be a training process. It took years to build that negative voice in your head, so it is going to take a while to get rid of it as well.







Chapter 9: Breathing Strategy
One of the worst ways to rapidly increase our stress is to lose track of the way that we're breathing. When you are stressed, your breathing will change, and this alone could be enough to keep you focused on anything else other than what's most important.
When cortisol is released, it can make everything else tense and tighten up. If you learn how to take control of your breathing and regulate it properly, then it will be much easier to work through feelings of stress as they come to you.
Meditation, exercise, and even just singing along to music are all so helpful because they help us to remember to breathe. You don't have to think about breathing throughout your day. Your body is just doing all of this work for you without you having to think twice. This is great, but remember that you should still ensure it is in check as you function throughout the day.
Whenever you feel the stress and anxiety piling on top of each other, the first thing that you should do before all else is breathe. Remember to count while you breathe to give you something to focus on. Try the yoga breathing we discussed earlier that involved using your pinky and thumb.
Add in plenty of water as well. You'll be surprised at how much better you feel in the middle of a panic attack when you breathe and drink water. This won't make the problem go away that you are worried about, but it will give you the clear mind needed to find the best possible solution.
The Importance of Healthy Breathing
The first thing that breathing does is it starts to regulate you from the inside. It puts your body back in sync with the rest of your functions so that you can properly operate. If you are not breathing right, then everything else will feel wrong as well.
Your muscles will be able to relax just a bit, helping it to be easier to feel the tension leave your body. The most important thing is that you are focusing on something rather than letting stressful thoughts continue to swirl in your mind.
Your brain needs oxygen to function. You can bring many individuals back to life after they've stopped breathing, but if they stopped for too long, then it is much harder to try to revive them because they will have suffered brain damage. You need to breathe, and even though it is not going to help at that moment or make all your issues go away, it will help the rest of your body to realize that everything is going to be OK in the end. 
Breathing, especially when it is focused, can help to release endorphins as well. You will start to feel all fuzzy inside after just five minutes of regulated breathing. Once you have these kinds of feelings, then your problems will seem a lot smaller, and it will be easier to focus on what needs to get done so that you can find the best solution possible.
It will reduce stress and give you a chance to start thinking more mentally clear than you were in the first place. Here are a few different kinds of breathing exercises that you can try to feel better in every part of your body.
Finding the Right Breathing Strategy
The first method is to breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth. Feel as your chest rises as you start to let the air come into your body. You can breathe in as deeply as possible, filling your lungs with the fresh air that is going to help give you a clearer head. Then, release it slowly throughout your mouth in a smaller hole. This helps to keep you focused on what's going on around you. Countdown from ten as you breathe, breathing in for five and out for five.
Breathe in and out through your nose. Only, instead, breathe in for a long time and out in one quick breath. So, as you breathe in through your nose, count to five. Then, as you breathe out for one. So in for one, two, three, four, and five. And out in one in a quick burst. This is going to help you focus on what's going on around you.
The last method is the 12-count method. Breathe in for five, hold for three, and exhale for four. Don't do this too much, or if you are especially panicked because holding your breath could make you feel light-headed. It is a good method to keep you grounded and can 
just be repeated a few times to put you in the right mental space.







Chapter 10: Work Stress Relief
Unfortunately, work stress is something that we can't always avoid. It can be the worst kind of stress, but it is not something that's going away anytime soon.
We have to work in order to have money. You can always find financial assistance elsewhere, but to really make a decent living you are going to need to put a little work in.
Work stress is estimated to cost around three hundred billion a year. This is because people often call off when they're stressed, or they won't perform their best because their mind is stuck elsewhere. Numbers like these can be rather astonishing, but they remind us that we are not alone in this process.
The main reason that we might feel stress at work is that we have little control. Whether your boss is in charge and doesn't give you freedom, or you are in a position where your opinion doesn't seem to matter, it is hard not to be stressed when we have little to no power.
Work stress is also challenging because it causes us to question a lot about our lives. When we're stressed at work, we have to ask ourselves if it is worth it, and if it is not, then we are forced to consider other career paths. Work is often intertwined with our passions, so it can cause much inner turmoil if not managed.
We fear what will happen when we can't bring money home for our lives. We might start to become fearful that we are going to lose things in life and not be able to get them back. This can cause intense panic and makes everything else seem more terrible than it is.
Even though you can't make work go away, you can find ways to manage the stress that it might bring along. You won't be able to go from being miserable to passionate overnight, but in time, you can learn to deal with the pressure and stress from work.
Remember that work should never be something that takes your life away. You shouldn't feel as though you can't live a happy life with the job that you have. You will always have options. Follow your passion and pursue your dreams rather than working in a place you 
detest. Quitting shouldn't be your first option, but starting over is better than being miserable for the rest of your life.
Identifying the Problem
To determine how to overcome work stress, you have to figure out what the root of the issue is. What are you experiencing at work that you need to overcome? Is it a personal issue that has spread into work? Or is it something else that's more important in your career life that is causing you so much pressure?
According to The American Institute of Stress, 6% of stress comes from having a lack of job security. If you are afraid that your job won't be needed, or that eventually your position might get cut, then you would fall into this category.
The next reason is not being able to juggle work and personal lives. We're often more passionate about our family and spending time with them than anything else, but unfortunately, work can take a lot of this away and leave us feeling isolated. This might be an area of your life that you need to improve on.
At 28%, issues with other people in the workplace can be a huge cause of stress. Maybe it is your boss that drives you crazy, and employee that just never does their job, or a coworker that gets on your nerves. Whatever it is, remember that you have options even if its someone else that is causing the stress.
Finally, at almost 50%, workload stress can cause a lot of people to struggle in their positions. Many of us feel like we have way too much work to do (The American Institute of Stress, n. d.).
Remember that it is the environment and your mentality that will usually be the root of the issue for overcoming work stress. It is not necessarily you or the truth of the job, but the specific situations that are presented within this job.
It seems that people are getting paid less but having to work more. We are getting wages cut while the workload doubles because people are desperate for jobs. Many positions can be done on the internet now too, which means we have to compete with others in the world that might be willing to work for less than what we do.
This is a huge problem! While it is certainly something to be legitimately stressed about, we still can't let this ruin our lives.
Workplace violence is still present, with over a million reported cases of minor and sexual assault every year. Equipment can be damaged from rage.
Over half of employees surveyed in the study covered by The American Institute of Stress report having neck pain issues at the end of their day (The American Institute of Stress, n.d.). This is all very serious! While the root of the issue is clearly the corporations that are demanding lower wages and more work, we still have to remember that we can manage our stress in the meantime. It is a complex issue, so it is not something that's going to be resolved overnight. Remember that you are not entirely powerless, and there will always be ways for you to take control of your emotions and manage your stress levels.
Methods of Stress Relief
It's time we start to focus on how we can alleviate these feelings of stress and move onto a place where we are healthy and happy in our working environment. It won't always be easy, but it is certainly possible.
The first thing you have to do is find the root of the problem. Like all other stress management methods that we discussed, you won't be able to fix the problem if you don't understand exactly where it came from.
Remember to look at the bigger picture. Is this something that you should be worried about, or instead, are you inflating something because of other stressful aspects in your life.
Stop taking work problems home with you. It can be easy to vent and rant to your spouse or roommate about your job, but this can also make all of your emotions feel worse. You might find that you are only talking about the negative aspects, with the person listening only validating your perspective. They don't see the benefits, so they might not always give you the logical reasoning needed to de-stress.
Remember to always stand up for yourself. You are less likely to get fired than you probably think. Don't be afraid to stick up for what you deserve. Remember that it might be better to take a risk rather than to stay in a place of misery.
Keep your resume updated, and always have references you can rely on. If you have a backup plan, then it can help to make your job less scary, especially at the thought of potentially losing your position.
Don't do more work than you physically and mentally can. Create boundaries for yourself and remember that you have options. It might feel like something isn't possible, but you are allowed to say "no," and you can take breaks or do less than you had initially planned.
Make sure that you are prioritizing the right things. Create a positive environment and keep the conversations open and flowing. Don't take it all so personally. You can find the stress relief that you deserve. None of us should have to work in a constant state of misery.







Chapter 11: Time Management Approach
If only we had unlimited time, a lot of us would be far less stressed than we are now. Unfortunately, time does eventually run out but this doesn't mean we should be stressed.
One of the biggest causes of stress is knowing that deadlines are approaching and fearing what will happen if we don't make the most of our lives. We get stressed if we don't have a solid partner by 30, kids by 35 or we feel we haven't accomplished enough in our lives, and so on. Don't let the pressures of society get to you. We all go at our own pace, and it is important that we don't compare our struggles to anyone else's.
Remember that you can never fight time. That is the one thing that will always be consistent. Even if you are not around tomorrow, the sun is still going to shine, and the clock will continue ticking. Time will keep going on, so we should remember to keep moving as well.
If you feel like you are always running late, or are the type of person to say, "I'll do it later," every chance you get, then there's a good chance that you have rather poor time management skills.
Feeling rushed can frequently make you feel as though you are more stressed-out than you are. It never feels good to struggle with your patience level either. All of these things will affect the way you view time. You start to realize that it is never enough. Don't fret. You have enough time! You have to learn how to manage it and make the most of what you have.
When we don't have a grip on time, we can't get the most out of what we want from life. We won't be able to buy ourselves more time in our lives, but we can reduce our stress levels when we start to focus on doing the most important task as often as possible.
Why We Struggle with Time Management
One reason that we struggle with time management is that we are just really good at procrastinating. There is just something in our head that tells us that we can do it later. This is because we are taking the 
time that we have for granted. We think that there will be more of it, or that the feeling will come to us later. Then "later" approaches and suddenly it feels as though we have no time at all! Time stays the same, but now, you need to remember that your perspective is vital in helping you decide how to react to the allotted amount you've been given.
It can feel better just to sit and watch TV in a moment rather than doing our homework. It just feels better for our brains to zone out and relax rather than focus on doing the thing that needs to get done. Remember that you can have this time to enjoy and relax still but save it for after you've already finished your work.
Sometimes we struggle because we set unrealistic goals. We might think, "I'm going to lose 20 pounds this month." That's physically possible, maybe. However, it is not healthy, and it is not a realistic goal that you should set for yourself. It's easy to say this goal and to hope that you achieve it, but actually trying to do it is going to be really hard, so you are going to let yourself down. It's not as fun to be realistic with our goals, but it helps to keep us grounded in reality.
We might suffer because we get distracted easily, and there might be something more interesting taking up your time. If you need to, implement the use of a focus card. It's like a flag or other signal that can remind you to focus back in on what you are doing so that you can keep your concentration on the most important things.
It's easy to feel overwhelmed, and that can slow us down in its own way. Rather than focusing on what's more important, you might start to panic and think of everything that could go wrong. Remind yourself consistently that it is better to get as much done as you can rather than worrying about whether or not you are going to be able to get it done.
Sometimes we think that multitasking is going to help us get things done faster, but it can keep us more distracted than if we did it one thing at a time. Poor planning is the number one killer of proper time management. Invest in a planner, create weighted to-do lists, and include some of these other time management tips in your daily routine.
Ways That You Can Better Manage Your Time
Start by making sure you know how to plan. Create a to-do list, but don't think that you necessarily should start with the thing that you want to do first. Prioritize by importance. List the things that need to get done first, and from there, you can start to add smaller things as you go.
Sometimes it does help to go out of order and do something small. If there's a task that takes a few minutes but isn't as important, you could still do this because it can give you the confidence you need. If you have a to-do list and three of the tasks only take a few minutes, you can do these first to knock them off the list and focus on the things that are more important. It will give you the energy to keep going.
Have a focus object to keep you on track. It can be something like a small penny you keep in your pocket, or maybe a sign above your desk. This focus object will help you better stay on track with whatever needs your attention.
Learn how to say "no" when you have to. Even if you have the time to do something if you switch around your calendars, this doesn't mean you have to do it. Stay on track with the plan that you made and learn how to use those two valuable letters that can buy you a lot of time.
Give yourself more time than you need. Never plan minute-to-minute. Plan things in chunks and be realistic. Things are going to go off track, you might get distracted, or there could be an unexpected circumstance. The more time you give yourself, the easier it will be to stay on track with what needs to get done.
Make sure all of the goals you are setting are realistic. Provide time for reward and relaxation. Don't just hope that relaxation comes into your life. Carve out time in each schedule to ensure that you are providing yourself with the relaxation you want and deserve.
Focus on one thing at a time and don't let distractions take over your brain. When you feel as though you are getting distracted, gently push those thoughts out so that you can stick to the things that require your utmost attention first.
Make the most of the time that you've been given. Treat each second that you have with value, but don't allow yourself to panic over time as it passes by. Yes, time is precious, but that's all the more reason that we need to make the most of what we have and appreciate all that surrounds us rather than living our life stressed out.
Try your best to not stress over time. Unfortunately, there isn't much you can do to get more!







Chapter 12: Stress and Sleep
Sleep is one of the greatest things that we can keep in our lives. As soon as we get out of bed in the morning, we can sometimes have the feeling of being ready to head right back to bed! It's hard to not dream about sleep when we're working or doing anything else that requires a bit of energy.
The thing is, when we don't sleep, we can become stressed. And stress can make it difficult to get the proper amount of sleep we need. The two work well together to create a terrible mess when we're not doing things in our lives properly.
If you are stressed, you might also experience other forms of insomnia or times when you have very vivid nightmares. Maybe you have no problem falling asleep, but you grind your teeth throughout the night and wake up with headaches.
How many times have you crawled into bed, exhausted and ready to pass out, only to find that you can't get any sleep because of every ounce of stress that you are holding onto? Stress will make it very challenging to fall asleep, and to stay asleep, when it goes unmanaged for too long.
Sleep is essential for our bodies. When we don't have it, then our hormones can be all out of whack. As you know, stress is a chemical reaction, so this means that when our bodies don't get the rest that they need, this can affect our hormone levels.
If you don't sleep, you are tired, and when you are tired, you can't focus. When you can't focus, your work suffers. Poor work quality makes you stress. When you are stressed, you have a harder time getting restful sleep. Do you see how this is a dangerous cycle?
How They Are Related
Even when you aren't tired, you might still struggle to find the right kind of sleep, and this is likely going to be because you are still producing cortisol. This is going to give your body the burst of energy you need to fight off any threats. Sometimes you can't even 
help it in your sleep because you might be experiencing nightmares that lead you to be more stressed out. The best way to overcome this is to make sure you are managing stress in life with the tips that we have provided.
When we're tired, then we don't have the right kind of attention to give to the things that are causing us to be stressed. Your brain needs that energy to function properly. This is why it is so hard to focus in the morning and at the end of the day. We can be too tired to think!
To get the right kind of sleep, we need to help ourselves calm down before getting into bed. Rather than getting into bed and hoping that this will be enough for restful sleep, we must start to calm ourselves down beforehand and ensure that we are completely relaxed before trying to fall asleep.
You might not be able to stop this cortisol from being released initially, but you can do your best to try and calm yourself down quickly after you feel that stress. Do things like drinking calming tea or meditating before bed to get you in the right headspace.
To fight these feelings and help you get the sleep you deserve, we're going to give you a few tips for a stress-free night (Scott, 2019).
Tips for Stress-Free Sleep
Of course, make sure you are doing your best to manage your stress before even hopping under the covers. If you are worried about the day ahead, maybe make a to-do list so that you can see the things stressing you out aren't so bad after all.
Proper nutrition is essential. Too much caffeine throughout the day can keep us up at night, even if we stopped drinking long before bed. Make sure that you are also not indulging in too much sugar close to bedtime. Even though you might feel so tired that you could take an espresso shot before hopping under the covers and still fall asleep, this doesn't mean that your body is going to be as relaxed.
Ensure that you give yourself time away from any electronic screens. These will stimulate your brain and keep you awake while also providing a source of distraction that can make it difficult to 
calm down.
You can lose your sense of time with these kinds of distractions. You might find that you can easily stay up until four in the morning just sitting on one app on your phone. Set an alarm if you do start to browse so that you don't go overboard with the web surfing.
Ensure that the lighting in your room is right. You might like to sleep with a nightlight on, but something too blue will keep you awake all night. Pick softer colors like pink or yellow to help your entire body get the rest it needs.
Try winding down with an exercise before getting into bed. This might be something as simple as doing a few yoga stretches while you are actually in bed already so that you can feel the tension leave your body as you become more relaxed.
Give yourself more time than you need. If you need to be asleep by midnight so that you get the proper amount of rest before waking up tomorrow, don't go to bed at midnight. Start winding down at least an hour before, which might include drinking calming tea, reading a bit of a book, checking your social media pages one last time, or doing some stretches. Then, when midnight hits, you'll be able to hop into bed and fall asleep.
Avoid setting 100 alarms. If you don't need to get up until 8 am, but your first alarm start at 7 am just to make sure that you get up. This is only going to make it harder to get out of bed at 8 am. Give yourself as much time as possible. Keep your alarm clock across the room so that you are forced to get up out of bed to turn it off, making it harder to go back to sleep after you hit that initial snooze button.
Find a repetitive visualization exercise that you can do to fall asleep. This is something like counting sheep that hop over a fence. It seems like something that kids do, but if you fall asleep while thinking about something else, that could carry into your dream life. Count down from 100 as you try to fall asleep to give your subconscious a fair chance as it begins to rest.
Always remember that the only thing that you need to be doing late at night is sleeping. Continually remind yourself that the email that needs to be sent can wait. The laundry that needs to be folded tomorrow can wait. That funny video that you need to watch can 
wait. It can all wait because the most important thing is that you get the proper rest to feel happy and healthy.







Chapter 13: Stress and Alcohol
It can become a natural reaction to reach in the fridge and crack a beer when you are feeling stressed. Sometimes nothing feels better than getting home from a long day of work and being able to drink a cold beer.
Alcohol can help relieve many types of stress. It can alleviate the feeling that you have in a stressful situation, and it can help you to forget about your problems in general.
However, this should never be a coping mechanism. If you find that you are using alcohol as a medicine and not just a way to aide in relaxation, then it is time to admit that there is a problem.
Alcohol should be like sprinkles on ice cream. Without them, the ice cream is still perfectly fine, but the sprinkles are for fun. The ice cream shouldn't be the alcohol! Alcohol should never be the main focus of relaxing. You should be able to still enjoy your time without having a drink. If this isn't possible, if the alcohol is the only good aspect, then it is time to switch your perspective around drinking in general.
If we're not careful with our alcohol consumption, it can quickly become an addiction. Your body will get addicted to it, so even when you realize you have a problem that you want to quit, you might end up sticking to this substance and letting it control your life.
While it might seem like a fix, alcohol can be another problem. At first, it is no big deal. You can stop whenever you want to, right? After a while, it will become the only thing that you think about wanting to do, and just like stress, it can start to affect every part of your body as well as your life in general.
What Alcohol Does
Alcohol essentially slows down the way you think. It helps to relax your muscles, which means that it will also help to relax your brain. Your thoughts will come into your mind slower, and you will find 
that it is easier not to have so many stressful thoughts passing through at once.
When we drink, it can help to lower some of our inhibitors. You won't be so quick to react. Some people might become angrier when they're drunk, but this is likely because they're lowering the inhibitors that hold them back from being violent when they're sober.
What ends up happening is that these neurons that are relaxed when drinking can become damaged if we drink overtime. You will eventually start to kill off parts of your brain that you worked so hard to create in the first place.
They help us forget about our problems, so then we never worry about going back and fixing them. Rather than facing your worries, you might push them to the back of your head, and when it comes time to deal with them again, you can start to drink.
Your body likes the way it feels, too, which is why you will become addicted to it. To ensure that you never have to struggle with alcohol addiction, here are some of the ways that you can manage your stress and alcohol consumption at the same time.
How to Avoid Using it for Stress
Alcohol should be something that you use only to have fun, not as a way to fix your problems. It should be an aide in the process, something that makes it a little easier, but not the cure-all solution.
If you legitimately think that you have a drinking problem, it is important to consider talking to a professional. This is an issue that you can struggle to get through on your own. You might be able to quit drinking on your own, but without talking support, you can quickly turn to another substance or addiction. Talking to others who have the same problem or an expert in the subject will be essential in making sure that this never happens again.
Start to notice when you are drinking and why you might feel the need to reach for the drink. Are there triggers that activate the desire? What is it that you are looking to gain by drinking at this moment?
Cut down the time when you are drinking. Ensure that it is only late enough for dinner and weekends as well. There's no reason for you to drink early in the day. Of course, if it is Saturday and you are grilling in the backyard for a holiday barbeque, don't assume you are an alcoholic because you want a drink. This is more referring to those that sneak drinks every lunch break they get, have a drink as soon as they get home from work, or even those who have a drink to get started in the morning.
Sip slowly; if you find yourself chugging, then this is a good sign you are doing it for a different reason. Enjoy your drink and become aware of the way that you feel while you drink. Don't just chug so that you forget your problems.
Avoid buying alcohol altogether. Only purchase alcohol for specific reasons, and you will find that it is much easier to turn down and focus on something else.
Find a different hobby or stress relief method that you can use as a backup when you feel like you want to reach for a drink. Maybe you keep a crossword puzzle book around, or a Rubik's cube to solve. Whenever you want to reach for the bottle, see if there is something healthier that you can reach for first.







Chapter 14: Stress Relief Food
Just like alcohol, it can be tough to avoid eating when we're feeling stressed. Nothing feels better after a cry session more than indulging in some chips or ice cream. However, if we do this too often, it can lead to more serious health concerns that add even more stress than we started with.
While you can't cut off food and go cold-turkey as you might with alcohol, there are still ways that you can manage what you eat. Start by buying only healthy foods rather than keeping snacks around that you might want to binge.
Binge eating is the process of eating without enjoying the food. Those who struggle with binge-eating disorders might find that they can kill an entire sleeve of cookies in one sitting. To enjoy the food it involves eating slower, so binge eaters often find that they feel shame once they've ended a binge.
Look first at what it is that's causing you to want to eat. Just like with alcohol, why is it that you want to drink right now? What are you hoping to find at the bottom of the bottle?
Just like with alcohol, don't keep the binge-able foods around the house. Have healthy snacks so that even if you do overeat, it won't be as bad as eating an entire bag of chips or a carton of ice cream.
Stress and Eating
Sometimes it can be hard to eat when we're stressed as well. This is because cortisol can suppress our appetites. It helps our bodies to preserve our energy so that we can focus on the threat at hand.
If you are not careful, then it can be very easy to feel sick to your stomach whenever you might be experiencing stress. Remember just to breathe when you are feeling these stomach panic pains. Drink water and calm yourself down, and you will be able to eat.
If you are under chronic stress, it can even cause you to feel as though you are suffering from weight gain. Your body will hold onto the weight as a way to preserve your body fat in case it is needed 
while under stress. Rather than losing weight when you starve yourself, this is why you sometimes hold onto that weight. Your body will try to slow its metabolism so that it can preserve anything that might be needed later on.
Remember that going without food can also cause you to be stress. Our bodies are designed to eat and process food, so when you deprive it, that can cause stress. Even if you are on a diet, it is important to still eat throughout the day to keep our brains from becoming too stressed out.
Sometimes the most important thing that you need to do is choose the right kinds of foods and eliminate those that might be hurting your body.
Foods to Avoid for Stress Reduction
The first food that you should avoid is anything that is highly processed. There are additives in a lot of processed food that can cause our brains to become inflamed. If not properly managed, this could affect the way you think.
Be careful of simple carbohydrates and excess sugar. Our brains need complex carbohydrates to function. If you are only eating processed grains like white bread and other sugars, then your body will process this quickly, not getting the right energy you need.
You might experience a crash from foods that are easier for your body to breakdown. Your brain can become tired after a crash, and it will be harder to function.
Too much caffeine can make you feel even more stressed. It will raise your heartbeat and even cause you to sweat, so if you are already stressed and drinking sweet coffee, then you might become overwhelmed even more.
Fried foods will have some of the same effects as refined sugars. When you do indulge in these foods, you should try instead to overload yourself on healthier things. Rather than choosing between eating fast food or having a big healthy salad for lunch, remember that you can still indulge in both. Less-healthy foods have to be consumed in smaller quantities and combated with healthier foods.
Best Foods for Stress Management
Whole-grain foods are a great place to start. Choose whole-grain wheat, oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, and other healthy foods like this. These will provide you with brain power throughout the day, so even after eating, you still feel the positive effects of the food.
Try to switch to calming teas instead of sugary drinks when you are getting close to bed. Tea is better in the morning as well as it will still give you caffeine without the jittery feeling that coffee might provide sometimes.
Eat foods with probiotics such as yogurt and fermented food. These will help to keep your stomach hormones balanced so that the rest of your body is functioning properly.
Limit how much you are eating. If you overeat, it can give your body too much to process, causing you to be tired in the end. Eat small portions and take breaks in between getting seconds to ensure that you are still actually hungry.
Meal prepping can help keep you from overeating. It will be a great thing to focus on first through the process of cooking. It will then provide you with something healthy to eat so that you don't have to worry about indulging in food that isn't as good for you.
Keeping binge-able foods out of the house will prevent you from wanting to overload too much. Cooking is a great way to relax and to know exactly what's going into your food (Steen, 2017). Always look for ways to make healthy and nutritious choices for your stress.







Chapter 15: Final Advice
Congratulations on making it to the end of the book. It's never easy to admit that you have a problem with stress. It's something that we all experience, and it can also be something that ruins our lives. If you are not careful, then you will start to realize that stress isn't just something that you experience, but it becomes part of who you are. The longer you go without managing stress, the harder it will be to manage these feelings when you need to the most.
Remember that it is all a mental thing at first, but if not treated, it can turn into a physical problem rather quickly. Don't let the physical side of stress take over your body. You are the one in control! Not only will stress make you experience pain in your shoulders, jaw, and other parts of your body, but it will also increase your risk for more serious health conditions, such as stroke or heart attack.
What stresses you out isn't something that is going to stress others out every time either. What calms you won't calm other people. Don't compare yourself, because we all will always have differing perspectives on what is stressful, as well as how to react to our positive and negative emotions. Sometimes you might wish you could be that chill relaxed person, but remember that not everyone is always as calm as they might seem. There's nothing wrong with you if you find that you are stressed in a situation that others are completely fine. It doesn't matter what stresses you out. The most important thing is how you react to this feeling.
Always check in with yourself and ensure that you are doing your best to calm yourself at the root first. Challenge your thoughts and question your beliefs to see where the stress might have started. Just because a thought travels through your mind doesn't mean that it is true. Sometimes, we think of what we were taught to believe first, and the second thought that comes after can be what's most important.
Keep up with research on stress and anxiety as well. There will always be new ways for you to manage your stress. Since we still have yet to completely figure out our brains, there will always be 
emerging science around what it is that might make our brains operate in the way that they do.
Remember that everything is temporary. Everything is going to be OK in the end. You are the one that is creating stressful thoughts in your head. Sometimes you are just going to have to sit with your discomfort and feel the stress. It will end. Panic attacks will stop, and your stressful thoughts will calm down. Nothing that you experience is going to last forever.
Others say things that might stress you out, but you will always have options for how you react to these stressors. You won't always be able to stop others from causing you harm, and there will be plenty of people that will always know how to get under your skin. Though you are powerless in this, you are entirely in control of the way that you choose to handle these situations. Look for the ways that will help alleviate your stress the best.
You are not alone in the stress that you feel. Though you might feel isolated, crazy, too emotional, and plenty of other negative feelings associated with your stress, remember that this is a common emotion. You are not wrong, broken, bad, or crazy because of the emotions that you are feeling.
The things that you see online always have truth behind them. Don't let social media or inflated news articles cause you to have more stress than you already do. When you see a particularly upsetting news story, always check the sources. Take a break from your phone and really give yourself time to be quiet with your thoughts.
You might feel like you aren't doing well, but there is always going to be someone out there that is jealous or admires you. Everyone thinks that they're doing bad, but most of the time, we're doing a lot better than we'd think. Remind yourself of this in times that you are feeling more inadequate than anything.
Those who are important to you wouldn't judge you for the things that you are hard on yourself for. The ones who matter most are those people that will love you unconditionally. If anyone makes you feel bad about yourself, causing you even more stress than you initially had, remember that they are hurting. The only reason that you would want to bring someone down is because that is the way that you might already be talking to yourself! Others might still judge 
us, say rude things, and think negative thoughts, but that doesn't have to affect us. You know your own worth, you have your values, and you are in charge of your emotions. This is what matters the most.
You will always remember the most important things at the end of the day. When you are laying in bed alone with your thoughts, this is when you will remember the truth of your life. When everything else is stripped away - work, relationships, money, and so on, that is when your true character is revealed. You are your own person and that is beautiful!
We all have different speeds that we move through our day and in life. What you take slower might be something that others speed through. The things that you get over in a snap might be someone else's long journey. The less you compare yourself to others, the easier it will be to love yourself for who you really are.
Sometimes, you will have to laugh it off. Certain situations might be so stressful that the best thing you can do is just smile and keep pushing forward. If everything feels like it is falling apart around you, just look in the mirror and try and make the biggest grin possible.
When you are really stressed out, you can gently blow on your hands or arms. Give yourself something to fixate on, such as chewing gum or mints. Fill your home with the right kinds of colors and other things that keep you feeling good. Pick the right scents, such as lavender, to help reduce your stress. These things can seem so small, but they can really help to carry your mental health past its limits!
There are so many ways that you can reduce stress, and it is time for you to emphasize this now. It will only get worse as time goes on, so there's no better time to alleviate stress than right now!







References
Arnold, C. (2019). If you are chronically stressed, your dog could be too. Retrieved from https://www.nationalgeographic.com/animals/2019/06/dogs-stress-anxiety-owners-pets/

Cherry, K. (2019). 5 Surprising Ways That Stress Affects Your Brain. Retrieved from https://www.verywellmind.com/surprising-ways-that-stress-affects-your-brain-2795040

Gregoire, C. (2013). 10 Ways Stress Affects Women's Health. Retrieved from https://www.huffpost.com/entry/health-effects-of-stress-women_n_2585625

Morin, A. (2018). 3 Ways to Declutter Your Mind. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/what-mentally-strong-people-dont-do/201805/3-ways-declutter-your-mind

Nordqvist, C. (2017). Why stress happens and how to manage it. Retrieved from https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/145855.php

Scott, E. (2019). The Relationship Between Sleep and Stress. Retrieved from https://www.verywellmind.com/relationship-between-stress-and-sleep-3144945

Seltzer, L. (2008). What Your Anger May Be Hiding. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/evolution-the-self/200807/what-your-anger-may-be-hiding

Steen, J. (2017). The Best and Worst Foods to Eat When You're Stressed. Retrieved from https://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2017/07/16/the-best-and-worst-foods-to-eat-when-youre-stressed_a_23029130/

The American Institute of Stress. (n. d.) Workplace Stress. Retrieved from https://www.stress.org/workplace-stress









Self-Confidence Workbook

Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Guide for Men and Women to Overcoming Self-Doubt and Improve Self-Critic, Self-Esteem and Self-Confidence
JAKE SHARP
DEBUT BESTSELLING AUTHOR







Introduction
Our minds can get the best of us sometimes, which makes it difficult to be self-confident and self-reliant. We all have an inner critic that makes our minds overload with our faults or thoughts of the past and future. The inner critic is that silent voice that overloads us with negative thoughts, pressure, or beliefs, underestimating us and telling us that we can't do something. Having this inner voice can impair our ability to manage and deal with stress or other situations that life throws our way. When we continue to believe our inner critic for a long period of time, our self-esteem or self-image becomes distorted, which can cause high volumes of stress, resulting in depression or anxiety.
This confidence workbook has two parts. The first part explains the concepts of self-love, individuality, self-esteem, self-respect, and self-worth. You will learn why you don't feel confident and what patterns you have developed over time that get you where you are. This way, you will find a deeper understanding of yourself. By the time you get to the second part of this book, you will be ready to learn how to reverse your negativity and find inner peace. Everyone has self-confidence already programmed in them, but because of their minds falling short of the positive aspects in life, they forgot how to be confident and individualistic. One thing is for sure—we are all worthy and deserving of respect and appreciation.
Everywhere, you see books that have titles like How to Practice Positivity
 and How to Be a Better You in These Simple Steps.
 Everywhere you look, the media and entertainment centers are promoting personal growth. Much like this book, you can learn how to do anything and develop anything you want just by following the advice given. This book is different from the rest because it not only shows you how but also explains in detail why you got stuck and how to overcome it. Aside from the inner critic interrupting our growth, one thing that stops us is fear
. People fear the unknown because it is uncertain what will happen. However, if you have self-confidence, you know what you deserve, and you trust yourself to move forward no matter what lies ahead. With the help of this book, you will learn how to overcome your fears, anxiety, and worries. It's time to open 
your mind to the possibility and opportunity of self-love and awareness.
There are many benefits to growing out of your shyness shell, building healthy relationships, creating plans, and learning how to trust yourself to build confidence. Why are you stuck? Have you always wanted to know where to begin picking yourself up? This book has the answers.
Ask yourself one question: "What makes life worth living?" It's personal growth. If you are not ready to commit to change, overcome your fears, and become satisfied in your own reality, then do not read any further. Put this book down and find something else to read. This book requires your full attention and your full dedication. Above all else, it provides you with well-researched information suited directly for your needs. Life is too short to waste your time on the inner critic who believes you should fail. So quit wasting time. Beat your shyness and become the confident individual you have always wanted to be.







Part One: Identifying Self-Confidence
In part one of this self-confidence workbook, there are three chapters that explain what self-confidence is and all the aspects surrounding self-esteem. You will understand yourself on a deeper level, and you will learn where self-confidence and self-esteem come from. You will learn that by giving yourself kindness, compassion, and love, your self-esteem level and confidence will rise. Have you ever wondered why you feel as though you are headed in the right path, then something knocks you down and you are three steps backward from where you were? This can happen because of low levels of confidence and self-esteem. Yes, they are different. As you learn how to implement self-respect into your life, you will start to see the triggers in your life that keep you from climbing the success ladder. With the power of positivity and using many ways to defeat that inner critical voice of yours, you can step out of the darkness and become the light of your own desire.
These next three chapters will give you a deeper definition of what self-confidence, self-love, self-respect, self-worth, self-esteem, and care are all about. Each one is unique in its own definition and ties together to make up what self-esteem and self-confidence are supposed to be. One thing is certain—you can never be confident with the ongoing critical voice that ties you down inside your head. So the first step is to overcome the "negative Nancy" and find a deeper meaning so that you can be motivated to live the life you deserve.







Chapter 1: Understanding Yourself
The most important step in building self-confidence and self-esteem is to understand first who you are. Believe it or not, there are a lot of people who don't understand who they are yet and struggle with the process of figuring it out. This chapter welcomes you to explore yourself and get to know who you are on a deeper level so that when you finally commit to personal growth, you can understand what works best for you and find ways to get what you want. Do you often wonder why you got upset for no reason? Maybe you don't enjoy your job but wonder why you stay. Have you ever argued with your spouse about things that seem unnecessary? A lot of our automatic reactions stem from our subconscious mind, which controls a large amount of our behavior. If you understand yourself better (what makes you do what you do and why you think the way you do), you can gain a better understanding of how to make better decisions, thus resulting in higher self-confidence.
There are a few steps in learning how to understand yourself better:
Get a Personal Assessment
You can ask a few of your friends and family members for their opinion of who they think you are, but this may lead to biases of yourself that you already have. Instead of asking around, you can take a few personality tests like the Myer-Briggs personality test, or you can research about the nine basic personality types through the enneagram test.
The Myers-Briggs personality test theory represents sixteen different personality types that you could fall under. Depending on your answers, the tests consist of eight different types of people you can be—introvert/extrovert, sensing/intuition, thinking/feeling, and judging/perceiving. The results would explain which of the sixteen personalities you fit into. For example, ENFJ would be that you would fall in to be an extrovert, intuitive, feeling, and judgmental person.
The enneagram test is a little more complicated and takes a bit to understand; however, it consists of nine different types of 
personalities that you fall into. It consists of a diagram that explains personal growth and where you are on the scale and how to get to where you want to be. The enneagram doesn't fit you into one specific category as it leaves room for you to grow into any personality type. As confusing as these tests may be, by researching and undergoing a personality test, you may be able to understand yourself a little deeper.
Do Individuality/Personality Writing Exercises
A character analysis writing activity is what fictional writers will do so that they have a better understanding of the characters they want to discuss in their books. You can find many templates online, and the goal of this project is to think about things you weren't aware of yourself. Some of the character outlines consist of asking whether a person has any habits or "ticks" that may separate them from the world, like nail-biting, or whether they have an accent. Below are some questions you can ask yourself:


How do you describe yourself?


What is your purpose?


What is the most important thing that has happened to you?


What is the most embarrassing thing that has happened to you?


What are you most interested in?


What do you value and appreciate the most?


What makes you different from other people?


What is one experience that was life-changing for you?


By answering these specific questions, you will gain a better understanding of who you are.
Define Your Strengths and Weaknesses
By evaluating and thinking solely about your strengths and weaknesses, you can figure out what is most important to you that will help you answer the questions you struggled with in your writing exercise. Compare your perception with your strengths and 
weaknesses to the strengths and weaknesses of your friends and family. This can help you understand more about yourself and how you see yourself and reflect.
Some examples of strengths are being devoted, dedicated, resilient, decisive, and organized. Some examples of weaknesses are being narrow-minded, selfish, unsure, and judgmental.
Evaluate Your Priorities and What's Important to You
Your priorities stem down to your beliefs, morals, and values. When you think about these things, you can determine what is most important to you. Here are a few things to consider when determining your priorities:


If your house is on fire, what is the first thing that comes to your mind that you will save? These can be anything from tax papers to memorabilia.


If someone is living a lifestyle that you don't agree with, like veganism or transsexualism (just an example), how would you respond? Even though you don't agree, would you still be supportive? Would you protect them? How?


What is most important to you? Some examples of things that people mostly prioritize are money, family, respect, and stability.


In understanding yourself on a deeper level, you will be able to experience more happiness and self-control. You will be able to make wiser decisions. You will have resilience during stressful events, and you will gain a deeper understanding of others. Many benefits come with understanding yourself. Now let us learn what self-confidence and self-esteem are.
Understanding Self-Confidence
By definition, "confidence" is a state in which someone feels a certain truth about something. Confidence is when someone can dive into something with pure trust that everything is going to be all right and perfect. It's the self-assurance of oneself that things will happen correctly. It's being 100% sure of yourself and your beliefs. This can 
fully happen when someone understands themselves and knows who they are as an individual. It is when someone feels good about themselves and trusts their capabilities fully. Self-confidence comes from three abilities that everyone possesses, which are as follows:

●
    
the ability to think positively about yourself and your environment


●
    
the ability to be completely certain that you implement positive value in your life and have trust in all your capabilities (regardless of what others feel and think of you)


●
    
the ability to continue thinking positively about yourself and situations through any given circumstance (even when negativity arises)

So what do these abilities all have in common? They are all positive-based thinking patterns. So in order to be a self-confident individual, you must obtain absolute positivity while also knowing when to accept the negative.
A lot of people try to control what is impossible to control, like the future. When we are stuck trying to control the future, we are stuck focusing on the negative instead of accepting that it hasn't happened yet. Being confident is about knowing when to act upon things you can control and when to sit with things you can't.
One thing to keep in mind about self-confidence is that it is neither right nor wrong; however, it is very useful to have. Just as a glass that is full or empty is neither right nor wrong, if you lack self-confidence, that is neither right nor wrong as well. One of the most beneficial things about being confident is that through every experience, you get stronger and wiser rather than weaker and feeling stuck in the same place. By this, I mean, when you have low self-confidence, you are bound to feel rejected or judged, which makes situations more difficult to handle. With that being said, you may not be able to "put yourself out there for fear of being judged or rejected." In this sense, over time, you become weaker and weaker because you become more and more terrified to do the things you want. Because of low self-confidence, you wouldn't take risks needed to live a fulfilled and satisfying life.
Here are the benefits of having high self-confidence:

●
     

more respect for yourself and your self-worth


●
     
more happiness and appreciation


●
     
less self-doubt


●
     
less anxiety and fear


●
     
less stress


●
     
more energy and dedication to strive forward


●
     
overall better physical and mental health

More benefits will be explained in more detail in chapter 3. When you have self-confidence, the petty stuff doesn't matter to you. You are not afraid of rejection or judgment because you know yourself. You have high self-respect, and someone else's opinion of you does not break your stride. If you want to learn how to build your self-esteem and be more self-confident as an individual, the second part of this book explains and teaches you how you can do this.
Understanding Self-Esteem
Self-esteem can be referred to as self-worth or self-respect. People with low self-esteem may feel defeated or maintain an overload of unnecessary stress, which leads them to make bad choices. Bad choices can lead someone to destructive relationships, poor performance at work, and decreased overall health. Although someone with low self-esteem can be dangerous. People who represent high levels of self-esteem are also at risk for harmful experiences. Self-esteem is about how you feel about yourself. How much do you like yourself, and what are you worth to yourself? These are good questions to ask when learning about self-esteem and how to develop the qualities. When you learn more about yourself (especially what helps you feel more confident and how much you deserve for yourself), you will learn not to accept anything less from anyone else. And when you can do that, you will develop stronger bonds with the people around you, put your best foot forward in everything you do, and be a much happier person overall.
Here are some signs that you have high self-esteem:

●
     
You have confidence.


●
     

You are able to say no.


●
     
You have a positive mindset.


●
     
You accept your own strengths and weaknesses.


●
     
Negative experiences are not hugely impactful.


●
    
You are able to express your needs and how you feel.

Here are signs that you have low self-esteem:

●
     
You have a negative mindset.


●
     
You lack confidence.


●
     
Focus is always on the negative aspects of life.


●
     
You feel ashamed, depressed, or fearful.


●
     
You believe that other people are better than you.


●
     
You feel envy or jealousy.


●
    
You cannot accept compliments and are sensitive to any type of feedback.


●
    
You fear failure, so you tend to be a perfectionist.

Confidence is one of the biggest traits when learning or developing self-esteem. Self-esteem is about self-love, and having too much of that can make you seem egotistical, entitled, narcissistic, and even arrogant. Not enough self-esteem can make someone more willing to tolerate less than they deserve and take on too much for their stress level. This is what we would call a pushover. The right amount of self-esteem can greatly benefit the way you work, the way you see the world, the way you interact with others, and the way you carry yourself. Taking care of yourself is one of the many things you can do to build your self-esteem. When you feel good, you look good, and you do great things.
Understanding the Power of Positivity
Understanding how to be more confident and hold higher self-esteem than you do has a variety of beneficial factors and can help you be more successful and lead a fulfilling life. None of this is possible without learning and being able to understand the power of 
positivity. Developing positivity can be difficult for most people because we are always trying to control our environments or overthink in many situations. Some people have low self-esteem, and it's hard to think positive when they feel so low about themselves. Another reason why positive thinking can be difficult to obtain is that we expect something to happen and often get disappointed by the outcomes if it wasn't what we expected. This sets our mind backward and forces us to think negatively about most things in our lives. However, maybe positive thinking isn't about seeing the good in everything but, in fact, accepting the bad with the good as a way of life.
So what exactly is the definition of positivity? It isn't what you are; rather, it is something you do. Scientists have been researching the power of positive thinking for a while, and they are finding that positive thinking can rewrite the trauma you have experienced. Positive thinking can help you overcome negative thinking patterns as scientists are now proving that the more you practice using a positive mind, the better at it you will become. This suggests that positive thinking is a learned skill, not something you are born with and know how to do automatically.
Positive thinking is perhaps one of the easiest things to do; however, based on an individual's experiences, their mind will automatically look for the negatives. The habit of thinking positive is more difficult than most would like to admit.
A few ways that you can implement positivity into your life are as follows:
Become Mindful and Aware
Mindfulness has been around for centuries and has been proven to develop stronger neural connections, help people be more creative, experience better memories, make better choices, and make you overall calmer. To develop mindfulness, you must learn to do the following:


Observe your thoughts and your surroundings. Do not label any thought or experience as good or bad. Instead, just be with them. Observe them and be nonjudgmental about them.


Do one thing at a time instead of trying to multitask. For example, if you are having a conversation, only have the conversation. Listen effectively without responding right away. Give yourself time to think, then respond effectively. Put your phone and any other distractions away, and just focus on one thing.


Be alone with yourself for at least five to ten minutes every day. This is the time when you do absolutely nothing and just observe and be mindful of what is happening inside you and around you. This means no phone, no books, no TV, no music—just you and your thoughts.


Be Grateful
Most people have such busy lives that they forget about the small things that got them to where they are. Pay attention to the small and big things that you are grateful for. Here are some examples of what to be thankful for:


You woke up today.


You have a family to love and care for.


You got to drink a nice warm cup of tea.


You have hot water to take a shower.


You have things to look forward to.


Start Small
As positivity is something you do and learn rather than something you are born with (you are not), you must start small. This happens when you become aware so that you can catch the positive moments that happen in your life. Did someone make dinner today? Did you mess up at work and felt negative about it? Use these opportunities to be positive. Gradually and over time, you will start to see more positivity and then obtain it automatically.
Change Your Environment
Sometimes negativity is all around us—in our workplace, our home, our relationships, etc. Although it is important to look for positivity 
in your life, you should also know how to change your surroundings when negativity becomes overwhelming. Here are a few things you can do to change your negative environment to a positive one.


Hang out with positive people and those who support you and your beliefs.


Try new things, like joining a book club or volunteering at your nearest foodbank.


Read inspiring and motivating articles on the Internet.


Have sticky notes everywhere of positive sayings and affirmations.


Have a positive buddy. For example, if your friend is trying to be more positive, call them every day at the end of the day and talk about all the positive things you accomplished or thought about today.


Journal
Journaling is one of the most beneficial things you can do if you are going through a challenging time and find it difficult to be positive. Journaling allows you to write out what your stresses are, then take a look at what you wrote from a third-person perspective. Through journaling, you will be able to see the positives through the negatives because the thoughts are now put down on paper rather than floating around in your head. Some people have journals strictly for stress and negative thoughts. Others have organization and planning journals. And a few others have positivity journals. Find out which type of journaling is most beneficial to you and make that a habit every day.
By taking small steps toward positivity each day, you can rebalance your life and rewire your brain to look on the brighter side of everything. Being positive isn't about staying happy and fulfilled; it's more about learning how to be positive through tough times and being with the negative if you cannot control something.
Chapter Overview
Understanding yourself is about knowing who you are as a person, 
what you stand for, and what you value most. From understanding more about yourself, you can then start learning how to be self-confident in who you are as a person. From that, self-esteem becomes naturally balanced into your life without you making much of an effort. If this sounds about right, there is only one more step to follow while getting to know yourself, and that's about implementing positivity into your life. As you can see, you cannot have one without the other as self-esteem, self-understanding, self-confidence, and positivity are all connected one way or another. In the next chapter, you will learn all about self-care and how to understand the benefits of self-worth, self-respect, self-love, and self-talk.







Chapter 2: Personality and Self-Worth
Self-worth is defined as a person sensing their own value or worth as an individual. There are multiple ways a person can value themselves and assess their worth as an individual. Although in some sense self-worth is the same as self-esteem, the two are actually quite different from each other. Self-worth is more about valuing your internal beliefs and morals as a person and less about measuring yourself based on your actions. In short, self-worth is about who you are, not what you do, while self-esteem is based on what you do. In other words, self-esteem, in this sense, is quite the opposite. However, self-esteem and self-worth share many similarities. High self-esteem focuses on comparing oneself to others, but self-worth solely relies on how a person sees themselves without anyone else's opinion, which, in another sense, shows high levels of self-confidence.
The first step in developing or improving your self-worth is to stop comparing yourself to others and setting high expectations of yourself. The one thing that stands in the way of improving your self-worth is your inner critical voice. Your inner critic plays a large part in how you think. When you think negatively, your critical inner voice gets in the way. Thinking positive can trump or control those pesky negative thoughts. Understanding ourselves on a deeper level and fully getting to know ourselves is the first step in overcoming those destructive voices in our heads that tell us we can't do anything. We have to foster self-worth and practice self-compassion. Being kind to ourselves is the next step to feeling worthy. Below are the three steps to practicing self-compassion:


Acknowledge and observe your suffering and pain.


Be kind to yourself and caring for your own suffering.


Remember that imperfection and mistakes happen to all of us, and these things need to happen in order for personal growth.


Helping others and being kind to people will give you an extreme mental and physical boost of self-worth. So volunteer when you can or give the homeless a sandwich. Overall, by being kind to yourself through healthy habits and mental exercises, you can control or 
cope with your internal critic, thus building self-worth. Do new things and enjoy activities that are beneficial to your personal beliefs. In doing so, you will develop and grow your own self-worth.
What Is Self-Love?
Self-love is when you know when and how to take care of yourself because you know within self-worth that you deserve to be taken care of. Who better to take care of you than you? Some people may think that self-love means you develop narcissistic traits or become overly selfish in getting what you want and need. In fact, this very much the opposite. Self-love means that you have accepted your weaknesses and appreciate all that you are. In other words, it's the ability to love yourself through your faults and your shortcomings. So how does one take care of themselves and accept all their own faults? Through self-compassion. The way to do this is to look at yourself as though you would a friend or someone you love, and then ask yourself how you would treat them. Whatever that answer is, that is exactly how you should treat yourself. To love yourself is to give yourself what your brain, body, and soul need so that you nourish and grow into the person you want to be.
Some people think that buying new clothes or reading inspirational quotes or even getting involved with someone who makes you feel good is giving yourself love. It's not. These are only temporary fixes, and they do not benefit you in the long run if your goal is to love yourself more. Here is why. Having new clothes gives us a sense of accomplishment (especially if we have worked hard for them) but not love. Reading inspirational articles gives us a sense of satisfaction, but only for a short amount of time. Getting involved in a relationship that makes us feel good and loved is how we obtain love from other people. However, the honeymoon stage will fade, and then the tough part of the relationship happens. If you don't learn to love yourself, then arguments and disagreements will be more challenging to manage. Self-love is more than just making yourself feel good through materialistic things or self-accomplishment. It's about fully appreciating yourself through actions that support and develop your intellectual, spiritual, and physical growth.
Here are a few things you can do to practice self-love:

1.
Be mindful.
 Just like practicing mindfulness for positivity, you can also practice mindfulness when trying to develop self-love. You can practice being mindful for just about anything. However, when you start your meditation or awareness strategies for observance, make sure you know what your intent is, which will help you get closer to your end goal. To get long-term relaxation and awareness motivation, you must learn to practice mindfulness every day and be dedicated to it before you start seeing real effects.

2.
Figure out what you need, and ignore what you want.
 Loving yourself consists of giving yourself what you need rather than giving in to your wants. Most of the time, our wants are unhealthy for us. For example, if what we want is to binge-drink and party for a few days because we feel better when we do it, we are actually damaging our bodies. Or if you have an addiction to shopping and you go to the dollar store or a clothing store and end up spending money on things you don't need, you are actually training your brain that urges are more important than other important things, like food and savings. Now instead of drinking for a few days, you could have time to yourself, like taking a long bath, listening to relaxing music, or doing something for yourself that you haven't done in a while. With the money you spend on clothes that end up getting lost or given away, you could save for a nice new house or build your credit so that you can have financial security.

3. Take care of yourself.
 People who take care of themselves know what they need. They know that short-term "exciting" activities will only end up making them feel guilty or bad in the long run. This is the time to nourish yourself with healthy activities, such as exercise, eating right, proper sleep, and trusting relationships.

4. Set boundaries.
 Self-discipline and doing what you need to do for you will also build self-love. When you show high performance at work, say no to drama, do not engage in unhealthy relationships, and deplete harmful activities, you are teaching yourself boundaries. By setting boundaries, self-love comes naturally, and you will learn how to respect yourself more.

5. Forgive yourself.
 Every person makes mistakes. We sometimes delve into bad choices that we know aren't going to turn out right. 
We set expectations for ourselves that are too high, and we punish ourselves when we aren't perfect. Sometimes we blame ourselves when things go wrong even when we know it's not our fault. To defeat this pattern, you need to forgive yourself and be patient with who you are. Learn to accept your faults, work on your weaknesses, but most of all, enjoy the person that you are because you deserve that.
Work on one of these at a time, and eventually, you will make it through the whole list. This is not a complete list of how to love yourself, but it is a start and a point in the right direction.
What Is Self-Respect?
Most people that do not have self-respect are looking to please everyone, and usually, they have a hard time saying no. Having respect for yourself means that you know deep down that you are worthy of being treated fairly and with respect. If you are someone who seems to attract the type of people who mistreat you or if you seem to be attracted to narcissists, then you probably don't have much respect for yourself, and oftentimes, you may not even realize that you lack self-respect. However, if you don't learn how to respect yourself now, then you are more than likely going to follow the same patterns, settling for less and struggling to find your voice. You are likely to make too many commitments and let other people walk all over you. Having self-respect ensures that boundaries are solidly in place so that you are treated well and fairly in all aspects. You have to ensure that your needs and desires are met and your voice is heard.
It helps to understand what it takes to have self-respect so that you can try to develop the trait for your own personal growth. Below are some characteristics of people who have self-respect:

●
     
being assertive


●
    
having no toleration for people who mistreat them or talk down to them


●
    
not associating with unreliable people who walk all over them


●
    
having strong boundaries in place for the people who try to take advantage of them and suck their energy


●
    

being able to say no to unreasonable requests and not feeling guilty or pressured to say yes because they know what is good and what is unhealthy


●
    
having clear values and boundaries in a relationship, such as no lying


●
     
knowing the worth of their work


●
    
no settling for less than they deserve in any situation

Do you see a pattern? Living your life with the utmost respect for yourself shows that you are dedicated and confident in every aspect of your life, which is healthy and needed. There are many advantages of having self-respect and confidence and knowing what you deserve. Some of them are as follows:

●
     
You value and honor your desires and needs.


●
    
You have more energy to do things for yourself and strive toward your ambitions.


●
     
You feel equal to others, not above nor below.


●
     
You have better friends and longer-lasting relationships.


●
     
You respect your performance and quality in work.


●
     
You feel a sense of fulfillment in life.


●
     
You feel confident and worthy.


●
    
You have a deeper understanding of trust for yourself and others.


●
     
You follow your intuitions more.

This is not a full list of the advantages of having self-respect; however, having self-respect means that you are giving yourself permission to follow your desires and accomplish your long-term goals. This is because you know what you want, and you are dedicated to getting what you feel you deserve.
What Is a Self-Critic?
A self-critic is a person who has uncontrollable and sometimes intrusive thoughts about everything they do. You can describe a 
self-critic as an overthinker or someone whose brain is on automatic negative thinking pattern. Even when you try to be positive, your inner critic may say things like "You will never get the job" or "Why can't you do anything right?" The pattern of the inner critic is the nagging "voices" or thoughts that make up an internalized dialogue of negativity and self-doubt. The critical voice is the voice that criticizes our every move. It affects almost every aspect of our lives, forcing us to feel powerless and less confident in ourselves. Negative thoughts hold more power over us than we think. It can implement self-doubt, foster distrust, bring upon self-denial, account for addictions and substance use, and worst of all, promote mental illness.
For most people, the reason why negative thinking or the voice of the inner critic is so powerful is that it stems from past experiences. Before someone realizes it, the thought pattern is already developed in the brain, which is why so many of us become stressed out so easily. Some people don't realize their inner critic is taking such a huge effect on their lives, and so in order to conquer your inner critic, you must be aware when it happens. Once you are aware and can identify exactly what the negative thought says, you can start challenging it by really thinking about the thought as a whole. You can consciously take the necessary steps to let the thought intentionally go. Take control of yourself by purposely replacing the negative thought with a positive one. The trick is not to push your thoughts away but to be with them. Observe them, and then let them disappear on their own while paying no attention to them or labeling them. This strategy is called being mindful.
Once you are completely aware of your inner critic's voice, you can start to find your triggers. Triggers are when you have done something to cause your internal negativity to activate. Once you spot your triggers, the next thing to do is to reframe your state of mind upon your triggers. For example, you go to a certain friend's house, and at first, you think about how excited you are to see them. However, when you leave, you begin to ask yourself why you went there. Why do you keep this friend in your life when the reality is that they don't need you? They are only nice to you because they feel sorry for you. If it only happens with this one friend, you have to reframe your mind to find out exactly why you keep this friend 
around. Figure out their true intentions. Spend more time with them to prove to your brain that there is no harm in having this person in your life. If they turn out to be ungenuine, then you have just practiced self-respect and self-love. If they turn out to be really great, then you have just accomplished reframing your inner critic. The trick is not to avoid your triggers in fear of your thoughts but to dive deeper into your triggers so that they don't become a trigger anymore.
Here are just a few simple steps in order to conquer the inner critic:

1. Identify the inner voice.
 What is your thought? What is your inner critic telling you? What is the best and worst scenario? Are you fearful of something happening? Once you identify your inner critical voice, you can start to ask it questions. Be curious about why you are experiencing these thoughts. This is a challenging process wherein you learn how to identify where the thought comes from. Take a step back and view your inner critic as if it were someone telling you these things rather than yourself. Use your wise mind to combat them.

2. Separate from the inner critic.
 The next step is to write your thoughts down, or you may also record them on your phone. The details should include everything that happened at that moment. What did you do before the critic attacked? What were you thinking before negative thoughts took over your mind? What were the exact self-critical words that were said? When you do this, you can take a step back and see the thoughts in a different light or from a different perspective.

3. Respond to your inner critic.
 After writing your thoughts down or recording your situation and environment, you can then have a more realistic evaluation of yourself. For example, if your inner critic says, "I can't get anything right. I will never achieve my goals," respond to it with "It is normal to make mistakes, and as I am a human, I will struggle, but I am smart enough to know that I can accomplish my goals if I so choose." This exercise can reframe your mind and help you start to look at things differently so that in time, your automatic response to failure will be a more compassionate approach. This is showing yourself love and worthiness.

4. Do not act on your inner critic.
 You know what you want. 
You know your values. You know what you deserve. That is why settling for anything less would damage your esteem. Your inner critic should never get a say in how you act or what you feel as one thing is for sure—the inner critic is just in your head. When you think about this way, you can choose to let negative thoughts control you, or you can choose to fulfill your own destiny. Treat your inner critic as a bad friend who doesn't support you and doesn't want the best for you. Acknowledge your negative thoughts, but do not feed into them.
If you follow these four steps of conquering the inner critic, it will become weaker and more distant, and you will become stronger. If you take the necessary steps to free yourself from your inner critic, you will have the freedom to pursue your goals, and you will become more compassionate and considerate of yourself. When the inner critic is just a distant memory, that is when you can finally step outside the hold it has taken, and you can become a more confident individual that you deserve to be.
Chapter Overview
Self-worth revolves around self-esteem; however, the main difference is that self-worth is more about what and how you think rather than what you do in competition to someone else. Self-worth shows that one can stick to their own beliefs without the approval of someone else because that is how confident and assured they are in their own values and judgments. The inner critic can get in the way of having or developing self-worth or any kind of self-respect because it is the voice that lies to us. It's the voice that tells us things we don't believe in. It is a trap that our minds want us to fall into. However, learning ways on combating the inner critic and negative self-talk can really benefit personal growth as you will have more energy to take care of yourself and develop boundaries around self-respect and self-worth. Part of knowing what you want will help you gain the confidence to get what your empowered self deserves.







Chapter 3: What Confidence Is All About
The thing about confidence is that it takes a lot of time to build and develop but only taking seconds for it to crumble. However, true confidence never really crumbles. Confidence can start in childhood, or it can be developed over time and become a part of adulthood. It has been scientifically proven that confidence is a different aura that people carry around with them. Science has proven that when someone is confident, they have high self-worth and self-respect. They are strong leaders and have the capacity to bounce back when they fall or go through tough times. Unconfident people often second-guess themselves and dwell on their weaknesses; thus, they never make a positive change or a step forward. Their expectations of themselves are too high, and they continue to bash themselves when they fail. Confidence is not about the mistakes you have made. It's not even about the many weaknesses that people have. Confidence is about knowing and believing that you are good enough. It's about going after what you want and what you are most passionate about without thinking that you are going to fail or mess up. Confident people know they aren't perfect, but they accept what they can do and let go of what they can't.
Here are a few traits that a confident person has developed or mastered:



They have poise.
 Walking with confidence.



They maintain eye contact.
 They always look at the person they are speaking to as they are not afraid to look someone in the eye.



They are firm in their ways.
 They have boundaries that hold their values in place, and they are strict about them. They stay true to themselves and go forward in life with their own personal beliefs.



They are not conscious of their appearance.
 Confident individuals don't care what others think of them because they believe that they look good as they take pride in their appearance.



They are self-assured.

 They have a good head on their shoulders and are willing to tackle almost anything because they are self-assured.



They do the right thing.
 Even if it can hurt themselves or someone else, a confident person always feels better by doing the right thing. They don't give in to peer pressure and know that what they feel in their heart is right. Confident people have strong intuitions.



They aren't afraid to be wrong.
 When they are wrong, they admit their mistakes, and they talk about them. They know when to apologize and when to be assertive in requesting what they need.



They do not hog the spotlight.
 Confident people are not selfish because they don't need the attention of others to make themselves feel good. They know that they are good enough for themselves and hold true to their own thoughts and feelings. So they let someone else have the spotlight.



They aren't afraid to be embarrassed.
 Confident people will do random silly things because they aren't afraid to be funny.



They do not put others down.
In fact, they build people up because they know right from wrong. Confident people don't like to waste their time with unnecessary drama or conflict as they know it brings their own beliefs and self-respect down.




They are assertive.
A confident individual will not tolerate excuses or being lied to. They know when to help someone and when to walk away. Generally speaking, the confident individual will help someone who wants to be helped and knows the difference.



Although it may come easy for some people to be confident, for others, it can feel like a daunting task that is difficult to succeed at. A confident person does not have to obtain all these traits, but even having one or two of them is a good step toward confidence. Don't be afraid to be confident. Being confident is not being self-centered or narcissistic. If you are true to yourself and understand the big 
difference between confidence and narcissism, then you will be fine, and you are well on your way to being who you deserve to be.
Self-Esteem and Self-Confidence
Self-esteem and self-confidence have many similarities and also a variety of differences. They are both referred to as how you feel about yourself; however, self-esteem is more about how you feel about yourself overall. Self-esteem is how much self-love and positive regard you have for yourself, whereas self-confidence mainly focuses on your abilities. Someone may have high self-esteem, but they may not be very confident in certain aspects of their life, like how they are in topics such as math. When you learn how to take care of yourself, build your self-worth, define who you are, and love yourself through your faults, you are building self-esteem. High self-esteem stems from being confident in knowing that you deserve to be taken care of, that you are worthy, and that you do respect yourself. So as you increase your overall feeling of worth, you are also increasing your confidence level.
In other words, building self-confidence comes from your external experiences, whereas self-esteem comes from an internal experience. Self-esteem refers to how we feel about ourselves from the inside. It reflects the way we relate to our own sense of entitlement. Self-confidence reflects how we see ourselves in the outside world as we go through different circumstances and directions.
In order to build and develop your self-esteem, you must do the following:

●
     
Listen to your true self (intuition).


●
     
Challenge the inner critic.


●
     
Be nice to yourself.


●
    
Take care of yourself and go after what you want.


●
     
Reward yourself often.


●
    
Be supportive of others and patient with your learning process.


●
     

Validate your accomplishments.

Someone can have more confidence than they have self-esteem or more self-esteem than they have confidence. With that said, if we have more self-esteem and less confidence, we will end up being more resilient when we fail. This is because our image of yourself comes before our confidence at a higher level, therefore acting as a foundation for when we mess up. If we hold a higher confidence level but less self-esteem, we may not feel very good about our accomplishments due to the constant negative chatter inside our brains. As you can see, having low self-esteem is actually more damaging than having confidence. However, if you work on your self-esteem, you are also working on boosting your confidence level. By doing the things listed above, you can help yourself to obtain a higher level of self-esteem in which confidence will come naturally and automatically for you.
How Negative Thoughts Affect Our Behavior
When you are asleep, your subconscious mind takes over, and when you wake up, the thoughts from your subconscious mind enter your conscious mind. Some of these thoughts include "Wake up," "No, I am sleeping," "I'm so tired," "Time to take a shower," "I am too lazy," "That dream was funny." The subconscious thoughts that we have are often uncontrollable, and they pop up at random times. However, we are actually in control of what happens in our subconscious minds. The more we think one way, the more it gets stuck into our subconscious. So if we choose to think positively, over time, we will wake up and think positive. If we allow our inner critic to take control, then negative thoughts will slip through the most. Our actions are the result of our subconscious minds. Our actions are based on the thoughts that creep through our minds. If you learn how to control your subconscious mind, you can actually help it to bring more positivity to your life, which will make you feel better. If you feel better, you feel more confident as well.
Three things you can do to reprogram your subconscious mind is to use positive self-talk, commit to correcting your negative thoughts, and practice a more balanced way of thinking (being rational). Every time you realize your thoughts are negative or dark, observe them. 
After that, replace them with a positive statement. See chapter 2 for more advice on how to let go of the inner critic. Reprogramming your subconscious mind is so important because if you let it take over, it will run your life. Everything that goes into your head will be acted out as part of your behaviors. Simply put, if you think negatively, you are putting forth negative energy into the universe, and negative things will happen. When you promote positivity, you will give out positive energy into the universe, and positive things will happen to you. The way you view life is all about how you think and perceive it. The choice is ultimately up to you, so it would be wise to sit down and make a list of all the things you want to obtain in your life. What kind of person do you want to be? Where do you want to end up? What is the most important thing to you right now? These questions can help you stay on track when it comes to thinking positive and gaining your sense of confidence.
Chapter Overview
Being positive is what being confident is about. By this, I mean that when you act with good behaviors, think with certainty, do right by others, and maintain self-worth, you can become self-confident in anything that you choose to do. Self-esteem is about how you think of yourself, and confidence is about what you do with your self-esteem. If you develop a negative perspective on life, you will find that both your confidence and self-esteem is low. If they are low, then you may find it difficult to live a fulfilling and satisfying life. The rest of this book will help you define who you are and give you useful tips on how to implement positivity and stay on a balanced level of self-esteem and confidence.







Part Two: Solution and Steps
Now that you know the importance of understanding yourself and have defined what self-esteem and confidence are, the second part of this book focuses on how you can overcome the inner critic and become a confident individual. This section of this self-esteem workbook will help you understand yourself on a deeper level. It will also help you maintain a steady, balanced structure of living the life you want. We all have choices, but most of the time, we ignore the paths we want to choose because we are so used to doing the same thing all the time. Doing the same thing keeps us in our comfort zone, while doing anything different seems scary or out of the ordinary. In chapter 6, you will learn how to overcome your fears so that you can take the next step into loving yourself. Before we get to that chapter, you first must understand how to accept yourself for who you are. You also need to understand why it's so important to change your negative state of mind. If you stick to what you know, which my guess hasn't worked for you, then you may experience some anxiety revolving the next steps in life. When we don't take chances on ourselves and we don't overcome the feeling of being stuck, we actually create more anxiety for ourselves. Humans are social creatures and need to experience new things. If we stay stuck doing the same thing, living the same loop, we get bored and then start to wonder what life is all about.
Part of growing into yourself and having the confidence to accomplish whatever goals you set for yourself is taking care of yourself so that you can feel better about yourself. Self-love is important in building your self-esteem, and in the second part of this self-help workbook, I will teach you how to stick with a steady routine so that you can feel empowered and confident. Once you have all the facts, you can then make loving yourself a habit. Wouldn't it be nice to kick the inner critic in the butt and develop a sense of worthiness? You bet it would be, so take no more time and read on.







Chapter 4: How to Overcome Your Thoughts and Accept Yourself
Self-acceptance is the key characteristic in self-love and building self-esteem. It's when you know and understand yourself on a deeper level but are okay with all of who you are. You accept your weaknesses, and you know what you are good at. Self-acceptance is about knowing that you can improve based on these strengths and weaknesses and being completely patient with yourself during the process of personal growth. If one day you look at yourself and feel as though you are disgusted or unhappy with yourself, the step to self-acceptance is to ask yourself why. Do you wish you were someone else? What is it about yourself that you don't like so much? Is it your appearance? Is it your personality? The good thing is that personalities can be changed and altered, and so can appearances. This takes a more dramatic effect. When you learn how to acknowledge your habits and behaviors and stop comparing yourself to other people, you can start to improve your life. Working toward self-growth is the most important step in learning how to accept yourself. One cannot truly accept who they are if they don't truly know who they are.
This is what self-acceptance looks like:

●
     
loving yourself for who you are


●
     
accepting your attitude, skills, and appearance


●
     
being compassionate toward yourself


●
     
not being judgmental of yourself and your failures


●
     
being able to admit and accept your shortcomings


●
    
accepting that your past doesn't define you and so you don't need to dwell on it

When you see your mistakes, you can learn to live with them and learn from them. Accepting your present position as it is right now is the only thing you can control, so it is your responsibility to make the most out of this moment. By seeing your mistakes and learning to live completely in the moment, you will find ways to improve in 
areas of your life you are not so proud of. This could be your career; perhaps you aren't doing what you love. Part of accepting yourself is acknowledging that you don't like what you do but at the same time looking for ways to do what you love later. For example, if you work as a professional cleaner but your passion is to be a mechanic, then you brainstorm ideas on how to save up the money to get to the first step of accomplishing this. Ask yourself what is standing in the way of your dream. Tackle those barriers and go for it. When you learn self-improvement strategies, you can decrease the feelings of anger and resentment toward yourself and actually do what you have wanted to do. The first step in doing what you love, being who you want to be, and branching out to better things is to change your negative state of mind. There are many techniques that foster personal growth and self-acceptance. Here are some of them:


observing your thoughts and actions through mindfulness


changing the way you think (that is, challenging the inner critic)


repeating positive mantras in stressful times


Self-acceptance does not come easy to some people. This is why so many people read self-help books and take anxiety classes. When we are children, life is much easier or at least should be. Then from our childhood, we turn into adolescents. We want to spread our wings and be rebellious. In this process, we are truly trying to define who we are. We are shaping ourselves into the kind of adults that we want to be. Once we become adults, most of us have no clue what we are doing. Adulthood comes so fast. The experiences that we go through in this life shape us and our minds. This is why it may be so difficult for some of us to love ourselves and accept who we truly are right now. In the adolescent years, some experiences interfere with our confidence. Peer pressure is very strong. As adolescents, we feel as though we need to fit in or look and act a certain way to become accepted. As children, it might be that our parents didn't show the love and support we needed. Some people may develop abandonment issues or substance abuse throughout their lives. Other people may have had to grow up in foster families, so they already feel unloved and unwelcomed into the world. The experiences we go through shape us into who we are today. Self-
acceptance is about acknowledging what has shaped you but not letting your past define who you want to be. It's about changing your state of mind and overcoming the myths of what people have told you, thinking that it is never too late to grow into what you deserve to be.
Ask yourself, "Who do I want to be?" Is it a confident businessman/woman? Is it a nurturing parent? Is it a creative loner? Then ask yourself, "Who am I now?" Is it a reserved friend? A selfish spouse? A broken individual? Finally, say this to yourself, "It doesn't matter who I am today, what got me here, and who I am going to become. What matters is that I am here, I am who I am, and I am proud." In reality, this is all that self-acceptance truly is—just knowing what you want, being able to define who you are, and not allowing the past to shape you. If you have the ability to wipe the slate clean and start over or if you (God forbid) get in a horrible accident that wipes your memories and you have the chance to restart your life, what would you do with it? Whatever the answer is, start from there. Keeping that in mind, here are a few tips on how to start your road to self-acceptance:

1. Be good to yourself.
 The first step in accepting yourself is that you need to let go of being so critical and judgmental of yourself. The only person who criticizes you more than anyone else is you, so practice kindness. You can practice kindness by doing the following:


Reward yourself for big and small achievements.


Treat yourself once a month or once every two weeks.


Save 10 percent of your paycheck.


Relax more.


Become best friends with yourself and learn more about yourself.


Implement some "me time" every day.


Don't take on too much for you to handle.



2. Face your fears.
 It could be your inner critic that keeps you fearful or the mistakes that hold you back. You may have a habit of overthinking, or you may be someone who needs to control every circumstance. Facing your fears head-on will keep you moving 
forward rather than get you stuck. Doing what you know is easy, and doing something new is scary or unfamiliar. However, if you want to see change, you have to take baby steps toward them. Having a list of things you are afraid of along with your goals is a good place to start. Here are a few things you can do to face your fears:


Make a list of your fears and goals.


Make a fear ladder (explained in chapter 6).


Write inspiring quotes to help you get past your fear.


Change one thing every day.


Sit with your fear for a small amount of time, then extend it gradually.



3. Practice positivity.
 Practicing positivity will help you stay on track toward your goals. In this case, your goal is to appreciate and accept yourself more. When your inner critic sneaks up on you, observe the thought and replace it with a positive affirmation. When you take a look at your environment and your group of friends, determine what can be changed, what can be fixed, and what benefits you the most. Here are a few things you can do to practice positivity:


Have a notebook of positive quotes with you always.


Have sticky notes around your house where you can tell yourself something good every day.


Call up a supportive and positive friend for a positivity boost.


Do something fun.


Start a new hobby.



4. You are not perfect.
 No one is perfect, so why try to be? Every flaw that you have—e.g., your frizzy hair, your freckles, your insecurity about your personality—all makes up for who you are. Self-acceptance is not about what your past defines you to be; it's more about being able to look at yourself in the mirror and accept all the imperfections about yourself. So you messed up at work, or you dyed your white clothes pink. Maybe you said something out of anger or acted impulsively to your frustrations. Accept that these things happen, and while it's in the past, all you can do is leave it there. Strive to improve. If you can mend a relationship or fix a 
mistake, do it. If you can't, learn to accept that being imperfect is who you are. Nothing is wrong with that. Here are some things that will help you to practice accepting imperfections:


Do not dwell on the past.


Be patient with yourself.


Do not dwell on conflict.


Change what you can change, and let everything else work itself out.


Laugh at your mistakes and make a tough situation humorous.


Be weird and silly.


Dance or sing horribly on purpose.



5. Believe in yourself.
 Most people struggle because they feel insecure about whether or not they can do something. By having this frame of mind, you actually set yourself up for failure. For example, if you are preparing yourself for a speech and you say, "I can't do this," "I am totally going to fail," "What if no one likes it?" etc., you will deliver your speech thinking you will screw it up, which will make you nervous, and you may actually screw up. On the other hand, if you go into it thinking, "I am nervous, but I totally got this," "I am going to nail it," "If I don't do well, it won't be as bad as I am making it seem," you set yourself up to overcome your fear of speeches, and you develop self-confidence, which overall boosts your self-esteem. Believe in yourself. You can do anything you set your mind. You have been through or survived worse before. Think about all the times you got up after a mistake and rocked life when it tried to bring you down. Here are some things you can do to practice believing in yourself:


Push past the discomfort or fears and myths.


Put yourself out there, not caring what other people think.


Stay positive.


Create mantras that you can. "Can't" is just the word "can" with a T
.


Trust yourself. Trust that no matter the outcome, every experience is an opportunity to grow.



6. Push forward and be resilient.

When we fail, we learn what we can do and what we can do better at. It's only through our mistakes that we get to know ourselves on a deeper level, so push past the fear of rejection, ignore the inner critic, believe that you will succeed, and stand back up when you fall down. Find your passion, figure out what drives you the most, shoot toward your goals, and strive to be better at what you're not good at. Doing these things can help you be more confident and over time. You will start to see that things don't always end badly, and your self-esteem will increase as well. Here are some things you can do to be more resilient:


Always move forward.


Be supportive of yourself.


Be decisive and assertive.


Create strong boundaries.


Accept that change is part of life.


Look for self-discovery opportunities.


Do what you are good at, and improve what you aren't.


If you are not accepting of yourself, you must change that mindset. As hard as this can be, changing your mindset is perhaps the most beneficial things you can do when it comes to personal growth. When you develop an understanding of yourself, you will start to discover ways that you learn best. What makes you feel good? What helps you strive forward? Is there someone who can help you? These are important questions to answer for your own personal understanding of what accepting who you are is all about. Anything and everything that you do (whether it's developing a new hobby or learning a new skill) takes time. When you dedicate yourself to accepting who you are, you are teaching your brain how to discipline yourself, which will set your mind up to do other things like thinking positively, being confident, and taking care of yourself. A skill is something you must learn. Learn to be patient with yourself and stay motivated because you deserve to feel confident and worthy.
Changing Your State of Mind
Part of knowing who you are is not only understanding the good but knowing what holds you back from your full potential. Accepting your faults and improving your weaknesses are just a small part of learning what you can accomplish when it comes to personal growth and self-esteem. A big part that holds most of us back from working on ourselves is our mindset. Negative and unhelpful state of mind is the cause of most of our problems. Negative thinking holds us back. Our inner critic will stop us from moving forward. Do not believe too much of what it tells us. One thing is certain—if you feel miserable and lonely, your mind is the one that develops that feeling. If you want to be positive and successful, you need a mindset that supports your efforts. Oftentimes, we turn to others for validation, and we don't get it. What you should be doing is to look inward at yourself for the reassurance and validation that you crave. It's time to wipe away the infectious negative state of mind and experience a world where you aren't second-guessing, worrying, overthinking, and being vulnerable to your insecurities. Here is a list of the negative thinking patterns that keep you feeling insecure and a lack of self-love:

1. Scarcity.
 This is the belief that there isn't enough and that you aren't enough. There isn't enough money, possibilities, opportunities, resources, etc. The truth of the matter is that what you think to be true will always be true. So if you feel as though there isn't enough, then the resources and things won't ever be enough. Program your mind to think that there is enough, and there will be.

2. Other.
 This is the belief that something or someone else is the root of all your problems. It's the belief that you are never wrong, so you point the blame elsewhere. Your challenges, your misfortune, and your problems are never the cause of someone else. You are always in charge of your choices. Your decisions define the outcome in which you can learn from. Having the belief that others are responsible for your misfortunes is to have the belief that you lack the power to change or choose. The truth is that no one person or situation has the power to change your outlook or your mistakes; it's you and you alone that has this power.

3. Imposter.
 Imposter syndrome stems from a lack of confidence. This is the belief that other people may discover that you are not who you appear to be. This belief will kill your dreams and deprive 
you of the gifts that you have yet to discover. Be who you want to be, and trust that anyone else who sees less than you believe you are doesn't know you well enough to make that judgment.

4. Cynicism.
 This way of thinking makes a person believe that you cannot trust or put your faith into anyone. When you are skeptical of the intentions of others, then you are allowing yourself to sit by and try to deal with everything all on your own. While independence is a positive trait, not putting your trust into someone else may be the one thing standing in the way of your success.

5. Ungrateful.
 The lack of gratitude suggests that you are unappreciative of what you have because you're always looking for more. Even when you do get more, you lack the gratitude to believe that what you have is good enough. It's okay to strive for more; however, being appreciative of the things you have now is an attractive quality in anyone, and it shows great confidence.

6. Entitlement.
 This type of belief revolves around the thought that you are entitled to have or obtain whatever you want without suffering consequences or working for something. It's the thought that life will hand you things because you are special and above everyone else. When you think this way, it's like you are waiting around for someone to recognize that you are deserving of something—in most cases, it never comes. Feeling this way can develop a sense of unworthiness and make you resent yourself and others around you. Reverse this belief by doing things for others without the expectation of getting noticed. Reward yourself for the things you feel are deserving rather than waiting on someone else.

7. Nihilism.
 Is there no meaning in your life? Do you feel as though you are spinning in circles with no purpose or direction? This is called nihilism. It is the belief that there is no meaning or purpose in your life. Success is about discovering your true passion and purpose. Everyone is good at something, but they do something else because it's what they know and what is familiar to them. Find something worth fighting for, and fight for it. This is how you will find true meaning.
These ways of thinking are infectious and can take over how you view your world and everything that's in it. Pessimism is the root of these infectious thought patterns, and implementing positivity into 
your life will reverse the effects these beliefs have on you. Be aware of these thought patterns and beliefs, then replace them with positive ones. Overcome them with a better sense of beliefs.
Chapter Overview
The fact of the matter is that you must first learn to understand yourself fully before you can accept yourself and all your faults that come with your personality. In this process, you need to be aware of how your inner critic traps you into believing you are less than. One thing that is for sure when it comes to overcoming the inner critic is that you are what you allow yourself to be.
 Your world revolves around the way you perceive things and the way you choose to think. If you choose to think negatively, all you are going to see are negatives, and you will have a negative self-image. If you choose positivity, then you can develop positivity in the way you see things, and there will be opportunities for growth. In this chapter, you learned the negative beliefs your mind traps you in and how to overcome them. You also learned that self-acceptance is the first step that you need to take toward building self-esteem and confidence. In the next chapter, you will learn about anxiety and how anxiety and fear can turn into an anxiety disorder. You will also learn why it's important to stop your unhealthy habits now.







Chapter 5: Why Anxiety Happens
What Is Anxiety?
Some people define "anxiety" as a sense of uncomfortable feelings. Others define it as a state of mind that involves fear. Fear is a part of our response to anxiety; however, fear and anxiety are a bit different. Fear tells us that you are in actual danger, and you are right to feel that danger is present. Anxiety, on the other hand, revolves around unpleasant feelings. There is a sense of uneasiness, even when there is no danger present. Anxiety gives you a heightened feeling that something bad is going to happen—e.g., the possibility
 of someone jumping out and scaring you. Anxiety reacts to our intuition or instinctive nature about things. This happens when we meet someone for the first time and something doesn't feel right. Another example is when we walk down a dark alley alone and our senses become heightened as if we were on our guard. Anxiety is normal and beneficial to have sometimes. It is the body's natural response to stress. However, anxiety can become dangerous if you were to develop an anxiety disorder. This is when anxiety controls your mind and your body through anxiety attacks to the point that it disrupts many aspects of your life, and it can last longer than six months.
What Are Anxiety Disorders?
By definition, an anxiety disorder is when you feel intense fear almost all of the time, which can make it very difficult to relax. In extreme cases, anxiety can turn into agoraphobia (not able to leave your home) or depression (feelings of extreme sadness 90 percent of the time). An anxiety disorder may stop you from being social. It can cause you to avoid things like riding the elevator or talking on the phone. There are eight different types of anxiety disorders, each with similar symptoms:



Panic disorder:
 You feel a sense of impending doom that results in panic attacks randomly for no given reason. This can 
result in someone fearing another panic attack, which can make the panic disorder worse.



Phobia:
 There is an overwhelming fear of a certain person, place, thing, activity, or situation.



Social anxiety:
 This is a disorder that revolves around the fear of others, how other people think of you, how they could be judging you. You fear that people are out to get you.



Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD):
 There are consistent irrational negative thoughts that result in a person acting out their impulses and repeating certain behaviors based on their OCD.



Separation anxiety:
 This is an overwhelming fear of being away from home (stems from agoraphobia) or loved ones.



Agoraphobia:
 This is the fear of not being able to escape a situation or place and being trapped, so a person isolates themselves from the outside world.



Health anxiety:
 This is also known as hypochondria. It is intense anxiety about your health. When a little symptom arises, the person automatically fears they are unhealthy.



Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD):
 This happens when a person has recurring memories and panic attacks associated with a traumatic event.


Each of the eight anxiety disorders has its own characteristics and symptoms, but all of them represent the same initial symptoms during an anxiety attack. When someone experiences an anxiety attack, they feel an instant rush of stress, worry, and fear. Anxiety attacks can come out of nowhere, or it can be brought on by someone's thoughts or their environment.
The following are signs of an anxiety attack:

●
     
feeling as though you are going to pass out


●
     
dry mouth


●
     
sweating or overheated


●
     
restlessness


●
     

distress


●
     
fear


●
     
numbness and tingling


●
     
increase in heart rate


●
    
shortness of breath (as though you can't breathe) or a choking feeling

Panic attacks are scarier than anxiety attacks, and although they share some similar symptoms, they are not the same. Below is a list of symptoms of a panic attack:

●
     
a heavy and pounding heartbeat


●
     
an abnormally fast heart rate


●
     
hyperventilation


●
     
sudden headache


●
     
excessive and uncontrollable shaking


●
     
nausea


●
    
chest pain (as if an elephant is standing on your chest)


●
     
feeling out of your body (derealization)

Panic attacks usually come on suddenly with no apparent reason, and they are very scary to the individual experiencing it. Someone may feel as though they are having a heart attack or are going to die. They have an overwhelming sense of impending doom.
Anxiety disorders take a large effect on your brain and your body. However, the good news is that with the right treatment (consultation with a doctor or professional), dedication, and mindset, you can overcome or decrease feelings of anxiety. People who experience severe anxiety and an abnormal number of panic and anxiety attacks may need to see a clinical counselor, alongside taking prescription drugs that are prescribed by a psychiatrist. Other times, we can mostly get away with our short-term symptoms through natural herbs, supplements, and vitamins. As long as someone can dedicate to eating healthier, getting enough exercise (both the mind and body), having a good night's rest, and avoiding substances like drugs and alcohol or caffeine, they can get better.
How Anxiety Affects the Brain
Anxiety often gets worse when someone has low self-esteem and not a lot of confidence. It's when someone doesn't know how or forgets to love themselves through self-care that feelings of anxiety and development of an anxiety disorder becomes too much to handle. But what actually happens in the brain that makes anxiety symptoms worse and the individual spiral out of control?
Typically speaking, anxiety stems from an imbalance between the emotional and thinking parts of the brain. In short, the prefrontal cortex or limbic system activates the amygdala, which is responsible for reacting to sudden threats and danger. This is essential in threatening situations. However, in nonthreatening situations, the amygdala is responsible for sending signals to other parts of the brain to activate the fight-or-flight response.
The fight-or-flight response happens when a chemical called cortisol gets released, sending adrenaline throughout the body. Cortisol and adrenaline work together, and they are responsible for making someone see longer distances, run faster, talk and think faster, and become stronger. It's the preparation to help someone get out of a dangerous situation. If there is no sudden danger or anything threatening going on, a person's panic attack is the result of the aftermath of the adrenaline. It leaves someone with tingling extremities and uncontrollable breathing patterns.
Another part of the brain that gives false alarms or too much anxiety is the hippocampus, which is responsible for memory function. Everything that we see and experience is what the hippocampus takes in. It then sends these memories to other parts of the brain to be stored and filed. The problem with anxiety and the hippocampus is that the hippocampus limits most memories except for traumatic ones or anything that is associated with anxiety and stress. In other words, memories revolving around failure, threat, and danger are filed deep within the hippocampus. These memories then become triggered in the future.
Good memories revolving around safety, certainty, and stability get pushed aside. They are stored differently to make room for the traumatic ones. With that being said, if someone does not seek 
professional help for their anxiety and low self-esteem issues, they will find themselves in a never-ending loop of anxiety and stress, which can shrink and change the form of the hippocampus. This type of damage to the hippocampus can result in more painful memories, bringing on flashbacks, excessive triggers over what seems to be nothing, and an overload of false signals resulting in out-of-the-blue panic attacks.
Benefits of the Need to Change Your State of Mind
One of the first and best ways to overcome anxiety is to change your state of mind. Change the way you see yourself and build confidence through working on your self-esteem and independence. Learning how to balance your mind and bring your focus to what's important to you can greatly affect how you choose to respond to difficult situations. When we damage our hippocampus and amygdala, we may find it extremely difficult to relax and release our stress. This results in stress and anxiety taking over, as mentioned. To reverse these effects, you should make it a point to learn more about yourself by changing your mindset and purposely changing how you react to complicated situations.
Listed below are the benefits of learning how to change your mindset:

1. Mindfulness becomes easier.
 When you first start meditating and being aware of your surroundings and what is happening in your body, you may make a few mistakes or become easily distracted. With practice, mindfulness can help you unwind, relax, and change the way you see things. At the beginning of your practice, you will have to bring all your focus to your breath. Over time, as you get better at mindfulness meditation, you can work on retraining your brain by paying attention to your thoughts. The more dedicated you are in retraining your mind, the easier mindfulness will become.

2. Enhanced immune reaction.
 As much as meditation needs to be worked on then improved over time, it should only take about eight weeks to change the electrical activity in the brain. This means the effects of a damaged hippocampus and amygdala can be reversed in just eight weeks. However, it is essential not to stop after eight weeks because the benefits of meditation can positively affect your 
way of life. There was a study in 2003 that proved this theory. The study also researched the effects of meditation involving changing your state of mind, and it has proven that meditation can lead to an enhanced immune response. People who are capable of relaxing and unwinding their minds are less likely to get sick or catch the flu.

3. Chronic pain is reduced.
 We are what we think about, and we behave based on how we choose to react to things. This all happens in our minds, and we can actually change the way our bodies react to physical pain, such as joint and bone pain. Researchers have conducted a study on participants who worked on changing their state of mind. The results showed that pain, such as a little shock to the skin, was lesser in the individuals who worked on meditation to control their mindset compared to the ones who didn't.
Although not a full list of benefits, you can see how working on your brain through methods of mindfulness and meditation among other techniques can really change your state of mind, thus leading to the reversed effects of damage in the brain caused by anxiety and stress.
Things to Consider When Practicing Techniques on How to Change Your State of Mind
While you work on self-confidence and building self-esteem, you first need to remind yourself of the truths. Take the following list into consideration when practicing techniques on how
 to change your state of mind.

1. You are not your past.
 Your past experiences do not define who you are and who you choose to be. You are not defined by what someone else has said about you. Let go of this preconceived notion and breathe. Understand that you are who you want to be at this moment.

2. You are more than what your inner critic tries to tell you.
 The truth about our internal self-hatred that sets expectations that are too high and goals that we won't accomplish is that these are all just thoughts. Negative thoughts like these should never control the way we perceive the world because they are all untrue. Confidence is about being certain that the negative thoughts that arise in our minds do not control our reality. Sure, your thoughts 
can force you to feel bad, but like thoughts, emotions don't control who we want to be either. Your negative thoughts and emotions combined with your inventive positive attitude make up for who you want to be. Every part of you is what makes you who you are. Developing personal growth and overcoming your anxiety through these false perceptions are what allow you to strive toward being who you want to be.

3. Other people's perceptions of you are false.
 In most cases, how someone sees you is their own perception, and it is rarely ever true. An individual with high self-esteem knows that someone's opinion of them is only false projections of themselves. You may have shared your experiences and told your friends of things that have happened to you, but that doesn't mean that the way they see you is who you are. They have not walked in your shoes or lived your life. They can make opinions and give you guidance; however, only you know how you think, perceive, and feel about your given circumstances and experiences.

4. Self-worth is only how you choose to believe it.
 What this means is that you are worth it if you believe you are worth it. When you settle for less than that, you are teaching your brain that you deserve less. In this case, your brain will play on your emotions and thoughts and help you develop this way of thinking. When you believe that you are worth it and you choose to focus on taking better care of yourself, your thoughts will change, and so will your perception of your self-worth.

5. It's okay not to feel okay sometimes.
 We get in our heads most of the time because we don't give ourselves enough credit. We also believe that because we feel bad, we are bad. The truth is that when we feel bad, we don't have to ignore these feelings. We need to sit with them and deal with them patiently and nonjudgmentally. Accepting that your heart hurts or that you feel betrayed or that you are not okay is human. So be okay with not being okay.

6. You are a work in progress.
 Everything that you have experienced to this date has made you who you are today—the good and the bad. It does not define who you want to be, nor does it define who you are going to be. Life is about taking risks while learning how to focus your attention to what matters most. You must give 
yourself time to work on yourself and also reward yourself when you have made progress. Be patient and kind to yourself because you are a work in progress and you are not perfect. Being confident and self-worthy is not being perfect. We have to accept our mistakes along the way.

7. All we have is today.
 This is the last truth that you need to keep in mind. The past is done and uncontrollable, while the future is never for sure or set in stone. Focus on today. Take one step at a time. This is how you will be able to truly change the way you see yourself and reverse your anxiety.
Chapter Overview
As debilitating as anxiety can be, the best way to overcome it is by defining the truths in changing your state of mind. In chapter 7, you will learn in more detail how to change the way you see yourself while practicing self-appreciation. This is essential in your personal growth as it can reverse the effects that anxiety has on your hippocampus and amygdala so that you stop suffering from anxiety and panic attacks. In the next chapter, you will be able to define what fear is and how to deal with it to be able to see opportunities and chase after what you most desire.







Chapter 6: Dealing with Fear
Fear is the body's natural response to a perceived threat or a dangerous situation. Fear can happen before a big interview. It can happen when you are overly anxious and nervous about an upcoming event. Our minds like to play tricks on us and dream up fearful situations that don't end up turning out the way we had imagined, to begin with. So in this sense, fear can be brought on intentionally by our minds. It is how we perceive an upcoming circumstance. Fear can also come out of nowhere as you face it directly. For example, almost getting run over or into a serious accident can bring instinctive fear. Being afraid can lead you to run, freeze, hide, or do whatever you need to do to handle and cope with the perceived fearful experience.
When we are children, we fear nightmares or scary movies. As we reach adolescence, we may be scared of asking someone on a date or getting rejected. When we grow into a young adult, fear may come when we are unsure of our future. We feel afraid that we might not be able to find a job that is good enough. A person can experience fear from anything (e.g., an illness, a family member's death, an object such as a spider), or it can also stem from a mental disorder, such as social anxiety disorder.
You have two options when it comes to fear: let it control you, or let it encourage you. If you let fear control you, you may end up denying it, avoiding it, or ignoring it. However, it is still going to be there even if you are avoiding it. It's going to continue to be there until you learn ways to conquer it and move forward. For example, if a lady is not ready to have a child but finds out that she is pregnant, she can choose to ignore it, avoid it, and deny it. However, the truth is, she is only getting rounder in the middle and there is a growing baby. If you wait too long to make a decision based on what you will do, the fear will take over, and serious consequences may happen. Dealing with it head-on is the best way to go.
In this case, how would you deal with the fear of pregnancy? You would first talk to your spouse and come up with solutions around it. Are you keeping the baby? If so, how can you prepare? What can you 
do to make it better? In dealing with fear, no matter what form it comes in, you must figure out a course of action, then go down that path of action. If you are fearful of an object, coping with the subjective fear through exposure therapy may be the best option. This is where you would introduce yourself to the fear in small doses. For example, to overcome the fear of flying, first, you imagine yourself flying. After that, try to see a plane up close. Next, get in the plane without taking flight. And eventually, take flight when you are ready. The goal with exposure therapy is to move on to the next step only when you have conquered the previous step and have done it more than once. It's also a technique that is proven to work in people with agoraphobia.
As briefly explained in the last chapter, fear, like anxiety, creates the fight-or-flight response. This response allows us to fight harder or run faster from what we are afraid of. Instinctively, fear is what we feel when we see a big shadow, hear a low grumble in the dark, or feel a chill when we know that we are the only people in our house but sounds prove otherwise. These situations are what activates the fear response resulting in tensed muscles, goosebumps, increased heart rate, blood vessel constriction, and breathing rate quickens. These physical responses in the body can make someone seem bigger than they are. Fear enables a person to run faster due to the constrictions in the blood vessels as they dilate to carry oxygen and nutrients to the muscles faster.
Although fear forms in the same place as an anxiety trigger does (the limbic system, stemming from the amygdala and hippocampus), fear and anxiety are not the same. Fear is a short-term emotion that activates because of something. Anxiety can be long-term and will come out of nowhere, usually with more intense symptoms, such as migraines and derealization. With that being said, the amygdala works with the hippocampus and together activates the pituitary gland. The pituitary gland is where the nervous system works with the endocrine system, which is responsible for the release and intake of hormones. When we are afraid, the pituitary gland releases the adrenocorticotropic hormone into the bloodstream. When this happens, the part of the brain responsible for triggering the fight-or-flight response sends a signal to the adrenal gland, which then releases the epinephrine hormone into the bloodstream. Then 
cortisol is released.
All these hormones together create the rise in blood pressure and blood sugar. Your white blood cells turn fatty acids into energy so that you are able to fight harder or run faster in the face of danger. If your hippocampus, amygdala, and limbic system are damaged due to an overload of these hormone surges with no supposed threat or danger, then panic and anxiety attacks are more likely to happen out of the blue until the limbic system becomes repaired.
Fears can be internal, such as fear of failure and fear of your inner critic (fear of your own mind), or as simple and external as fear of a certain object or becoming extremely shy in social environments. When we are young, we are mainly fearless, and we face everything that scares us. Throughout our lives, we go through a series of events that shape and change us to become who we are today. If those experiences make us afraid and fearful, some regions of our brains can start to change. As instinctual as fear is, it is an emotion necessary for our survival. We feel fear as a response to activities such as bungee jumping or watching scary movies. Fear can also be brought on by something like being alone in the woods or feeling as though someone else is in your house. It is an emotion that we should respect. However, if it gets out of hand (comes out of nowhere), then we should try to overcome it.
Overcoming Shyness
Shyness results from being afraid of social situations. Sometimes a person feels shy when they have an overwhelming fear of being judged or embarrassed in front of a group of people or just one person. If the fear of social situations persists for a long period of time, it can turn into a social anxiety disorder. The symptoms of social anxiety disorder include excessive sweating, having an overwhelming fear when meeting or talking to people, and muscle tension. It is normal to feel socially anxious the first time you meet someone or if you have to get in front of a group of people. The first time you meet someone, you may feel a little cautious and afraid to open up completely and be weird—that's normal. Shyness doesn't revolve around the fear of being social; however, it represents a more reserved and standoffish attitude in social settings.
With time, effort, consistency, dedication, and commitment to change, shyness can be overcome. If your shyness is a result of social phobia or social anxiety, then help from a professional is required. In this case, if you are looking to overcome shyness from the fear of being judged in a social setting or whatever your shyness stems from, there are ways to defeat it.

1. Don't tell.
 More than likely, people you meet have no idea that you are shy unless you show signs of shyness. Don't be in your head if someone is judging you based on your shyness. The only people who matter right now are the ones who already know.

2. Keep conversations light.
 When someone else does notice or calls you out on it, keep your tone steady and casual. If it escalates into a full conversation, just remind yourself that you are who you are. Speak of your shyness lightly, and smoothly move on to a different topic if it makes you uncomfortable.

3. Change your tone of voice.
 If you have a habit of blushing due to your shyness, don't make blushing known as part of your shyness. Instead, see it as its own thing and say, "I have always blushed." If your shyness is a result of you fidgeting or looking off into the distance, tell yourself or the person you are speaking to that you are a normal fidgeter or that you simply listen better by looking away.

4. Avoid labeling yourself.
 You are who you are, and acceptance of this is all you can do. Don't label yourself as shy but simply unique in your own character.

5. Quit sabotaging yourself.
 Is your inner critic getting the best of you again? Ignore this internal parrot and distract your mind, or really pay attention to someone when they are talking. This will quiet your own thoughts and help you focus on the moment.

6. Know what your strengths are.
 It's good to do this on your own time, but make a list of all your strengths then carry it around with you. List all your positive qualities, then in a social setting where you feel anxious or nervous, read this list for a confidence booster. Let it serve as a reminder of how much you have to offer. You have the potential to be great.

7. Choose your friends wisely.
 Oftentimes we surround 
ourselves with people who are unhelpful, unsupportive, egotistical, or cocky. A shy person such as yourself should not pay much attention to these types of people because they will suck you dry of the things that you do feel confident about. Pay no attention to them, and surround yourself with warm, positive, and encouraging people.

8. Be observant.
 Most of the time, a shy person is observant because what they can't say makes up for what they can see. Instead of being judgmental with your observations, try to notice the people who show signs of dealing with their own insecurities. This may help you to understand that you aren't alone, which will help you overcome your shyness.

9. Mistakes happen.
 Afraid of failing or embarrassing yourself? Don't call these mistakes when they do happen because more than likely, no one noticed except for you. If they did notice, they probably aren't making a big deal out of it like your inner critic is trying to.

10. Face your fear.
 Remember that list you made? Read it now, and then face your fear head-on. Sometimes when all else fails, you just need to get out of your comfort zone and face your fear. When you do this, you may actually find that you are comfortable acting silly or loud. Sometimes you fear that you will look bad or funny in front of others, but in reality, it's just your inner critic who brings you down and makes you shy.

11. Name your worries.
 Your jitters or worries are probably the reason you feel so shy, so recognize the root cause of these, then create an action plan to eliminate them and move forward.
Shyness should not hold you back from being successful, so whether you are shy or not, use these techniques to move forward and escape your shyness.
Escaping the Fear of the Inner Critic
The inner critic is like the part of you that acts as a bully. It's the internal thoughts that get you to try to believe what it is telling you. It says things to you like "You aren't good enough," "You're such a failure," "No one likes you," "Why would you get accepted when 
there are other applicants?" "What makes you so special?" Do these things sound familiar? Do you blame yourself for things you can't control? Do you point out the negatives in a completely positive situation? This is your inner critic. It's the part of us where our insecurities and inner faults come to life. The inner critic wants perfection and is a fortune teller. And did you know it can actually read minds too?
The inner critic is never to be taken seriously because it is not productive, and it is never truthful, even if it seems like it's telling the truth. One thing to always remember when dealing with the inner critical part of you is that you are who you think you are. So if you listen to your inner critic telling you that you aren't good enough, then the belief that you aren't good enough becomes your reality, which then results in fear of going after opportunities and facing challenges. If you think, "I may think I am not good enough, but I know I am, and I know my own strengths and weaknesses," then you are believing against your inner critic, which can develop confidence.
Think of it this way—even though your mind may feel as though it is helping you by pointing out your weaknesses, it is actually the fear part of your brain protecting yourself from being hurt or disappointed. It is trying to stop you from being humiliated. If we listen to it, it only means we are giving in to the fear of our own minds. How do you escape this reality? Question your thoughts and ask yourself if the inner critical voice inside your head is what you would tell a close relative or a cherished friend. Probably not, and if you did, you would most likely lose this close friend resulting in loneliness. If that sounds like no fun to you, then here is what you can do to escape the fear of your inner critic.

1. Tune in.
 It may sound counterproductive, but when we tune into our inner critic, you can create an image of what that part of you is trying to say about you. Actually drawing it out or maybe writing it down may help, but ask yourself questions about the inner critic. How old does your voice feel? (How old were you when you first got picked on?) What does this bully look like? Does it sound like a person from your past (e.g., a parent, sibling, enemy, or ex-partner)? Does it sound familiar to someone who is in your life now? Painting a picture and getting to know your inner critic better can 
help you figure out the root and the trigger of it.

2. Become curious.
 How often does the inner critic show up? At which points in your life is it louder than normal? It may feel as though it's always there, but most likely, it is not. When you notice your inner critic talk to you, figure out what you are doing at that moment. Is it loud in social situations? Have you made a mistake that caused you imperfection? Does it demand that you stay home when you are out, or does it ask you to avoid things you enjoy? Figure out how often it comes around, and be curious about it. It may be best to keep a journal for when it does show up so that you can see the patterns and define your triggers.

3. Ask more questions.
 Once you have created an image of this "monster" and figured out how often it comes around, you may start to notice things about it that you never observed before. When this happens, ask it things such as the following:

●
     
Can I help you?


●
     
What would you like me to know?


●
    
If I don't follow your advice, what are you afraid of that could happen to me?


●
     
What is your reasoning behind these hurtful words?

Treat your inner critic as you would a bully. But be kind, curious, nonjudgmental, and observant.

4. Listen, then respond.
 Once your questions are answered, acknowledge the answers, and either ask it another question or respond to that answer. You can respond to your inner critic by reassuring it or acting on what you feel. For example, if the voice said it fears that your failure will make you even more miserable, respond with "I hear your concern, but I will not allow myself to live in fear of making mistakes" or "I won't go where I need to go in my life." Be thankful, and then move on. When you do this, you are training your brain to reverse or quiet the inner critic. You are also letting the inner critic know that it's been heard and you are controlling it rather than letting it control you.
As insane as you may feel talking to yourself, the more you respond to your inner critic, the lesser the voices will interrupt your life. 
Gradually, you will notice a difference in your mood and in your behavior. Try to have fun with it, and let go of the judgment as you are retraining your inner critic to calm down and be less of a nuisance.
Fear of Failure
The one truth about failure is that failure is needed to help us learn from our mistakes and grow into self-confident, self-loving individuals that we are. Failure helps us stay unique, and it is necessary for moving forward with our lives. However, when we fail, we may feel emotions resulting from our failures, such as frustration, anger, sadness, regret, shame, or embarrassed. Although these feelings are unpleasant, every emotion (whether they be negative or positive ones) serves a purpose. There are many reasons why we feel afraid to fail. These reasons are as follows:

●
    
You may feel judged or fear being rejected if you fail.


●
    
You are afraid of losing people because of your failures.


●
    
You worry excessively over your failure (inner critic) in an attempt not to do it again.


●
     
You beat yourself up over it.


●
     
You worry about disappointing others.

The truth is that no one is perfect, and these worries brought on by the fear of failing can stop you from progressing because you hold too high of expectations for yourself. Perfectionism isn't about being perfect all the time but rather avoiding things so that you won't make mistakes. Truthfully, mistakes are bound to happen, no matter how hard you try to stop them. Acceptance of who you are, no matter what you do, creates progress and creativity about how to control your fear of failing. Once you can accept that you are going to make mistakes because you are human, you can finally start growing and changing your mindset around failure. Here are a few ways you can overcome the fear of failure.

1. Own your fear.
 When you are afraid, you can feel ashamed and regretful—ashamed because of the mistake you made and regretful because you shouldn't have done it, to begin with. However, these 
are false beliefs. It is not true that anything less than perfect is unacceptable. Own your fears and accept that each emotion you experience serves a purpose to you. Feeling ashamed helps you remember the event so that you don't make the same mistake again. Feeling regretful helps you to understand why you feel wrong after making a mistake. Knowing right from wrong is a positive trait to grow bonds, and it can help you through many circumstances in your life.

2. Think before you do or say something.
 The only way to avoid failing is to think about every possibility around your decision then come up with a solution. Be careful not to get too caught up in the moment as overthinking will get you nowhere. Reach out to a trusted friend or loved one and vent or explain to them your situation to gain some insight. Write down all the possibilities, and brainstorm your reasoning behind each path. Once you find a solution, don't be afraid to fail once you do it. Again, failing is a part of life that helps you to move forward in your personal growth.

3. Be apologetic.
 Say sorry to yourself and others that you have hurt. Learning to communicate the results of your failure is potentially the best way to overcome the fear of it. Accept that you aren't perfect and be okay with the fact that not everyone will get along or share the same opinion that you do. The reasons for failing was not done on purpose, and this is why they are called mistakes.

4. Let go of control.
 This step is perhaps the key to overcoming your fear of failure. By letting go of what you can't control (e.g., the future and things that have already happened), you can focus on the present moment. The only moment that matters is what you decide to do right now. Even after planning and thinking out your course of action to avoid failure, sometimes something unexpected comes up that changes everything. For example, you may have made a promise to a friend that you were going to come to their birthday. If you didn't make it due to a family emergency or the weather being horrible, you couldn't help this. Instead of seeing it as a failure, make individual plans with them to fix it.

5. Be mindful.
 Fear of failure can stem from worrying too much about the future or avoiding at all costs what happened in the past. As said in the previous step, these things are out of your control. 
Instead, all you can do is be completely mindful of your actions, your thoughts, and what you can
 control. Being observant works in your favor also, so you can be "mindful" of what happened and make mental notes of it. Relax and don't take everything as a big deal. Learning from your mistakes is all you can do right now.
Being fearful is okay. It helps you to stay cautious and on guard for what's to come. However, no one can predict the future—not even your inner critic. Let go of what can't be done, and be one with yourself. Try to create inner peace so that when you do fail, it won't be such a catastrophe. Understand that you are only human and you are doing the best you can. As you build your self-esteem and confidence, fear of failure will seem as though it's a thing of the past.
Chapter Overview
Being fearful, in general, causes stress and anxiety. It builds on your low self-esteem and stops you from gaining perspective or taking chances. Diving into opportunities that arise while letting go of unnecessary fear promotes confidence and growth. Part of overcoming fear is staying positive in a negative situation, getting support from trusted individuals, and staying mindful of what you can and cannot control. In this chapter, you learned that fear is instinctual and oftentimes cannot be stopped. You learned why it happens. We also discussed what happens momentarily in the brain when you feel afraid. In the next chapter, you will learn ways to appreciate yourself and find what you are most passionate about and how to love yourself fully.







Chapter 7: Awake Self-Love and Appreciation
Self-love and self-appreciation go hand in hand. Self-love is about taking care of your body, mind, and spirit to the point where you feel content and happy with yourself. Self-appreciation is the ability to appreciate all that you have, all that you have worked for, and all that you are as an individual. Appreciating who you are means that you accept who you are and you build upon your already planted foundation. Self-esteem is about learning to feel special, accept uniqueness, and be an above-average individual. However, self-appreciation just allows you to accept all that you are. Self-appreciation is not defined as accomplishing something or finding your deep desires. It's just acceptance and appreciation of why you are the way you are today.
Some people think that it is selfish to develop confidence, have high self-esteem, and respect yourself; it is not. There is a big difference between selfishness and being self-centered. Self-centered is where you are all about yourself and your needs while dismissing the needs and wants of others because it's all about you. Being selfish means that while you still pay attention to others, your main goal is to put yourself first. You can't help someone in need if you are the one who needs to be helped. You also cannot maintain promises if you already have so much on your plate. The purpose of this book is to show you that you are deserving and worthy of working on yourself and striving toward personal growth first
. Appreciation is one of the aspects of confidence and self-esteem. It helps you value who you are and what you do. It means that you can trust your intuition, accept your strengths and weaknesses, and be at peace with your own company.

1. Honor who you are.
 Everyone is unique in their own way, and all too often, we look toward others for what we want because we cannot accept who we are. The media doesn't help with the newsletters and magazines all advertising ways to lose weight or technique to spice up your love life. We continuously buy into what we should
 be, how we should
 act, and why we aren't good enough. But true self-appreciation stems from when you can honor yourself completely. Come to terms with the most human part of yourself, 
including your ideas, thoughts, belongings, relationships, emotions, and self-image. Learning to honor all the things that make you who you are will help you see life from a different perspective so that you can build on top of the personal foundation you already possess.

2. Spend time with yourself.
 If you spend some alone time with yourself, you can get to know yourself better. You will understand what makes you fearful, why you feel resistant to change, and what makes you feel as though you aren't good enough to feel worthy. Self-compassion is the ability to be friendly and kind to yourself. In order to be self-compassionate, you must deal with your inner critic so that you can listen to your true self (what's underneath the self-critic). Self-acceptance can be followed in these easy ways:



Listen to your internal voice.
 After all the chatter from the negative parrot, finding your true voice and listening to it will help you find the answers to who you really are. By tuning into your inner voice, you will understand what's most important to you, find what makes you motivated, and figure out who you truly are and what you truly desire.



Practice positive self-talk.
 This takes two minutes in the morning, throughout your day, or before you rest at night. Positive self-talk, even if you don't believe it, can really help you get past your insecurities. Essentially, you are training your brain and fixing the damage to the limbic system by telling yourself that you can do this. Believe that you are worthy, you are deserving, you are respected, you are kind, you are unique, etc.



Imagine your inner child.
 Life was so much simpler when we were children. We learned boundaries, control, and strength. Going back to the perception of how you view the world as a child can help you appreciate the small things, and you will be more grateful for what you have right now. Self-appreciation involves you dropping the perfectionist lens and choosing a more compassionate way instead.



Listen to the stories you tell yourself.
 We always put labels on ourselves, such as "I for sure have anxiety," "I am a victim," "I will not succeed," "I am a failure," etc. Self-appreciation is the root of our narrative of what we decide to believe about 
ourselves. So when we tell ourselves that we are the victim, we start to feel victimized, and we become the victim without even trying. Reflect on your narrative. Tell your story how it is instead of exaggerating the negative or exceeding the positive.



3. Say thank you to yourself.
 Rather than blaming yourself for failures or other people's misfortunes, say thank you to yourself for the things you take for granted. Self-appreciation is about being thankful for a healthy body and mind, being thankful for your given talents and natural gifts, and being thankful for your weaknesses. You cannot develop internal strength without first understanding your weaknesses. These things are what we take for granted. The main difference between self-esteem and self-appreciation is that self-esteem is a personal evaluation of your self-worth. Basically, it's judging whether or not you feel as though you deserve respect and admiration. Self-appreciation is not about judging yourself based on what you feel you deserve; it's more about just accepting yourself for how you are and being grateful for what you have and what's been given to you. So how exactly do you appreciate yourself?

4. Don't wait or procrastinate.
 Self-appreciation requires you to just do it. Don't wait for an accomplishment or a goal to be met. Don't look for or wait for others to appreciate you. Do it all on your own because you can. Look toward what you have and don't focus on what you don't have or what you want to gain more of. These things you have should never be materialistic. Start by just being grateful for all your limbs to work properly, and then move into your internal organs. Be thankful that you have life and that your life is this way because you chose it.

5. Use a compassionate language.
 If your inner critic always pipes up with everything you do wrong, change it by replacing the negativity with kind words. Change how you talk to yourself by saying to yourself what you would say to someone you loved. For example, if you are forgetful and you forgot to do something, be accepting that you forgot. Rather than being hard on yourself, think of all the times when you weren't forgetful, and move on from this experience.

6. Give a gift to yourself.
 Do you work too hard and never 
appreciate yourself for working so hard? Reward yourself or treat yourself with a gift every so often to remind yourself that you are strong and are deserving of your hard work and efforts. This gift can be materialistic, such as a favorite treat, a new phone, or a video game. It can also be that you give yourself a work break. Get a massage or spend time in nature, doing one thing you enjoy the most. As long as the intention behind your gift isn't that you want
 something but that you are giving a gift out of appreciation of yourself
, you can further develop self-appreciation.

7. Be yourself.
 Just be you. Don't try to measure up to anyone's expectations or be overly perfect in everything you do. Don't shy away from your humor and silliness for fear of being judged. Don't do something you normally wouldn't just to impress someone else. Just be yourself. Self-appreciation is developed at its strongest point when you learn to let go of the small stuff and be who you are as an individual. If you are an introvert, be an introvert. If you feel comfortable being the life of the party, then do that. Don't apologize for who you are but simply appreciate that you are who you are.
People who strive too hard to impress others never truly figure out who they are. Instead, they fall into the media trap trying to shape themselves to what they think others want them to be. Self-appreciation is about learning what truly drives and motivates you to succeed. What are your passions? What are your goals and desires? What makes you who you are and what helps you to feel at best with yourself? Answering these questions through your actions will help you develop self-appreciation.
Awake Your Self-Love
In chapter 2, we explained what self-love was and why it's essential to build self-esteem and self-confidence. No matter the original definition and how I explained it, self-love has a different meaning for everyone as it is perceived differently for each individual. Everyone has their own ways of showing that they love someone, so the definition of "self-love" is based on how someone shows love to themselves. The question is, how
 do you love yourself?

1. Put aside some time for self-love.
 To do this properly, you must turn off all distractions and pamper yourself. You can 
moisturize your feet by rubbing lotion onto them and massaging them until they feel better. Take a long bath with essential oils and bath salts to really pamper yourself through scent, feeling, and mind. Make yourself a gourmet meal. Whatever pampering yourself looks like, do it with no distractions.

2. Do something that makes you feel good.
 This could be something you are good at or something new you are just learning how to do. Taking a nature walk with your friends, making a road trip with your dog, having a night at home in front of the fire, or just simply actively doing something you love to do can help you feel self-love. When you do something you are good at, it can really boost your self-confidence, which in turn boosts your self-esteem.

3. Explore your spirituality.
 Spirituality teaches us things about ourselves that we never noticed before, such as our deepest thoughts, strongest passions, and our raw emotions. By exploring your spirituality, you are learning how to be the most authentic you while traveling down a journey that will help you stay focused on what you choose to believe in.

4. Stop comparing.
 When you see that other people are starting a family or that someone is getting married, remember that they have their own problems too. Just because it looks like someone's life is perfect doesn't mean that it is. Everyone struggles, just like you. There is no one person who has a better lifestyle than others. Sure, you may not have graduated, or you may not be working at the career you love. Maybe you wish you had kids but can't have any. Maybe you have an illness, unlike most other people, and you become envious of their lives. Keep in mind that just because someone has a white picket fence, three kids, a happy marriage, and a well-trained dog doesn't mean they didn't struggle to get to where they are. Remember self-appreciation? This is the time that you need to be grateful for what you have. Know that you are worthy and strong enough to obtain whatever you want in life.

5. Find your sanctuary.
 Your sanctuary could be as creative as going to a place visually in your mind where you feel comfort and safety, or it could be a physical place in the universe. Think about a time that you felt most safe and most happy. Envision this place in your mind or go there physically. When you are there, let go of the 
other problems in your life. Just focus on this happy place without the extra stress or work pressure. This is how you can practice self-love at its finest.

6. Chase your dreams.
 A dream is a goal that someone tries to complete by the end of their life. Someone's dream could be that they surround themselves by animals on a large farm and live off the land. Another person's dream may be to become famous and known in the world for something. Most of the time, dreams do not get accomplished because we don't do anything to take a step toward it. Sit down and really figure out what your dream is, then work backward to how you can obtain it. When you are finished, you should see the steps on how to chase your dreams.
Self-love is about recognizing that you need love and that no one can give it to you. If you find that you fall into relationships too quickly or that you dive into work when you are stressed or that you don't give yourself enough time to think about what's most important to you, then you may need to practice these self-loving techniques. Remember that no one knows how to love you more than you do because you know how to love yourself the best. If you are struggling with finding ways to love yourself, take a step back and figure out how to show love to others. Most of the time, how we love someone else is how we want to be loved.
Transform from Who You Are to Who You Want to Be
Whether it's figuring out what you are most passionate about, developing a deeper sense of confidence, finding your true identity, or striving toward long-term goals, who you are now may not be who you want to be. As true self-appreciation means that you accept yourself fully for who you are and how you value yourself. It's also about building and growing every day. Here are ways you can truly break free of what's holding you back and strive to become who you have always wanted to be.

1. See yourself in a different light.
 You are a work of art, and the faster you understand this, the better off you will be. First, you need to accept who you are as an individual, then without judgment, 
figure out the things you want to work on the most. It's like a painter. As they paint, they take a step back and figure out what they can change and what they need to focus on. Look at yourself in this way and change something without the emotional attachment.

2. Find the associated habit to the thing that you want to change.
 You may struggle with changing what you want to change if it is linked or connected to a certain habit. First, you must figure out what this habit is, and start by changing that habit. It's like those gumdrops; you need to eat the candy around the gum before you can get to the gooey good part.

3. Set logical and reachable goals.
 Find something you want to change, like a smoking habit or a self-esteem issue. Start from the bottom and work your way up to changing it completely. If it's a self-esteem issue, then you are already in the right place. You just need to figure out where to start and what you will commit to every day to accomplish your small goals.

4. Surround yourself with genuine and authentic people.
 People who want the best for you and understand that you are solely working on yourself to change into who you want to be don't just say yes all the time. Authentic people really support you and give you constructive criticism. They listen and watch your progress so that they can challenge you and help you discover more about your personal growth.
If you truly want to change who you are, then dedicating yourself to this change is something that needs to be done every day. You must commit to the hard work and not give up when things become difficult. Be willing to take risks and accept that the future is untold. It's best to be able to manage change and be willing to adapt to it so that you can be more comfortable in striving further. The thing about becoming who you want to be is that it will not happen overnight. In fact, you may not even know or realize when the change happened. One day at a time will soon bring you to a day in the future that you can look back and appreciate all that you have done to this point.
Chapter Overview
Self-love is about learning to appreciate yourself through acceptance of who you are. By building on the foundation that you already have, you will start to realize that your personal confidence levels are slowly developing. When you think about self-love and appreciation, think of one or two things about yourself that you wouldn't give up for anything. Is it your attitude? Your looks? Behaviors or personality? Whatever it is, focus on that part of you. Be grateful that you have it because it is part of you that makes you unique. In the next chapter, we will talk about creating a plan so that you will always be able to develop self-confidence and self-esteem.







Chapter 8: Creating a Plan
Part of building confidence and self-esteem is changing your life. When you change your life, you must change your routine as well. When we start a new routine, it can be very difficult to stick to. To start a new ritual, you must learn how to develop new habits that turn into a routine. Most people find it easier to start with a morning routine, and then they gradually increase their routine into a full day, including nighttime. But the problem with creating a plan or learning to work with it is sticking to it to implement a change in your life. We are so used to doing what we have always done that our old habits start taking over our new ones if we aren't careful. When changing your habits and rituals, there are a few things to keep in mind during the process:

●
    
Create a weekly reward for yourself for sticking to your new habitual routine.


●
    
Reward yourself after every month for the progress you have made.


●
     
Start small, doing one new thing at a time.


●
    
Use a physical reminder to start practicing your new daily ritual, like leaving your running shoes on the toilet at night for when you wake up in the morning.

Here are a few more things you can do to stick to your new daily routine before we dive into actually creating one for self-esteem and confidence reasons:

1. Link the new routine to the one you already have.
 It is much easier to stick to something if you can connect it with something else. This is because our brains have been taught and trained one way that doing something completely new will set you up for more failures. If you want to practice getting more exercise in your schedule, include a morning stretch to your already habitual morning jog. If you like to journal, then add a schedule for this and create a routine for the next day to your journaling habit.

2. Develop self-awareness.
 When you develop self-awareness through being mindful of the present moment, it allows you to figure 
out why your past routines didn't work out. Mindfulness is about being present in every moment so that you can be more aware. Being more aware will help you recognize what is working and what is not. The best routine is one that you like and one that you have created to fit your specific needs. To increase your self-awareness, you need to ask yourself a few questions that will gain further insight into why you are changing your daily routine.

●
     
What will this new life habit gain for you?


●
    
What consequences or positive side effects will this new ritual have in your life?


●
    
What will the outcome allow you to do or become?


●
    
Which parts of your life will help support this new routine?


●
    
How motivated are you to develop and stick to this routine?

Everything you plan to change in your life has to count and mean something. It has to be one thing at a time, and you should be able to see your efforts paying off in the long run. The new habits need to be thoroughly thought through in order for them not to fail. The problem with most people is that they read self-help books and dive right into the techniques they have read without putting much thought into the actual exercises. If you do this with a new habit or a new ritual, you may find that you aren't sticking to it a bit down the road. This can also be because what you are trying to do is conflicting with your life and already prioritized habits. If you start to notice that you are going back to your old ways, it may be in your best interest to start looking at why. This is where self-awareness comes into play so that you can realize it as it happens rather than when it's too late, and you have to start over.

3. Don't think too much into your late afternoon and evenings.
 For now, all you are focusing on is what to do in the morning that will set your day up for confidence and structure. The reason you must start with morning routines is that when we wake up in the morning, we seem to have so much more willpower and energy to get up and go. As the day goes on, the energy that we have in our brains starts to diminish. So make sure that when you do start your daily routine, you are starting as close as possible to when you wake up.

4. Don't do it alone.

When doing something new, get your closest buddies in on it too. That way, when you wake up and don't feel like it one day, not only will you feel obligated to do it for your friends, but they will also encourage you to keep going. So maybe your friends don't want to live the same lifestyle as you, but maybe they want to get more exercise. Have a gym buddy. Have one friend for a healthy diet buddy, another friend for a positive reinforcement journaling buddy, and so on. When you include your friends, you gain more support, which will help you succeed in the long run.
Now when you make your confidence-boosting daily ritual, make a checklist so that you can check it off at the end of the day. Anything you missed, you can practice right then and there or set it up to do it tomorrow. Building confidence and self-esteem makes all the rest fall into place as they should. These things are self-respect, self-worth, self-appreciation, gratitude, awareness, etc.
Creating a Confidence Boosting Schedule
The thing about successful or confident people that you see or visit with is that they were not born that way. They worked hard at growing themselves and becoming who they want to be. You can do the same thing, too, with practice, dedication, and following the steps on how to keep a new daily routine. The one thing about confident people is that they know that when they procrastinate what needs to be done to work on themselves, they won't get anywhere or they will just drag themselves back even more.
Before you can start setting a schedule that works best for you, it's best to keep these things in mind to develop self-confidence and self-esteem.

1. Before anything else, get rid of the inner critic.
 The section "Fear of the Inner Critic" in chapter 6 explains how to get rid of the inner critic and how to talk back to your ANTs (automatic negative thoughts), and these ANTs are the most harmful thing that can slow your personal growth process down. If you struggle with an inner critic, then as soon as you get up, read over your critic journal (negative thought journal) and start rehearsing positive self-talk before you even leave the house. If you haven't already, then start planting sticky notes with positive quotes written on them around 
your house, especially in areas you can see them. More examples later in this chapter.

2. Spend your downtime learning new things.
 On your way to work, school, kids meeting, court, etc., learn new things. Studies have proven that when you learn something new outside of work, like a new language, new spiritual path, or math equations, your mental satisfaction boosts the same way a raise does. If you really want to see an increase in your confidence, listen to a language guide on the way to work, or play brain games for a bit of satisfaction and motivation to take on your day.

3. Remember yourself.
 Aside from the very busy morning routine that you are already planning and creating, put aside 10 to 15 minutes for yourself. This sets your mind to be refreshed and ready to go. Make sure it is you all by yourself—most likely before your shower or during a habit that you do alone, like getting dressed or using the washroom. Some exercises may include being mindful, telling yourself ten different things (different than yesterday) that you love about yourself, or writing in your gratitude journal. Once your mind is clear and you get out all the negative, you can start your day with a clear head and actually become more successful, as you have given yourself space to think.

4. Get dressed up.
 Occasionally, if not all the time, dress better than you would normally. Ditch the sweatpants or pajamas and put on some nice jeans and a button-up shirt. When you look good and feel like a professional, you will develop a more professional type of attitude. When others notice the change in your look and attitude, it can be a real confidence booster.

5. Exercise.
 Exercise has many benefits, including the increase in how you view yourself, which promotes self-esteem. It takes about twenty minutes for your body to get into the motion of exercise and about ten minutes after that to start feeling the effects. So if you start practicing a morning exercise ritual for up to thirty minutes, you will feel the positive effects on your body and mind. Exercise is one of the main key activities you can do to reduce stress and tension on the body.

6. Don't worry about other people and what they think.

People are so worried about themselves and their own lives to worry too much about what's going on in your mind. Stop fortune-telling or dwelling on what you think others are thinking or saying about you. Chances are they aren't thinking much about you and your problems or paying much attention to how they feel about you. As depressing or shocking as this might sound, the truth is, when you don't care what others think and you only focus on your own opinion of yourself, your confidence levels will skyrocket.
Creating a full confidence-boosting morning routine will set the ball in motion for you to feel better about yourself. With this information, all that's left to do is figure out what type of routine you can create for yourself. As long as you get enough sleep, skip the snooze button, exercise, leave some alone time for yourself, and eat a well-balanced breakfast, you should feel more confident by the end of the month. It takes 21 days to create a routine and about 21 more days to stick to one so that you can develop a more regular daily habit and stick to it.
This is an example schedule:


Get a good night's sleep.


Wake up, exercise, or stretch (yoga).


Eat a well-balanced breakfast.


Shower, brush teeth, groom your hair, etc.


Meditate or be with yourself.


Read a book, journal, draw, or learn something new.


Set up what needs to get done for your day.


Implement positive self-talk/daily affirmations.


When you master your morning routine about whatever works for you, you can start figuring your nighttime routine, which is the reverse of your morning routine. While you end your morning routine with positive self-talk, during your nighttime routine, you do your positive self-talk right after journaling for what needs to be done tomorrow.
How to Create a Self-Love Routine
Self-confidence and self-esteem are important, but self-love is something that most people forget to do. You can work on your confidence, build your self-esteem, implement self-respect, and develop self-worth; however, if you don't learn to love yourself, then all that won't really matter at the end of the day. Self-love is like the glue that holds the positivity of self-improvement together. So now that you have created a self-boosting confidence morning ritual into your day, it's time to learn the next step, which is working a bit of self-love into your routine. Here is how:

1. Apply everything you use with purposeful love.
 When you lather lotion on your skin, really take the time to soak it up. Massage the essential oil into your skin or really focus on straightening your hair or gelling it with love. As you do this, think kind thoughts to yourself, such as "I am worthy," "I am special," "I look amazing," "I feel great," etc.

2. Every morning and night, say one thing to yourself that you love.
 This may be that you did really well in your interview today or that you were very helpful to your friend. You could say that you love that you are so empathetic or that you're grateful for your resilience. If you don't feel as great today, recognize what you inherited genetically from your parents and be happy that you got that trait or characteristic from them.

3. Create a schedule for right when you get home.
 Everyone needs to wind down, so it is only normal to turn the TV on or start dinner right away. However, instead of turning the TV on or before you make dinner right away, try making yourself your favorite cup of tea. Maybe you could change into something stylish and comfortable and cuddle up with your pet to have a "me time." Meditate for a moment because you deserve this for yourself after a long hard day at work.

4. End the day with appreciation.
 Maybe you had a bad day today—traffic jams, burned dinner, mistakes in the office, etc. Make sure you always end the day with what is positive in your life. This could be that your spouse is supportive and loving, your kids are healthy, or you have many good friends. Whatever you are appreciative for, make sure you write it down or tell someone about 
it. Who knows, you could make their night better too.
When you start acting on these to-dos, you will see that gradually you start feeling better about yourself. When you feel better, you feel positive and in control. One of the characteristics of a confident person is that they don't lack control in their lives. They know what they can't control, and they have learned to let go of it. What they can control is how to love themselves more every day. Don't wait to feel better and don't wait for people to lift you up or be supportive of you. Self-love is about doing what you want someone else to do for you, for yourself. So if you crave affection, lather that lotion. If you want compliments, tell yourself what you love most about yourself. If you need attention, sit with yourself and give your mind the thoughts it's been asking for. Over time, self-love will come.
How to Make Positive Flashcards for Everyday Use
It's time to get creative and make some flashcards. Flashcards come in handy for when you are having a tough day or a tough moment. It's for when everything doesn't seem to be working or that you just don't want to do your routine for today. It's okay to take a day off, but on those days, look at the flashcards you made. Make them in any color and use sparkles and gel pens to brighten it up. Here are some ideas you can put on your flashcards.

●
    
By allowing myself to be happy, I can brighten someone else's day too.


●
    
I have a great sense of humor that helps me get over these dark days.


●
    
My spouse and I share a connection I won't take advantage of.


●
     
I am a confident and well-deserving individual.


●
    
I am resilient enough to tackle whatever life throws at me.


●
    
I know I can achieve my goals because I am strong.


●
    
I see fear as an opportunity, not as an obstacle.


●
    
Today is the beginning of new successes to come my way.


●
     
I am a problem solver.


●
     

I am bold and confident.


●
    
I always see the good in others because I am confident enough to know who supports me in my life.


●
    
Nothing easy is worth my strength. I will tackle the difficult times because the reward is worth it.


●
     
I am choosing to be proud of myself.


●
     
I am worthy of great things in my life.


●
    
I trust myself and my intuition to guide me to great things.


●
     
My fight is not over.


●
     
Life is happening right now.


●
     
Breathe in peace. Breathe out drama and chaos.


●
     
I will choose peace over war.

These are just a few positive affirmations. If you read these every day, your mood and attitude can change, and you can become the strong and confident individual you have strived so hard to be.
Here are some quotes about gratitude to put on your flashcards.

●
    
"Learn to be thankful for what you have already, while you pursue all that you want" (Jim Rohn).


●
    
"Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough" (Oprah Winfrey).


●
    
"Enjoy the little things, for one day you may look back and realize they were big things" (Robert Brault).


●
    
"Some people complain that roses have thorns; I am grateful that thorns have roses" (Alphonse Karr).


●
    
"The way to develop the best that is in a person is by appreciation and encouragement" (Charles Schwab).

You may choose to search for quotes or make up your own to make you feel better. The goal is to feel confident and strong. You can live vicariously through others' quotes and be one with your universe in what makes you who you are. Confidence and self-esteem are about learning how to practice self-love and gain self-respect. On those 
dark days, you accept that it's "one of those days" while also realizing that there are better days to come. The first step has to be taken by you, and it is up to you when you would like to start.
Chapter Overview
Routines are perhaps the most difficult thing to accomplish and stick to because we are so used to living our lives through what we know and what is familiar to us. However, you can choose to dive into changing your life around to become more confident and have a life that is more fulfilling. You can start by making simple habits to practice every day until it becomes a routine. Self-love comes from the soul. It is the glue that holds personal growth together. Without self-love, all the rest would be pieces of the puzzle that float around, trying to figure out where they belong. On those really tough days, flashcards about what makes you who you are and what makes you happy and grateful will get you through so that you can continue to stick with your daily rituals. Every so often, it is good to have a full "me day," but on those days, make sure you are making time to love yourself respectfully as well. In the next chapter, you can look forward to all the ways you can take care of yourself so that you can eventually fit these exercises into a full daytime schedule.







Chapter 9: Self-Care
Taking care of yourself is potentially the most important part of learning to be more confident and holding a high level of self-esteem. Many people think that taking care of themselves is just about providing their essential needs. That is not enough. Self-care is what we intentionally do to make sure that our minds (mental state), bodies (physical state), and spirits (emotional and soul-driven state) are balanced.
When you have a high anxiety level, your relationships are on the rocks, your brain is on overload, or you are overly stressed, it means that you have not taken good care of yourself. A good self-care routine means that you have taken enough time for yourself, you eat well-balanced meals, you exercise, you practice mindfulness to develop your mental awareness, and you have a load of supportive people in your life. When you eat well, you feed your body and your brain with the nutrients it needs to be alert and healthy. When you exercise, you shed the excess stress that builds up in your mind and body. When you meditate, you train yourself to become more relaxed and learn to let go of the small things that weigh you down. When you journal, you are also releasing energy and stress that you don't need. Finally, every individual needs affection, love, and support. When you surround yourself with positive and supportive people, you may feel a sense of inner peace and happiness as well that heals your soul and spiritual energy.
Many people have different definitions of what self-care is and how they should implement it into their lives, but in general, a checklist may help you understand more.

1.
   
Say no to stress, which includes the following:


○
     
checking emails at night


○
    
attending social meet-ups just because you feel obligated to them


○
    
answering your phone when you know it's going to be an argument


○
     
not creating more drama than you already have


2.
   

Learn to be assertive, which includes the following:


○
     
saying no to too many responsibilities


○
     
making too many promises that add to your plate


○
     
creating strong boundaries


○
     
standing up for yourself


3.
    
Eat healthy, which includes the following:


○
    
adding all the essential vitamins and minerals into your diet


○
    
making sure your gut is healthy (the number-one reason for anxiety if stomach problems persist)


○
     
eating balanced meals or small meals through the day


4.
   
Get enough sleep, which includes the following:


○
     
having seven to eight hours of sleep every night


○
    
having no more than three hours of a nap during the day


○
    
waking up to the alarm without pressing the snooze button


5.
    
Exercise, which includes the following:


○
     
learning yoga


○
     
doing healthy stretches before working out


○
     
not overdoing it


6.
   
Make sure you are physically healthy, which includes the following:


○
     
checking in with the dentist


○
     
checking in with the doctor


○
     
making counseling appointments (if needed)


7.
   
Spend time with people you love and care about, which includes the following:


○
     
having no distractions


○
     
having a "me time"


○
     

learning to give and take


8.
    
Meditate, which includes the following:


○
     
finding time for just you


○
     
responding to your thoughts and challenging them


○
     
being mindful


○
     
practicing yoga

You have already learned to create an organized schedule and daily ritual in which you do every day. When you get used to your morning routine, make sure that you add the exercises throughout this chapter to get the highest benefits out of life. By making a schedule that you can fully take care of yourself while developing self-confidence, you may find that you generally become happier. This is because you are giving yourself more time to think, more time to focus, and overall more time for yourself.
Learn Meditation
Meditation has many benefits that include helping you center your mind, bringing your awareness onto yourself and your surroundings, and generally helping you relieve and manage stress. Meditation is where you learn to be one with your thoughts without judgment so that you can understand them better and reverse or promote them. Meditation is not the same as mindfulness, but it is very similar. Mindfulness is the practice of being fully aware and present in the given moment. At first, when you start practicing meditation and mindfulness, it can be difficult to get into it. Meditation, although easy, takes work, focus, and dedication as the more you do it, the better you will get at it. The trick is to be nonjudgmental. Do not beat yourself up if it doesn't work at first. If you continue to practice meditation, it will become easier, thus leaving you with incredible results that will make you feel mentally and emotionally better in the long run. Mindfulness meditation is to be used on a daily basis. It's like math. If you stop practicing, you will forget, and then it will be difficult to get back on track. Also, you will not see results right away.
Meditation, in general, is very useful, and mindfulness meditation is 
the most beneficial one. When we practice mindfulness, we develop the skills on how to return to and maintain the present moment. It takes three easy steps to get into meditation:


Get comfortable. Sit comfortably in a chair or lie down. Make sure that your posture is straight and your stomach is open for breathing. Notice your body, and do what feels the most comfortable for you. Close your eyes. Keep them focused on a focal point, and bring your attention to your breath.



Focus on your breathing. Don't try to control it. Just focus on where it's coming from. Is it coming from your nose or in your belly? Don't try to change the pace. Just notice your breath. Feel the sensation of your breath.



Follow it for two minutes or more. When you become distracted by your thoughts or you feel bored from the loud silence, be aware that this happened, and bring your attention back to your breath. If it helps, you can use a breathing ball exercise found on the Internet or in anxiety apps to bring your focus onto your breath. As the ball expands, you would take a breath. As it contracts, you would breathe out.



Once you finish your first session of this quick and simple exercise, you can now be curious about it. How long was it before you got distracted? Was your mind busy during the process? Was there something in particular you kept trying to think about? This is normal. Actually, this is what is supposed to happen because initially we are teaching ourselves to focus on the moment while being patient with our minds. When our minds wander, we become curious as to what needs the most attention. As we get better at learning to return our focus onto our breath, we can then learn to watch our thoughts and react to them appropriately. We must always finish the exercise with recentering our minds to our breaths and ending it on a positive note. If you feel as though you are getting stressed, that is when you would bring your focus back to the breath and patiently wait for yourself to calm down. These sessions can take anywhere between 5 and 30 minutes or more.
The Benefits of Exercise
Physical exercise helps you maintain stability and peace of mind. It helps you become physically healthier. Studies have recently proven that it helps you live longer as well. Exercise can combat diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and heart and lung problems. It is also beneficial to the health in the long term. Physical benefits of exercise include the following:

●
     
weight management


●
     
decreased risk of heart attack


●
     
lower blood cholesterol levels


●
     
decreased blood pressure


●
     
development of stronger bones, muscles, and joints


●
     
relief of muscle tensions


●
     
boost in mood, energy, and relaxation

The benefits that exercise has on your mental health are as follows:

●
     
helps with depression


●
    
blocks the negative thoughts that distract you from daily activities


●
     
increases social support if you exercise with a buddy


●
     
improves sleep and the amount of rest you get


●
    
increases healthy chemicals and decreases unhealthy chemicals in your brain, such as serotonin, endorphins, and stress hormones

It's good to aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise a day. You may notice, as you make exercise a routine, you feel hungrier. Choose foods that energize you rather than give you a sugar high until you crash. These foods are foods like green tea, eggs, protein, and green vegetables.
It doesn't matter which type of exercise you do. Just remember to never do the same exercise twice. For example, if you are toning your muscles one day, the next day, shoot for strengthening them. Each day, have a body group that you work on. For example, one day you work on your arms. Then give them a break the next day when you choose to work on your legs or stomach. The most 
beneficial exercise to practice is yoga.
What Is Yoga?
Yoga is a type of exercise that forces you to focus on your breathing techniques and on your mind. Not only does it have benefits on the body such as flexibility, strength building, and muscle toning, but it can affect your mind in positive ways too. Yoga is the practice of balance between your mind and body; and it reduces anxiety, depression, and stress. When you stretch or follow a video guide, you will mostly hear the tutor telling you to stretch, then breathe in, and hold it. As you release your stretch, release your breath. This type of workout helps you figure the difference between tensed muscles and strained muscles. It trains your brain that when you are stressed, you are more than likely tensed, so when you release the tension, you end up feeling a lot more relaxed. Although yoga may seem like a relaxed guided practice, it takes concentration and commitment to master it.
The benefits associated with yoga are as follows:

●
     
tames and balances the mind


●
     
combats negative emotions and thoughts


●
     
promotes productivity and motivation


●
     
brings peace of mind and welcomes clarity


●
     
decreases stress


●
     
reduces muscle inflammation


●
     
improves heart health


●
     
fights chronic pain


●
     
increases sleep quality


●
     
helps you become balanced physically, spiritually, and emotionally


●
    
improves meditation practice as it helps you focus on breathing


●
     
reduces headaches and migraines


●
     

increases strength and resilience

By incorporating yoga into your daily routine, you may see positive side effects relating to your health, stress, and anxiety. Unlike other exercises, you will see and feel immediate benefits from it after a week of practicing.
Developing Better Socialization Skills
Studies have proven that healthy socialization promotes stronger and healthier individuals. This makes sense because when we look at people who are genuinely happy, they have a support system of people behind them. The old saying goes something like "It takes a village to raise a baby." This is true in all aspects. Whether you are only looking for help to overcome social anxiety or phobia or just looking to get out for a guys' night or a ladies' night. Friends and family are the people we turn to when we are sad, happy, angry, frustrated, etc. When we are in a good mood, we look for those to share our happiness with. When we are sad or upset, we look for our loved ones to vent to. Other benefits of socialization include the following:

●
     
It relieves depression and anxiety symptoms.


●
    
It builds a strong immune system due to the happiness we feel.


●
     
You are able to focus and concentrate better.

It boosts self-esteem and confidence.

●
     
It reduces stress.

This is not a complete list, of course, but if you find that you are surrounded by negative people in your life, it's time to take a look at what type of friends you want to be around you. If you have negative friends who suck all your energy and you feel the opposite of these benefits, then there is a need to reevaluate the people around. Do you sometimes feel socially awkward in group settings or social events? That's maybe because you might be lacking effective communication skills. Here are some skills to work on if this feels like the case:

1. Listen.
 Turn off all distractions when you are being talked to. Make sure your phone is on silent, the TV isn't playing in the 
background, and your mind is centered on the person you are talking to. A lot of people hear what's being said to them without actually listening. This makes them unable to comprehend what is being said. A big reason as to why this happens is because we are in the technology age, and phones or other electronics become our main focus. In order to gain a better perspective and have closer relationships, be very aware of how you use your technology when visiting.

2. Understand.
 You don't have to fully understand something to be empathetic toward the opposing party; however, you do need to try to understand what is being said. When you listen with your full attention and rehearse what they have said back to you, you can gain a better understanding. When they feel as though you do acknowledge them, they will be more open and willing to hear you speak as well. People like to follow by example, so if you set a good example, you are portraying self-respect in what you wish to be done to you as well.

3. Be empathetic.
 When diving into conversations with people, oftentimes we think too fast, interrupt the other person, and don't fully get the concept of the interaction. If the other person is patient and empathetic, they will let you speak; however, they will leave the conversation feeling unsatisfied. Lead the whole interaction as empathetic to them as possible. Here are tips to be an empathetic communicator:

●
     
Refrain from directing the conversation toward yourself.


●
     
Do not try to interpret the other person's experiences.


●
    
It's not a competition. Do
not
one-up the individual with your own experiences that seem better or worse than theirs.


●
    
Do not dismiss the other's feelings as less than or say, "Don't be sad because . . ." and change the topic.


●
     
Give them empathy; do not give sympathy.


4. Be responsible.
 If the other person has hurt your feelings in any way, bring this up to them but do not blame them for making you feel upset. Be responsible for your own actions and take credit for your own thoughts and feelings. They may have triggered the emotions, but they are not the cause of them. For example, rather 
than saying, "You are so unreliable, and for that, you have made me so angry," you could say, "I am upset with you because I was under the impression our agreements are promises we stick to. Can you please make sure this doesn't happen again?" The tone of the conversation will change if you are responsible rather than victimized.

5. Be careful with your body language.
 Communication is not all about words. Body language, such as facial expressions, tone of voice, and posture or gestures, are part of it too. When you are talking, make sure your body language matches what you are saying; otherwise, you could come off as confusing. Being confused or reading into mixed messages are never fun, and it might seem as though you are playing games, which can hurt your relationship.
Effective communication is key when building long-lasting love relationships. When you are heard, they understand. When they are heard, things go much smoother. When you ask for something from someone, make sure to use clear and concise language rather than beating around the bush. Someone is more likely to give you what you need when you are upfront and direct about it.
Chapter Overview
Meditation, yoga and exercise, eating healthy, and developing strong communication skills or closer relationships are all part of building self-esteem. When you work these things into your daily schedule, you can really start to feel more confident. Meditation is already one technique that follows suit with self-love and commitment to your inner character. Exercise makes you feel good, and developing good social habits works on your self-worth and respect. As you go through these many stages through developing a routine and putting them into your life, this is what it takes to be fully committed to personal growth.







Conclusion
You have now learned how to overcome your fears, practice a new routine, rid yourself of that evil inner critic, and develop ways to become more confident. It's your choice what you do with the information provided in this book, but go ahead and mark your favorite chapters and continue reading more to develop self-worth and individuality. Just remember that it's your life and you get to choose what you do with it. No matter what you choose to do, how you decide your journey from here, remember that self-confidence is not about defeating your negative thoughts but about knowing what you deserve. Self-esteem is about acting on what you deserve and going after what you want but having the confidence to do so. This self-confidence workbook teaches you self-love, positive affirmations, and meditation techniques because being who you are is important. Stop wasting time on people who do not support you and start supporting yourself through self-care and motivation. What matters is your own opinion.
The rest of your life starts right now, and it's entirely up to you what you are going to do with all the information you gathered in your life to this point.
Cheers!







References
AVS Mindfulness (2018). 5 incredible health benefits of face-to-face socialization. Retrieved from https://avsmindfulness.com/mindfulness/top-health-benefits-socialization/

Azab, M. (n.d.). The pain of worry: The anxious brain. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/ca/blog/neuroscience-in-everyday-life/201811/the-pain-worry-the-anxious-brain

Better Health Channel (2012). Physical activity: It's important. Retrieved from https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/health/healthyliving/physical-activity-its-important

Brandt, A. (2018). What do we mean by self-love?. Retrieved from https://abrandtherapy.com/what-do-we-mean-when-we-say-self-love/

Caiola, R. (2017). 8 ways to practice self-acceptance. Retrieved from https://www.huffpost.com/entry/8-ways-to-practice-self-acceptance_b_12640812

Chernoff, A. (2018). 10 truths that will change the way you see yourself today. Retrieved from http://www.marcandangel.com/2018/09/16/10-truths-that-will-change-the-way-you-see-yourself-today/

Cherry, K. (2019). Find out why self-esteem is important for success. Retrieved from https://www.verywellmind.com/what-is-self-esteem-2795868

Chopra, N. (2019). 10 wonderful ways to practice self-love. Retrieved from https://www.mindbodygreen.com/0-12428/10-wonderful-ways-to-practice-selflove.html

Cole, N. (2016). 8 powerful morning routines of ultra-confident people. Retrieved from https://www.inc.com/elle-kaplan/8-powerful-morning-routines-of-ultra-confident-people.html

Cole, N. (2016). Steps to transforming yourself from who you are to who you want to be. Retrieved from https://www.inc.com/nicolas-
cole/7-steps-to-transform-yourself-from-who-you-are-to-who-you-want-to-be.html

Cooper, B. B. (2018). How to think positive every day: 4 simple steps to a happier life. Retrieved from https://open.buffer.com/think-positive/

Corelli, R. (2017). Thoughts affect feelings, feelings affect actions, actions determine happiness. Retrieved from https://www.theodysseyonline.com/thoughts-effect-feelings-feelings-effect-actions-actions-determine-happiness

Daskal, L. (2015). Confident ways to overcome your shyness. Retrieved from https://www.inc.com/lolly-daskal/13-confident-ways-to-overcome-your-shyness.html

Edison, T. (2016). Power of confidence: 7 characteristics of a confident person. Retrieved from https://www.toptierleadership.com/blog/power-of-confidence-7-characteristics-of-a-confident-person/

Florence, J. (2017). Building confidence and self-esteem. Retrieved from https://www.huffpost.com/entry/building-confidence-and-s_b_6111172?guccounter=1

Fonvielle, D. (n.d.). What is self-confidence about?. Retrieved from http://www.alwaysgreater.com/achievements/what-does-self-confidence-mean-to-you

Fonvielle, D. (n.d.). Why is confidence important in life?. Retrieved from http://www.alwaysgreater.com/achievements/why-is-self-confidence-important-benefits-of-self-confidence

GoodTherapy.org (2018). Does your inner critic fuel anxiety? What can you learn instead?. Retrieved from https://www.goodtherapy.org/blog/does-your-inner critic-fuel-anxiety-what-can-you-learn-instead-0525185

Greenberg, M. (n.d.). Changing your brain by changing your mind. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-mindful-self-express/201109/changing-your-brain-changing-your-mind

Haden, J. (2014). 9 qualities of remarkably confident people. Retrieved from https://www.inc.com/jeff-haden/9-qualities-of-
remarkably-confident-people-th.html

Iannarino, A. (2018). 10 negative mindset infections that destroy success. Retrieved from https://thesalesblog.com/2018/06/23/10-negative-mindset-infections-that-destroy-success/

Khoshaba, D. (n.d.). A seven-step prescription for self-love. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/ca/blog/get-hardy/201203/seven-step-prescription-self-love

Kingsnorth, L. (n.d.). 10 tips for effective communication. Retrieved from http://www.dailygood.org/story/1366/10-tips-for-effective-communication-liz-kingsnorth/

Krissy Brady. (2019). How to understand yourself. Retrieved from https://www.lifehack.org/articles/communication/25-questions-help-you-understand-yourself-and-unlock-your-potential.html

Legg, T. (n.d.) Anxiety: Causes, symptoms, treatment, and more. Retrieved from https://www.healthline.com/health/anxiety#natural-remedies

Link, R. (n.d.) 13 benefits of yoga that are supported by science. Retrieved from https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/13-benefits-of-yoga#section14

McLoughlin, R. (n.d.). 5 little self-love routines that just might change your life. Retrieved from http://rebeccamcloughlin.com/2015/04/04/5-little-self-love-routines-that-just-might-change-your-life/

Mindful Staff (2019). How to meditate. Retrieved from https://www.mindful.org/how-to-meditate/

Nerdy Creator (2019). Why do you need to be thankful and how to do it? Retrieved from https://www.nerdycreator.com/blog/self-appreciation-meaning/

Newman, T. (2018). Fear: What happens in the brain and body?. Retrieved from https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323492.php

PsychAlive (2014, May 09). The importance of self-worth. Retrieved from https://www.psychalive.org/self-worth/

PsychAlive (2017, March 13). 4 steps to conquer your inner critic. Retrieved from 
https://www.psychalive.org/4-steps-to-conquer-your-inner critic/

PsychAlive (2018, April 02). The critical inner voice explained. Retrieved from https://www.psychalive.org/critical-inner-voice/

Psychology Today (n.d.). Self-esteem. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/ca/basics/self-esteem

Razzetti, G. (2018). Self-appreciation is the foundation of life. Retrieved from https://medium.com/personal-growth/self-appreciation-is-the-foundation-of-life-c44af9189040

Roberts, E. (n.d.). The difference between self-esteem and self-confidence. Retrieved from https://www.healthyplace.com/blogs/buildingselfesteem/2012/05/the-difference-between-self-esteem-and-self-confidence

Sasson, R. (n.d.). Self-acceptance: What is it? Retrieved from https://www.successconsciousness.com/self-acceptance.htm

Shallard, P. (2019). How to make yourself stick to a routine. Retrieved from https://www.commitaction.com/how-to-stick-to-a-routine/

Smith, E. M. (n.d.). What is positivity? The definition may surprise you. Retrieved from https://www.healthyplace.com/self-help/positivity/what-is-positivity-the-definition-may-surprise-you

Sol, M. (2019). 13 signs it's time to build some goddamn self-respect. Retrieved from https://lonerwolf.com/self-respect/

Sweatt, L. (2018). Success: 15 thoughtful quotes about gratitude. Retrieved from https://www.success.com/15-thoughtful-quotes-about-gratitude/

Winch, G. (n.d.). 10 signs that you might have fear of failure. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/ca/blog/the-squeaky-wheel/201306/10-signs-you-might-have-fear-failure









Reading People


Powerful Methods for Counteracting Dark Psychology, Improve Emotional Intelligence to Recognize Personality Types and Body Language and How to Analyze People on Sight

JAKE SHARP
DEBUT BESTSELLING AUTHOR







Introduction
The individual qualities that make up who you are as a person pave the way for your personality to develop. With all of the different combinations, you can imagine that each person you encounter on a daily basis has a unique set of behaviors. Broken down into three main categories, a personality revolves around the way that you think, feel, and act. So, what makes for a great personality? A lot of people would agree that those with "favorable" traits such as kindness, compassion, and humor have great personalities. This, however, is subjective. Depending on your own personality, you might perceive others differently. There is a lot of psychology around the explanation of personalities and the way that we interact with others. Whether you would like to better understand yourself or know why you have a hard time getting along with certain people, being able to identify different personality types is going to be a helpful factor in any social interaction that you have.
It can often be a stressful experience when you feel that you are unable to see eye-to-eye with someone, especially if that person is close to you. People can look at the same situation and come to very different conclusions. Something to remember is that each person is going to have a unique perspective. If you feel that you see something one way and someone else comes along to challenge your views, remember that you might just truly be seeing it differently due to your own unique perspectives. This is why personality types can be so fascinating. Alternatively, you might encounter someone who seems to be on the exact same page. Think about those that you are closest to in your life right now; this bond likely exists because you have similar or agreeable personalities.
The term personality stems from the Latin word persona -- this refers to a theatrical mask that performers would wear to change identities. These patterns begin developing from the moment that you are born. Early on, your environment has a lot to do with how you choose to behave. As you can imagine, a child who grows up in a household with loving parents is likely going to have a different personality type than a child who is neglected and left alone. Becoming more impressionable as they grow, children can also 
develop personalities based on those who they spend the most time around. This is why the parents/guardians and family play such a huge developmental role. The same applies when children begin to make friends and spend time around their peers.
While a personality can change and develop over time, there is normally a set foundation of behaviors that remain from early childhood onward. As children become adolescents, it is not uncommon to experience several different personality changes along the way, only to truly settle in adulthood. This is a very normal part of growing up, and it can often bring out some uncharacteristic behaviors as you try to navigate life as a teenager. It can be a confusing time, especially when you don't exactly understand why you are the way that you are. Many people do not even fully understand personality types well into adulthood, and that is okay. It is a complex topic that does take some research to fully grasp the concept.
Identity
A lot of people will agree that your personality is what makes up your identity. Your identity is how you are known to other people, how others see you. While it is important to have your own opinions about yourself, the way that others perceive you does have the ability to make a difference in how you feel. The way that you identify is important to how you act and react. It is a way for you to feel secure in who you are, and it is through this security that you are able to build up your confidence levels. The more that you are able to recognize these patterns, the easier it will be to understand why people behave the way that they do.
You might be wondering why this is important to learn, and you will find that over time it does make life easier when you have this sense of who people are and even who you are. When you feel comfortable with this concept, you will be able to feel more passionate and secure in your interactions. In turn, this will allow for meaningful relationships and interactions to transpire. It is known that it is human nature to want these types of interactions, whether we realize it or not. Feeling close to other people can create a very positive and comforting impact on your life.
In the realm of psychology, learning about identities and personality types actually makes up for a large branch of study. It shows us just how diverse the human population can be, despite growing up in similar areas or circumstances. There are so many factors that play into your personality, so it can be rather interesting when you decide to look into the way that people begin to form identities. Some are ruled by genetics, while others develop based on situational influences. 
Emotional Intelligence
Emotional intelligence is the key to understanding personality types. This is not a conventional skill that can be learned in school or from other people. It is something that must be experienced to be understood. Your emotional intelligence level gives you the capacity to understand yourself and the people around you. It is a way for you to become aware of what is going on around you in order to perceive the behavior that is taking place. As stated, this can be an extremely helpful tool, not only for learning more about other people but also understanding your own personality type. The following are some ways for you to work on your emotional intelligence for the purpose of being able to decipher different personalities:
Giving and Receiving Feedback
An important part of life, being able to handle feedback or critique is an essential aspect of acting in an emotionally healthy manner. Not everybody is going to agree with every single thing that you do, and that is okay. You are also going to have some differing opinions when it comes down to certain behaviors. What we find acceptable or "right" is not always going to be the same across the board. Having a proper amount of emotional intelligence means that you should have no problem giving and receiving this feedback because you see it as a tool that can help you grow as a person. Those who become defensive or angry might have lower levels of emotional intelligence. The more that you are simply able to hear different opinions without becoming reactive will strengthen your ability to grow emotionally.
Accepting Change
Change can be very hard for some people, often leading to debilitating behaviors. In life, nothing is ever going to be certain. There are too many factors resulting in unpredictable results. Having emotional intelligence should make you feel as though you are capable of handling what comes your way. Those who are resistant or unwilling to change will usually have a harder time in life because of this inflexibility. Through learned emotional intelligence, getting used to change will become easier.
Getting Used to Setbacks
Along similar lines of unpredictability, it is not uncommon to experience setbacks in life. No matter how successful or accomplished you become, it would not be wise to assume that you are exempt from failure. It is a normal part of life, and it keeps us humble and grounded. With a strong sense of emotional intelligence, you should be able to learn from your setbacks without allowing them to overcome you. Plenty of people do not know how to react when they are faced with failure. Often times, they will either lash out or simply give up on what they are doing. It does not have to be so black and white; a happy medium can be found in most situations.
Dealing with Challenging Relationships
No matter if the relationship is platonic or romantic, a great way to gauge your emotional intelligence comes from how you interact with other people. Any relationship can prove to be challenging, especially when you take personality types into consideration. Getting into disagreements with those you care about can be taxing and hard, but your actions will reflect your emotional intelligence. Usually, those with a healthy amount of emotional intelligence have no problem with communication and getting to the bottom of a problem. The desire to work out any issues is a great trait to have, but it isn't the easiest to learn.
Handling Deadlines
Mostly applicable in work or school environments, meeting deadlines is another instance when one would need to hone in on 
emotional intelligence. When stress is added into any equation, it can be easy to crumble under the pressure or blame any shortcomings on those around you. Through emotional intelligence, you should be able to work through this stress in order to accomplish your goals. There is no such thing as stress relief that immediately eliminates all of the stressors, but there are techniques that can be learned in order to efficiently handle what you are going through.
Working on your emotional intelligence is something that you can do on a daily basis through very simple actions. For example, during an encounter with another person that you perceive as negative, consider what has caused you to feel this way. A lot of the time, you might realize that this comes down to their personality and the way that it clashes with your own. You do not need to train yourself to automatically agree with everyone around you, but instead, you can learn how to see things from a perspective that is different from your own. Consider why the other person feels the way that they do; ask them to explain their viewpoints. When you do this, you are giving the other person a chance to be heard and understood. This tactic normally goes over a lot better than simply shutting the other person down and using conflict to make your point.
A lot of people fail to realize that you can have a healthy conversation about differing opinions. This does not mean that an argument needs to ensue or that any negative connotation needs to be used. Instead, the goal should be to come to a point of mutual understanding. If the end of the conversation still results in different opinions, take that for what it is worth. Use the information to grow and move forward. A big factor that can hinder emotional intelligence is feeling the need to change everyone else's mind. There are a lot of things that you just won't be able to change, but as long as you are using your emotional intelligence to survey and process the information, you are going to continue growing as a person.
Stress Relief
No matter what personality type you have, living a stress-free life is going to enhance all of your best qualities. When you are constantly operating under stress, your actions will reflect this. The way that 
you treat yourself and other people are impacted by how you feel inside. Imagine how hard it is to be present in any situation when you are worried about something else in the back of your mind. Dealing with stress involves finding outlets for it. The main thing that you should remember is that stress relief will only come from some type of release. While you can form distractions in the moment, unless you are actively working on ways to release the stress, it is still going to remain present.
Nobody is immune to the feeling of stress. No matter how old you are or what you do on a daily basis, there is bound to be something that has the ability to stress you out. Being able to deal with stress is an integral part of the human experience. Doing things like taking some time for yourself or sitting with your thoughts can be beneficial to your stress relief situation. When you are trying to work through a tough situation, it is wise to consider the consequences of your actions. In the heat of the moment, you might not be able to think clearly about how you are going to overcome it.
The way that you handle things under pressure says a lot about your personality. Much like your emotional intelligence levels, your stress responses can also evolve over time. This is an important thing because it makes you a well-rounded individual. If you are able to recognize your traits and learn how to apply them when appropriate, you will have a better understanding of how to accept yourself and others. Everything makes a lot more sense when you are able to identify it. 







Chapter 1: Understanding Personality Types
Considering how many people you have in your life, you can probably think about the differences in behaviors and traits among them all. This can also include your own personality and traits. As expressed, it is a helpful tool to be able to identify and understand many different personality types. Not only does this help you to perceive things clearly, but it also gives you the opportunity to see things from other perspectives. Below are some core different personality groups and traits that go along with them:
Sensing
A person who belongs in this personality group will often be a practical individual. Using the senses means making decisions based on factual information that is reliable. This type of individual is normally very focused on the present and is able to consider the outcomes of problems that they are faced with. Sometimes, a sensing person will not feel secure until there is a clear cut solution to any given situation. Being prepared to handle things is one way that a sensing type is able to feel confident and secure. If approached by a very spontaneous personality type, the sensing individual might feel threatened or not secure with the actions at hand. The best way to interact with a sensing type is to be honest and concise with communication. Giving mixed signals is likely only going to cause the individual to feel as though you cannot be trusted.
Intuitive
An individual who relies on intuition is most likely going to be thinking about the future. Getting a sense of a situation by using gut instinct and then acting is a common method of behavior for the intuitive type. For someone like this, there does not necessarily need to be any concrete information that is needed before making a decision. Gathering context clues from other people, theories, and feelings is what an intuitive type is best at. This person will likely be able to feel at ease by figuring out the situation internally and then taking the result as it comes. If a little bit of mystery is involved, this 
can sometimes be an exciting aspect to the intuitive type. These people are normally very creative and have active imaginations because they like to utilize those forms of thinking.
Thinking
Arguably the most rational of the personality groups, the thinking type operates exactly as you would expect. Rational thinking is how this type of individual thrives. Being void of feelings to come to a conclusion is typical behavior. That is not to say that a thinking type cannot be emotionally expressive, but that they prefer not to be when it comes to figuring things out. Logic is how a thinking type thrives. Using logical thinking to formulate methods is something that the individual will likely enjoy very much. In the mind of a thinker, there is always a logical solution that can be found to explain any problem.
Feeling
An emotional personality type, a feeling individual is normally very warm and sympathetic toward others. Being able to look at a situation and imagine how others are impacted is a skill that those with empathy are able to accomplish. The feeling type will choose to solve problems by assessing how a situation feels and then determining if it is positive or negative. It is within the feeling nature to want to support other people as best as possible. It can be difficult to see the downfall in other people when it is within the feeling nature to see the best all the time. Imaginably, their traits can be helpful but also hindering.
Normally, when it is being categorized, people will identify as either a sensing or
 intuition type and a thinking or
 feeling type. Given all of the different combinations, you can imagine how diverse everyone around you is. When it comes to your own personality, you might find that you identify a certain way at first only to realize that it changes over time. It is interesting to take into consideration what parts of your life might lead you to shift in personality and behavior. It is definitely possible and entirely normal as you grow as an individual.
Personality Types
While you now have a broad sense of some personality types, the categories can be broken down even further. Nobody is simply just going to be one way or the other way because there are so many other factors involved in what makes up a personality. There are several subcategories that can likely be assigned to just about each person you currently have in your life, including yourself. Here are the 16 most common personality types according to Myers-Briggs:
ISTJ (Introverted, Sensing, Thinking, and Judging)
This personality appears to be a bright and logical individual who likes to focus on concrete facts when sorting through situations. They are serious and committed when it comes to relationships and able to stay calm during high-stress situations. Because of their introverted aspect, these individuals are normally on the quiet side, yet they are full of valuable information. Being too social can often feel draining. Due to the fact that they are so detail-oriented, they can be incredibly talented at many different things. Definitely ruled by the head and not the heart, an ISTJ will gravitate toward facts rather than protecting others' feelings. You can expect this person to be very disciplined, hard-working, and prepared for anything.
INFJ (Introverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Judging)
Gentle and caring, this individual is complex and highly intuitive. Because anything is possible to an INFJ, creativity will be at a high in this personality. Thinking about each situation in a genuine way, the individual can have an uncanny insight. They like to avoid hurting others at all costs, and they can even unintentionally begin to take stress on as their own. This individual is passionate about dreams and ideas, always coming off as approachable. Trusting gut instincts is a common way for an INFJ to sort through things. In this way, the individual will try to make sense of life and what is thrown at them. Organization and creating methods is something that the person truly enjoys doing.
INTJ (Introverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Judging)
This person is confident and highly ambitious, using bold ideas and complex strategies to navigate through life. They are super intelligent and hold value in their natural state of intuition. A person like this will likely always be thinking about how to make a situation better or how to improve something. Definitely future-oriented, and INTJ can easily see the big picture. They set very high standards for themselves and for their lives, often appearing slightly detached from others. They do value close friendships, though. Surface-level thinking does not necessarily appeal to an INTJ; they would rather be tackling the more complex items that are presented.
ENFJ (Extroverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Judging)
An extremely giving person, you can expect an ENFJ to be focused on other people. This is a charismatic individual who is outspoken and confident. Being able to connect with others comes naturally to an ENFJ; they rely on their intuition and feelings to do so. This person is highly influential and reliable in all situations. Paired with a warm and caring nature, other people will gravitate toward this individual. They will have difficulty when dealing with the unknown, always preferring to have a plan that is set in stone before proceeding. They are firm in what they believe in, excellent communicators. Because they are so good with people, you can also expect them to be very accepting of all others and genuinely open-minded.
ISTP (Introverted, Sensing, Thinking, and Perceiving)
A mysterious individual with a lot of positive qualities, the ISTP operates in a very rational and logical fashion. They are generally very enthusiastic about life, expressing their optimism often. Believing in fairness and equality, the ISTP lives in a practical and realistic type of headspace. They hold a combination of being very easy-going with other people while also remaining confident in their own abilities. The ISTP will enjoy taking risks, despite the way that their logical brain comes forth. This is an independent and determined individual that will observe situations, only to store knowledge for later if needed. The focus remains on the present rather than the future.
ESFJ (Extroverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Judging)
This individual is naturally helpful, sociable, and energetic. They tend to prioritize traditional values, social status, and physical appearance. An ESFJ will jump at the chance to become a role model for someone, enjoying the attention and status. A natural caretaker, you will likely find this individual taking on a leadership role. With a genuine desire to use their skills for the benefit of others, this person is the true definition of a social butterfly. Because of their confidence and compassion, they come across as well-liked and admired. They are always ready to listen to others and to provide advice that stems from warm and genuine thoughts. An ESFJ does not like the thought of uncertainties; they prefer to take control over a situation.
INFP (Introverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Perceiving)
A deep thinker when it comes to life goals, an INFP will enjoy trying to find deeper meanings behind what they strive for. Through their perfectionist ways, they like to push themselves hard in order to reach their goals. Heavily intuition-based, this individual will use this skill not only in daily life but also when dealing with other people. Generally reserved when it comes to expressing emotions, they genuinely care about others and wish to better understand them. Normally very flexible and laid-back, an INFP will not hesitate to come to the defense of a person or subject that they are passionate about. Despite their introverted nature, they do enjoy being around other people because they are very warm and compassionate.
ESFP (Extroverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Perceiving):
Having strong interpersonal skills is common for an ESFP. They enjoy the spotlight and keep a fun and lively state of being during all situations. This individual is going to be very caring about the well-being of others, and they will show this by using their warmth and friendliness. Living in the present is a must for an ESFP. This is someone who enjoys drama and the excitement of everyday living. They have a natural ability to understand the way that the world operates, making for a grounded sense of being. In their free time, they love to entertain and host others in their homes. You will see 
that an ESFP appreciates life and all that comes with it.
ENFP (Extroverted, Intuitive, Feeling, and Perceiving)
This is a warm, bright person who is full of potential. No matter what an ENFP sets their mind to, they will likely achieve it with ease because of his initiative. Because of the skills that they possess, it is likely to inspire others along the way. They see the world as blooming with possibilities, and it is within their nature to take hold of them. Surrounding themselves with other people, they truly enjoy the process of getting to know someone. Even with their social nature, an ENFP will not tolerate being controlled or directed by someone else. If given the option, they will spring into the leadership role. Routine tasks are generally perceived as boring; an ENFP enjoys problem-solving tasks.
ESTP (Extroverted, Sensing, Thinking, and Perceiving)
This person will present himself as an enthusiastic and outgoing spirit. They are pretty straightforward individuals that enjoy taking risks in life. While living in the present, an ESTP will likely rely on facts before exploring any theories. They love to have fun, and they love being around other people. When pursuing anything, the ESTP prefers to see instant results rather than waiting around for change. They enjoy risk and adventure, often making them daredevils. Even despite their fleeting nature, they do have a great ability to understand other people and understand other motivations.
ESTJ (Extroverted, Sensing, Thinking, and Judging)
This person will likely be one of the most honest and most dedicated that you meet. Taking pride in hard work is a common trait that is shared between people of this type. A natural-born leader, the ESTJ is organized and likes to take initiative. If there is a difficult problem that must be solved, you can bet that an ESTJ will take charge and go forth in fixing the issue. While some people enjoy change from time to time, this type of individual prefers when things stay the same; they would rather stick to living the same way if that way has been working well for them. This is a responsible person who prefers to plan before acting; a focused type.
ENTJ (Extroverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Judging)
Seeing challenges as obstacles that can gladly be overcome, an ENTJ enjoys pushing themselves to great lengths. They love to take charge whenever possible, and they enjoy being placed in leadership positions. They have a knack for making careful, yet quick, decisions in the heat of the moment. An ENTJ can absolutely be a bit of a perfectionist at times. Because of how careful and calculated the individual is, their communication skills are one of their strongest traits. This is a confident individual with a logical way of thinking and prefers to stay focused only on the task at hand. Too many outside distractions can be detrimental to the thought process.
INTP (Introverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Perceiving)
Theories are how the INTP thrives; they love coming up with new ideas that bring forth original thought processes. Normally, this type is very independent. Patterns are easily recognized by the INTP, making them great detectives when it comes to picking out discrepancies. The worst thing that you could do to an INTP would be to lie; that is probably one of the most off-putting qualities to them. Because they are such thinkers, they don't mind sharing thoughts that are not yet fully developed or researched. This is what helps them come to a conclusion.
ISFJ (Introverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Judging)
This individual thrives on giving back to others, a nurturing type. They really appreciate a mutual reciprocation of kindness and generosity. They also tend to be pretty sensitive to the way that others around them feel. Aside from their humanity, they enjoy working hard in a meticulous fashion. This trait often borders the lines of perfectionism. When it comes to responsibility, they like to go above and beyond what is asked of them. They do not need praise or attention, but they simply enjoy serving others. Structure and security are important to an ISFJ, providing some fundamental stability. A sure way to make an ISFJ uncomfortable is to put them in a situation that involves conflict or confrontation.
ENTP (Extroverted, Intuitive, Thinking, and Perceiving)
This is one of the rarer personality types. Even though the ENTP is naturally extroverted, small talk is not desired. An ENTP would rather talk about big ideas or values. They like to be challenged in many ways, finding it thrilling when they are able to find solutions. They can be sweet, loving, and expressive of emotions. This makes it easy for them to form close bonds with their partners and loved ones. Freedom is something that an ENTP holds important, not enjoying when they are controlled by others. You will often find this type of person coming up with new ideas and theories that make you think.
ISFP (Introverted, Sensing, Feeling, and Perceiving)
At first, the ISFP tends to have a hard time connecting to and relating to other people. Because they tend to be pretty quiet and reserved, it does take a little bit of time for them to warm up to you. However, once you break the barrier, they are kind and sweet and care about others' well-being. These individuals are very goal-driven and enjoy coming up with original ideas. They will embrace the chance to experience new things at any given moment. Restrictions make an ISFP feel trapped, so they will do their best to avoid them. Even though they can appear to be incredibly spontaneous on the outside, their inner voice is always one of rational proportions.
Personality and Perception
Research has shown that the way we perceive reality has a lot to do with the way our brains work. Your personality goes hand-in-hand with your thought process, and the same can be said for the way that you perceive others' personalities. While you might see yourself one way for certain, other people might have differing opinions. The science that surrounds this way of thinking is fascinating because it is so diverse. There are no key elements that can be duplicated in order to create two people the exact same way. Even if people grow up in the same environment with the same circumstances, their personalities are likely going to develop differently.
The firmest link between seeing situations from the same perspective and thinking the same way lies within the ability to be self-aware. This is something that a lot of different personality types can share, 
and this is also something that can be worked on. Being self-aware is the ability to understand why you act the way that you do. You can learn this trait by fully understanding your own personality and accepting yourself for who you are. Once you have this grasp on your own personality, you will likely be able to understand others, too. This is why learning about the different personality types is relevant to growing as a person. You will not only gain valuable insight, but you will also become more self-aware in turn.       







Chapter 2: Identify Your Personality Type
To find out what type of personality you have, there are certain ways that you can test yourself that will allow you to discover how you operate. Think about the following statements and how they apply to you. Make a checkmark next to each one that you identify with:


You are almost never late


You like working in a fast-paced environment


You enjoy having a lot of acquaintances


You feel involved during television shows


You are very reactive when things happen


You feel that the world is based on compassion


You believe that everything in the world is relative


Sticking to the rules is likely to hinder a good outcome


It is difficult to make you excited



When you make a decision, you rely on your feelings first




You like to think about our existence and its purpose




You believe the best decisions can change situationally




You often ponder the root cause of things




You prefer to act immediately rather than speculate




You trust reason over feelings




You are included to rely on spontaneity rather than planning




You spend your free time around other people




You normally plan things in advance




Your actions are influenced by your emotions




You are somewhat reserved and distant




You know how to use every minute of your time for a good cause




You like to contemplate life's complexities




After prolonged socialization, you feel the need to be alone




You do jobs in a hurry




You easily see the principle behind specific occurrences




You often express your feelings and emotions




You find it hard to speak loudly




You get bored when reading theoretical books




You tend to sympathize with others




You value justice over mercy




You like to get involved in the social aspect of a new job




The more people you talk to, the better you feel




You like to rely on your experience rather than theoretical alternatives




You only go forward when you have a clear plan set out




You easily empathize with the concerns of others




You prefer to read a book than go to a party




In a group of people, you enjoy being the center of attention




You are more likely to experiment than follow a familiar approach




You are strongly touched by other people's stories of hardship




Deadlines are merely relative to you




You like to isolate yourself from outside noise





It is easier for you to learn from a hands-on

approach than a book





You believe that nearly everything can be analyzed




You do not care for surprises




You enjoy bringing order to things




You feel at ease in a crowd




You have excellent control over your temptations




It is easy for you to understand new theories




You would rather be off to the side than in the center of a room




When problem-solving, you prefer to seek a familiar approach




You have a thirst for adventure




During a situation, you pay more attention to what is current rather than a potential outcome




When problem-solving, you consider a rational approach to be best




You find it hard to talk about your feelings




Your decisions are based on your feelings in the moment




You prefer to spend your free time in a tranquil setting




You feel more comfortable sticking to conventional ways




You are easily impacted by strong emotions




You are always looking for opportunities




Current problems worry you more than future plans




It is easy for you to communicate in social settings




You rarely like to deviate from habits




You willingly get involved in matters that allow you to sympathize




It is easy for you to perceive ways in which events could develop



Once you have thought about your answers, you can find your results at www.humanmetrics.com/cgi-win/jtypes2.asp
. 
The test analyzes your results and places you within one of the 16 different personality types. When you know about the way that you personally operate, you will be able to learn a lot more about yourself. Even those who know themselves well find insight in discovering which personality type they fall under.

Likes and Dislikes
We all have a general idea of what we like and dislike. This is a broad topic, ranging from personal preferences to the activities that we partake in. By understanding the root of where your likes and dislikes stem from, you will likely be able to better understand your decision-making process. While this might not seem important at first, you'll come to realize that you will have a lot more patience with yourself when you fully understand where your thoughts and ideas stem from. It can be hard to accept yourself, especially the qualities that you consider "flaws." Being able to see these behaviors as traits rather than negative qualities can give your self-esteem a much-needed boost.
When you have confidence, it shows. From the way that you present yourself to the way that you interact with others, going forth with confidence is something that gets you noticed. Even if you don't enjoy being the center of attention, feeling respected is desired by most people. Even as you grow in life and start to make decisions that revolve around your career, knowing about your likes and dislikes is a very helpful tool. You can base your job search on the things that you truly enjoy doing. When you enjoy what you do for a living, it won't end up feeling like work.
Also based on what you enjoy doing, you can determine your strengths and weaknesses. This is clearly a great piece of information to know before you put yourself in certain situations. By knowing your personality type, you will be able to select roles that you feel that you can fill based on your skills. Of course, all of this information about your personality should not limit you. Even if you 
fit within a certain type, that is not to say that you won't evolve and grow later on.
Introvert vs. Extrovert
You'll notice that the foundation of being either an introvert or an extrovert makes up a large component of your personality type. The concept is relatively simple -- introverts feel regenerated after alone time and extroverts feel regenerated after social encounters. Much like a lot of different personality traits, being an introvert or an extrovert can often fall on a scale. Just because you grow up a shy child does not necessarily mean that you will become a quiet adult. As people gain life experience, they have the ability to change and develop new traits.
Social Settings
Introverts: It is a common misconception that people who identify as introverts do not enjoy social interaction. In many cases, these individuals actually do enjoy socializing, but they might feel the need to have less of it than other people. For example, an introvert could enjoy being at a party but will only talk to those that they are familiar with. Staying off to the side or leaving early would also be a common introverted trait that can be recognized. To an introvert, being around other people is a draining experience. It is not that they do not enjoy the experience, but more that they need time to unwind from it after the fact. 
Extroverts: Being around other people is how extroverts thrive. When given the opportunity, an extrovert will choose a situation that allows them to mingle and talk to others. Even in settings that are not as conventional as a get-together, a typical extrovert will normally find it easy to talk to other people in the area. When an extroverted individual is feeling down or uneasy, social interaction is something that they can partake in that makes them feel better. Talking to other people feels like a recharge, an uplifting of the spirit.
Communication
Introverts: Speaking can sometimes cause an introvert anxiety, 
even if it is a casual situation. There is a correlation between speaking comfortably and self-confidence. Being able to communicate with other people does take some courage, and that is not generally something that comes naturally to an introvert. Though it can be learned, a young introvert might feel uneasy about it at first. In general, you will probably notice that this individual speaks softer and less frequently. The same minimalism also applies to body language; an introvert is not going to be as bold with stance and movements.
Extroverts: Watching an extrovert speak is usually unmistakable. You will notice a lot of direct and lasting eye-contact and a posture that suggests confidence. Aside from enjoying the verbal aspects of communication, an extrovert will also like deciphering all of the non-verbal communication that becomes a part of the conversation. They maintain a strong social presence and are often very memorable. When given the opportunity, an extrovert will most likely be the one who initiates the conversation.
Decision-Making
Introverts: When it comes down to a high-pressure situation, an introvert will probably rely on preliminary information in order to come to a decision. Avoiding rash decisions, an introvert enjoys using thoughtful consideration in their thought process. They will take it upon themselves to make the decision, not usually seeking help from those around them. Intuition is also a skill that is widely utilized by introverts; being able to stop and consider the possibility of any outcome is a very useful trait to have.
Extroverts: If you need someone to make a quick call, you can turn to an extrovert to always have an answer. No matter the situation, an extrovert typically has no problem settling into a decision right away. In contrast to the way that others might approach the situation, an extrovert does not mind guidance when it comes to the decision making process. Hearing advice is something that they actually appreciate and value. Your typical extrovert has no problem stepping back to hear wise words that pertain to the issue.
Workplace
Introverts: Having a quiet workspace keeps an introvert focused. This individual will like to have order and structure to their working life, not leaving room for any distractions that could come along. It is actually thought that introverts react more strongly to noise, therefore causing more disruption when it is present in the environment. When the working circumstances aren't up to par, an introvert is not likely to speak up about them. They prefer to push forward and do the best that they can with what they are given.
Extroverts: An extroverted individual normally perceives work life in a positive manner. Nothing that happens at work normally flows into a person's home life. Being able to keep the two separate is a great trait to have. When it comes to taking action, look no further. At the instance of any type of injustice, you will find that an extrovert has no problem seeking help or authority to get the situation handled. A bustling workplace is not an issue for an extrovert. In fact, the noise is actually quite stimulating to the brain and might help them when they work.
Relationships
Introverts: Just with any other type of social interaction, an introvert is also going to need some alone time within the relationship. To the individual, this is healthy time that definitely should be taken. It gives them the chance to replenish their energy levels and allows them the ability to be able to fully engage with their partner. Because introverts are great with feelings and emotions, they make for very caring partners. When paired with someone who is different from them, introverts will do their best to try and understand the other person to the best of their ability.
Extroverts: When in a relationship, the extrovert places a priority on having fun. This means going out and seeking new experiences while meeting people along the way. An extrovert is sort of like the life of the party, and they like to have their significant other there for it all. Tapping into deep feelings can be a challenge for a taken extrovert. It might take some time or coaxing in order for this type of expression to take place.







Chapter 3: Sensitivity Levels
The topic of sensitivity is often one that comes along with some negative connotations. People who fit the description can sometimes end up feeling that they are inadequate or weak because of this heightened trait. Being sensitive does not simply mean that a person is ill-equipped to handle certain situations. Instead, it indicates that a person is processing things on a different level than what is considered average. It is not a bad thing to be sensitive; this just means that you will likely need to keep in mind that you are going to feel things more strongly than most people. There are definitely ways to be sensitive but also healthy in the way that you navigate through life.
Self-Sensitivity
The way that you perceive yourself is a very important aspect of your personality. If you like who you are as a person, it makes sense that you are going to feel happier and more confident. Being sensitive adds a few challenges when it comes to this self-perception. You might find that you have a harder time letting go of things, whether they are positive or negative. A sensitive type normally chooses to dwell before they move forward. If you have ever found yourself thinking about something that has already been resolved, this might be an indication of your sensitivity. It is also not uncommon for a sensitive type to feel physical ailments that accompany their thoughts. For example, a sensitive person might have the ability to worry to the point of becoming physically sick.
Anxiety is something that can develop in sensitive types pretty easily, so this is why it is important to have an understanding of the topic. Even if you feel that you aren't a sensitive person, it is likely that you have someone in your life who is. Being gentle is the key to avoiding those anxious thoughts. Even during high-pressure situations, if a level of kindness is maintained, it is less likely that the thoughts will evolve into worries. While stress cannot be entirely avoided, the way that you handle it can be adjusted.
Needing to punish oneself is also a trait that comes along with being a sensitive person. You might feel mad at yourself for your shortcomings. The interesting thing is, if another person were in your situation, you would not feel the same way. Being sensitive revolves around feeling inadequate of your own choices and behaviors. You would never judge another person for reaching the same conclusion in the same way. This is an important thing to remember if you feel that you are someone who is too hard on yourself -- would you treat your loved one the same way that you are currently treating yourself?
Comparison is something that can tend to make you feel like you are not good enough. If you find that you are comparing yourself to others and not allowing for realistic expectations, you might just be setting yourself up for failure. A sensitive individual won't necessarily be able to recognize that these expectations aren't attainable. Seeing this perspective is very important and eye-opening. It is okay to challenge yourself to be better, but also important to remember that you are never going to be a carbon copy of someone else.
Sensitivity with Others
Have you ever been worried about what people think of you as you walk into a room? This is a normal feeling for someone who operates on a high sensitivity scale. Thoughts that can turn into worries about how you are being perceived are common for a sensitive type. Even if the situation does not involve you, you might find that you take things a lot more personally than they actually are. While it is great to be aware of the way that you act and present yourself, you should not allow the fear of not being accepted to hinder you from having certain experiences. This type of behavior directly impacts your confidence levels.
When dealing with confrontation, a sensitive person normally finds it hard to let go. Even if the altercation ends on a mutually positive note, the entire event tends to linger in the back of the brain. There are also certain things that a sensitive type would find triggering that the average person might not. This is another case where you must be kind and gentle with yourself in order to avoid making yourself 
sick with worry. You must teach yourself that a difference in opinions does not automatically have to result in a screaming match.
Accepting criticism (constructive or otherwise) is a tough topic, no matter what the occasion. This type of feedback helps us grow as individuals, but sensitive people have a harder time accepting this type of interaction. To some, this might come across as an insult to abilities rather than helpful advice. This type of criticism can also hit hard when the sensitive individual is in a relationship. As you can imagine, this can greatly hinder romantic interactions due to the insecurity that comes along with it.
Group situations can be tough for a person who is sensitive. Being a part of a group is a common occurrence, from work to social life. Because of the heightened sensitivity, the individual might feel like an outcast even though nothing is apparently wrong. This misconception of not being accepted by others can cause great hindrance in daily life. Due to the fear, the individual might act out in ways that are out of character. This can be awkward and uncomfortable for everyone involved. Alternatively, this can push someone to avoid participating in certain activities for fear of having to face these imaginary judgments.
Environmental Sensitivity
Being sensitive can make everyday situations feel a lot worse than they actually are. For example, crowded spaces can often feel unbearable to someone who operates with higher sensitivity. This type of overstimulation occurs when there is a lot to hear, see, and feel all at the same time. Even things like lights that are too bright and scents that are too strong can trigger something uncomfortable in a sensitive individual. There is really nothing that can be done to avoid these things because they are likely to be encountered on a daily basis. The best way to overcome the feeling is to learn relaxation techniques that force you to focus on only one thing at a time.
Environmentally sensitive individuals are also very reactive when it comes to public issues. For example, this person might feel incredibly distressed upon hearing bad news on television, even if it 
does not personally apply. Negativity is not something that is taken lightly, and it is very triggering. On a smaller scale, a person could also become upset when scrolling through social media. Seeing negative posts from those around them can sometimes create feelings of negativity in a person's life by association. This is the type of person who does not enjoy anything that one would classify as "shocking" or "appalling."
This can all sound detrimental to the person experiencing it, but it is something that the individual gets used to and either works through or suppresses. Imaginably, this can put unseen stress on a person. Staying happy while being a sensitive individual is all about balance. It is okay to care about what is going on around you, but only to an extent that is healthy. Letting other people's problems take over your own life is not going to benefit you or the other person in any way. It can be hard to remember this when it is your first instinct to want to help others.
Benefits of Being Sensitive
While many tend to focus on the challenges that sensitive people will face, there are truly many benefits. These are some things that you can choose to remember if you find that yourself or someone you care about is in the sensitive category of personality traits:

●
    
Simplicity is Valued: To a highly sensitive type, simple interactions mean a lot more than one would think. This person is going to feel happy with genuine conversations and uplifting experiences. There is no need to put on a front when you are in the presence of a sensitive type. Not only will they be able to see right through it, but they also won't find the interaction to be as genuine. Self-care is something that is also highly beneficial and easy to obtain as a sensitive type. If you are sensitive, treating yourself to an activity that you enjoy or even your favorite meal can turn your entire day around.


●
    

Connections Are Important: When processing information, those who are more sensitive tend to see details that might become overlooked. This attention to detail can become a valued skill, often providing a whole new perspective to the same old situations. If you find yourself clinging to each little

detail, this might work out in your favor. Making connections when given pieces of information is an essential skill. Most people must be taught how to do it, but certain sensitive types just have it in them naturally.



●
    
Happiness is Attainable: Being able to appreciate the little things in life paves the way for happiness. To the sensitive one, noticing these things is a main behavioral trait. When you are able to find joy in small nuances, it is easier to stay happy for longer. Those who are sensitive enjoy this quality about themselves, expressing that they don't need many material things in order to reach this level of happiness. It can be a very positive feeling that carries you through your days.


●
    
Physical Touch is Intense: Just as emotions are heightened to a sensitive individual, so is physical touch. This doesn't only apply to touch from other people. The feeling can happen when draped in a soft blanket or putting your toes in the sand. Feeling your sense of touch in this way can be overwhelming if you are not used to it. Over time, you will learn to appreciate this part about yourself, realizing that not many people are able to feel the way that you feel.


●
    
It Is Easy to Judge Character: Energy is present whenever you interact with another person. Those in tune with this energy can get a feeling of how the interaction is going and what the intentions are. Naturally, being sensitive means having a way with this unique people skill. Those with sensitivity are normally very good at weeding out the good from the bad. This is an extremely beneficial trait, knowing that it can help you from being taken advantage of or lied to. While you might not be able to read minds, being able to read energy is second best.


●
    

The Body is Sensitive to Substances: When you drink coffee in the morning, it is meant to stimulate your system in order to keep you going throughout the day. A sensitive individual likely won't need as much caffeine to achieve this feeling. The same can be said for other substances such as alcohol, sugar, and medicine. If you are a sensitive individual, it is important to pay attention to dosage when you partake in any of the above. Because your mind and body feel things more intensely,

you will likely need less than the average person.



●
    
Atmosphere Matters: Have you ever been somewhere with people that you care about, only to end up feeling uncomfortable? The reason being was probably the unfavorable atmosphere. To the sensitive types, this can be a real deal breaker. Being surrounded not only by the right people but also the right energy, is essential if you are going to be comfortable. Sensitive people truly value a good time that is natural and genuine. Often, distractions and small talk take away from the experience. It doesn't take much to please a sensitive individual, as long as the situation is authentic.

How to Embrace and Understand Sensitivity
With any part of who you are, it is going to take some work in order to fully accept yourself. By learning more about sensitivity, you might find that you fit into this category perfectly. There is no clear-cut way to just simply accept who you are overnight; it takes a lot of self-love and self-care. Don't be afraid to spend some time alone, just doing things that you genuinely enjoy. It is much easier to be accepting of yourself when you are in the mood to do so. By opting for activities that bring out the best in your personality, you are naturally going to be happier and more relaxed. Try your hand at journaling. You might not know what to say at first, but if you just try putting pen to paper, you could be surprised at what thoughts spring to mind. Do your best to not "censor" your personality or who you are.
If you realize that you know some sensitive people, then the same general principles apply. Talk openly with your sensitive loved ones and support them by providing a listening ear when needed. Remember, those who are more sensitive truly appreciate genuine interaction. It doesn't take much to make a positive impact. If you are ever in a situation where you notice that the other person is feeling uncomfortable, do your best to create a better atmosphere. While there is only so much that you can do from the outside, your effort can make all the difference.







Chapter 4: Types of Temperament
When describing your temperament, it is easiest to explain it as the core factor that drives your behavior. This is something that is with you from the moment that you are born, and it is unlikely to change very drastically over time. Though it can fluctuate based on the circumstances, your temperament is normally a permanent part of who you are as a person. This is a very big part of all that makes up your personality. There are various components that make up a person's temperament. For example, someone can be introverted, withdrawn, and very reactive -- this is likely going to be a more difficult temperament. On the complete opposite end of the spectrum, one can be adaptive, easy-going, and calm. The possibilities are endless, and the results are able to be psychologically charted.
As a child, it is normally very easy to understand temperament; you either have a fussy baby or you don't. While it isn't exactly this black and white, it is a lot more simple in young people. Paying attention to an infant's crying habits is one of the easiest ways to monitor temperament. Does the baby cry throughout the night? Is it hard for you to get him to stop crying? Whether the answer is yes or no, there is no such thing as a perfect temperament. Much like any other personality traits, there are benefits that can be found no matter what.
Aside from crying, you can monitor how often a baby smiles when you are trying to determine temperament. Is it easy or hard to make the baby smile? Judging by these patterns, you should be able to loosely predict what the future temperament is going to be like. Of course, your main goal with infants is to keep them smiling as much as possible. A healthy and loving environment is going to attribute a lot to the future of their temperament. Things stay pretty easy when babies are able to stay in controlled environments.
Temperament Through Childhood
Genes play a huge role in the temperament of a child. If the family is 
known for happy babies who hardly ever cry, you can expect this pattern to continue. Of course, not all families are this fortunate. This is not a negative aspect because outlook can be everything. As a child grows, even despite having a difficult temperament, the behavior can be curbed by positive reinforcement. This means showing the child as much love as possible and introducing a stable environment from early on. Maintaining this consistency is important when it comes to influencing temperament. If the environment is ever-changing, it is unlikely to make a difference in temperament.
In addition to environmental needs, parenting also plays a major role. The parent(s) should be able to form a distraction during times of distress. Any type of parenting techniques that seem to focus on what is distressing can be traumatic in the long run. Being present is also very important. A child is not going to know how to express emotions unless you lead by your own example. Allow for this healthy expression often, showing the child that it is okay to feel many different ways.
Stress is going to eventually become a part of every single person's life. It is unavoidable, but whenever possible, keeping a child away from what could potentially become stressful will drastically help with temperament. A child should not be left to worry about issues that they cannot change. If you are a parent, do your best to create a gentle buffer between your child and any stressors. This is not to say that you need to pretend that everything is always okay -- things happen. It's normal. Create a realistic approach that you can abide by in front of your child.
How to Curb Temperament
When it comes to making a big change, smaller steps should be sought out. Whether it is to curb the behavior of a child or to make a life change as an adult, the root cause of temperament should always be taken into consideration. If you are looking to make a change for yourself, think about all of the reasons why. Acknowledge that there are parts of yourself that need improvement, parts that you would like to work on. Know that you are still a whole and functioning person, even despite these things that you do not love about 
yourself. It is never too late to make a change, as long as you are willing to put in the work that comes along with it.
To start, make a list of some goals that you would like to accomplish. Maybe you would like to work on your anger management skills. If you find yourself often having uncontrollable outbursts, figure out ways that you can calm yourself down before you end up reaching that point. Perhaps you would like to become less reactive to situations that do not directly impact you. If you are a sensitive person, this can be incredibly hard. Letting go is one of the most challenging steps to moving forward in life. Consider ways that you can deal with all of the emotions that you have that surround each situation. No matter what you need to work on in order to better your temperament, there is always an attainable solution.
What do you do if you notice that someone in your life could use some help with their own temperament? You must start by realizing that no one is going to change unless the change comes willingly. No matter how great you think your advice is, nobody is truly obligated to take it unless they feel that they connect with it. The best thing that you can do for other people is to set a great behavioral example. If you notice that your friend is struggling with gossiping about other people, try to change the topic of conversation to something that is more positive and fulfilling. Small steps such as this can make a big difference in the lives of others.
Most Common Temperament Types
There are 4 primary temperament types that have been identified by professionals. These studies were done based on the way that the brain processes information. While the different types are general behavioral guidelines, an individual might have a few combinations that make up the totality of their personality.
Sanguine
The most common of all types, it is a people-oriented temperament. This individual should have no problem talking to and interacting with others. Found equally among men and women, this type is the epitome of outgoing and sociable. They love to help others and 
enjoy the opportunity to take on leadership roles.
They have the ability to express a wide range of emotions. If a change is needed in their own personal environment, a Sanguine type should be perfectly capable of making that change. This is a person that has the ability to be playful and even impulsive. You will find that they are easily amused and capable of entertaining those around them.
When interacting with someone who has a Sanguine type temperament, you might feel as if you have known this person for a very long time, even if you are just meeting, They have an uncanny ability to build strong relationships with other people. You will likely feel comfortable talking to them by default. Because this individual has little to no filter, their actions might lead to disarray. They must try hard to stay focused at all times.
If there is any type of competition, a Sanguine type is going to want to win. It doesn't matter if it is within sports, politics, or business, this individual will make it a point to get noticed. Combined with the effortless social skills, this is a person who normally holds a lot of self-confidence. 
Phlegmatic
Also a common temperament, this is almost the direct opposite of Sanguine. Though the two are very different, it is still possible for a person to have one as their primary and the other as their secondary. This is an individual that chooses to be service-oriented. Even though they are introverted, they still enjoy working together or for others to accomplish a common goal. During group settings, they tend to be passive, allowing others to take the lead. They can be great followers.
This is a person known for being super calm in all situations; you won't find a        Phlegmatic type acting out in emotion. This level-headed quality will come in handy several times throughout a person's life. Though they can sometimes be indecisive, they normally have no problem with someone else stepping in to give them advice or even make decisions on their behalf.
In regard to other people, it can take the Phlegmatic type a little bit 
of time to warm up to you. Once this barrier is broken, they are able to easily make new friends and build relationships. This is by far one of the easiest types of temperament, rooted in the act of patience. They do not care for change and will likely stick to the same routine for a very long time.
Daily life is normally centered around family life and home life. They would rather spend their free time at home with those who mean the most. No matter what happens in their loved one's lives, a Phlegmatic type is going to remain loyal. This is one of their strongest traits. When something goes wrong in a relationship and the trust is broken, you likely won't find the individual returning to it.
Melancholy
Upon hearing the word, you might be reminded of a person who is constantly feeling down. By temperament terms, a Melancholy type is actually someone who prefers to act cautiously. This individual is extremely detail-oriented and tends to be very observant. Their main goal in life is to find what is "right" and they can sometimes be perfectionists about this.
Through and through, a Melancholy individual is a follower. They believe that rules exist for a reason and are not meant to be bent or broken. In unfamiliar situations, you can expect a Melancholy individual to approach cautiously. When something becomes truly unfavorable, you might see their defense mechanism of aggression come into play. These individuals are very private and will act extremely introverted.
They are ruled by logic, often analyzing a situation thoroughly before acting upon it. In order to keep anxiety at bay, the Melancholy type must have a solid plan for everything that they do. They feel at ease when there are clear steps to follow. Regarding their anxiety, a Melancholy individual does worry about what other people think. They also express guilt at high levels if they are ever unsure about their own actions.
A Melancholy individual is never late for an appointment and tends to keep things extremely organized. They will often ask very specific questions in order to gain enough information that they are 
comfortable with. When it comes to trusting other people, you will have to work hard in order to be approved by someone of Melancholy temperament. They tend to generally be suspicious of others until proven otherwise. For this reason, it can be more difficult for them to form long-lasting relationships. When a relationship is formed, they are going to hold it to a very high standard.
Choleric
This temperament is the rarest of all 4. More specifically, females with this type as their primary are incredibly rare to find. The Choleric type is generally seen as a secondary temperament. This individual is results-oriented, seeking plenty of goals to reach in everyday life. Driven toward success, you will likely find a Choleric type in a positive state of mind with the desire to continually move forward. When faced with any type of opposition, they confront it head-on in order to maintain their desired results.
A Choleric individual will appear very extroverted and self-confident. When given the choice, they prefer to do things on their own. This independent trait makes for a very strong-willed person. When they communicate, they prefer to be very direct with their intentions. There is no beating around the bush for a Choleric individual; they mean exactly what they say. Some people might come to the conclusion that the individual is a little bit rude because of how direct they are.
When it comes to relationships, a Choleric person can tend to be a little bit controlling. Since they are fiercely independent, there might be a bit of a double standard in love. This person is going to do exactly what they want, no matter what. Getting bored pretty easily, you can almost guarantee that a Choleric person will enjoy taking many risks. When it comes to decision making, they will not only have no problem making their own decisions, but also decisions for other people. As you can imagine, they do enjoy being in a leadership role rather than a follower role.
These individuals can be very creative and generally have a vision for their plans before beginning. They operate in a practical manner, never cracking under any form of peer pressure. While they are able 
to show compassion, it does take a Choleric individual some time to slowly build up meaningful relationships. It does take a while for them to get angry, but once they are in this mood, it can be very difficult for them to shake the feeling.







Chapter 5: Personality Comparison
While there are several different personality types, a lot of them have certain similarities. Taking a look at them on a comparative level, you will see that there are traits that tend to repeat themselves. Below are some charts to utilize for comparative purposes. You can take a look at them to better understand the way each personality type operates.
Introverts and Extroverts


The 16 Personality Types Compared by Introverted and Extroverted Behaviors
Taking a look at the above chart, you can see that there is quite a bit of diversity among all of the personality types. Just because your personality type begins with a letter "E" does not necessarily mean that you do not have any introverted qualities, and vice versa. This is a common misconception that people have when they are trying to learn about these personality types. Coming in at the most introverted, you will see that ISTJ, INTJ, and INFP have the most 
introspective qualities. Even though they have very similar levels of introverted behavior, you can see that all of them vary in extroverted behavior.
An ISTJ individual will likely never make the first move when it comes to being social. They can do alright in a social setting, likely keeping to oneself the entire time. The only way that you would see an ISTJ being social is probably when someone else makes the first approach. For an INTJ, the balance is a little bit different. While they are still individuals that do enjoy being alone to recharge, they also have slightly more of a desire to be social. This person might like to go out from time to time, but it definitely will not be their most favorite way to pass the time. Extroverted desires might appear very rarely in this personality. An INFP will operate pretty similarly to an ISTJ. They have proportions that nearly mirror one another. Arguably, an INFP is less intense and less passionate.
Next, take a look at ESFJ and ESFP -- neither one has introverted aspects. These are definitely the most social of all the personality types, showcasing their desires to gain attention and notoriety by their actions. Though they both enjoy being around other people, they will express it in different ways. An ESFJ will join groups and organizations, boosting their popularity through what they decide to do in life. An ESFP loves to be the center of attention, never hesitating if given the opportunity to perform. They are the logic and creative of the extroverted personalities.
A unique duo, ENTP and ISFP share one thing in common. They both have equal aspects of being introverted and extroverted. The main difference is the way that they decide to portray their actions. An ENTP enjoys mental stimulation. This individual will seek out ways to learn and grow mentally. An ISFP enjoys exploring many different situations and putting themselves out there. This doesn't always necessarily mean that they are going to be in the foreground of the action, though. They do not mind tagging along and watching other people have the experiences.
Sensing and Intuition
The second letter of each personality type has to do with either sensing or intuition. This is the way that we perceive situations and 
then make a decision on how best to act. A person who relies on sense focuses very much on the present time. They generally do not consider what the past or the future has to offer. The intuitive type tends to use their creative side when it comes to making a decision. They will consider all possibilities, even ones that are more unconventional. While a personality type mainly contains either one or the other, here is a breakdown of how each type utilizes their sensing and intuition.


The 16 Personality Types Compared by Sensing and Intuitive Behaviors
At first glance of this chart, you can see how there is rarely a tie between sensing and intuitive behaviors. The only personality type that tends to utilize an equal amount of both is the ISFP. This is an introverted sensing sign that does not act like the typical traits that it encompasses. Because they enjoy embracing the present, this gives them their sensing title. However, they are also able to think in abstract terms, relying on their intuition to get them through certain situations. This is a widely versatile personality type that is full of unique behavioral traits.
ISTJ and ESTP are firmly rooted in their sensory behavior. These are 
two personality types that prefer to think only about the information directly in front of them. It does not make any sense for them to consider future outcomes or past influences. On the complete opposite end of the spectrum, you have ENFJ and INFJ. Thinking creatively is what both of these types excel at. In fact, ENFJ does not even contain any sensory thinking habits at all. These individuals are strongly rooted in their intuitive behavior.
Each letter of the personality type makes up for a portion of how the individual behaves. As you can see, even if a person is a strong extrovert, they can also be intuitive thinkers. Because there are endless possibilities, it can be hard to predict exactly how somebody is going to operate. Learning about all of the personality types will help you know more about yourself and also know how best to interact with other people in your life. Using the charts as references, you can get a basic idea of what it means to be each different personality type.
Feeling and Thinking
These two traits can be compared to being right brained or left brained. A feeler is normally someone who can think creatively, using imagination in order to fill in the blanks about the unknown. A thinker likes to consider things carefully, making sure that they have logic on their side before making any decisions.


The 16 Personality Types Compared by Feeling and Thinking Behaviors
One of the very first things you'll probably notice is the direct opposition between INFJ and INTP. Respectively, each one solely focuses on either feeling or thinking. When it comes to the way that we do or do not include our emotions in any given situation, the methodology is normally pretty black and white. Some people prefer to only stick to the known facts, while others have no problem subbing in information that comes from different feelings. The INFJ and INFP are relatively set in their ways. They do not need to utilize both behaviors because they are both personality types that find comfort in sticking with something that works.
You will also notice that there are several types that see things from a 50/50 point of view. These are ESFJ, ENFP, and ISFP. Generally, all 3 of these personality types are generally pretty agreeable people. They normally have no problem with going with the flow and taking life as it comes. All of them are able to see the value in thinking logically about a situation while also considering that there can be several unknown outcomes just lurking around the corner. Because these types are so balanced, they will also have an easier 
time understanding other people that are around them.
The rest of the personality types seem to follow a similar pattern across the board; they typically utilize their named trait as their main one, but they do have the ability to see the other side of things if need be. The ability to remain flexible during times of decision-making is important. If you are too rigid in your ways and viewpoints, you are likely to butt heads with other people. You also might find that you are too stubborn to successfully move forward because of your inability to make some alterations to your behavior. If you find that your personality type leans too far one way for your liking, you can exercise your ability to try and change the way that you think. This is a healthy exercise for every personality type to partake in from time to time.
Judging and Perceiving
The judging type tends to be very meticulous and organized in their thought process. They do not participate in things without giving 100%. When these individuals feel that are well-established and orderly, they can perform at their best level. Perceiving individuals have no problem acting spontaneously. They are alright with putting the decision-making on hold until they are satisfied with all of the options that they have in front of them. A perceiving type is not bothered by having unresolved situations. They also do not mind making last-minute decisions.


The 16 Personality Types Compared by Judging and Perceiving Behaviors
In this example, INTJ and ESFP are mirror images of one another. The former is all about coming to an orderly conclusion in a way that makes sense to them. While you can try to give them outside advice or suggestions, it is unlikely that they will waiver. The latter is a free spirit, the definition of the title. They prefer to spontaneously come to their conclusions based on what feels right in the given moment. While neither one of these traits is better than the other, you can see how differently the two can operate when faced with the same situations.
ENFJ, ESFJ, and ENTP are all personality types that can waiver in their behavior. There is not a strong need for either judging or perceiving in order to come to a satisfactory conclusion. These individuals are likely the ones who are okay with advice that is given to them. Depending on if the advice speaks to them, they may or may not take it. The point is that they are the most flexible of all the personality types when it comes to the judging and perceiving traits.
Seeing all of the different personality types in action really puts into 
perspective the fact that we all view the world differently. We all have different perceptions of ourselves and the environment that we exist in. Just because two people have grown up under the exact same circumstances does not necessarily mean that they will turn out the same way. The personality type and temperament have a great deal to do with the final version of one's personality. If you have ever thought that it was impossible to figure someone out, maybe you aren't looking at the big picture. This logic can also help you when you are feeling unsure about your own behaviors. These charts shed a lot of insight into why we all are the way that we are.







Chapter 6: Personality and Love
Love is something that can make anyone act out of the ordinary. We feel things more intensely and even see things differently when we are in love. Taking a look at how each personality type handles relationships can explain a great deal about your past, present, and future romances. In general, if you have a fairly easy-going personality with a fun-loving attitude, it is safe to say that you will likely have positive experiences during most relationships that you can encounter. What can often set the balance off is what type of personality your partner has. When you bring two people together in such an intimate way, it is likely that certain behaviors will surface that you might not even realize existed.
Overcoming differences while in love can be a challenge because your brain might be clouded with feelings. Depending on how you are able to perceive things, it might be a little bit hard to differentiate what is factual and what is emotional. There are some people that have no problem doing this, and can actually have the ability to push it too far. Being distant from your partner can cause just as many issues as being overly expressive. Love takes balance from both parties involved, and you are not going to be able to accomplish this fully unless you both have an accurate understanding of how each other operates.
Compatibility Check
When you are in a relationship with someone, it is important to find out if you are both compatible with one another. There is a difference between compatibility and attraction. You have probably experienced certain instances when you fall very quickly for someone, only to find out that you actually have nothing in common. A lot of people discover this the hard way, dating the "wrong" person for months or years at a time, only to eventually realize that they aren't compatible in the slightest. This can make the task of finding someone to date seem daunting. While you don't have to agree on every single thing, it does help when you share the same basic values and interests.
What are some behaviors that you deem unacceptable? It is important to have this established in your mind before you set out on the dating scene. If you meet someone who happens to display this behavior over time, you will find yourself in a tricky situation. Stand firm in what you believe in, speaking up about what you find off-putting. What are some things that your partner must possess? For some, it is a great sense of humor. For others, it is the ability to openly communicate. This is going to vary depending on the person, but in dating, all of your preferences are valid. Remember, the person you date is someone that you are going to likely be spending the majority of your time with. You need to make sure that you align in viewpoints.
Having differences is not a deal-breaker by any means. It is healthy for couples to be individuals. This is what keeps a relationship strong -- two separate people that come together based on commonality and attraction. If you and your partner align in the essential ways but not in what you find fun and exciting, this is okay. Being with someone who is a little bit different from you can bring out some new aspects to your personality and vice versa. This type of relationship will challenge you to become a more open person, encouraging you to try new things.
Consider how your partner feels in social settings. This is not only an important aspect of dating but also of life in general. There are going to be many opportunities where you will find yourself in social scenarios. If you are on the introverted side, being with another introvert might make you feel as though you have an alliance. It will be like dating a person who can relate to you when it comes to socialization. Alternatively, if you are an introvert who is dating an extrovert, your partner might push you to come out of your shell. A little bit of healthy socialization can be great for keeping your personality balanced. You know what they say, opposites attract. As long as you are comfortable with what is going on, then you know that you and your partner are likely compatible.
Overcoming Differences
When you enter a relationship with someone, you are going to have to learn how to work through your differences. Some can be minor 
things, such as disagreeing on what to watch at the movie theater and deciding on where to go for dinner. Other things might hold a more serious weight. One of the number one things to tear a relationship apart is a lack of communication. If you do not communicate with your partner, you cannot expect them to read your mind and know exactly what you want. Speaking up can be hard, especially for those with regressive personality types. It might almost seem easier to go with current events and be agreeable than to trigger a potential confrontation. While this might be true, just know that the issue will still persist even when you choose to ignore it. This is why some couples will go for a long time without having a fight and then an explosive one occurs that is filled with all of the suppressed tension.
Consider the following ways that you can work on overcoming your differences with your partner:

●
    
Have Alone Time: Take a designated slot of time each week to just spend some time alone with your partner. You will never be able to work on your problems if you are constantly surrounded by friends and family. Always have serious talks with one another in your own company, if possible. Having other people around for the discussion can make things complicated and messy. Your personal business should stay between the two of you. This is one way to make sure that the situation is unbiased and not influenced by outside sources.


●
    
Focus on Commonalities: When you spend time with your partner, try to do something that you both enjoy. If both parties feel that there is equality in the relationship, then there will be less need for bickering. Of course, you do not have to do every single thing with your partner. If you love ice skating but your significant other does not, choose to go skating with your friends instead. Simple changes like this can show that you are considerate but also allow you to do all of the things that you want to do.


●
    

Think Before Speaking: A lot of couples launch into discussions that eventually turn into heated arguments. As a good rule of thumb, do not begin discussing a problem until you are absolutely certain that you know what you want to say. This

can be hard, especially for those outspoken personality types. Having a clear head with save you from unnecessary fighting, though. Think about how you are feeling, sans the opinion of your partner. After this, determine what is causing you to feel that way. Finally, take a look at the big picture and how this impacts the relationship. Taking these few moments to gather your thoughts can help with altercations that arise.



●
    
Seek Therapy: Getting rid of the notion that seeking help is a negative thing can really change the quality of your relationship. Plenty of couples seek professional help during many stages of a relationship. Going to a therapist is kind of like having a mediator available during your discussions. Some couples appreciate having this additional viewpoint to assist with getting through the tough challenges. While therapy isn't for all couples, if you feel that it might even slightly benefit you, do not be afraid to try a session. A therapist is professionally changed to recognize different personality types and to have a better understanding of what kind of techniques will work best.

Personality Positives
With all of the focus on how different personality types can hinder relationships, there is always the opposite view -- some personality traits enhance your love life. If you are someone who enjoys helping other people, think about all of the ways that you can make your partner happy. A lot of individuals enter relationships because they want to be taken care of, whether that be physically or emotionally. A lot of personality types include that caretaker trait; it is one that brings great comfort to other people. Being a caring type brings a sense of stability into the relationship. It makes you a reliable person that your partner can count on.
Those who love to speak up can also make great partners. If you are extroverted and enjoy launching into discussions, then you have a lot to offer another person. Being with someone who isn't afraid to speak their mind can be a very positive quality. A lot of people forget that change begins within, and no one is going to initiate the change unless you start. An extroverted partner with a need for justice is a go-getter in the romantic world. This type of individual is 
normally very clear and concise with thoughts.
Being agreeable does not necessarily mean that you are going to get walked all over. Dating someone who identifies as agreeable means that you are with someone that is flexible with change. Because relationships are often filled with many unpredictable changes, this is an important quality to possess. A partner who is agreeable is not weak. In fact, this person is quite the opposite. Being able to set your pride aside and adapt to a change is a personality trait that is extremely useful to have. Relationships containing at least one agreeable partner keeps things running smoothly.
The way that a person thinks contributes a lot to a relationship. Someone who can see logic and reason in situations will normally have a very rational approach to finding a solution. This type of person remains rooted in the present, preferring to think about the outcome of the given situation. On the other end of the spectrum, those with the ability to think abstractly have open minds about tough situations. These individuals choose to see solutions as plentiful and unique, considering what will happen not only in the present but also in the future. As you can see, this is all about perspective. Even when two people are in one relationship and dealing with the same issues, there can be very different methods to approach problem-solving.
How to Be Harmonious
So you've identified your personality type, and you know how your partner operates. What can you do to keep the relationship harmonious? A common misconception is that you must change yourself in order to be more like your partner or what your partner needs. As previously discussed, this all goes back to the compatibility factor -- it should come naturally. If you find that you are changing who you are as a person solely for the sake of a relationship, then maybe you need to evaluate why you are doing this. Your connection with your partner should feel strong and secure, regardless of your behavioral habits. You should both feel comfortable talking with one another and enjoy spending time together.
If a problem does arise, do not sweep it under the rug. This is when 
you must work on yourself in order to better your relationship. Speak up about any feelings that you are having and work on sorting through any tension before it becomes a bigger issue. In this instance, you need to be mindful that your partner might have a different way of dealing with the problem. Encourage openness and show that you are willing to talk about things in a non-confrontational way. Couples who choose to communicate from the beginning can often avoid those arguments and the bickering that follows.
Space is a great thing. Couples who never take time to apart tend to argue more frequently. Consider what you have learned about introverts and extroverts -- depending on what you need, take your time to recharge. This can mean having lunch out with friends or spending some time alone reading books. It is not wrong to express these needs to your partner, because more often than not, they will also need their own time to recharge. As cliche as it sounds, distance does make the heart grow fonder.

Remember why you fell in love. Another cheesy sentiment, but thinking back on what brought the two of you together can help to reignite some positive feelings. Relationships take work, especially when you have two different personality types coming together. Getting back to your roots will not only make you happier as a couple, but it will also remind you of the ways that your personality types work well together. Many people tend to forget the little things as they stay in the relationship over time. This is very normal, and all it takes is a little bit of effort to get back to that happy place. Even if you are not the initiative type, try branching out of your comfort zone in order to make this happen for your relationship.   







Chapter 7: Personality and Emotions
Emotions go hand-in-hand with your personality. These feelings arise from your mood, environment, and relationships. It is entirely normal to feel emotions; some people feel them more intensely or more often than others. There are different levels to emotions and unique ways that they can form depending on your personality type. What is important to remember is that emotions don't just formulate out of nothing. They are a triggered response to situational stimulation. For example, if you find yourself watching a sad movie and you begin to cry, you'll notice that your emotions are highly active. Being able to not only accept your own emotions but be understanding other people's emotions, is a key to understanding different personality types.
7 Common Emotions
Human emotions can be complex and unpredictable at times, but it is important to remember that they normally stem from one of the following that are most commonly felt:
Anger
We are all familiar with the feeling, both stemming from our own feelings and from others'. Even though being angry has a negative connotation, it is still an important emotion that needs to be felt from time to time. Knowing that you feel angry means that you can acknowledge that something is not right. The way that you choose to deal with this anger speaks volumes about your personality type. Ideally, we want to feel the emotion before eventually moving forward and finding a solution to what is causing the anger. Understandably, some people have a hard time letting go. Because anger is such an intense emotion, it does take a lot of effort to move past it.

How We Express It:
 Anger presents itself pretty clearly when it comes to body language. You will notice a change in the eyebrows and eyes, a tightened lip position, and potentially even a rigid 
demeanor throughout the entire body. These physical traits of anger are meant to show others that we are strong and protected. Even within the most gentle personality types, you will see anger as an emotion that creates an invisible shield around a person.
Fear
This is the emotion that appears before your fight-or-flight response kicks in. We all have different things that make us scared, but the way that we express fear can differ greatly. Some personality types refuse to show weakness, therefore pretending that they are not afraid of anything. Others have no problem allowing the fear to take over. There is no right or wrong way to deal with this emotion, as it is very complex. The one thing that you can work on is handling how you first react to situations that induce fear. Staying calm is the key.

How We Express It:
 When fear is present, a person will normally show this directly through their eyes. They will appear wider with raised eyebrows. The mouth might naturally fall open slightly, with the breath being held. If breathing is occurring, it is normally at a quicker rate than normal. The stance that is taken can be compared to that of a deer in the headlights, trying to decide what will be the smartest next move.
Disgust
This emotion can often be perceived as rude by other people. Showing disgust means that you truly do not enjoy what is being presented to you or what is occurring around you. Again, depending on the personality type that you have, the way that you act on disgust can look diverse. Those who are more shy will deal with the disgust on their own time. This type of individual will likely hold onto it longer, thinking back on it. People who choose to handle things more directly might approach disgust in a confrontational way.

How We Express It:
 A wrinkled nose is a key giveaway to a feeling of disgust. You might find that the upper lip is pulled up, even wrinkled. The eyebrows will naturally pull themselves down. These responses are all natural because they were meant to protect us. Whether it is a sight, sound, or smell that we find disgusting, closing 
off our bodies prepares us to tackle the issue.
Happiness
This is one emotion that most of the personality types tend to express in the same fashion. Happiness is a joyous emotion that can present itself in many different ways. You can be happy about something that is going on in your life, you can be happy with yourself, you can be happy for other people, and you can even be indirectly happy (think about watching your favorite characters on TV). It is one of the most common human emotions that gets expressed on a daily basis.

How We Express It:
 The number one indication of happiness comes from a smile. Ironically, researchers believe that our smiles actually came from the desire to show our teeth and assert dominance. In today's society, it has evolved into a lovely form of self-expression. The eyes also appear warmer when happiness is being expressed, sometimes even becoming squinted. There is a reason why people say that happiness is the most universal emotion. It is so easily recognized by all.
Sadness
Of all the emotions, this is arguably the most complex. Though it is normal to feel sadness, the ways that we express it are vast. Some personality types find it very hard to get into this vulnerable state of being, avoiding sadness like the plague. Others cannot help but succumb to sadness, allowing it to take over. It is uncommon to have a middle ground when it comes to experiencing sadness; you either feel it or you don't. This is another emotion that greatly relies on proper handling in order to move past it. Finding healthy ways to vent becomes essential to anyone who is going through something hard or depressing.

How We Express It:
 Crying is a very normal response to sadness. If actual tears do not fall, the eyes tend to well up with them. Lips begin to quiver, the corners being pulled down. The inner corners of the eyebrows raise ever so slightly. Sadness has a few very slight physical details that are important to recognize, even if the person is not crying. This helps you when you are trying to understand others. 
If you can detect sadness without being told about it, then you are likely going to be a person who is trustworthy enough to provide help working through it.
Surprise
It is a fast-acting emotion that can either come from something that is very positive or very negative. This is a hard emotion to fake. Being surprised is actually a desired emotion by some. Those who seek it enjoy the feeling of losing control for those few seconds. Imaginably, this loss of control can sometimes cause people to feel scared or uncertain. If you have ever wondered why you either love or hate surprises, then this might provide you with some insight. Each person has different ways of processing and working through the emotion of surprise.

How We Express It:
 If you take a look at a person's eyebrows, you will be able to indicate if they are feeling surprised. The entire eyebrow area will be lifted, likely causing the forehead to wrinkle. The pupils will be dilated, eyes often wider than normal. The mouth might also hang open briefly. No matter if the surprise is positive or negative, the reaction tends to be exactly the same. It is one of the only emotions that can present itself this way, no matter the cause, which can be rather fascinating to think about.
Contempt
This is a feeling of disregard, and it is complex by nature. Contempt is almost always triggered by something beforehand. It is kind of unlikely to just begin feeling it out of nowhere. We don't all feel contempt on a regular basis. Those with accepting personality types will usually fall on a different emotion before ever reaching a state of contempt. This can be why it is so hard for us to understand one another. Imagine trying to see things from a different viewpoint that you have never felt before. If you are someone who does not personally experience contempt, the best thing to do is research it and be mindful of it when you see others going through it.

How We Express It:
 For such a strong emotion, the eyes are ironically hardly changed. In fact, there is normally a vacant look behind them. The lips might appear uneven during this time, with 
one corner pulled up and back. As mentioned, this emotion is one that can often overlap with others. Anger can evolve into contempt just as easily as distrust can follow contempt. Because it can be very confusing, the body will physically decide to be void of reaction in the moment.
Correlation
You now have a grasp of the most common human emotions, as well as the 16 main personality types. The next thing that you are probably wondering is how all of this fits together. It is a complex web of feelings that are set into motion by personality traits and actions that form due to natural instinct. Psychologists have been studying this correlation for many decades now, as it is a very fascinating topic to research. If you have one. You will come to find out that when you have one aspect figured out, you won't necessarily be able to predict others. For example, if you have a friend that is direct and aggressive in personal situations, you might believe that he would also lash out at a boss or higher authority. Because so many other factors come into play, this friend might actually be very submissive and respectful when it comes to those in charge.
This sets the stage for the age-old argument: are your actions fueled mostly by your personality or by the situations at hand? While this is no simple answer to this, both are actively involved. Depending on your personality type, you are going to be either more sensitive or less sensitive to situational issues than other people. Some of us prefer to act only after fully assessing a situation carefully. There are other people who are rooted in their actions and choose to act before gathering all of the details. This also ties into the point that some people are more calculated and rely on logic while others go based off of instinct.
Another interesting point to bring up is the fact that humans often gravitate toward what is familiar or comfortable. If you take a look at a naturally aggressive person, you will realize that he often puts himself in situations where he can win arguments. The same can also be said for quiet, passive individuals. You won't find a shy person willingly volunteering to get up on stage to be judged by other 
people. It takes outside factors to push someone out of their comfort zone. Humans are truly creatures of habit. As you can see, this is why engaging with others that are different from yourself can often lead you to experiences that you would have never sought out for yourself. This is also true when it comes to the person that you are dating.
Branching out is a healthy part of growing as a person. In children, we often encourage them to try new things, whether it be food, games, or sports. This doesn't need to stop just because we are adults. Pushing yourself to do something extreme can cause adverse effects, a general unwillingness to try. If you can find something that is reasonably within your comfort zone, given the proper push from someone else (or your willpower), then you will likely be able to accomplish it. People do this all the time with things that they are fearful of - roller coasters are an example.
As humans, we gravitate toward stable options. If you were walking around in the woods and you encountered a safe, clear path alongside a path that was draped in thorn bushes and snakes, the choice would be pretty clear. It is natural to want to feel safe. We all have different ways of protecting ourselves when we begin to feel threatened. This is where your personality comes shining through. A defense mechanism is an entirely unique way for you to protect your state of being. Some people will flee, others will speak up about the situation. No matter what you do, the main goal is the same -- to be in a stable situation.
Behavior can be analyzed and predicted all day long, but something to remember is that no single person is going to display 100% consistent actions. Things happen and feelings come up that push us off of our intended path. This is what makes life so interesting. We all have slight variations of ourselves that tend to come through when we are feeling different emotions. Think about your favorite movie. If you are in a happy mood and your favorite movie comes on TV, you'll probably want to sit down and watch it. Now think about going through heartbreak; you likely won't be in the mood to watch a movie because of all the feelings that you are processing. In fact, seeing that the movie is on TV might be off-putting to you. Small things like this can change your behavior tremendously.







Chapter 8: Personality and Workplace
Your work environment is likely your most challenging environment to face. It is a place where many different personalities must come together in order to complete tasks. Likely being assigned responsibility, it is a guarantee that you have felt incredibly stressed at work before. During these situations, you will notice that there is a large possibility for a personality clash. Having that many different people working together can be a very complex situation. So, how can you ensure that you are doing a great job while also getting along with your coworkers?
Start from Within
Through the research that you have been doing, you should know all about your personality type by now. No one else is going to know how you operate better than you. When it comes to getting through your workload, you will know which conditions will stimulate your best work. Do you like to work chronologically? Do you listen to music while you work? Are you able to multitask? Considering all possibilities, you should make it a goal for yourself to work as comfortably as possible. Do anything that you can to make your work environment a comfortable and productive space. Many forget that there are little things that can be changed in order to promote productivity. Don't be afraid to reach out to your supervisor if need be. There is nothing wrong with wanting to enhance your productivity.
Know your triggers -- this is important. Everyone is triggered from time to time. This doesn't have to be as serious as it sounds, but know that it has the possibility to be. What do you do for yourself in these situations? Do you step away or do you engage? An example of some triggers will follow:

●
    

Someone in the workplace is abusing his power, ordering other people around and not doing his fair share of work. This causes you to feel like you are not being properly recognized for your efforts, often working just to catch up. A very frustrating case,

it happens a lot in the workplace.



What You Can Do
: If you ever feel that there is an unfair balance taking place, make sure that you speak up about it. Reach out to someone that works above you. If it is the boss that is making you feel this way, you might need to seek counsel from someone at an even higher position in the company. Know that you are allowed to value yourself and your worth. Being placed under these stressful working conditions can take a toll and might even cause some negative aspects of your personality to surface over time.

●
    
Your coworker just won't stop pestering you, no matter what is going on. If you are in the middle of concentrating on something important, a disruption could be very detrimental to your progress. With most personality types, being interrupted can cause you to either lash out or feel very overwhelmed. The worst part is when the other person is unaware or simply inconsiderate of the impact that this can have on you.


What You Can Do
: While confrontation can be hard for some of us, it is sometimes essential. There is a misconception between confrontation and fighting, most of the time. A confrontation does not need to equal a screaming match. All it means is that you need to state your case clearly to the person that is causing you the disruption. Explain why their behavior bothers you and offer a solution that you can follow. Taking out any open-ended statements will allow you to resolve the situation after one conversation rather than having it drag on.

●
    
After you get off of work each Friday, imagine that all of your coworkers get together for drinks and they never invite you. This is a different kind of trigger, one that revolves around more social aspects of the workplace. Situations like these are tricky because they don't revolve around a system of rules or guidelines. Socialization is something that is unique in itself, but it can still have the ability to do great emotional damage to your personality. This is especially true for those who are more introverted.


What You Can Do
: Asserting yourself is one of the most 
challenging aspects of being a human. If you are on the quiet side, it is unlikely that you are going to speak out about being left out. Instead, you can compromise. We all naturally form alliances, no matter how reserved we are. Human connection is important for getting through life. If you do wish to have a friendship with any of your coworkers, try asking them if they want to hang out off the clock. By creating a new social situation, you will have more control. The way that others perceive you is a very complex thing, as we have learned. After seeing that you take initiative in the social realm, others might see this as a cue that you do want to be invited to get drinks after all.

●
    
If you are a caretaker, it is within your nature to make sure that others are alright. When you have a coworker that isn't pulling enough weight, you might have the urge to step in and help. This can turn out to be a very positive action, forming a bond with your coworkers. The thing that you must remember when you are helping others is that you cannot spread yourself too thin. If you start to lose quality in your own work because you are helping others complete theirs, then this is a problem. Knowing how to draw the line is an important boundary to learn. It can be harder for those with the natural instinct to want to help people.


What You Can Do
: Ask yourself if you are where you need to be in terms of progress. Is your workload on track? Is your work of the right quality? If you answered no to either of these, then you should think twice before jumping in and trying to save the day. While it can seem like you are turning your back on the person at first, you will realize that you can't successfully assist someone until you are on track with your own responsibilities. Balance is everything when you are dealing with your natural personality traits in the workplace.

●
    

Think about your boss promising you a promotion for the last few months. You have been working hard to show your boss that you are deserving of this promotion, often staying late and working weekends to prove that you are devoted to the company. When the day finally rolls around, you realize that your coworker has been given the position instead. You are

stuck with the struggle of not wanting to appear jealous but also wanted to stand up toward this injustice. The situation especially angers you because your coworker has not been as consistent as you have been. He has been calling in sick and late on his assignments.



What You Can Do
: Injustice is hard to face, and this is especially true in your workplace. Again, the way that you react in this situation is going to rely heavily on the type of personality that you have. This is another case where you must assert your ability to make a direct confrontation. Whether you naturally have this ability within, or you have to branch outside of your comfort zone, you should definitely speak up to your boss. Instead of bashing your coworker, you can explain to your boss why you believe that you are the right candidate for the position. Mention all of the ways that you were putting in additional effort.
These examples, although very different, all focus on one point -- you need to know yourself well. Getting to know yourself can sound like a weird concept at first. You might think, of course you know who you are. Have you ever felt confused by your own actions? This is normal, and it happens more often than people will admit. Getting to know yourself is much more than knowing what you like to eat and watch on tv. It is a sense of how you operate, mentally. It is knowing why your personality drives you to do the things that you do. Getting to know yourself on this level does not happen over time. It can take months, or even years to get to this point. If you begin now, you will have an easier time deciphering your own actions. A person who is on top of their own feelings and behaviors will have a much easier time processing them and moving forward. The reason why many find their workplace to be insufferable is often because they are feeling trapped. This feeling can come from disliking your line or work or from not getting along with your coworkers. It is a bad mental state to be in when you are expected to perform your best.
While you cannot just leave your job in order to go soul-searching, there are ways for you to better understand yourself without having to change very much about your daily routine. Consider participating in the following activities that will open your mind to 
this kind of knowledge:
Meditation
Depending on how comfortable you are with silence, this can be a topic that brings up mixed emotions. A lot of people do not see the benefit of sitting around "doing nothing," but it can help you tremendously. Daily life is something that never seems to slow down. By participating in regular meditation, you are giving your brain the chance to rest without being asleep. Why is this beneficial? Thoughts that are prominent on your mind will tend to rise to the surface when you meditate. If you have been feeling agitated lately, lashing out at loved ones for seemingly no reason at all, you might find the cause through meditation. It does not have to be a long session. If you are a beginner, you can try laying down or sitting still for 10-minute intervals. The only thing you will need is a quiet place for you to be alone with your thoughts. Allow your mind to wander exactly where it naturally does. You might be surprised at the thoughts that come up.
Journaling
Most of us stopped journaling regularly after we left childhood. This is another very beneficial way to do some self-discovery. Journaling is similar to meditation, but it requires your brain to be a little bit more active. There aren't any rules when it comes to jotting down your thoughts. For the most effective results, try to sit alone in a quiet room for about 10-15 minutes to start. Put your pen to the page and write down the very first thought that comes to mind. If you don't know what to say, make a list of everything that you have done since you woke up. Simple exercises such as this will give your brain the stimulation that it needs. For some, it is easier to express things on paper than it is to another person. Having these short records of your thoughts is a great way to learn more about your personality and behaviors. You can look back on your journal entries and try to determine your thought process. It is an interesting habit to form that only takes up a short amount of time in your day. Once you start, you might find solace in doing this regularly.
Volunteering
Stepping out of your daily routine and into an entirely different situation can be an eye-opening experience. When you seek out volunteer opportunities, think about what you have a passion for. You can help animals, children, or other adults that are in need. Not only is this a way to learn more about yourself and your natural instincts, but you are helping other people along the way. Volunteering is an extremely positive thing for anyone to do at least one in their life. Working with other people is a skill that you never want to stop improving. Being able to see a situation on someone else's level makes you an easier person to get along with. When you volunteer you are giving your time and your skills by choice. It is a way for you to perform a selfless action while also completing a task and having a larger purpose.
Improved Relationships
As you establish a true sense of who you are as a person, you will then be able to better understand your coworkers and superiors. Instead of having to figure out your own actions and another person's actions, you will be able to observe what is unfolding around you. Creating a harmonious dynamic with anybody can be a challenge, but it is an essential part to having a positive workplace. Your boss will surely appreciate the effort that you make when it comes to your interaction with your coworkers. A business cannot operate successfully if the people that are responsible for making it run find each other repulsive.
Strive toward healthy relationships with all of your coworkers, even if you find that your personalities clash. You are not obligated to take the relationship outside of the professional setting, but if you do, then you will benefit by having another friend. These dynamics do not have to be complicated and stressful. As long as you set forth with your intention clearly, then others will recognize that and have a higher chance of respecting you. For those that are lacking in the self-confidence department, you can make up for this by choosing a cause that you wholeheartedly support. This can be workplace productivity or healthy leadership skills. No matter what you decide to focus on, you will succeed because of your efforts and 
concentration.







Chapter 9: Personality and Parenting
Think about the way that you were raised. The things that you were or were not allowed to do as a child surely shaped the way that you behave now as an adult. We all know that temperament, personality, and habits all form rapidly when you are in your childhood years. Parenting can be one of the most difficult yet most rewarding tasks to accomplish. It can be insanely frustrating when you feel that you are doing your very best to provide for your child, only to realize that he is still acting out. Even during times like these, having a great understanding of the dynamic between your own personality and your child's can make all of the difference.
Try to Understand
As a parent, it might be instinctual to come up with an idea of what is "best" for your child, in your own opinion. So often we take charge as adults without thinking about the impacts and repercussions of our actions. The behavior that you display toward your child is what they are going to eventually learn as the "right" thing to do. Instead of forcing a set of behaviors on your child, try to understand the way that they naturally want to operate. While you do have to set boundaries and rules to keep him safe, you can also take some time to observe the way that he chooses to do things. This type of parenting is a different approach than a lot of the traditional methods that are used. By allowing the child his own freedom of choice, you are keeping his personality and temperament in mind. Remember, these are things that already exist underneath the surface from the day that your child is born.
While your actions do shape your child's personality, it is important to draw a line between trying to change them and helping them grow. Not allowing your child to indulge in cake before bedtime is an appropriate way to assert your boundaries. It makes sense and it does not change anything about his personality. It is simply a lesson that your child cannot always get what they want. However, if your child wants to help you bake a cake to give to his grandmother, this is something you might want to explore. It is a snippet of his 
personality coming through, a caregiver type. It is not uncommon for children to want to return the caregiver role back to the adults who display it. This is a wonderful quality to have, and whenever possible, you should allow your child to explore it. Caring for other people promotes for a selfless personality. Of course, boundaries do have to be drawn if your child's well-being is at stake, but you will know when to step in if necessary.
Personality: The Child
As a parent, it might come naturally to wonder why your child acts out or misbehaves. You might feel that it is out of character to see this behavior on display. The truth is, the way that you choose to parent has a lot to do with the way that your child develops a personality. While your child can get your physical genes, it is actually a misconception that a child will get your emotional genes. The personality develops a lot within the first few years of life, making for a very impressionable mind. For example, if you revolve your parenting around avoiding the truth and telling small lies in order to curb behavior, your child will likely have trust issues that can be seen through personality traits.
If you decide to take a controlling approach to your parenting, your child might end up rebelling in the future. Those who believe in a strict form of parenting like this tend to raise children who have a need to act out. Parenting is all about balance, and if you think about it, the way that you speak to your child can have an impact on his personality. On the other end of the spectrum, your actions can positively impact your child. If you teach loving values, your child will likely grow up mimicking this behavior. A lot of parents don't realize how influential their own behavior can be when it comes to what their children absorb.
Deciding on a parenting style can be one of the toughest decisions that you make. Consider this -- treat your child as a small adult. The bottom line is that you need to provide them with respect if you want the same respect in return. Teach them behavioral concepts that are easy to understand, but also mature in nature. If you treat your child like a baby, allowing them to get away with anything, you can expect the same behavior to continue as your child grows up. Of 
course, there is a fine line between giving your child respect and acting as a disciplinarian. While you don't want to approach this in a way that is too dominant, your child should still know that you are in charge and that you must be listened to.
Your child might begin to display some unfavorable personality traits. Before you punish them for the behavior, consider which parenting techniques that you are currently utilizing. This could be an indication that it is time for a change. Gentle parenting might work out for the first few years, but then a sterner approach might become necessary as your child's personality develops. Parenting is a lot of trial and error until you come to the right conclusion. Know that if your child begins to act out, this does not mean that you are a bad parent. As you have discovered, there are many different personality types that operate in unique ways. The same definitely applies to growing children.
Personality: The Parent
As a parent, when you are in the comfort of your own home, you might display a different side to your own personality. We all tend to be more relaxed when we are in a familiar environment. Think about the way that you would discipline your child in the grocery store compared to when you are at home. It is likely that your voice would be quieter and you would want to make less of a scene. Essentially, you need to have a parenting style that can work well in public, as well as in private. It is important that you teach your child the difference between behaviors that might only be appropriate at home versus behaviors that will cause disruption when in public. A lot of parents dread taking their children out to restaurants or retail stores because of this dilemma. You might have a well-behaved child before you leave the house, only to experience the stress of a temper tantrum as soon as you arrive at your destination.
On your end, you need to exercise a lot of patience. Your child will not be able to learn these things unless you teach them. Depending on your own personality type, patience will either be very easy to come by or it will be a bit of a personal challenge. No matter what the case is, this will be something that you will be responsible for mastering. Being flexible is also an important personality trait to 
hold as a parent. You need to be able to go with the flow of things and be accepting if things do not go originally as planned. That is what parenting is all about, being able to cope with the unknown. Personality types do play a large role in the parenting style that is chosen.
Types INFP, INTP, and ESFP are the caretakers of the personality types. They love to bring order to life and they will often be the personality types of stay-at-home parents. It is an interesting statistic to think about. All three share one thing in common, and that is the perceiving trait. As a refresher, this type of individual is more okay with things that turn out to be spontaneous. They are able to operate under unknown circumstances while still feeling as if they are in control of their own lives. Externally, they are able to remain casual and they will often have the most energy out of all the personality types. As you know, this type of energy level will make parenting a lot easier. In terms of having confidence as a parent, those with extroverted personality types think a lot more highly of themselves than those who are introverts. ESFJ and ESTJ both see their parenting skills as valuable. You can see here that the two personality types are very similar, only differing when it comes to the feeling and thinking aspects.
Taking a look at another interesting statistic, it is said that personality types INTJ, ISTP, and ISTJ are among the top who say they do not have nor want children. Researchers believe that the introverted aspect of their personality types could have something to do with this conclusion. Those who are more reserved tend to feel nervous at the thought of being responsible for a child and all of the parenting that comes along with childhood. That isn't to say that these individuals would not make great parents, though. All three have some very valuable traits that would definitely come into play if they were to decide to have children. In terms of those who are already most likely to have children, ESFJ and ESFP are at the top of the list. These are two very strong and very similar personality types. You will notice that both of them hold extroverted personality traits.
How to Improve Parenting
If you want to become a better parent to your child, one of the first steps is going to be internal. You must be able to identify who you are as a person and the level that you operate on. If it is difficult for you to understand yourself, then you can imagine how confused your child might become. Know what you value and what you are not okay with; starting with a strong foundation like this will allow you to come up with clear rules and guidelines that abide by this. Sending a child mixed information will never turn out well. It just becomes confusing and leaves room for distrust in the future. One of the best rules when it comes to parenting is to mean what you say and say what you do. If you intend on setting a punishment for behavior that you deem unacceptable, you need to stick to it. This creates a firm sense of discipline in your child's life. This structure becomes important as your child grows. The same applies if you promise a reward. Following through with things is the easiest way to build trust and a sense of stability.
Overcoming your ego is another important thing that you must do if you want to improve your parenting techniques. Raising a child can be incredibly frustrating and difficult at times. Being able to admit when you are wrong is important as an adult. You need to let your child know that you do make mistakes sometimes, and that it is okay to do so. Nobody is invincible, so make sure that you teach your child that from the very start. Having a decent perception of reality is going to be much better for your parenting than using techniques that are based on untrue circumstances. Children have a great grasp on things, as long as you are able to explain it to them clearly and concisely. This can prove to be challenging for those with personality types that revolve around imaging abstract concepts. If you are not firmly rooted in reality, there will be hundreds of possibilities that can come up. It is great for a child to be able to engage their imagination, but making important decisions based on this logic will probably result in some adverse effects.
If your child is struggling with your current parenting approach, you might just need to break down the concepts in a simpler fashion. Pushing too much information on a child can be overwhelming at times. Certain personality types revolve around intricate thinking patterns. If you are one of these people, know that sometimes you might have to break things down in order for them to have an impact 
on your child. Try sticking to things that you know are essential to behavioral growth. If you find that one approach does not work, stop it entirely and try a different one. When you try too many at a single time, not only will this be ineffective, but it will also be difficult to tell which ones work and which ones do not. Children are keen on the way that you are feeling; they will be able to sense when you are frustrated or upset. This is when your own self-control will come into play. You should not censor yourself to the extent of lying to your child, but you should curb your behavior if you find that it is negatively impacting your child's behavior.    







Chapter 10: How to Identify Personality Types
Now that you have spent all this time learning about the different personality types, you will probably want to put your knowledge to the test. Analyzing people can be an interesting experience. You will likely be able to easily recognize those with personality types that are similar to yours, and also those who act in a completely opposite way. Identifying what falls in the middle can be more challenging. There is a lot that can be observed if you are looking to classify someone's personality type. You can take a look at their physical traits, the way that they present themselves in a room, how they respond to stressful situations, how much they enjoy social interactions, and much more. Where do you even begin?
Body Language
You can learn a lot about a person if you study their non-verbal communication. As you know, emotions can be read on a person's face if you take a look at what their features are doing. A simple crossing of the arms can indicate a hostile approach, while a warm smile and open shoulders can say the exact opposite. When you are beginning to decipher a person's personality type, first take a look at what is not being said. These responses often happen naturally, so much that a person cannot censor them. Some people are very easy to read, wearing their emotions all over their face. Others can do a better job of hiding them.
The eyes will tell you most of what you need to know. Pay attention to the way that the eyebrows frame the eyes. Are they raised or lowered? Are they wrinkled in concern or sadness? Most people, no matter how reserved they are, will do a lot of communicating behind their eyes. When you talk to the person, do they engage in direct eye contact? Do they look away frequently while they are talking to you? It is common for extroverts to enjoy prolonged eye contact while introverts are uncomfortable with the idea of it. Extroverts will also likely be more exaggerated with their non-verbal cues while introverts prefer to be a little bit more on the pensive side.
The hands can also say a lot about a person. What is the person doing with their hands? Are they nervously fidgeting? Are they placing their hands strongly on their hips? This action can clue you in to how the individual is feeling about the given situation. During times of stress, some people choose to wring their hands in order to relieve some of the tension. You might have also noticed that when a person gets really angry, their fists naturally begin to ball up. Another way that you can assess behavior comes through a handshake. Take note of whether the handshake is firm or soft. Those with more self-confidence will likely have a firmer handshake. These individuals will also likely make direct eye contact with you as you shake hands. Extroverts will normally talk with their hands a lot. Because they have the need to make larger gestures and exaggerated points, utilizing the hands while talking can be an additional form of self-expression. If you have never taken notice of the placement of someone's hands, you will probably find it very interesting when you start to.
When you take a look at someone, observe how they are standing. Is their body directly facing you? Are they turned away? Are their shoulders broad and open or are they more closed off? All of these factors can indicate something about personality traits. If someone is uncomfortable in a situation, they will likely have one of two responses -- they will become smaller or they will try to appear larger. This is the flight-or-flight response in action. Making yourself seem larger than what is making you uncomfortable is a primitive action that humans have been doing for centuries. It can provide a sense of security, even when the person isn't feeling the most confident. If something is not pleasing to a person, their stance might reflect this by becoming more closed off or dismissive. When something is not as exciting or appealing, the body tends to relax more. This action can be a dead giveaway to boredom or contempt.
Responses
Take note of how fast someone responds to a question. This can be a big clue to identifying what type of personality you are dealing with. Does the person respond right away, seemingly before thinking about all of the options through? Is there a slight pause, a moment of 
hesitation before coming to a final conclusion? Those who need to take a little bit of extra time are most likely introverts. If you have ever noticed someone talking through all of the different options aloud, this is likely someone who is an extroverted personality that is ruled by judgment. Using logic to come to this point is going to make a lot of sense for a person with these traits. Another thing that you might notice is a person's decision to respond first or last. If it comes down to group discussion, an extrovert will likely have no problem being the first to respond, even when others are waiting. Because an introvert does require a little bit more time to think, they will usually respond last.
The language that is used during a response is something to also pay attention to. Those with logical brains normally speak as though what they are saying is something factual. Because of the consideration that they have already taken, they will have the confidence to approach things from a factual point of view. Others might express that their answer is simply a "what if," or a theory. Abstract thinkers love to rely on their imagination in order to come to a conclusion. Of course, there are also personality types that rely on a little bit of both when they respond to a question. Critical thinkers love to provide long responses. They like to review information and go over concepts with other people. When someone is thinking based on concepts rather than facts, they might provide incomplete statements when they decide to respond.
Mindfulness
A way that you can gauge someone's thinking or feeling personality traits comes in the way that they make decisions. Does the individual consider how others might be affected by their decision? Those who are of the feeling type are definitely considerate of how other people are going to react to the outcome. Even if it is a decision that is of a personal nature, your typical feeling type is still going to consider other people before coming to a final conclusion. This type of selflessness can be a great quality to have. After all, putting others first is a brave thing to do. It can cross the line into being detrimental, though. With little regard for oneself, the feeling type might make decisions that are solely based on the well-being of 
others. It takes balance in order to achieve the right mix of considerate and practical.
The thinking type believes that whatever happens, happens. This individual is likely going to see that if they must adapt to a situation, then others should have no problem adapting to it as well. This does not mean that thinkers lack consideration, but instead, their priorities are a bit different. They tend to see things as very black and white -- a problem with a solution. There is normally no room for them to participate in any grey-area thinking. These individuals will likely be very direct when they communicate, not trying to spare any feelings. Again, this isn't because they are naturally mean, but they just believe in saying things how they appear.
Of course, some people can show a mix of the two qualities. Judging by the charts in the earlier chapter, you can see that some personality types can overlap in traits. Do your best to judge immediate, first reactions from people. The very first gut instinct will normally tell you the most about a person that you are trying to figure out. The same rule can also apply to your own behavior if you are trying to analyze yourself. Consider what your first instinct is during any given situation. Are you thinking about the outcome and how it will affect others or the outcome and how it will affect yourself? Does the thought of how other people will handle it cause you any worry? Are you able to come to the conclusion easily, without any guilt on your conscience?
Change
We all have fairly unique responses when it comes to the topic of change. This is so because change is normally outside of our control. A sudden change and the reaction to it can tell you a lot about a person. There are normally a few responses: the person has no problem with the change and is able to continue on normally, the person resists the change and suggests other alternatives or the person is uncomfortable with the change and it causes distress. Where do you fit in on this spectrum? A perceiving type is likely going to be uncomfortable with change. This individual likes to be in control of the situation, so you will probably see them throw out other suggestions. He might feel upset or offended if other people do 
not take his suggestions.
A judging type does not like going back on plans that are already seemingly set in stone. This individual will likely push for the original plan, explaining that it doesn't make sense to change it now. This is actually a defense mechanism to hide that he is uncomfortable with the way that the situation is unfolding. On the other hand, a judging type might also go along with the change and suffer in silence, not wanting to call attention to the fact that he cannot handle it. This type of person will consider many different options, but once something has been decided on, the individual will not want any other changes to occur.
This is an interesting example of personality types to consider. It also explains a lot when it comes to conflict resolution. Have you ever been in a fight with someone who is getting all worked up over what is seemingly nothing? You can see how some people hold onto things while others have the ability to let go and go with the flow. It all comes down to the way that we are wired, and without any type of resolution, you are likely going to butt heads with those who feel differently. Know that this is something that a person cannot easily change. Take yourself as an example. How do you feel about change? If someone were to tell you to feel the opposite way about a situation, would you be able to do so in an instant? Probably not. Becoming a more tolerant person is something that you can do to make things a little bit easier.
How to Classify Personality and Temperament
By now, you should be very familiar with not only the different personality types but also the different temperament types. The two can actually be grouped together and categorized into 4 additional types that will assist you for when you are trying to identify how someone operates. These types are Golds, Reds, Greens, and Blues. Below is a breakdown of the traits that are found in each one:
Golds
People who see events that happen in the present as building blocks toward the future are classified as Golds. This is normally a 
sensing/judging personality type. These individuals do not typically enjoy change and will do everything in their power to stay on a consistent schedule. They take it upon themselves to ensure that everything is in working order, from family life to work responsibilities. Guardian is the role that they like to take on, providing for other people.
Reds
These individuals take on an Artisan role. A more erratic personality type, Reds love to take on several little problems at once. Instead of focusing on one thing at a time, this individual is able to multitask, which can serve as both a blessing and a curse. When it comes to problem-solving, Reds would rather figure things out immediately than spend another minute with something unsolved. This is a sensing/perceiving type of individual. People that fall under this category normally will not create a master plan for getting things done. Instead, they seem to take things head-on.               
Greens
This personality type is one of the steadiest that you will find. They enjoy thinking logically while also incorporating reasoning skills into the mix. They have a lot of patience, more than most people. Doing a great job of prioritizing their time, Greens will ensure that they know how to divide up their responsibilities. For this reason, you will see that Greens are likely going to be great workers in almost any field. They also make great students with a keen ability to study and keep up with schoolwork. Believing that there is always a systematic way to handle any situation, you will see this personality type utilizing their methods both in personal and professional life.
Blues
This type has the strongest conscience of all 4. An individual who falls under this category will most likely rely a lot on their sense of intuition to figure out predicaments. In order to know that they are making the best decision possible, this individual will stop and think about all of the possibilities (both realistic and abstract) in order to make the right choice. They value a true sense of authenticity and 
prefer to only interact with others that can show the same in return. This is a more sensitive type of person, one that tends to focus inward in times of great importance.
       







Chapter 11: How to Change Your Personality
Self-improvement is a great thing to focus on. It can allow you to learn more about yourself while also improving your positive traits. Many people have the desire to change, but when it all comes down to it, they don't take any steps in the right direction. Remember, your personality is something that you are born with. While you can't do away with it forever, you can definitely learn some alternative behaviors to the ones that you would like to get rid of. Focusing on this change will not only make an impact on your life, but it might also influence those who are around you. Nobody enjoys being around a person who is miserable, so if you feel that your personality could use a bit of sprucing up, consider the following tips for making the change.
Make Realistic Changes
Know that when "changing" your personality, what you are really striving for is an improvement. Making long-lasting changes is nearly impossible, especially since you have gotten to this point in your life with the same personality. Curbing certain behavior is possible, but it does take a certain amount of work. Knowing that you are going in to make improvements rather than to change who you are entirely is going to help you a lot. Those who think that they can completely change themselves, or even others, end up becoming a lot more disappointed when they realize that it isn't possible. This comes up a lot in relationships. Perhaps you have been in a situation where you love somebody but their behavior is unfavorable. You might have believed that you could change them for the better, providing nothing but positive examples and guiding them in the right direction. While this would surely help, when it comes down to it, we are all pretty rooted in our original personality traits.
You should not be discouraged when it comes to changing your own personality. Nobody knows you better than you know yourself, so it makes sense that you would be able to guide yourself through these changes. As long as you remain realistic during the process, you 
should be able to see some noticeable improvements. For example, if you stay up really late into the night watching TV and eating, this is a habit that you can change. Becoming a morning person who operates better during daylight hours will be difficult, but it can definitely change an aspect of your personality. In order to do this, you will need to rely on your willpower and your self-discipline. This is a realistic approach to changing a certain aspect of your personality for the better. With this additional rest, you will be able to accomplish more during the day. You will also likely sleep better because you will not be eating large amounts of food at odd hours. Staying on track of changes becomes a lot easier when you make them attainable for yourself.
Consider the Factors
Depending on what you'd like to change about yourself, you will have to consider the factors that come into play that trigger the behavior. These factors can be environmental, social, or even physical. Most of the time, changing up the environment will do a lot when you have the desire to change your behavior. Without us even realizing it, the environment has a lot to do with the way that we act. The good news is, most of the time, the environment can be controlled. Imagine that you are waiting in line at a grocery store. You can feel yourself getting impatient, and by the time you finally reach the cashier, you snap at her because of your frustration. This is something that you can definitely work on.
Instead of directing your anger toward other people, think about why you are getting angry. There might be a lot of noise and other people surrounding you. Maybe someone cut in line, causing you to have to wait even longer. While these things are irritating, they are not the cashier's fault. Being able to think clearly and rationally could help you from lashing out at other people who don't deserve it. To combat this, maybe you could work on breathing exercises. Distractions, such as playing games on your phone, might also help you while you wait in line. There is always a better alternative if you have the patience to seek it.
As mentioned, you can change your environment in order to curb your behavior. Maybe you can go grocery shopping earlier or later 
in the day in order to avoid busy times. You can also decide to go into a different, smaller store if you want to avoid the crowds. There are plenty of options for you to still achieve the same goal of buying groceries. Most problems can be fixed with a similar solution. As long as you are able to determine what is causing you distress, you should also be able to come up with some solutions for how to change it.
Another example would be if you were to lose your patience easily with your significant other. Maybe you are having a normal conversation and then you come to the point where you disagree with an opinion. Instead of turning this into a full-blown fight, you can learn to set aside your differences. This can happen by listening to what your partner has to say, expressing your opinion, and then moving forward. A big factor that makes a lot of people intolerant to change is the inability to progress. Most of us stay stuck on certain issues for far too long. Being able to let go of things sounds admittedly easier than it actually is. If you are looking to change this aspect of your personality, you can work on it by remaining calm and working through problems before frustration takes over.
Break Bad Habits
What defines a bad habit? We all have them, but we might disagree on what fits the description. In terms of your personality, a bad habit is anything that triggers you into making a negative response. Expressing your feelings is an important thing, but doing so in a healthy way can make all of the difference. If you are trying to become a more open-minded person, you should analyze your own behavior. What are some habits that you notice in your daily routine? Maybe you are intolerant to change. Another way to identify these habits is by asking someone who is close to you. A person with a third-party view might be very eye-opening for you to speak with regarding your own behavior. There are things that you might never realize that you do until they are brought to your attention by other people.
Nobody is perfect, and we all have habits that could probably do with being changed. Forming a new habit can take a lot of time, so don't be discouraged with yourself for continuing with the old one. A 
habit might be something that you learned in childhood, and that can mean several years of displaying the same behavior. It becomes second nature at a certain point. As adults, we really need to make an effort if we would like to see a change in our own behavior. Setting goals for yourself can prove to be very rewarding once you start to notice the change. Don't give up, and surround yourself with people who are going to support you.
You might have to consider who you are spending the most time with. If you notice that your efforts aren't making much of a difference, maybe you are being influenced by some outside sources. Even if you are a kind, caring person, hanging out with people who are incredibly selfish will eventually start to impact you negatively. Whether they stress you out or end up teaching you bad habits, it is probably best to steer clear of those who do not have anything positive to add to your life. This can be a very hard decision to make, and it could potentially cause some rifts. If something is important to you, though, you will be willing to make the sacrifice.
Surround Yourself with Good People
When we learn something new, it is often that we are most responsive to live examples. The same can be said when it comes to personality traits and behavioral habits. Being around people that you would like to be like is a good way to encourage new behaviors. As mentioned, if you are around a bunch of inconsiderate people, it is likely that this behavior will rub off on you. Surround yourself with people that possess the traits that you are trying to strive for. It can also be good to have a mentor of sorts. This can take away a lot of the stress that comes from trying to understand different personality types. If you have someone who is dedicated to helping you become the best version of yourself that you can be, it is like the weight of the task can be divided between the two of you.
A mentor can be anyone that you deed worthy. It does not necessarily have to be an older family member or a therapist (those are fine choices if you decide on them, though). Think about your friend group. Is there anyone that you admire when it comes to having amazing personality traits? Try to spend more one-on-one 
time with this individual. Be open to having meaningful conversations. The more that you open your mind, the more likely you will be to pick up on some of these habits. Don't be afraid to ask questions and ask for help. Maybe you have a bad habit of interrupting people. By telling your mentor this, you now have two people to hold you accountable.
If you don't want your mentor to be someone that you already know, there are many support groups that you can join. Self-betterment is not a topic of rarity. So many people strive for this same goal on a daily basis. Through a support group, not only will you get to meet some of these people, but you will be able to share your experiences with people who are going to be able to relate to you. As time goes on, you might even be able to fill the mentor role for someone else.     







Conclusion
If one thing is for certain, it can be hard to accurately describe a personality. Whether it be your own personality or someone else's, these behaviors are made up of unique traits that form over time. Your personality is like the backbone to who you are as a person. It gives others an idea of who you are, and it allows you to study why you act the way that you do. Analyzing yourself can often be a stressful experience, but given the different personality tests that you can take, you would probably be surprised at your findings. Made up of 4 letter acronyms, each of the 16 personality types will paint a different picture in your head. You have introvert/extrovert, sensing/intuition, feeling/thinking, and judging/perceiving. These are the components that make up a personality.
Of course, temperament also plays a role in behavior. Your temperament begins to develop from the moment that you are born. You can be quiet and sweet, unsettled and fussy. As you grow older, this will also develop into something that is more substantial. Of all the different temperament types, there are 4 main ones that people tend to fall under: Sanguine, Phlegmatic, Choleric, and Melancholy. Thinking about the bigger picture, an individual has a personality type and temperament type -- this leaves room for so many different combinations of behaviors and habits. The interesting part of this all is that each person is born with a certain set of traits.
On top of all this, sensitivity levels will come into play. These are fairly straight forward, you are either sensitive or you aren't. While it is a simple concept, being sensitive can do a lot for your behaviors that are already established. A sensitive introvert might have trouble communicating with other people in a large group. A sensitive extrovert might feel empathy for each person that he meets. This can all vary depending on the person, the situation, and the environment. It can be a lot of information to think about when you are trying to get a better sense of someone's personality.
Impacts of Personality
In any given situation, our personalities have the chance to shine through. This includes at the workplace, in a romantic relationship, and even as a parent. All of these instances require us to make decisions and take action. The way that you operate has a lot to do with your personality type. You might find that your personality makes work harder because you like to rely on your intuition while others gravitate toward logic. Maybe your partner enjoys going out on the weekends, but you would rather stay in and watch movies. When your child is giving you a hard time, you tend to give in because you get overwhelmed when you have to make decisions on the spot. These are all examples of normal life events that are driven by your personality type.
To better understand how it all works, you must start by having a firm grasp on your own personality. Take some time to participate in self-care. As mentioned, things like meditation and journaling can allow you to open your mind when you are trying to learn about these parts of yourself. It can be easier to pass judgment on others, but if you don't understand the source of your own behaviors first, then it makes no sense to analyze other people. Don't be afraid to question yourself; ask yourself why you do the things that you do. After studying your behavior for a little while, you might begin to see patterns and the roots of some traits.
Having an understanding of the way that you operate will make it easier to make changes if need be. Getting to the point where you realize that you are only human, and you do make mistakes, is a humbling experience. If there is something about your behavior that you feel is negative, you can work on changing this. Not only will you feel better about yourself, but people in your life will begin to notice, too. It takes a lot to work on yourself without being asked to do so first. There is a lot of power that can be felt in making the decision on your own and then successfully curbing your behavior. Think about the ways that you can improve your personality right now. These are attainable goals that you can strive for.
Understanding Others
Using the same form of analysis, you can study other people in order to better understand them. This doesn't have to be in depth; all you 
must do is use your observational skills. Once you know more about the different personality types, it will become easier to assign people to them. You likely already know a lot about introverted and extroverted behavior. This is one of the easiest traits to define. Pay attention to people in social settings. When you are trying to understand a particular individual, take note on the level of participation that is happening. Is this person the first to speak or the last? Do they speak with confidence or are they on the quiet side? Do they enjoy standing in a crowd or would they rather be in a smaller circle? All of these things can help you define that aspect of the personality.
Once you are more comfortable with identifying the other traits, you will be able to apply the same principle. Figuring people out is not as hard as it seems, as long as you are able to break down the behaviors. Keep in mind that some people are also more open than others. Some are like open books, expressive and bold about the way that they present themselves. Others might take a little more time to figure out, only feeling comfortable once trust has been formed. The key to this is having patience. You will need to rely on your patience a lot when you are reading someone's personality. Just because you can't crack the code right away does not mean that it is impossible.
Talk to people. Really try to get an understanding for the way that they think. A common mistake that people make when trying to observe personality types is being too rigid in communication. Be genuine with what you say, the more natural the better. Nobody wants to have a conversation in which they feel like they are being interrogated. Getting to know someone in an authentic way can be a great, informative experience. It will also allow you to see things from another point of view, which is extremely important. Being able to coexist while having different viewpoints is one of the hardest things for people to learn.
By expanding your mind to realize that you can still get along with those who have differing opinions can change your life. It brings along the mental maturity that is needed to have a healthy sense of emotional intelligence. If you have ever wondered why your partner is very offended by something that does not seem like a big deal to you, working on this skill can improve your relationship. Even those who have grown up in the same environment can have very different 
behavioral traits. It is unfair to expect everyone to experience life the exact same way that you do. Be patient and mindful when dealing with others and you will likely be treated the same way in return.
Applying Change
Think about your personality as a trait that was assigned to you at birth, much like your eye color. While there are many ways that you can enhance your eyes with makeup and contact lenses, the true color remains underneath. This is the way that you are able to change your personality. The foundation is always going to be there. As children, we do not have control over how our brains develop. We rely on what is taught to us and on the environment that we are placed in. If you had a terrible childhood that was filled with a lot of trauma, you are going to have to work extra hard in order to make any changes. This is to no fault of your own, but it is something to consider when you set your personality goals. The same can be said of a person who was raised in a strict, but loving, home. If you are trying to rid yourself of these rigid constructs as an adult, you will have to work hard to curb what you went through in childhood.
The study of what happens in childhood and how it impacts us as adults is among the top psychological topics. Children have the most impressionable minds and are very eager to learn new things. What we were taught when we were little will likely keep coming up today as we navigate through the world as adults. Change is possible, though. As long as you can keep your pre-existing factors in mind, you should be able to set some goals for yourself in terms of curbing your own behavior. When it comes to changing your own personality, this can be a very healthy step to becoming a better person. Remember, you cannot change other people. They will have to want to change, and if this is the case, you can help them along the way. No single person has the power to change you, though.
By working to control your reactions, modify your habits, and place yourself in a healthier environment, you will be able to alter certain aspects of your own personality. As long as you are willing to put in the work toward becoming a better person, then you are striving for a healthy goal. Combining all of the skills that you have learned regarding personality types and emotional intelligence will take the 
stress out of dealing with others and yourself. Remember, people are like puzzles. But as long as you have all of the right pieces, you will be able to figure things out.








Master Your Emotions

Steps to Overcoming Anxiety, Negativity, Emotional Stress, Defeat Depression, Negative Thinking and Better Manage your Feelings
JAKE SHARP
DEBUT BESTSELLING AUTHOR







Introduction
Do you consider yourself a rational person?
All of us do. We like to think that we are usually in control of our emotions. Most of the decisions that we carry out are usually considered the result of careful contemplation and research. But the real question that needs to be asked here is: are we truly in control or is it merely an illusion of control?
In 2008, Adam Galinsky, who works in Management and Organizations at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University, and Jennifer Whitson from the University of Texas in Austin noticed something about control (Hallinan, 2014). They noticed that when people feel that they have lost control or have poor control in their lives, they will begin to see nonexistent things, such as patterns when no such patterns exist. In the many experiments that they conducted, they discovered that people increase creation of patterns and structures when they experience a lack of control.
With the above information, can we now start to think that we might not always be rational creatures?
The truth is that psychology had already proven that we are not often rational. We go through life accumulating experiences, ideas, and information and together, they create the person that we are today. In fact, we often believe that being rational is the way to go through life.
But, psychology has proven otherwise. Take the experiment conducted at the University of Virginia by Timothy Wilson (Gladwell, 1991). He had asked students to choose one of two collections of paintings to take home. One of them consisted of impressionist paintings while the other consisted of pictures of animals. When choosing, half of the students had to explain why they chose the painting. The other half of the participants could choose any painting without giving a rational explanation.
The result?
Those who were forced to analyze their choices were more likely to 
pick the pictures of the animals. Those who had the freedom to choose without being chained to logical reasoning preferred impressionist paintings. But that was not the most surprising result of the study. After about three weeks, Wilson returned to the students and asked them how they felt about their choices.
Those who had to think about their choice were less happy with their result while the other group was satisfied with theirs.
But why is this so? Shouldn't the rational mind have automatically analyzed the pros and cons and chosen the best painting collection?
Let us try and examine this from another perspective.
We are going to see just how rational you think.
Like most people, we believe that our convictions and conclusions are the result of a logical, rational, and impartial course of reasoning. We are confident in our ability to gather the facts before we can form a belief about something. Unfortunately, that is not necessarily true. All of us are susceptible to a psychological phenomenon called confirmation bias (Heshmat, 2015). This bias simply states that our opinions, conclusions, and beliefs are a result of only considering information that confirmed our beliefs and ignored information that contradicted our preconceived notions.
Is Marvel better than DC? Should the milk go in the bowl first or the cereal? No matter what choices people make, they are likely going to stop to think about the other option. If Marvel is indeed their preferred choice, then they will do anything to defend that choice.
This bias even extends towards the way we solve problems. We believe we are right that we don't stop to think about an alternative solution.
In fact, an experiment to prove this was conducted back in 1970 by two psychologists, Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky (Goldhill, 2015). Their work is still used as a case study by many psychologists. The two psychologists had discovered that human beings are not rational creatures. We make decisions that somehow seem to defy logic.
So, with this in mind let us try an experiment called The Wason Selection Task — developed by Peter Cathcart Wason — to prove how 
logical you are (Bye, 2012). This should be fairly simple so answer as honestly as possible.
You have four cards in front of you that have shapes on one side and colors on the other. From left to right, you see the following arrangement of the cards:
Card#1: A square
Card #2: A circle
Card #3: The color red
Card #4: The color yellow
You have one simple task. You have to pick cards that match the below criteria:
If a particular card has a circle shape on one face, then the opposite face — once you turn the card around — should have the color yellow on it. 
Which cards would you have to turn over to prove the above theory? You are not allowed to pick more than two cards to turn over?
Now take your time with the above experiment. You can move on to the next section once you have made your selection.
Once again, the cards show square, circle, yellow, and red. What cards must you turn over to prove the statement: If a particular card has the circle shape on one face, then the color yellow should be on the opposite face.
If you had chosen the circle and yellow card, then is the most logical answer indeed.
But it is also the wrong answer.
By arriving at the conclusion of turning over the circle and the yellow card, we relied on obvious observations to make the decision for us.
So, what is the right answer? We need to turn over the circle card and the red card.
If we truly had to use our rational mind, then we would begin to understand the below:
Card#1: We do not need to turn over this card. The criteria does not say what color has to be there behind the square symbol. Even if it does show the color yellow, it does not break any rules.
Card #2: You should turn this card over. You need to check if there is the color yellow on the other side of the card. If there is, then the criteria have been broken.
Card#3: You do not need to turn this card over. The reason lies in the statement itself. We are looking to see if the face with the circle shape on it has the color yellow on its opposing facet, not the other way around. It does not matter if the yellow face has a square or a circle on its opposing one. It is inconsequential to us.
Card#4: We need to turn this card over to see if there is a circle on the opposite face. We are, after all, proving that the face with the circle on it should have the color yellow on its opposite face. If we turn over the red card and see a circle, then the criteria have been broken.
What do the above theories, examples, and tests show? Now that we have proven that humans are not exactly rational and logical creatures, what is our conclusion? Why is it necessary to prove that rationality is not exactly a human being's best trait?
The best way to answer the above questions is by answering this single question.
What guides us if not rational and logical thought?
The answer is emotions.
And emotions are what we are going to understand and manage in this book.







Chapter 1: Understanding the Mind
The mind is complex. It is home to logical fallacies, heuristics, and cognitive biases. We go through our lives using these three aforementioned psychological conditions to our advantage. They help us guide our beliefs, ideas, hopes, goals, ambitions, reactions, and everything else that helps us navigate the complexities of life.
Logical fallacies refer to processes where your mind skips a few steps to arrive at a conclusion (Nordquist, 2018). It happens to you so naturally that you don't even realize it. Think of all those times where you heard someone theorize about something and you said something along the lines of, "It's probably (insert idea here)."
Heuristics are shortcuts that your mind takes to solve a problem ("Heuristics", 2017). Rather than observe every bit of information, you automatically discard things that you do not want to focus on.
Finally, cognitive biases refer to certain patterns of behavior or thought that lead us to draw incorrect conclusions (Cherry, 2019).
But why do we have all of these mental patterns and psychological phenomenon with us? To find out, we need to delve into the subconscious.
Conscious vs Subconscious
We all think that we consciously choose our actions. After all, the conscious part of our brain is what guides our rational thought and behavior. But most of the time, there is another guiding factor at play.
Think of this scenario. You are heading over to the local store — a place you frequent so much that you can draw a map to the place with your eyes closed — to get some vegetables. You start thinking of the vegetables you are going to buy. As you do so, you wonder about what recipes you could make with those vegetables. Thoughts of recipes turn to the time you cooked that one delicious dinner for your family. Ruminations of your family conjure up images of the time you all spent at that incredible BBQ. Perhaps you could try 
planning something this weekend?
Wait a minute.
You have reached the store already. But how did you get there? What guided your body to reach the destination without your knowledge? Do you have psychic powers and is it finally time to join the X-Men?
Hardly. What you went through is a psychological phenomenon called highway hypnosis. During this phenomenon, your mind is quite attentive, but you are experiencing everything in a slightly different state. In this state, your subconscious takes over.
Every day, you divide your experiences into two unique forms; conscious and subconscious. In fact, you are actually doing it right now. As you are reading the words on this page, another presence is controlling your body posture, blinking, breathing, body temperature, and even the way you are reading this book (with absolute fascination and interest I hope).
You can always choose to put these actions into conscious control. But if you do that, you might not be able to pay proper attention to this book. You would be overwhelmed with so many decisions that trying to keep track of everything might be quite difficult.
You could drive to work by consciously focusing on your driving or putting it on autopilot while you answer important calls or quickly go through your emails (but for the sake of safety, you really shouldn't be doing that).
To you, the whole idea of a conscious and subconscious mind seems like something that is part of the human experience. You are mostly conscious of what you do, but you know that there is another presence in your mind.
Psychology has proven otherwise. Your subconscious mind has an incredibly powerful impact on you.
And you don't even realize it.
In 2005, Psychologist Henk Aarts and his colleagues conducted an experiment to show just how much influence the subconscious mind has on us (Holland, Hendriks & Aarts, 2005). In the experiment, two groups of subjects were made to fill out a questionnaire. For one 
group, there was the presence of citrus-scented cleaning products in the room. The other group sat in a room without any odor. At the end of the questionnaire, the participants of both groups were instructed to eat a cookie. The result? The group that sat in the clean-smelling room kept their direct environment clean of crumbs more so than the group that sat in a room without any scents.
By simply exposing the participants to a particular smell, a set of related ideas and thoughts were triggered that in turn compelled the participants to act in a particular manner.
Imagine that. All it took was a particular smell to influence the people.
Similarly, your subconscious is a repository of beliefs, influences, memories, and ideas that you have been collecting since your birth. Every time a situation occurs, your subconscious starts firing up suggestions. The entire act is so clandestine that you are not even aware of it. Your subconscious mind is as powerful as your conscious mind. And not just that; your subconscious mind is extremely smart (Stafford, 2015).
You may not even realize that you are being affected by your subconscious mind. Think about a time when you had decided to help someone. You noticed a person who seemed to be in a bit of a funk. You immediately understood or even empathized with their plight. Using your good conscience, you went ahead and helped the person, feeling good about your actions for the rest of the day.
Think about the whole situation carefully. Did you logically come to the conclusion to help the person? Or was it something you felt
 you had to do?
If you think that you made a rational and logical conclusion, then your thought process should have been something like this:
I see this person who needs help. If it was me 5 years ago, I probably would have walked by really fast. But I realized that I should not be so selfish. From that day on, I decided that I would help as many people in need. Which is why today I shall help this person. I will now proceed to take actions to alleviate the person's distress.
When you use logical reasoning, nothing is spontaneous. You note down every step in the decision-making process before you come to 
a conclusion.
But that is not what happened when you had decided to help somebody. You did not have a detailed account of your chain of thoughts. You simply acted on impulse. You helped because of an emotion
.
When the mind is divided, psychologists refer to the conscious mind as the rational mind and the subconscious mind as the emotional mind. This is because your subconscious mind sifts through all your experiences and the emotions attached to them. It then picks out the one that it feels is suitable for a situation and sends it over to your rational mind. Your rational mind then uses the suggestion provided by your subconscious mind and forms it into an idea, action, or thought. It does it so smoothly that you don't even realize anything is amiss. When you hug someone you care about, you experience warm feelings. In turn, those feelings guide your actions, reactions, habits, and responses towards that particular person. Think about it. Did you actually order your mind or brain to send you those feelings?
Your emotions are a guiding force in your decisions and that is not a statement made without proof.
According to groundbreaking research conducted by neuroscientist Antonio Damasio, our decisions are largely based on emotions (Camp, 2012). In this study, Damasio examined patients of injuries that had damaged the emotional parts of their brain. He discovered that the patients found it difficult to make up their minds about even the simplest decisions. Despite the amount of rational thought they utilized, they could not come to a satisfactory conclusion.
This proves that our emotions are a powerful force in our lives and that we usually underestimate its influence.
Ego and Emotions
For most people, the term "ego" might refer to the idea of self-importance. This word describes how highly people think of themselves compared to others. But, Psychology Today has a completely different description of the term ego.
Modern psychological framework describes the ego as a system of self-consciousness. The conscious is not just the part of our mind that we use for rational thought, but it is also part of the human conscience responsible for narrating our lives. It allows us to reflect on our feelings, actions, and thoughts so that we can explain and rationalize it to others. In other words, it allows you to think about what you did and how you feel, or process and explain why you did it. This is why the ego is in many ways related to the idea of identity. After all, our identity is how we define ourselves and the ego is all about how we define our actions, thoughts, and feelings, which eventually go on to shape our identity.
The ego itself is composed of various 'elements'. Different psychologists have their own set of elements that they consider important for the functioning of the ego. Here are three of the most common ones.
Compassion, self-esteem, and acceptance
Your self-esteem is the degree to which you value and respect yourself. It is an important component of your life because it allows you to accept your faults and limitations, work on your strengths, and evaluate yourself better. Your compassion does not necessarily mean your behavior towards others. Self-compassion is a vital element of your ego as it shows how critical or accepting you can be about yourself. Finally, your acceptance focuses on how well you can approve of the person you are today.
Your Empathy
Empathy is the capacity to understand others. We like to mirror ourselves in others in order to see the situation or world from their perspective. In a way, we evaluate ourselves through others. A big part of the function of the ego is also about understanding the motives, emotions, and actions of others in a complex manner.
Level of Insight
When you have a high level of insight, you have a better understanding of what makes you tick, how you can become fulfilled in your life, what drives you towards conflict, your sources of 
happiness, and other important components that make you the person you are. Individuals with a low level of insight have trouble avoiding being in denial or become clueless about their own identity. Since the ego is a reflection of ourselves, our insight can help understand how well we understand our ego.
Self-Directedness
This element refers to the process of gaining experience through the act of self-teaching. Before we can self-teach, however, we need to have the motivation to do it, the personal responsibility to complete the learning process, and the ability to assess ourselves, which are all factors that are related to the ego.
All of the above elements — in one form or another — are affected by emotions. We have already seen how our subconscious helps us realize that someone needs our help and how we act on that realization. Our subconscious sends suggestions to our conscious mind to boost our empathy.
In a similar manner, your subconscious works with your self-esteem. By sending across certain suggestions, you feel a high level of self-esteem or alternatively, you can develop a poor opinion of yourself.
By influencing all the elements of your ego, your subconscious affects your ego as a whole.
And this has some important consequences.
The subconscious, being the emotional part of our mind, affects our ego with a heavy dose of emotions. In fact, if you were studying emotional intelligence, then one of the important components you would be focusing on is your ego. Which is why, even though many people do not realize it, our ego is a powerful emotional construct that influence our lives and the decisions that we make every day.
At this point, we have come to a realization: not only does our subconscious (or our emotional mind) affect rational behavior, it also deeply influences the ego. It is for this reason that most of what we end up doing has some form of emotional foundation or motivation behind it.
But how is it that our emotions can easily affect us without our 
knowledge? If something were to influence us, shouldn't we be aware of it entirely?
To understand how our emotions affect us, we need to turn to priming.
Priming and Emotion
Just about everything you encounter creates a memory and a collection of associations in your mind. Your mind is just a small computer that is connected to two cameras - your eyes. Every day, you add more and more ideas, patterns, and information to your existing collection of memories. Each of these factors influences you in different ways.
For example, you had a strong connection with your siblings as you were growing up. Your siblings enjoyed playing with dolls or action figures and because of that, these toys have an emotional attachment in your mind. Let us say that you have kids of your own. One day, you are taking your family to the local store when you notice a section for dolls or action figures. Because of the emotional attachment you have with these objects, you might ponder about getting one for your kids. The entire thought process is so automatic, that before you know about it, you are standing in line at the cashier buying a toy for your kid.
In similar ways, there are so many associations in your mind based on relationships, culture, religion, and science. These, in turn, could affect your decisions or thought processes in the future.
In fact, an experiment carried out by Chen-Bo Zhong from the University of Toronto and Katie Liljenquist from Northwestern University, proved the effect that our associations have on our decisions (Zhong & Liljenquist, 2006).
In this experiment, they divided participants into two groups. Both groups were asked to recollect a terrible sin from their past, one that fills them with regret. The groups were then asked to describe how they felt about the sins. Next, Group A was allowed to wash their hands while Group B were not given the option to do so.
At the end of the experiment, the researchers asked the members of 
the groups if they would be happy to help out a fellow student on a thesis for free.
The results were rather surprising.
Only about 40 percent of the participants in Group A (those who washed their hands) agreed to help. But more than 70 percent of the participants in Group B (those who did not wash their hands) agreed to help out the fellow student.
Those who washed their hands felt that they had washed their sins away. By doing so, they felt that they did not have to give penance for their sins. There was nothing they were guilty about. On the other hand, those who did not wash their hands still had lingering feelings of guilt and self-consciousness. They wanted to make up for the sins that they had committed in the past. To do so, they agreed to help out the fellow student.
In various cultures and religions around the world, the very act of washing ourselves denotes an act of purging our sins and "cleaning" ourselves. Islam uses the act of Wudu
, where those who wish to attend the mosque should clean specific parts of their body in a specific order. Christians have the act of anointing themselves with holy water when they enter a church. In certain cultures, negative factors such as corruption and crime are often considered "dirty" and should be "cleansed" from society. All of these symbolic references become embedded in our minds as we live within a particular society or culture until eventually, they influence our actions. This is what even the researchers in the above experiment believe; the participants have a repository of influences from their culture, societal behaviors, and religion that propelled them to respond in a particular manner.
When a particular stimulus that you have adapted to in your life affects the way you think and act in the present, then that process is called priming.
And priming is a purely subconscious phenomenon. This is because you cannot self-prime directly. You are primed by your subconscious when you least expect it. When your subconscious acts, it is an emotional response.
This is why, when your emotions act, they prime your mind, which 
in turn causes you to react, respond, think, or behave in a particular manner.
Even though you are not aware of it, you are being influenced by your emotions through the process of priming.
This means, much of your thoughts are a result of your emotions and because of this, emotions have a real effect on our outcomes.
How Thoughts Determine Our Outcomes
There is a reason why books such as The Secret
 and other self-help guides are popular: they base their results on the idea that through the power of visualization and positive thoughts, you can change your life.
While the concept is not false, the reality works in a completely different manner. This is because what most of these books do not teach you is how to factor in your emotions.
The Power of Beliefs
One of the basic ways in which your thoughts can influence outcomes is through your belief system. Let us look at an example here. If you believe that you are confident about acing that job interview, then you are prepared for any eventuality. You project that confidence to the interviewer and your chances of getting hired increases. On the other hand, if you believe that you are not competent or deserving enough of the job, then your confidence levels will plummet like a skydiver without his parachute. This will reflect in your interview as well.
Your belief system, on the other hand, is based on your thoughts. You could even say that your thoughts guide your beliefs. It's like Spiderman and his web-shooting skills; without them, he is not going to be able to move as flexibly as he does. In the same way, your thoughts are your web-shooters, guiding your belief system in a particular direction.
Where do emotions come into all of this? Your thoughts are a culmination of various factors including your ego, subconscious primes, and identity, all three factors that are influenced heavily by 
your emotions.
Powering Your Conclusions
In this section, we discuss the psychological phenomenon called Confirmation Bias (Oswald & Grosjean, 2004).
Most people think that they form conclusions through rational and objective analysis of the facts. They view themselves as open-minded, choosing to think that they have viewed both sides of the coin before they have arrived at a conclusion.
In reality, psychologists have noticed that we tend to look for information that supports our preconceived notions and pay minimal or no attention to information that challenges our existing beliefs.
One of the ways that you can do this is by checking your browser history. If you believe that you look for facts that support both sides of the argument, then you simply have to check your internet history to notice if there is a visible bias towards the information you already believe in.
Our thoughts are automatically focused on finding out supporting information. We like to believe that we have made the right choice. We look to find out why Marvel better than DC, why the milk goes first and not the cereal, and why black cats are unlucky when numerous cultures around the world think they are not.
But the reason we look for supporting information is because of the way we feel about something. Let's say that you have a fondness for Marvel superheroes. But if you think about it, both Marvel and DC have exemplary characters. Both brands also have some terrible characters (in fact, Marvel has a character called Hellcow. It's a cow bitten by a vampire.) Both Marvel and DC have incredible storylines but they both have also suffered from some terrible inspirations. However, what draws people towards one idea, theme, brand, or entity is the way they feel
 about that entity. Our emotions play an important role in what we choose for ourselves.
Our feelings shape our thoughts. For example, when we are asked why Apple is better than Samsung or why we would pick Playstation over the Xbox, we are ready with a slew of reasons that seem to 
justify our reasoning. But the truth is that we are guiding our thoughts based on our emotions, and our thoughts are using the phenomenon of confirmation bias to find information that supports our strong emotions towards something.
So, we have seen how our emotions affect our rational thoughts, our ego, and even our outcomes. But there has to be more than that hasn't there?
Let's dive deeper into our emotions to understand them.







Chapter 2: Understanding Emotions
Emotions are part of the human experience. We had just seen how much they influence us, but we still don't understand why. How is it that our emotions have so much power over us when we believe we are such rational creatures?
Why Emotions Are Powerful
When humans used to live in caves, we needed to be alert at all times. We needed to pay attention to our surroundings for predators. The slightest hesitation would mean that our ancestors would have ended up being a meal.
Back in those days, there was no time for rational thought. The very survival of the tribe or group of humans depended on how fast their instincts were. If they spent too much time rationalizing, chances are that they would not make it out alive. Which is why, rather than focusing on thinking too much, they used their instincts.
Fast forward to the present. Today, we don't have to walk down the street worrying about saber-tooth tigers or angry woolly mammoths. However, our instincts are still present with us and they are still as powerful as our rational thought. This is because our ancestors had paid more attention to their instincts, allowing them to be developed so well.
You might be thinking that it is a far-fetched idea to draw a link between our ancestors and ourselves. Just because they sharpened their instincts does not mean that we would automatically have heightened instincts. 
On the contrary, one of the ways that instincts are transferred from one generation of organisms to another is through the process of evolution (Cudmore, 2017). In fact, research has shown that instincts are deeply embedded in what are often considered by the scientific community as learned behaviors. These behaviors become part of the DNA code and the information then becomes available for the offspring. This is why even a newborn spider can weave an almost perfect web without having seen a web before or being taught 
how to weave. In the same way, it is why human beings have such strong instincts.
But how are our instincts related to our emotions?
The reason is that our instincts are a subconscious factor. By homing in on their instincts, our ancestors trained the subconscious part of the mind more so than the conscious part. Because of this, our emotions have had more time to experience, mature, and train than our rationality.
But, there's more.
According to a report by the BBC (Petterle, 2009), humans are impulsive until the age of three. Being impulsive means that we do not use our rational thought. We just work on whatever emotions guide us at that moment. We begin to gain the power of reasoning when we reach the age of five.
This means that no matter what you do, your emotional side is always the most experienced. You could be a savant who began training the rational mind from the time you were young. You could be the next Stephen Hawking or Nicola Tesla. But that still does not compare to your emotional side, which has been with you your entire life!
When you couple this with the fact that our emotional side has thousands of years of experience (since the time of our ancestors), then you are looking at a powerful force.
Just how powerful is the emotional subconscious?
No matter how much information your rational mind uses, your emotional subconscious does not miss anything. Our brains are capable of taking in nearly 34 gigabytes of information every day (Balbusso, Waterman & Lee, n.d.). And that is only during our leisure time. If you add in the information you collect when you are engaged in work, then we take in more
 than 34 gigabytes of info! Yet visually, we only process 10 percent of the information that we see. But who does the processing? If you were to rationally and logically arrange every bit of information that you receive, then you would have to spend a long time on it. Additionally, you are going to miss out on new information. This is why our emotional subconscious does the job for us. Every minute of every day, our subconscious 
stores information that may not be vital at that moment, but is a useful guide in the way we live our lives.
When we use our subconscious mind, we are making use of a powerful tool. In fact, your subconscious mind is what instincts are based on. Your instincts are not extrasensory perceptions, a sixth sense, or anything else that might be considered mystical, pseudo-scientific, or mythical. They are simply the information collected in our subconscious mind made available for our use.
Every time you have that "gut feeling," it isn't divine intervention. It is merely your subconscious mind looking for patterns in your surroundings and situations. Using these patterns, it tries to build a cohesive structure, which eventually triggers your memories, or whether you should fight or flee. Also, you refer to them as fight or flight instincts
, not fight or flight rational thought
, which shows just how influential our emotional subconscious really is.
When Do We Become Emotional?
For the most part, our emotions help us.
Knowing the fact that they have a great influence over our lives, it is folly to think of them as a villain in a James Bond movie. Rather, you could say that they are like James Bond himself, figuring out various situations and giving us suggestions to deal with those situations. Our emotions also help us feel joy and other positive emotions that help us through the day.
But there are times when our emotions run amok. When they do, they often cause havoc that can happen in one of three ways:

●
    
We experience the correct emotion for the situation but the level of intensity of the emotion is too high. For example, we were right to worry about a particular situation, but there was no need to go into full-blown panic mode. Or you might have experienced a situation where you were stressed about something, only to realize in the end that there was no need to have so much stress at all.


●
    

We experience the correct emotion, but we display it in a way that does not justify the situation. For example, we are angry

about something but rather than talk about it, we go about giving the silent treatment, which does nothing but exacerbate the situation.



●
    
And finally, we come to the most complex emotional reaction of all. When this happens, we don't have the right reaction at the right time; we are experiencing a completely 'incorrect' emotion. For example, we realize after a particular incident that the intensity of fear we had felt was not the problem, rather the fact that we felt fear was the problem. Why were we afraid? What compelled us to feel fearful in that particular moment when it was not required at all?

Why would such unwanted emotions appear in the first place? Can we remove an emotional cause completely so that we don't have to feel angry unnecessarily? Or, can we modify the programming of our emotions so that rather than feel a negative emotion, we can replace it with something positive? For example, let's say that we are walking outside and someone bumps into us. Rather than feeling angry about it, can we wire our brain to create feelings of amusement or disinterest?
These are all important questions but they do not have a simple answer. This is mostly because we all react differently to certain scenarios. Some people have a fear of heights while others are daredevils, choosing extreme sports that see them plunging off a cliff or a jumping off a plane fearlessly. Some people mourned the death of Freddie Mercury like he was their distant relative, while others were playing "Another One Bites the Dust" for the first time on YouTube after hearing of his death. At the same time, certain emotional triggers create the same response in the majority of people. If someone were to find themselves in a close-collision with another vehicle, fear would be one of the primary emotions that they would feel.
Isn't that rather curious? We all have our own unique emotional signatures, but at the same time share certain emotional traits with others. The death of a loved one makes us sad but spotting a bug in our room does not fill all of us with disgust. Certain emotional triggers are even specific to cultures. In fact, according to a recent study conducted at the University of London, certain situations 
trigger different emotions based on the culture people are from (Nauert, 2019).
So, when do we become emotional?
One of the most common ways that emotions surface is when we perceive, positively or negatively, that something is going to affect our situation and welfare, whether that something has good or bad results.
A simple way to understand the above statement is through the below example. Let us say that you have a job interview coming up. You are so confident that if someone were to dare you to go skydiving, you might probably say, "No, too easy. Throw me and the parachute bag separately!" Because of your confidence, you are feeling elated about the interview. Once the interview is over, you realize that you have pretty much aced it. But about a couple of days later, you get the devastating news that unfortunately, you did not receive the job offer.
In the above example, the interview is a factor that would affect your welfare. You perceived it positively because of your confidence. However, the situation itself had bad results, since you did not get the job in the end (don't worry, you're meant for better things!).
Of course, emotions are not usually that simple. A good way to understand their complexity is by looking at how animals (including us humans) react to various situations. Aggression and anger come out when we are challenged. Fear is a useful response that warns us of threats in our surroundings. Disgust is our brain's way of letting us know that something — such as rotten food — is not good for us. This is why we are going to look at these emotions in detail. But for now, the earlier explanation of how emotions are created will give you a brief idea of the process.
Changing What We Become Emotional About
Recollect when we talked about the subconscious, especially the part where, despite the fact that we only take in a small percentage of the information that comes to us, our subconscious is constantly taking in all the other information we are not paying attention to. 
This is an interesting effect. Our subconscious is more aware of the reality around us that our conscious mind. When this happens, our subconscious mind responds to a phenomenon called an 'auto-appraiser' response. Essentially, what your subconscious is doing is evaluating your surroundings and appraising it automatically. This in turn allows the subconscious to send in the required emotion during a specific experience.
Let's try and understand this with an example.
You are on a narrow wooden bridge that connects one cliff to another. You know that below you, there is no ground for at least 40 feet. It's a pretty terrifying scenario. Of course, the sign near the bridge says that it was created specifically for the public and it is made to be strong and durable. But despite that, there is that innate feeling of fear. Even though you have rationalized the fact that you are not going to fall, there is a part of you that is worried something will happen.
Or, another example to highlight this point is the fear of flying. According to statistics created by 1001crash.com, there were 4,717 fatalities due to aircraft-related accidents between 1998 and 2008 around the world. That does sound like a lot, doesn't it? But here is something else to think about. According to the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS, 2018), 419,303 people were killed due to motor-related accidents for the same period. And guess what? That number was just in the United States alone. Yet despite all that, people do not take any precautions while crossing the road. On the other hand, people have this innate fear of flying. Even though they are presented with all the facts and they have booked the best airline in the world, they cannot get rid of the nagging feeling that something is bound to go wrong.
Why do emotions occur in such unknown ways? Why do they have the power to override our rational thought and in some cases, force us to view the world in a way that fits the way we are feeling and not the way we are thinking?
Apart from the influence that our emotional subconscious mind has, there is another factor that comes into play called the refractory state
. During this state, our mind does not accept any information that does not fit, justify, or support the emotion or emotions running 
through our mind. It's like having tunnel vision where you only see a sliver of the big picture. In this case, your mind focuses your attention on the situation you are facing. Typically, the refractory state lasts for a few seconds and despite its characteristics, it is actually very useful. It forces our mind to become more aware about the problem at hand. This allows us to put all of our thinking capabilities together to resolve the situation.
Things get complicated when the refractory state lasts longer.
Let's try and explain this with a situation.
John wakes up in the morning, heads down to the kitchen, and tells his wife Emma that he will not be able to pick up their son from soccer practice because of an urgent meeting at work. He apologizes to her as well. At this point, Emma's emotional subconscious, using auto-appraisers, appraised the situation and immediately concluded that John's actions would interfere with her day. Without thinking, her mind entered a refractory state, focused on John's response and went along with her conclusion. She responds with a trace of anger in her voice, "Really? Now is the time you pick to tell me?"
John, on the other hand, reacts to Emma's anger and challenges her by saying, "Why are you getting angry? I got the news from my boss just now." At this point, Emma knows that John is not being inconsiderate. He is genuinely feeling sorry about his actions but he truly has no other choice. If Emma is still in her refractory stage, then the situation will not get any better. She will continue to struggle with her emotions. However, is she can exit her refractory state, and then think about the situation with a clear mind.
Many people would love to have control over their emotions. But as you have noticed, there are multiple steps involved in the process of feeling emotions, which is why we are going to focus on trying to gain a certain degree of control over our emotions so that we are able to change how we feel emotions.
But first, let us look into some powerful emotions that are part of our lives.







Chapter 3: The Negative Emotions
Every emotion has the ability to benefit us. Anger helps us ward off a threat and give that boost of adrenaline when we need it. Fear increases our sense of awareness about the environment, allowing us to analyze our situation carefully.
In many ways, it is not a simple matter to classify emotions as positive or negative. All emotions serve us well but could hinder us too. What we are going to look at are the negative aspects of emotions, especially emotions that can cause us quite a bit (or a lot) of distress or are difficult to manage.
Understanding Grief and Agony
Grief
To fully understand grief, it is better to start with a less intense, but similar, emotion; sadness.
Psychologists consider sadness as a basic emotion of a human's life. It is an emotional reaction towards loss, the rejection that one feels from a partner or friend, the loss of self-esteem that arises when someone attacks us or we fail at something, a decline in our health, or even losing an object we are quite fond of. One can say that sadness is a reaction towards emotional pain or distress. One could describe sadness using many terms: blue, dejection, distraught, sorrowful, and miserable, to name a few. But they all essentially mean the same thing with varying degrees of intensity.
Grief, on the other hand, is an overwhelming form of sadness and is usually in response to extreme situations such as the loss of a loved one or the news of a terminal illness. When people feel grief, they could become detached from their normal life and in many cases, are unable to perform even the simplest of activities.
Experts and psychologists often advise people who suffer from grief that the process cannot be controlled and that they should prepare themselves for the five stages of grief. What are the five stages of grief?
Denial
At this stage, people may not perceive the loss well. They might typically react with stunned disbelief. At some level in their minds, they might try to deny the existence of the loss, either thinking or hoping that the reality they are facing is a lie. The denial stage also includes emotions of fear, shock, confusion, and avoidance.
Anger
Once you remove the "assumed reality" that you had set for yourself and then return to the "actual reality," the emotion of anger begins to settle into your mind. This is usually a stage of defensiveness where people begin to question why the situation happened to them. They might even resolve to redirecting the anger towards people close to them - friends and family. People of faith might begin to question God or the deity that they believe in about the reality of the situation. The anger stage also includes the emotions of irritation, frustration, and anxiety.
Bargaining
This stage occurs in two distinct forms:

●
    
In one form, people will try bargaining with a nonexistent entity or force to change the outcome of the situation. For example, if a loved one is diagnosed with terminal cancer, then the person suffering from grief might ask God for help. In return, he or she might commit to an action or change their habits in life.


●
    
The other form of bargaining happens through the form of "if only" statements. If only they could have been there. If only they had gotten the medicines sooner. If only they had tried to be a better person.

Both the above forms of reactions are simply a way for people to bargain with an external force to delay the pain or loss. They are unable to accept reality and as a result, form a weak line of defense against a painful reality.
Depression
There are two forms of depression that occur during grief:

●
    
One form of depression occurs because of reactions to the practical implications of the grief. People begin to wonder about all the time they could've spent with the one they love. They might wonder about the reactions of other family members, or they might even think about trivial matters such as funeral costs.


●
    
The other form of depression is a more private one. People simply want to be left alone to deal with the situation by themselves. It is a way for them to come to terms with the reality they are facing.

It is important to know that sadness and depression are completely different conditions. As we had seen before, sadness is a normal human emotion. It is a response to loss or even stressful situations. On the other hand, depression is a condition that is long-term and usually includes an overwhelming sense of sadness, feelings of hopelessness, lack of motivation to take any action, and loss of interest in activities that were once enjoyable.
Unlike sadness, depression can last for a long time. If ignored, sufferers are capable of causing harm to themselves.
NOTE: Whether you are suffering from depression because of grief or because it is a predisposed condition, do not suffer in silence. Remember, there is no shame in seeking help. You are a valuable member of the community and you deserve to live happily
Acceptance
This stage of grief is a gift that sadly not everyone experiences. The tragedy that people face may be sudden or it might take its time. It takes a lot of courage for anyone to come to terms with what has happened to them. One should not misunderstand the stage of acceptance as a way for people to accept that it is okay that the tragedy has occurred in their lives. Rather, it is a way of comforting themselves that even though the tragedy has occurred, they are going to be okay. This is the stage where sufferers of grief are ready to make peace with the loss in their life.
Agony
In many cases, agony and grief are almost related. But there are minor differences between the two, especially in the case of mental or emotional agony.
Broadly speaking, agony is a state of severe and often prolonged suffering. It could be physical, mental, or emotional. But when it comes to emotional or mental agony, then it refers to a period of immense psychological pain that can last for a short or a long time.
However, there are some who use the terms emotional pain and emotional agony interchangeably. In reality, the above two terms have distinct meanings.
Emotional pain is part of life. We might find our weekends interrupted because we might have to go into the office for an urgent task. We realize that we cannot afford to eat out at our favorite restaurant because we are broke. We just watched Avengers: Infinity War (spoilers ahead) and realized that Iron Man is truly dead in the movies. All of these situations cause a sense of acute pain that passes quickly and in most cases, can easily pass. Just finish the task that the client had given you quickly so you can get back to your Game of Thrones marathon. Order pizza instead of that expensive meal. Time to root for Spiderman instead. When you experience emotional pain, you experience sadness, anger, or any other negative emotion that has a solution. You can remedy emotional pain by finding a way to solve the problem that caused it in the first place.
On the other hand, emotional agony is more severe, persistent, and does not have an easy solution. It is an intense emotional discomfort that can be remedied only through repeated actions or treatments that take place over a long period of time (for example, therapy).
The Wrath of Anger
Just like sadness, anger is another basic emotion of the human experience. According to the American Psychological Association, anger is an antagonistic type of emotion that is displayed towards something or someone that has caused someone harm or done them wrong.
But that is a simple way of looking at things.
Typically, anger is a response to emotional pain (remember: not agony). It occurs when we feel that we have been opposed, wronged, injured, or when certain obstacles seem to keep us from achieving a certain goal.
The intensity of anger differs from person to person and the situation itself. The anger one feels when they are stuck in traffic and are late for a million dollar make-or-break meeting is different from the one felt by a video game player who is frustratingly stuck on a particular stage in a video game.
Additionally, anger also differs on how fast it is felt by people. This is known as the anger threshold and it states how comfortable people are with feelings of anger. You might know people who are capable of getting angry easily while there are others who have a high level of patience.
Anger can be a constructive or a destructive emotion. When we are capable of managing our anger well, we do not suffer harmful health or personal effects. At its most basic level, anger is simply a signal that you receive when your emotional subconscious understands that something is wrong with the situation or environment you are in. This, in turn, helps you focus on the problem and find a remedy to resolve it. However, how
 you handle the anger is the difference between using it for a productive reason and using it to cause destruction.
When anger becomes a negative force, people often feel that they have to attack when they are under the influence of anger. It becomes a matter of destroying something before that thing can destroy them.
One of the characteristic things about anger is that people often try to suppress it. Even those comfortable with expressing anger find that they are often afraid of showing the emotion as they fear destroying something valuable or hurting someone.
It is also important to know that those who know about their anger and find ways to express it are less likely to cause too much destruction around them than those who cannot express their anger properly.
Surprise and Fear
Surprise
You feel the emotion of surprise when something unexpected or sudden occurs in your environment. The act of surprise can also be referred to as wonder, astonishment, or amazement.
When you think about the above meaning of surprise, it doesn't sound all that bad. You are probably thinking of birthday parties, gifts, or random encounters with your friends that cause pleasant surprises.
Sure enough, there are positive surprises. If you head home and find out that your spouse, partner, or family member has cooked you a special dinner, then you are bound to experience surprise in a positive manner. But on the other hand, when you receive bad news about a loved one or a recent incident, then you are likely to experience surprise in a negative way. But what makes surprise positive or negative?
An important fact to consider is that surprise is one of the briefest emotions experienced by human beings. This is because once the feeling of surprise is over, your mind immediately moves on to the next feeling depending on the situation. You could end up feeling anger, disgust, fear, joy, or even excitement. Many scholars are of the opinion that surprise cannot be considered as an emotion because it is neither negative or positive.
But wait a minute, if that is the case, then what were the examples of positive and negative surprises just two paragraphs ago?
Well, even though surprise does not take sides, it still does result
 in either positive or negative emotions. Like we had seen above, when you experience a pleasant surprise, you have a flood of positive emotions in your brain. If you experience a negative surprise, then you are going to feel terrible. Additionally, surprise is something you feel. It is not an arbitrary reaction that is completely separate from your mind. It is not an alien entity that just happens to appear in your mind either.
Fear
Fear is considered as one of the most primal of emotions. It enters our mind when our emotional subconscious perceives a threat or danger. Our ancestors understood fear intimately because it is what kept them alive and aware. When examining fear, it can be divided into two forms, biochemical and emotional.
Biochemical Fear
When it comes to biochemical reactions, then fear is a natural emotion that also serves as a survival impulse. When our minds perceive a threat in our surroundings, then our body goes through some changes. These physical changes include increased breathing and heart rate, sweating, a boost in adrenaline, and change in body temperature. All of these physical changes occur to jolt us into a heightened state of awareness. This physical change is what is commonly termed as the "fight or flight" response.
Emotional Fear
This fear is personal. This means that people can have different forms of personal fear. Where biochemical fear is common among everyone, emotional fear may not be shared by all. Of course, there are positive forms of emotional fear. When you watch a horror movie, you receive a certain thrill that you may like. There are adrenaline junkies who live for extreme activities and thrills caused by mastering fear.
But how can one identify if they are feeling positive or negative fear? Here is how:

●
    
When you start feeling worried or anxious, then those are signs that you are feeling negative fear. Worrying usually never leads to any positive outcomes. It simply causes you to waste your energy and time. When combined with fear, it causes you to waste your time engaged in a fearful state.


●
    

Is the fear holding you back from taking risks? If so, then you are feeling negative fear. However, there is a difference from holding yourself back from partaking in an extreme activity and holding yourself back from doing something important in your life. In the former situation, you fear for your safety and wellbeing, which is completely rational. However, when you

stop doing things that could benefit you because of the fear you feel, then you are in a state of negative fear.



●
    
If your fear is overwhelming you to a point where you are unable to take any action to defend yourself, then you are in a state of negative fear.


●
    
Fear that tears down your belief system, your identity, or rational thinking is not in the positive domain. It is literally affecting you from the inside.

The Harm of Apathy
Apathy is a hard emotion to pin down. If you haven't felt it, then mere words can only give you a brief understanding of what it is. You really have to experience it to gain a deeper perspective on it.
Ironically, what sets apathy apart from the other emotions is the fact that apathy is a feeling of not
 feeling anything.
What makes apathy concerning is that it is not only a feeling (or lack of it), it is also a behavior. When people experience apathy, they also become indifferent, detached, unresponsive, dispassionate, and callous. During the state of apathy, people become listless to a point where they do not have the energy to take any action. You can notice if a person is apathetic by the degree of passivity they exhibit. They simply stop caring about taking any action in their lives, even if it concerns other people.  No goal, idea, or person becomes valuable to them and they go unconcerned about most matters in their lives. But what exactly causes apathy? Here are a few reasons:

●
    
When people have negative thoughts about themselves, they begin to experience low self-esteem, disappointment in themselves, and even demoralized and pessimistic. They begin to think that there is no hope left for them and that failure is the only constant in their lives.


●
    
Recent tragedies or grief can also cause apathy. This is because when we tie many of our positive emotions to people, then the loss or departure of that person from our lives can cause us to become withdrawn and aloof.


●
    

People crave challenges, purpose, or excitement. When none

of the three factors are available to them, then they become bored. A constant state of boredom causes people to become apathetic about their lives, where they begin to believe that there is nothing that they can look forward to.


Realizing Disgust and Contempt
Disgust
If you turn your head away from the sight of a cockroach scrambling across your kitchen surface, or avert your gaze from old food in your refrigerator that has attracted the attention of maggots, or scrunch your nose when someone near you smells like the last time they had a shower was in the 1950s, then you are experiencing disgust.
The act of disgust is not just a physical reaction. It is an emotional response that is also a potent warning sign. Disgust helps us identify that something in the environment is not suitable for us and prevents us from interacting with it. Typically, you experience disgust through taste, touch, smell, sight, sound, or even thoughts. Disgust can often cause certain physiological reactions as well. Often, disgust is followed by nausea or a feeling that something is wrong with your bowel movements.
But here is when disgust becomes a problem. When it is a defense mechanism, disgust can be helpful. However, over time, this defense mechanism became a reaction that we begin to show to other people. Disgust can also be displayed for the actions and appearances of people and when that happens, it causes more harm than good.
You can be disgusted by a social construct or idea. When inequality seems to be prevalent in society, you can react to it by showing disgust. In such cases, you are opposing a wrongful state of affairs in society. However, when you show disgust towards an individual because of his or her skin color, ethnic background, language, gender, sexual orientation, or any other criteria, then you are using the emotion for a negative reason. You are showing prejudice and by showing disgust, you are letting others know just how repulsive a certain person or idea is to you.
In such ways, one can turn an emotion meant to warn them into a tool of loathing and prejudice.
Contempt
Contempt is another basic emotion felt by humans. People experience it on a regular basis, but not many talk about it, mostly because no one would openly admit that they are holding contemptuous feelings.
Contempt refers to feelings of disdain or hatred that people possess when they look down on others. There are three features that highlight the emotion of contempt:

●
    
When people think that they are better than others, coming to the conclusion that their time, opinions, happiness, and other factors are more valuable than anyone else's.


●
    
People fail to meet the behavioral standards that are set by society, morals, religion or other factors.


●
    
People want to distance themselves from someone else. They often use pain, humiliation, or use other aggressive tactics to get what they want.

Regardless of how people express it or what their motivations are, contempt is one of the most dangerous emotions because of the fact that it can create lasting effects. This is because unlike anger or grief that can fade over time, contempt towards others can remain for a long period of time. It becomes difficult for a contemptuous person to let go of his or her feelings. In many scenarios, contempt becomes rooted so deeply into the minds of people that they refuse to believe evidence to the contrary. They use confirmation bias to heavily support their beliefs.
How Much Pride is Too Much Pride?
Have you ever accomplished something, however small or big, and felt your chest swell up with feelings of self-praise? Have you ever been so happy with the skills that you have achieved that you see yourself in a new light? Have you done something that makes you want to respect yourself more and in some cases, want others to 
respect you for it as well?
What you are experiencing are feelings of pride.

●
    
I am so proud of the garden in my backyard.


●
    
I am so proud of you for what you have done!


●
     
My son or daughter is my pride.

The above statements are just some of the ways in which you can express your pride. Even ownership of something can instill you with a sense of pride.
But when does pride become something that is capable of causing harm? When does pride become a negative emotion?
Let us understand this one fact: we are all imperfect. We all have flaws within us. But that is what it is to be human. We live with our flaws and do our best to ensure that they don't interrupt our daily lives or affect the lives of others.
But when people do not accept their flaws and instead try to inflate their own ego, then they create a version of pride that is typically frowned upon in society: arrogance.
Many people try to overcompensate for their insecurities and failures by exuding a false sense of self-confidence. They do this to bring their personality, behavior, or image as close to 'perfection' as possible. This inflated sense of pride prevents people from being content with themselves. Often, any remark, action, or reaction that is perceived as an attack on the image of people with arrogance, and even though it may not be so, it is met with strong opposition.
Psychologically, arrogance is driven by a sense of shame or poor self-worth. People are unable to evaluate themselves in a better light. They project themselves in such a negative extent that only through feelings of superiority can add some positive feedback. Rather than acknowledge their faults and try and do something about it, they begin to simply cover it up.
Psychology can clearly distinguish between authentic pride and hubristic pride. In the former type of pride, people feel good about themselves, gain confidence, become productive and have emotional stability. In the latter, people usually display a high state of ego which is often fragile, aggressiveness, being extremely 
disagreeable, unable to accept someone else being under the spotlight, and feelings of low self-esteem.







Chapter 4: The Mind, Anxiety, and Stress
Just like emotions, stress and anxiety are important elements of our lives. When people are faced with multiple demands or tasks, one of the benefits of stress is that it can help them quickly find a solution to make things easier. Anxiety is a feeling of unease, worry, or fear that could be a reaction to stress or emotion that arises when people are unable to identify the source of stress.
In the short term, stress and anxiety can help you overcome challenges and even dangerous situations. But when can they become harmful? When can stress and anxiety turn from mild-mannered Bruce Banner (and his problem-solving mind) to the Incredible Hulk, capable of wreaking havoc in our lives?
What Causes Anxiety?
Anxiety is a feeling that we get when we are tense, worried, or afraid of the unknown, about things that are about to happen in the present, or future events. The feeling is completely normal and even helps us understand the gravity of a situation. However, just like how certain emotions have their negative side, anxiety can cause problems as well if:

●
    
You have been feeling anxious for a long time and your anxiety does not seem to subside.


●
    
Your fears and worries are blown out of proportion compared to the situation.


●
    
You are constantly avoiding situations that are important for a healthy and happy life because you fear getting anxious.


●
    
Your fears and worries, once formed, are hard to control and manage. They begin to take on a life of their own, adding unnecessary information, ideas, or thoughts in your mind.


●
    
Your feelings of anxiety can sometimes even lead to panic attacks.


●
    

You are finding it difficult to lead a productive life or do things

that you used to previously enjoy.


It is difficult to explain exactly what being constantly anxious feels like. But one way to understand it is through this scenario. Imagine that you are rocking on your chair. You tip the chair backward, balancing it on its back legs. Just for a moment, the chair nudges slightly or tilts at an awkward angle. There is that split-second feeling of panic when you feel that you are about to fall. When people suffer from anxiety, that split-second feeling is stretched across a period of days, weeks, and even months. It cripples them emotionally, mentally, and sometimes even physically as people often find themselves rooted to the spot, unable to take any action.
So, what causes anxiety?
Environmental Factors
Numerous elements in the environment are capable of inducing anxiety in someone. It could be due to stress from work, problems with the family, your financial situation, or conflicts of any kind. But when we are talking about the environment, we should also include factors such as pollution, living conditions, and access to basic facilities as causes of anxiety. Even low oxygen levels at high altitudes can cause anxiety in some people.
Genetics
In many cases, people who suffer from anxiety disorders can pass it on to their children or grandchildren. It is never certain which family member gets affected by anxiety or even if someone will, but there is a chance for this occurrence.
Medical Factors
Certain medical conditions and treatments can also cause anxiety. Side effects of medications, stress caused by treatment of health problems or symptoms of a disease may either trigger anxiety directly or indirectly. When medical conditions cause anxiety indirectly, it usually happens because of physical injuries or a change in lifestyle or habits.
Brain Chemistry
Traumatic experiences and even genetics can cause a change in people's brain structure. Because of this, people end up feeling anxiety more intensely than others, even for situations that do not require high levels of anxiety.
Withdrawal Factors
When people are addicted to drugs or other illicit substances, then they might find themselves the victim of high levels of anxiety once they stop using those substances. This occurs because the body is going through a stage of withdrawal. It is getting acclimated to normalcy while combating the allure of addiction.
Anxiety and Everyday Life
With their anxiety permeating almost every sphere of life, people with anxiety avoid doing anything that they consider "normal." In fact, they might look at their friends, family, or strangers around them and wonder how everyone can live such a normal life.
Here are some of the ways in which anxiety can affect your regular life:

●
    
For the most part, you end up having low self-esteem. This might begin to manifest in subtle ways. For example, you become conscious of what you are buying at the supermarket because you are worried that people are going to judge you. Or you might become hyper-aware of what you are wearing, choosing to put on "safe" colors like black, white, and grey.


●
    
You might start noticing a greater influx of negative thoughts. You might start doubting people's motives, choosing to draw negative conclusions rather than rationally thinking about them. Did your friend refuse to call you because he does not want to spend time with you anymore? Was the barista judging you when he or she made a half-hearted attempt at a smile? Perhaps the reason why you had to face so many challenges today was that your life is taking a turn for the worse. You might even begin to victimize yourself, using any small incident as an indication of an attack on your person.


●
    

Depression is one of the most difficult and paralyzing effects of

anxiety. Because you end up overthinking things and have excessive negative thoughts, your mind becomes inundated with too much negativity. The result? Depression.



●
    
You suddenly become sensitive to any form of criticism. It could be something mild as someone pointing out that your shoelaces are untied. Rather than thank the person and tie your shoelaces, you dismiss the person rudely or retort with a statement that goes along the lines of "mind your own business."


●
    
Eventually, anxiety causes you to have poor social skills. Once you start noticing how diminished your social skills have become, your depression worsens, causing you to worsen your social skills even further. Eventually, it becomes a negative feedback loop.

How Stress Affects Us
Stress has varied effects, both on the body and the mind. Sometimes, you might not even realize that stress is affecting your health because you are unsure if something such as that headache you have been feeling all day is because of stress or because you are coming down with something.
Stress affects three different aspects of our lives; body, mood, and behavior.
Stress on the Body
You might start feeling headaches that might become full-blown migraines. Muscle tension and pain, chest pain, and fatigue are some of the other problems you might encounter every day. However, the most common symptom of stress is insomnia.
Stress on Mood
If stress persists for a long time, then you are eventually going to deal with anxiety. You might also feel overwhelmed, even though there is no reason to. You might become quick to anger, remain in a constant state of irritability, and experience restlessness. You might 
start losing the motivation to even do things that you enjoyed before. If symptoms continue for a long time, then you may develop depression.
Stress on Behavior
Because you are quick to anger or in a state of irritability, you might have periodic outbursts of anger, sometimes for the most trivial of reasons. People with prolonged stress often turn to substance abuse to numb some of the feelings they experience. You might become socially withdrawn, overeat or undereat, and avoid taking care of your health.







Chapter 5: Dealing with Negative Emotions
Now that we are aware of the way emotions can become negative, it is time we set our minds to trying to overcome the negativity of these emotions. For some, the process might not be easy. For others, dealing with the emotion might take more time than you had thought. But inaction is the enemy of a better life. Which is why, regardless of how challenging or time consuming it is to deal with negative emotions, we should do so anyway.
Dealing with Grief and Agony
Grief
When it comes to grief, numerous myths try and explain how one can deal with the emotion. Which is why, before we even venture forth into the process of dealing with grief, we should look at some of these myths.






Myth


Fact




The pain will go away faster if you choose to ignore it.


In reality, choosing to ignore the pain will only make it worse. When the emotion returns to bring you down in the future, it is much stronger and usually catches you off-guard.




You should aim to "be strong."


Never ignore the real emotions you are feeling. You do not have to put on a brave front. You are grieving, and loneliness, sadness, and fear are normal emotions to feel.




The less you cry, the less regretful you are about the loss.


Different people have different coping mechanisms. Just because someone is not crying does not mean they do not feel the pain.




Typically, the grief period lasts for about a year.


Grief does not have a schedule. It could stay with you for six months, a year, a year 
and a half, or more.




When you move on with your life, it means you are ignoring your loss.


You deserve to find peace and accept the loss. You deserve to find normalcy and do the things you have always enjoyed doing. You are not meant to be a prisoner of grief.




With the myths out of the way, let us look at the ways in which you can deal with grief.
Expression and Acceptance
According to the Harvard Medical School (Harvard Medical School, 2005), people who do not find avenues to express themselves or accept their loss eventually end up suffering from health problems because of their grief. In order to express what you are feeling and eventually come to terms with your grief, it is important to seek out caring people. It could be your friend, family member, or even a distant relative that you trust. Talk to the person and communicate whatever you can about your grief.
Feel Your Sadness
Do not hold back your sadness. Often, preventing the emotion from coming out will only force your mind to build it up inside you unless it becomes too overwhelming. Similarly, whenever you feel sad, let the emotions manifest out of your mind.
Manage a Routine
Add as much routine as possible into your life. It could be something as simple as making sure that you eat at the same time every day or ensure you are wearing new clothes regularly. As you get used to one routine, add one more. Keep each routine simple so that you do not overwhelm yourself.
Abundant Sleep
This goes without saying but sleep is essential for you to have enough rest, which in turn puts you in a better frame of mind the next day. With adequate rest, you avoid facing grief with exhaustion.
Eating Healthy
At this time, avoid eating anything with too much fat or cholesterol. A well-balanced meal will help your body heal and improve your immune system in case things take a turn for the worse.
Do Something for Someone Else
According to research, performing generous acts can actually make you happier. This is because generous acts activate the part of the brain that is linked to the reward cycle. So, give in abundance, you will feel better and at the same time, benefit others.
Avoid Numbing Yourself
Resorting to addictive substances to medicate yourself only causes temporary relief. Eventually, when the effects of the substance wear off, your emotions return to you in full swing. And this time, they are not holding back their punches.
Seek Counseling
If you begin to experience depression, insomnia for a long time, poor social skills which are eventually causing your relationships to deteriorate, and sexual health issues, then do not wait for things to get better. Seek out counseling because not only can a general practitioner or therapist be able to recommend alternative methods of healing, but they are the only ones who have the authority to prescribe antidepressants or medications if the need arises.
Agony
Emotional agony can be crippling. It hits you hard and then leaves a trail of emotional wreckage. But that does not mean you have to sit there and watch it all happen without doing anything about it. Here are some ways that you can deal with agony.
Take Breaks
One of the things that causes emotional agony to worsen is the act of self-blame. Too often, we end up in a toxic loop of blaming ourselves for things that might not even be our responsibility. In other cases, we become obsessed with the little things that we did that caused a situation to yield negative results. If you begin to feel overwhelmed, then take a break from your work or task and simply do things that you are good at or enjoy.
Gain Perspective
When we are in the middle of a situation, it becomes challenging to analyze it rationally. In such circumstances, take a step back and look at what is happening around you. If the situation is particularly filled with grief, then you should focus on managing your grief first. Taking care of one problem at a time helps you take care of the agony or lessen its effects.
Avoid Personalization
Rather than think that the situation was caused by you or by something that you did, take a step back and realize the alternatives to why it could have happened. Take yourself out of the picture and ponder about the situation. This also helps you make peace and come to terms with the reality of the situation.
Avoid Loneliness
When faced with agony, it becomes difficult for people to go out and face others. This means that any social connection either becomes nonexistent or is barely present in people's lives. In times of loneliness, agony can be rather powerful. You have no one to talk to or spend time with. Your agony becomes your only company. When faced with emotional agony, being close to people eliminates the need for you to face your agony alone. You can even depend on your friends or family for support. If nothing else, their company is a welcome distraction.
Avoid Rumination
Going through the scenarios over and over after the occurrence of the tragedy in your life is not going to change the fact that it occurred. The more you ponder the loss and tragedy, the more you begin to find new faults, mistakes, regrets, and guilt. Keep yourself distracted with activities that you are good at and more importantly, try not to be alone too often.
Seek Treatment
If — despite your best efforts — you find yourself facing a relentless onslaught of agony without any improvement, then think about seeking treatment from a professional. Not only will they have access to and give you a whole lot of treatment options, but they can 
also prescribe you with medication if the need arises.
Dealing with Anger
Anger is a destructive emotion. It is capable of causing harm to both you and the people around you. When anger cannot be managed, it can manifest itself in rage, which in turn is like the bigger and badder older brother of anger. Let us look at some of the ways you can deal with anger.
Harmless Activities
It is important for you to feel in charge of your behavior rather than allow past programs to feel that they have more control over you. As we just understood, anger is capable of causing harm to others as well as yourself. Your outward display of anger can hurt people emotionally and if goes too far, even physically. Anger can harm you because when you bottle it up, it doesn't fade away. All that destructive emotion is simply building up inside you. It's like a pressure cooker - the steam keeps building up inside and eventually gets released. If you block the passage for the steam to escape, then your pressure cooker's lip is capable of exploding outwards.
This analogy applies to anger. If you have a valve to vent out the steam, then you can keep your anger in check. If there is no valve, then you are a living, breathing pressure cooker.
So, what are these "values" that we are talking about? Simple. They are activities where you can displace all the anger within you.
Some of them include:

●
     
Taking a long run


●
    
Taking out your anger on a punching bag (don't worry, you are not going to hurt its feelings).


●
    
Punch a pillow (when you cannot find a punching bag).


●
     
Hit the gym


●
     
Play sports such as tennis, squash, swimming, or soccer


●
     
Ride a bicycle

Write About the Situation
One of the ways to displace anger is to write about it in detail. You can use a pen and paper or boot up your computer. Either way, you need to be as descriptive as possible. Once you are done, you can keep the notes you made or you can get rid of it (in case you are worried that someone might come across it). Although, sharing the notes with someone can help you, as we will see in the next point.
Talk About Your Feelings
If you have made the notes using the step above, then they can be used to show someone what you are going through inside. If you do not have any notes, then do not worry. Talking to someone close to you is a way to not only expel all that anger you hold inside, but to also forge stronger relationships. When people close to you understand you better, you and your close ones can find out a way to deal with your anger.
Bring Out the Humor
While this might sound rather unorthodox, adding humor into your life is a good way to balance out the anger you feel. When the most common emotion that you feel is anger, it becomes easy to think that all you have with you are negative feelings. A little balance not only eases the pressure of anger but also reminds you that even you are capable of bringing out your inner joy.
Practice Meditation
Most people think of meditation as something that is spiritual in nature. But the act of practicing breathing has roots in science. According to Psychologists, you can direct your anger in more constructive directions by simply practicing yoga (Ma, 2016).
Dealing with Surprise and Fear
Surprise
Surprise is an involuntary reaction. There is no way to really control it unless you know or can predict what is about to happen. But what we can do is manage the emotions that we feel after experiencing surprise. So how do we do it? What's the secret behind managing the after-effects of a reaction to surprise?
Practice Breathing
Take a moment to breathe. Even if your friends just surprised you with a birthday cake, take two deep breaths. Once you are done, you can then choose your response. If the surprise was a pleasant one, give your best smile and let the positive emotions run through you. Let your friends know that you were genuinely surprised and that you are happy about it. The expression of honesty not only diffuses any concerns your friends might have but also makes you seem like a genuine person. If the surprise was a negative one, then you now have the opportunity to think about what you want to do next.
Feel Your Body
If you feel overpowered by your emotions and you feel like your mind is drifting away, then simply focus on your body. Feel the ground beneath your feet, the wind in your hair, sounds= entering your ears, smells, sights, and anything else you can take notice of.
Look into a Mirror
When you feel surprised and find yourself facing a negative situation, then you are probably in the midst of a torrent of emotions. If you have a mirror close to you or a reflective surface, then looking into it will give you a glimpse of your facial expression. Sometimes, when we do not want to express negative emotions, we just need to be reminded that we are about to. Looking at your reflection is a reminder of what you were about to reveal.
Prepare Your Mind
One of the most important exercises for your mind is to teach it to realize that surprises are part of the everyday experience. Remind yourself every day that no matter what happens, you will calm down as soon as you feel surprised. Remember that it is okay to feel surprised. You are merely trying to train your mind to slow down after feeling surprised with this method.
Plan Alternatives
For most things in life, there is no stopping the surprises that come your way. But sometimes, you can try and minimize the damage by creating alternative plans for your original course of actions or ideas. This way, you won't have to experience surprise that could 
lead to feelings of disappointment, hopelessness, or even fear.
Facing the Inevitable
If something occurs that is inevitable and there is nothing you can do about it, then keep in mind that express negative emotions is not going to make things any better. Your best course of action would be to think about what you want to do next.
Fear
Fear is an emotion that can easily immobilize you. One of the common symptoms of fear is that it prevents you from thinking clearly. You end up reacting to your instincts and while that is essential for quick reactions, sometimes you might need your rational mind to help you find a solution.
Leave the Situation
One of the things that you can do is find a way to leave the situation causing you fear. If you are able to, distance yourself from it until you can analyze it from a rational perspective. For example, if you are walking down an alley and you suddenly begin to experience fear, try not to rationalize it at that moment. Simply walk out of the alley as soon as you can and then think about the event when you are away from it. This allows you to rationalize the situation properly. You can tell yourself that there was nothing to be afraid of and that it was just a nervous reaction to the environment. Some people try to rationalize the situation while they are still within the environment of fear. This does not work too well because your dominant emotion is still fear and it is capable of easily influencing other emotions.
Learn Your Fears
Every now and then, try to put yourself in situations where you feel fear. Make sure that these situations do not produce intense fear. When you experience fear willingly, you get to explore the emotion properly.
The best way to go about this is by asking yourself questions. Once you begin to experience fear, ask yourself if the emotion is justified. Was is really necessary to be afraid that time? If your answer is no, then you might find that your fear diminishes slightly. The main 
reasons why this tactic works is because you are placing yourself, and not the emotion, in the spotlight. When you answer that you have nothing to be afraid of, you are taking the power away from the emotion and placing it within you.
Breathe and Evaluate
When fear strikes you the next time, start focusing on your breathing. Allow yourself to clear your mind and then begin to evaluate the situation. Pay as much attention to detail as possible. When you begin to focus on the environment or the situation you are in, then you do not leave any space for fear to take hold of you. Additionally, by evaluating the situation, you are allowing yourself to find rational solutions to deal with the fear.
Face the Facts
One of the most effective ways to deal with fears is by listing them down on a piece of paper. Then, try and use facts to wonder if your fears are valid. For example, if you are worried about your airplane crashing on a flight, then think about whether it has ever happened to anyone you know. Use facts to support your argument. At this point, do not worry about using confirmation bias. You are not looking for facts to prepare for a debate. You are trying to calm your fears.
It would also help if you research more about the object of your fear. For example, let us say that you frequently use Cathay Pacific to fly to your destination. Try and research more about the airlines itself, the safety features it uses, and its track record. This way, you are proving that there is no reason for you to be fearful.
Feel Comfortable with Confidence
Try and put yourself in situations that you are not fearful about. Notice how confident you are when you are in those situations. Then, make notes on the steps you take during those situations. How do you prepare yourself? Why do you feel confident? How do you deal with the situation?
When you understand your confidence, then you can replicate it when you enter a fearful situation.
Talk to Someone About Your Fear
Having a conversation with someone about your fear not only helps you get an outsider's perspective, but you also begin to evaluate the entire experience from a different angle. This allows you to find areas that you can improve upon or faults in your reasoning when you feel fear. For example, let us say that you are afraid of the dark. By talking to your friend, you might just find out that it is probably because of your frequent habit of watching too many horror movies at night. Your emotional subconscious has now latched on to the idea that darkness is a scary place to be in. How do you combat it? Watch action movies where the characters seem to fight back even in the dark. It might seem like a simple solution, but by slowly allowing yourself to feel empowered, you can change your perspective.
Don't Mock Yourself
Finally, no matter how irrational you might think that your fear is, do not mock yourself for feeling it. There is nothing wrong with having a fear might seem trivial to others. Ever heard of nomophobia? It is the fear one feels when they notice their phone battery is about to end. Linonophobia? Fear of strings. Ablutophobia? Fear of cleaning. There is a whole gamut of fears that one might not even know exist!
Choose to understand your fear. Don't blame yourself for having it.
Dealing with Apathy
The difficult part about dealing with apathy is that you might not feel like taking any action to deal with apathy. It is such a conundrum that people often struggle to get rid of the emotion. But let us look at ways you can change that.
Engage Yourself
Do something. Do anything. You need to break the cycle of inaction. So, if you feel that you want to start with something simple, then go right ahead.
One of the best activities to engage in is a walk. Set a time for yourself and walk for the duration of that time. For example, decide that you are going to spend 15 minutes walking. It does not matter what direction you take and where you would like to go.
Note down the time that you had decided to take a walk. For example, if you took a walk at 8 a.m. in the morning, then note down the time. Every day, you should take a 15-minute walk at 8 a.m. As I had mentioned earlier, it does not matter where you walk, as long as you leave your house or building and move outside. You can even turn the walk into an experience all on its own.
For example, create a route for yourself that you would like to take every day. As you are walking along the route, look at the establishments or people that you pass by each day. Stop at the local coffee shop and strike up a conversation with the barista. Sit down at the park along the way or a public bench, if there is one. By adding these little experiences to your walk, you will look forward to the activity every day.
After that, it is only a matter of keeping the activity a habit.
Connect with Nature
Being close to nature makes you much calmer and relaxed. This allows you to think about your situation more clearly. Even a walk in the park will help you find your momentum. If possible, try and find something to do while you are close to nature. If you are in the woods, try and take a hike. If you are in the park, perhaps you could feed the birds.
Enjoy a Meal Out
Sometimes, all you need is to treat yourself and at the same time, experience the outdoors while doing so. Dining out helps you enjoy a hearty meal and look at the world around you. Bonus points for bringing along a friend as you can engage in a conversation. Remember that you do not have to keep the conversation flowing. You can talk as much as you want to. Anything that you do to break away from apathy is a progress.
Do Something for Someone Else
When you choose to help others or simply do something nice for someone, then you find a purpose in life. You realize that you can do good for others. Additionally, you feel good about yourself. You look at yourself in a new light: as a person who is capable of doing good to others.
Get a Pet
When you do not find opportunities to do something nice for others, you could always get yourself a pet. When you take care of another living being, then you discover more about yourself. You could choose to get yourself an animal that does not require a lot of attention, such as a hamster or a bird. Alternatively, if you are a cat or a dog person, then you could get those pets instead.
Create Disruption
One of the reasons that you find yourself being drawn to apathy is the routine you had established while you were in your apathetic state. Which is why you can try and create small disruptions in your environment. Change the time you wake up. Stop taking your breakfast out of your refrigerator and prepare something fresh for yourself. If you find yourself switching on the TV in the evening, then head to the gym or go out for a walk instead. By creating small disruptions, you are training your mind to think that your life is changing. It cannot fall back to old patterns and therefore, apathy does not tempt you that easily anymore.
Dealing with Disgust and Contempt
Disgust
When you feel disgust, you could be directing that disgust towards a person, entity, or an idea. While some of them might be justified, if you find yourself showing disgust when the situation does not call for it, then you could use the below methods to control your reaction.
When Showing Disgust Towards People, Look for Signs of Judgement
One does not feel disgust towards other people if one does not have certain preconceived notions about those people. This is why, your first action is to find out what ideas, thoughts, and judgments you have placed on people. Find out if those ideas could be mere prejudices of if they are justified. For example, thinking that every Chinese person is out there to trick you out of your money is probably unjustified. But thinking that a particular group of people whom you encountered during your holiday — and who just happen 
to be Chinese — should be avoided because you had seen them misbehave somewhere else might be a justified reaction. In one scenario, you are creating labels against an entire population of people. In the other, you are not judging the entire race, but merely a group of people whom you know have done wrong in the past. Understanding these reactions will allow you to reframe your thoughts.
When You Feel a Sense of Disgust Towards Certain People, Help Them Instead
Let us say that you have been showing signs of disgust when you notice people of a certain race. One of the ways that you can overcome your emotions is by actually looking for opportunities to help them. Maybe give them the way if you notice that you are both heading towards the door. If you notice that they are lost, then you could guide them. Through small actions, you begin to slowly treat them like you would treat everyone else. Eventually, your emotional subconscious understands that being in the presence of the people you dislike is quite normal and sends up positive emotions when you are near them.
When Showing Disgust Towards People, Do Not Blame Yourself
The world is a complex place. Nothing is black and white. People are capable of change. They simply need an opportunity to show that change. Similarly, do not judge yourself or be unkind to yourself because of the prejudices you harbor against others. You are not wrong if you are consciously making an effort to change yourself. You have just proven to yourself that you are indeed a better person.
When Feeling Disgusted by Objects, Creatures, or Situations: Face the Cause of Disgust
One of the more direct ways to overcome your disgust is to subject yourself to the source of your disgust. Say for example that you are disgusted by lizards. The way you are going to overcome your feelings of disgust is to be in the presence of a lizard. If you like, you can start by looking at pictures of lizards, but eventually you will have to face a live lizard. This allows you to understand just why you feel disgusted and rationalize it. You might of course twitch or feel repulsed the first few times, but that is completely normal. That 
allows you to get rid of the repulsion so that next time, you are better prepared to face the object or creature again.
When Feeling Disgusted by Objects, Creatures, or Situations: Question Yourself
In many cases, disgust is an important emotion. You feel disgusted when you are close to a spider. Now the spider could be pretty harmless, or it could be capable of causing harm to you. The best way to find out is by questioning yourself. If you feel disgusted towards the smell of a certain type of food, try and ask why you do. When you come to the conclusion that you felt disgusted because you sensed the food was spoilt, then you know that your emotion was justified. If you feel disgusted towards an insect, or an object, then ask yourself why you are feeling those emotions. Without the right answer, you know that your feelings do not have a proper reason. In that case, you can focus on trying to remove the feeling of disgust towards that creature or object.
Contempt
Once contempt takes root in your mind, it is a difficult emotion to remove. But that does not mean that there is no hope. Here are a few ways to manage your contempt.
Understand Your Thoughts
Most of the time, the reason for your contempt can be identified within the thoughts that run through your mind. Factors such as a person's lack of confidence, inability to communicate in the same language as you, or simply the color of their skin breeds contempt. The best way to deal with the situation is to identify those thoughts and the next time you find yourself about to show contempt towards someone, think positive thoughts about them instead. For example, if you cannot remove your attention from the person's lack of confidence, then try and think about their good nature, compassion, or generosity.
Use Empathy
Empathy is a powerful tool to understand others. When you begin to feel contempt for a person, put yourself in their shoes and imagine what would happen if someone was throwing feelings of contempt 
your way. The next time you meet the person, try and say something nice or perform an act of kindness. When you begin to create a positive relationship with someone, it becomes difficult for you to show contempt towards that person.
Focus on Your Actions
If you find yourself shaking your head, looking the other way, ignoring someone, or simply sneering when someone is close to you, then you could practice changing your actions. Next time, if the person is in your presence, make an effort to make eye contact. Smile at them. Listen to them. By slowly removing the actions that could negatively affect the person, you are leaving space for positive actions to take their place.
Forgive
You may think that certain people do not deserve a second chance. But the reality is that if you can find the capacity to forgive, then you do not build feelings of contempt within you. This helps you practice the act of forgiveness over the act of breeding contempt.
Dealing with Pride
Pride is an emotion that becomes such a natural part of our existence that we do not even think of it as something wrong. We continue to feel it, sometimes resulting in a positive outcome and other times, a negative outcome. When you feel like your pride might be turning into arrogance, then here are some ways you can manage it.
Stay Alert
One of the most important steps to take is to first start noticing when you become prideful. When you notice yourself acting on emotions of pride, don't berate yourself for it or put yourself down. Let the situation play out so that you might be able to evaluate it later.
Evaluation
Once the situation has played out, try and analyze your emotions. Why did you act out in such a manner? Is there something that is missing in your life? What are your positive qualities? What are your negative qualities?
When evaluating yourself, make sure that you are honest with yourself. You are here to find a way to eliminate prideful feelings, so the more honest you are, the better you will be able to help yourself.
Find Ways to Be Equal
Look for reasons to place yourself as an equal to others rather than their superior. If you have been experiencing low self-esteem, then do not look for ways to make yourself look perfect. Rather, look for reasons to prove that you are on an equal plane with the people around you. When you perform this exercise, you begin to see yourself as part of a crowd, rather than someone who is separate from the crowd.
Likes and Dislikes
Do you like someone and dislike someone else? Do you know why?
Start noticing the people you like and dislike. When you do, start taking down notes on why you like or dislike them. Once you have noted down your emotions towards them, analyze the notes and see if your responses were justified. For example, you dislike your coworker. Now list down the reasons why you dislike him. Does he have bad table manners? Is he capable of belching so loud that his or her burp could register on the Richter magnitude scale?
Now look at these points and then find out if these reasons are sufficient enough for you to dislike them entirely. Balance out their negative aspects with positive aspects. Maybe your friend is too loud when he or she is in a crowd, but they are genuinely compassionate and kind. Think of ways you can communicate your feelings to the person so that they can improve themselves.







Chapter 6: Eliminating Anxiety and Stress
Once anxiety and stress take over your life, there ends up being a host of other problems including depression, headaches, insomnia, lack of appetite, and more. The most important thing to note is that for many, taking action might seem like the most difficult step, but it is through action that we can even hope to get rid of any amount of anxiety or stress. Let's look at ways you can deal with each of the two issues.
Working with Anxiety
Back to the Present
Typically, anxiety is a situation that focuses on future affairs. Which is why you should make sure that every time you notice your mind wondering about the future, you bring yourself back to the present. The best way to go about that is to ask yourself the questions below:

●
     
What is happening right now?


●
    
What was your focus before anxiety decided to interrupt you?


●
    
Is there something I should be worried about right now?


●
     
Am I safe right now?

When you have answered the above questions, you can tell yourself that you will come back to them again at another point in the day so that you can dedicate time to think about yourself. Essentially, you are telling your mind not to interrupt your day and that you will be able to asses whatever is causing you anxiety at a particular point.
Meditate
Take 10 to 15 minutes every day to simply sit down somewhere you won't be interrupted and meditate. Calming yourself down might not be easy at first, but make sure that you practice every day until you are able to get it right. Here is a simple breathing exercise that you can follow:

●
    

Find a place where you won't be interrupted for the next 10 to

15 minutes. You can either choose to sit or lie down on a comfortable surface.



●
    
Once you have found a comfortable position, close your and eyes and take a few deep breaths.


●
    
Once you have done that, bring your breathing back to normal.


●
    
As you are breathing normally, bring your attention to your breathing.


●
    
Now take a deep breath and as you do so, count to 5. Now hold your breath in and count to 3. Release your breath and let it last longer than the count of 5.


●
    
Once again, bring your breathing back to normal. As you are breathing, you will notice that your mind might fill up with certain thoughts, ideas, or memories. They could be positive or negative. Regardless, do not ignore the thoughts. Make a mental note every time thoughts appear in your head and move on. If you are finding it difficult to move on from a thought, give it time to exit your mind.


●
    
Continue breathing in this manner for the next 10 to 15 minutes. You can continue breathing longer if you like.


●
    
Once you are done, take a few deep breaths again and bring your attention back to your surroundings. Notice the ground beneath your feet or the surface on which you are lying down. Notice the scents around you and the feel of the air on your body. Once you have grounded your mind in your surroundings, open your eyes.

Rethink Your Emotions
Try and acknowledge what you are feeling and relabel those feelings. For example, every time you get a panic attack, do not react to it. Instead, accept the fact that you are getting a panic attack and try your best to calm down. Then, remind yourself that this is temporary and that there is nothing for you to be worried about.
Be Realistic
Anxiety often makes you think about all the negative things that could happen to you. For example, if you are heading to an interview, then your anxiety might make you think that you are probably going to do terribly in the interview. But every time that happens, bring your attention to a realistic scenario. Think to yourself:
I have prepared myself for this. There are going to be challenges but I am going to do my best, regardless of the outcome.
By simply changing your thought structure, you are preventing your anxiety from taking control and your rational mind to drive your thoughts.
Slow Things Down
When anxiety attacks you, you are probably going to feel that your mind is zooming like a race car. Try focusing on your environment and then use lists to calm your mind. Look around you and make a note of three things that you can see. Then, focus on your hearing and note down three things that you can hear. You can even focus on an object in the environment and then note down three things about it. When you force yourself to focus on your environment, you are taking your attention away from your anxiety and focusing it on your surroundings.
Commit to an Act
If you start to feel the first signs of anxiety, then do something to distract yourself. Go ahead and make yourself some coffee. Take a walk outside. Engage in a conversation with someone. In fact, even doing some stretching exercises will suffice. The idea is to not allow anxiety to take over and ground yourself in the moment.
Maintain Good Posture
When we feel anxious, we are conscious of ourselves. We feel vulnerable and to protect ourselves from that vulnerability, we bring our shoulders together and hunch down. By simply walking or sitting with good posture, you are tricking your brain into thinking that everything is alright.
Avoid Sugar
According to researchers, sugar is harmful to your mental health (Lindberg, 2018). When you are hit with anxiety, you might feel a sudden craving for sugar. The problem with sugar itself is that your body releases insulin to deal with the excess glucose in the body. This makes the body work much harder than before to get back to a normal state. When you are feeling anxious, the last thing you want to do is overwork your body because that would mean you are going to experience highs and lows more frequently. This state of instability is harmful to your anxiety, as you are already experiencing highs and lows because of it.
Organize Yourself
Try not to get stuck in a rut when you are completing small tasks. People with anxiety always seek to get things under control. When you cannot accomplish even a simple task as finding your car keys, then your anxiety may shoot through the roof for the most trivial of reasons. Try this little hack to organize yourself:

●
    
Choose a place to store your important stuff like car keys, wallet, and cards.


●
    
Choose another place to store spare change and emergency cash.


●
    
Finally, pick a place to keep important documents such as your passport or marriage documents so that you always know where to go when you need them.

Depending on how many items you have with you, you can choose multiple places to store them. The next thing you want to do is make a note of these places. Finally, make sure that you are putting your things in their designated spot.
By organizing things, you are avoiding a state of panic. You are preventing anxiety from taking control at the worst possible moment (for example, in the morning when you are about to head to work). Additionally, by putting things where they belong, you are bringing order into your life. A sense of order gives you control and that control, in turn, makes you feel powerful.
Challenge Negativity
Do not let negativity get free reign. Whenever you feel negative thoughts swimming through your mind, challenge them. Follow these steps to make sure that you get the upper hand over your negative thoughts:
Begin recording your thoughts whenever you get anxious.
Now explain what you feel when these thoughts enter your mind.
For example, you might be getting anxious about taking the subway because you think that people judge you. If fear is the emotion that comes to mind during this situation, then note down the word fear right next to your recorded event.
Next, use facts and rational thought to objectively question and analyze your anxiety.
In the above example, ask yourself if there truly is a reason for you to be worried about others' opinions? Besides, know that others might be going through the same emotions, even though they are not displaying it outwardly. Think about the fact that it does not matter what others think unless they are people you know. Think about the times that your family or friends enjoyed spending time with you, revealing the fact that you are loved by the people who care about you the most.
Coming up with rational thoughts for your anxiety can be rather challenging. But focus on your reality, your surroundings, the people in your life, and the knowledge that you have. If you truly wish to, go ahead and research a topic so you are more knowledgeable about it.
Working with Stress
The most important thing to focus on when you are stressed is the factor causing your stress. Once you can identify the source, you can take steps to prevent stress from overwhelming your life. Additionally, you need to be able to identify the fact that you are feeling stress. Most people ignore certain symptoms, believing that they are caused by other factors.
Identifying Stress
Know that there is a difference between just feeling tired or ill and experiencing stress. One way to identify stress is by looking out for other symptoms such as feeling extremely tired and lethargic, headaches or migraines, tense muscles, and constant worry. In such cases, you are not merely tired or ill, you are genuinely affected by stress.
Group Your Stress
Next, look at the causes of the stress and group them into one of three categories:


You are able to deal with the cause by using logical solutions


The situation will get better over time


There is nothing you can do about the cause of your stress


If you can do something about your stress, then create a practical plan to deal with the problem. However, if the cause of your stress falls into category 2 or 3, then try not to worry too much about those kinds of stress. They are beyond your control.
Recognize Your Responsibilities
Make a review of your work and ask yourself the following questions:

●
     
How many responsibilities have you taken on your plate?


●
    
Can you ask for someone's help to deal with some of the work you have to do?


●
     
Are you taking free time for yourself?


●
    
Can you organize your work so that you can deal with one task at a time?

Reduce the Intake of Addictive Substances
If you have been consuming alcohol or resorting to smoking and drugs, then try and cut them from your life. In the case of drugs, avoid them completely and for smoking and alcohol, see if you can reduce your intake to small levels of consumption.
Workout or Exercise
If you can hit the gym or take part in physical activity, then make sure that you take advantage of that. In fact, simply spending time outdoors has a positive effect on your health and mind (Heart.org, 2018). Try and see if you can incorporate some light exercises into your routine.
Take Some Time Off Work
If you feel that stress overwhelms your life, then there is no harm from taking some time out for yourself. A little break improves your productivity at work and allows you to examine the problem from a different perspective. Convince yourself that it is okay to take care of yourself, as you might be stuck in a mental loop where you might think that being busier is good for you when in reality, it is not.
Practice Mindfulness
Through mindfulness, people can examine their thoughts and feelings to better cope with bad situations in their life. One of the best ways to incorporate mindfulness is by practicing meditation frequently.
Avoid Punishing Yourself
You must have seen quotes about people pushing themselves to the edge in order to accomplish something. The thing is, they are neglecting other plans; one where they are relaxing on a beautiful beach with a martini in hand.
Try putting your life into perspective and check to see if you are managing your time well between your work life and your personal life. See if you have been spending time with the people you care about.
Additionally, if you feel that your mind has been too critical on yourself, then try and analyze each critical thought. Ask yourself if your mind is truly justified in forming these thoughts. Think of the times that you had reacted too critically towards yourself. Perhaps by repeatedly being harsh on yourself, your emotional subconscious has picked up on your reactions and is now creating similar 
thoughts.
What you need to do is train your emotional subconscious to motivate you. The task might not be simple if you have been facing critical thoughts for some time, but you know what they say about practice and perfection. Every day, create a list of three things that are good qualities about yourself. Memorize these qualities. Every time you receive a negative thought during the rest of the day, repeat the positive traits you had memorized. The next day, pick three new positive traits and repeat the exercise. Through this simple exercise, not only are you training your emotional subconscious to examine you from a more positive light, but you are also showing yourself that there are so many things positive about you.
Get Good Sleep
Do not sacrifice a good night's sleep to complete the project you have been working on. Try and organize your day so that you can perform with maximum efficiency without having to allow your work to interrupt your sleep. If are indeed faced with a project that looks like it is not going to let you catch some z's, then make up for your lost sleep the next day or the day after that. However, do not remain sleep deprived for more than a day or two at most (in fact, even two days of little sleep are harmful, but if you really have to, then make sure you have done everything by the second day).







Chapter 7: Emotional Intelligence
What is EQ?
Emotional intelligence is a term that is commonly thrown around, but not many people seem to grasp what it really means. The term was first introduced into the scientific community by two researchers; John Mayer (not the vocalist) and Peter Salavey. According to the two researchers, emotional intelligence (denoted by either EQ or EI) is the ability of a person to:

●
     
Identify, evaluate, and manage his or her emotions


●
     
Identify, evaluate, and influence the emotions of others

There are five elements that make up emotional intelligence. They are:
Self-Awareness
People who have high EQ have the ability to evaluate themselves better. They can understand their emotions and find ways to manage them. They do not let their emotions control them or guide their decisions. For example, certain people with high EQ are able to understand that they might be short-tempered. To keep their emotions in check and prevent them from coming out at the worst possible moment, they use the techniques mentioned earlier in this book to manage their anger.
Self-Regulation
When you are able to self-regulate, then you are able to think before you act. This means that instead of letting your emotions do the reacting for you, you regulate them, evaluate the situation you are in, and form appropriate responses. People who are able to regulate their emotions are good at keeping inappropriate reactions at bay.
Motivation
When people have high EQ, they can forego short-term rewards for 
long-term gains. They have trained their minds to avoid reaching for things on an impulse. They enjoy challenges, look for ways to become better and more skilled, and are extremely productive.
Empathy
When you are emotionally strong, you are able to better understand others and even put yourself in their shoes. Empathy is a trait of an individual with strong EQ. Using empathy, people can reserve their judgments, recognize the wants and needs of others, understand their viewpoints, and even live life honestly and openly.
Social Skills
When people have high EQ, they are able to blend into almost any social situation. They are perceived as sociable by others. They even ensure that they do not focus on themselves all the time. Using their powers of empathy, they can help others improve and develop. They can easily manage conflicts, convey their messages clearly and concisely, and keep their relationships strong.
Making EQ Work for You
Most people agree that relationship and emotional skills are important facets of life. Yet, not everyone is aware of how to make EQ work for them. Here are some ways you can use emotional intelligence to your advantage.
Avoid the "I" and Make It About "Us"
When your emotions are all over the place, they tend to focus mainly on you. Which is why most of your statements are about placing you in the spotlight. By practicing the habit of letting others know that they are all part of your conversation, you build stronger relationships and also ensure that you are not allowing your emotions to position you as an individual with a high ego.
Be Curious About the Other Person
To get to know someone, you need to be able to understand them. To do this, try asking more questions about the other person and his or 
her experiences. When having a conversation with someone, do not wait for the opportunity to speak. Rather, listen to them with patience and speak when it is your turn. Often, you might find yourself in situations where the other person seems to "hog the limelight," Do not feel the need to overrule them so that you have to talk about yourself. If you have to make a comment, be polite about it and let them know that you were not trying to stop them from speaking their mind.
The Face-to-Face Approach
In today's world, it is easy to simply send a quick message and an emoji to show your meaning and intent. But nothing — not even the plethora of ways that we can express ourselves online — can beat a personal form of communication. The Japanese believe in personal communication and even set up business meetings to talk about things that can easily be communicated via the phone. They believe that through such personal meetings, better relationships are formed. Take a page out of the Japanese communication guidebook and make sure that you spend more time in front of the person than behind a screen.
Understand People's Expectations
Do not assume anything about anybody. Reserve your judgments until you get to know them better or they let you know about their intentions. Additionally, try and understand what motivates people. Are people interested in making more money? Are they adventurers, looking for the next big adrenaline rush? Do they dream of a quiet place to settle down? Once you know what motivates people, you will begin to see them in a new light. After all, we all have things we aspire towards.
Practice with Your Emotions
Ever wanted to find out just how certain people can offer such a charming smile? Simple, it all comes from practice. But how can you practice emotions when you don't know how you look with a particular expression? Again, it's simple. You use a mirror. Want to practice your smile? Look into the mirror and keep at it until you're 
satisfied that you look so charming that people are ready to hand over their car keys to you without hesitation.
Do Not Criticize Your Emotions
Never criticize your emotions. They are there because you had developed them in the first place. Learn to understand them and work with them instead. Let's say that you get disgusted easily when people eat with their mouths open. If you were in a social setting and you realize that there is someone cannot close their mouth while chewing, then your automatic reaction would be to show a face of disgust. The best way to tackle this problem is to realize and accept that people eating with their mouths open disgust you. That is the truth. Next, you are going to learn to deal with it. You know that the person has a rather bad habit, but what makes them good? What part of their character appeals to you? Do you enjoy their sense of humor? Do you find their honesty endearing? Do you think their intelligence is refreshing? When you have analyzed these points, you can immediately place these traits on the person. Every time you are about to witness a mouth full of food, project their positive traits on them.
Empathize, Don't Sympathize
Sympathy is an easy emotion to offer and in the absence of any emotional response, we feel compelled to do something. We do not want to look like we did not make the effort to understand the person in front of us. However, by simply showing sympathy, we can come across as callous and short-sighted. Empathy does not mean that we should have all the answers for other people. Rather, it means that we are capable of understanding the other person without much words or actions. You'd be surprised to know that many people simply want to be heard - they are not looking for advice or recommendations.
Manage Your Emotions
Using the many techniques provided in this book, learn to manage your emotions well. Identify what emotion is causing disruptions in your life. Is your anger preventing you from forming strong 
relationships? Are your feelings of disgust critical about people's ethnicity, skin color, gender, or sexual orientation? Do you feel like you are unable to manage stress properly? It does not matter how many faults you find within yourself. The most important thing to do is manage them one by one. Focus on one emotion, guide it to where you would like it to be and then move on to the next one. When you work on your emotions, you clear a path for your emotional intelligence to mature and grow.







Chapter 8: Enter the Positive Emotions
Contrary to what most people think, it is not difficult to be happy. The only reason we are unable to find happiness within us is because of the overwhelming presence of negative emotions.
Because of negative emotions, people often look for "quick fixes." Maybe a bottle of wine would do the trick. Should you get that expensive bag? It's just one time, I won't do drugs again. People surround themselves with excuses for what they are doing, not realizing that they are not making themselves happy. They are merely keeping their negative emotions at bay.
It's like noticing cracks in a dam and rather than finding a solution, you stick tape over the cracks, hoping that it will keep the cracks from expanding.
The most important thing to know is that happiness and positive emotions are just like negative emotions. They are two faces of the same coin. You just haven't flipped the coin over yet because you are fixated on one side.
One of the simplest exercises that you can use to gauge your happiness is stated below:

●
    
The next time you feel happy, note down the reasons why the emotion entered your mind. What did you do to make yourself happy? What were you thinking at that time? What were you eating? Were you listening to a particular type of music?


●
    
Repeat the above exercise with sadness. What made you feel sad about a particular situation? What was running through your mind? Did you do something to encourage sadness in your life?

By evaluating the notes you made for happiness and sadness, ask yourself the following questions:

●
    
Can you use some of the ways you felt happy to negate sad feelings in the future?


●
    
Is there a way for you to transition from sadness to happiness by using some of the happy actions, thoughts, or activities?


●
    

Do you think you can repeat the things that made you happy regularly?

By gaining an understanding of both your positive and negative emotions, you might be surprised to find out that you can make a difference through a few simple steps. However, this might not work for all emotions. As we have seen, when emotions become negative, they can be potent indeed. So, is there a way we can we make positive emotions potent as well?
There is. But before we go into finding out how to manage our positive emotions, let us look at the act of courage.
Courageousness
What does it mean to have courage? Is it the fact that we jump into danger the way Tom Cruise jumps into action for his own stunts? Does it mean that we are done running away from problems and decide to finally face them? Can it be that even if we feel the fear, we choose not to let the fear overwhelm us as we navigate through a difficult situation?
What exactly is courageousness?
When you feel the emotion of courage, you become persistent. You decide to reach your goals and achieve something despite every negative emotion pushing you to give up. Courage is not always about extremes. It is not about bungee jumping to prove that we are not afraid of heights or watching a horror movie all by ourselves. Courage is about the little things. It is about waking up every day and deciding to work on your negative emotions even though you would rather head back to bed and get an extra hour of sleep. It is about telling yourself that you are going to accomplish your goals without having to resort to short-term gratification.
In other words, it is the voice inside your head that says, "I can" that then turns it into "I will."
Let us try an exercise. List down all the things that you can do or are good at accomplishing. They do not have to be complicated, merely things that you might think are trivial, but are an important component of who you are:
Start with the phrase "I can" and continue jotting down your skills. Here is an example for you:

●
     
I can attend that interview.


●
     
I can learn to play the guitar.


●
     
I can cook a healthy meal.


●
     
I can exercise patience.


●
     
I can listen to people genuinely.


●
    
I can give an honest smile to those who deserve it.


●
    
I can talk to people when I am feeling down.


●
     
I can enjoy the little things in my life.

There is no limit to the list. You can pen down as many "I can" statements as you like. This is because courageousness does not have a limit. And you should not place a limit on it as well. Feel free to show just how incredibly courageous you are!
Your next step is to write down all the things that you can't do concerning the "I can" list. In other words, turn every statement in the "I can" list into an "I can't list." The only difference here is that you should provide a reason for why you can't do the things you say you can't.
Let's use the above "I can" list that I provided as an example. So, my "I can't" list would look something like this:

●
    
I can't learn to play the guitar because I do not have a lot of time.


●
    
I can't cook a healthy meal because I might make a terrible mistake.


●
    
I can't exercise patience. I don't know how long I can sit still.


●
    
I can't listen to people genuinely. I am not certain what it means to be genuine.


●
    
I can't give an honest smile to those who deserve it. What exactly is an honest smile?


●
    
I can't talk to people when I am feeling down as I do not know how to convey my feelings properly.


●
    

I can't enjoy the little things in life because I am not sure how many little things I have that give me joy.

Now think about what happened with the above exercise. Look at the some of the reasons that I gave just because I was asked to give an "I can't" statement with a reason. You might find something similar happens with your list. The reasons you provided for the "I can't" statements might not even be valid or they might not even make sense. But you still gave them when asked to. I'm pretty certain that if asked to, you could pick apart any of the "I can't" statements apart and then tell me that the statement does not make sense.
It is the same with emotions as well. More often than not, we end up attaching a reason to our "I can't" statements in life because we do not like to admit that we cannot do something without a reason. We do not like to sound incompetent or incapable. Which is why, we don't explain our "I can" statements because they don't deserve an explanation. They are our way of saying, "I can do it. I am capable of doing it and that's all anyone needs to know."
In the next step, continue with your "I can't" statements. Only this time, you are going to truly add things that you cannot do (and they should not oppose the statements made in the I can list).
For example, you cannot say, "I can't learn to play the guitar because I do not have a lot of time," because you had already added that to the "I can" list.
In the end, you will have a number of "I can" statements and a number of "I can't" statements. Tally up the two and find out the total number of statements you have made. For example, let us say that you have made 29 "I can" statements and about 17 "I can't" statements. Your total number of statements now fall at 46.
Calculate the percentage of "I can" and "I can't" statements. Using the above example, the percentage of "I can" statements are (29/46 * 100) roughly 63%. Which means, the percentage of "I can't" statements are 37%.
Once you have measured the percentages, use the table below to find out what tier your courageousness lies at.






Tier


I can


I can't




Top


75%


35%




Average


50%


50%




Basic


25%


75%




Based on the percentages I got using the example I provided, I would probably fall between the "Top" and "Average" tier of courageousness. This means that even though I am rather courageous, I can still improve a lot. So how do I do it?
I simply head back to the "I can't" statements and look at how I can work on them. For example, let us say that one of the "I can't" statements was, "I can't give a presentation because I am nervous around my bosses."
Right now, the negative emotion that is affecting me is fear. I go back to the section on managing fear and make sure that I work on it until I feel that the "I can't" statement becomes an "I can" statement.
Eventually, the statement should read: "I can give a presentation comfortably."
Through the above exercise, you are building your courage to face the challenges in your life. You are refusing the let the things you can't do overwhelm you and despite the flurry of negative emotions, you are going to turn them into things that you can do.
Using our courage directly relates to our positive emotions. Let's see how.
Managing Positive Emotions
Positive emotions need to be managed just like negative emotions. This does not mean that you are restricting your positive emotions. Rather, you are going to create or use them when you want to.
The first thing that you are going to do is create three categories. These will be:

●
     

Things that make me happy or bring me peace


●
     
Things that build my confidence


●
     
Things that can suppress negative emotions

You should have a table that looks like this:






Things that make me happy or bring me peace


Things that build my confidence


Things that can suppress negative emotions








Now go ahead and add your "I can" statements to the table. You can repeat one "I can" statement into multiple columns. Let us take the "I can" list I provided as an example:






Things that make me happy or bring me peace


Things that build my confidence


Things that can suppress negative emotions




●     
I can learn to play the guitar.
●     
I can cook a healthy meal.
●    
 I can give an honest smile to those who deserve it.
●    
 I can talk to people when I am feeling down.
●     
I can enjoy the little things in my life.


●     
I can exercise patience.
●     
I can listen to people genuinely.
●    
 I can give an honest smile to those who deserve it.
●    
 I can talk to people when I am feeling down.


●     
I can learn to play the guitar.
●     
I can cook a healthy meal.
●     
I can enjoy the little things in my life.




Now use the table above whenever you need it to bring joy in your life. Looking to add a little peace to your day? Why not learn to play the guitar or cook a healthy meal?
Do you want to practice gaining confidence? Then perhaps you should talk to people when you are feeling down.
Using this simple exercise, you begin to manage your positive emotions just like you manage your negative ones.







Chapter 9: Decluttering Your Mind
With the amount of information we take in every day, it is no surprise to know that our minds can get decluttered. Taking the time to focus on our mind helps us clear it up for future use.
One of the most effective ways of decluttering your mind is through the process of meditation. I have provided a simple meditation exercise under "Chapter 6: Eliminating Anxiety and Stress."
Apart from that, here are two ways you can declutter your mind.
Reframing Negative Thoughts
Research has shown that we have a bias towards negativity (Cherry, 2019). Well, who can blame us? Our ancestors needed to focus on the negativity. It's how they stayed alive after all. They didn't avoid predators by plastering a smile on their face and walking through the woods with the lyrics of "Oh Happy Day" running through their mind (well, their version of "Oh Happy Day.")
As we are used to focusing on negative thoughts a lot, it might not be simple to reframe our thoughts. But by being persistent and making sure that you are breaking the pattern of negative thoughts that arise in your mind, you will be able to prevent them from getting out of control.
Here are a few tactics that you can use to reframe negative thoughts.
Tactic #1: Watch Your Emotions
Your first step is to watch your thoughts. At this point, you are simply observing what is going on in your mind.
Don't judge any thought or try to analyze it. You are merely seeing what happens to that thought.
This tactic is most successful when you simply observe the way the thoughts occur in your mind.
You can perform this tactic anytime during the day but I would personally recommend doing it while you are meditating since the 
meditation technique I had mentioned focuses on observing your thoughts without trying to understand them.
Tactic #2: Distance Yourself from Your Thoughts
Whenever you are focusing on your thoughts, make a note of the fact that your thoughts and you are different entities. For example, if you are having the thought, "I am unable to do this," then think of another thought such as this, "I am thinking of the fact that I am unable to do this."
This way, you are not defining yourself by your thoughts. You are making it clear that your thoughts are independent.
Tactic #3: Learn to Say No
Whenever you find your thoughts start to stray away to other matters or worries, then you can say "No" out loud. Make sure you are firm and confident about saying "No." When you say no, visualize blocking your mind from wandering by imagining an unbreakable wall. Many people have different methods of visualizations. Some people choose to tie their thoughts down with a rope. Others imagine pushing the thoughts down into a room. Whatever visualization technique you use, make sure it focuses on anchoring your thoughts and preventing them from blitzing through your mind aimlessly.
Tactic #4: The Rubber Band of Defense
Put on a rubber band around your wrist. Whenever you feel that your thoughts are going astray and becoming negative, simply (and gently of course) pop the band on your wrist. This is a way for you to enforce Tactic #3.
Tactic #5: Understand What Triggers Your Negative Emotions
Every negative emotion is triggered by something. If you would like to gain mastery over your emotions, then make sure that you can understand your triggers. More specifically, start paying attention to things you frequently worry or stress about.
Ask yourself every time you notice a negative thought: what caused this thought to appear in my mind?
Make sure that you note down the triggers so that you have a list you can refer to anytime.
Teaching Your Mind New Habits
The idea that you can't teach an old dog new tricks does not apply here. Most people imagine the mind as a piece of concrete or a brick wall, sturdy and strong. But in reality, the mind is like a ball of clay. You can shape it how you want with enough focus and persistence.
Let us look at the ways you can accomplish that.
Lesson #1: Replace Your Thoughts
In many cases, your thoughts do not stick to the truth. They tend to be exaggerated. This is because your mind is trying hard to distract you or get your attention. If it notices that you are ignoring it, it simply amps up the intensity of the thought.
When the thought reveals itself to you, it is difficult to not feel defeated by it. It is easy to feel like you are a failure. However, upon closer examination, you will notice that the thought is not entirely true.
When these thoughts appear, do not let them get away with the effect that they put on your mind. Stop and focus on them. Question their authenticity. Try to examine them from every perspective.
Let's say that you were at a social gathering and you got to know that someone criticized your evening wear. Rather than feel dejected about it and listen to your mind (which is probably saying that you are incapable of wearing a good outfit), choose to reflect on the incident. You might find out that there were probably 20 people who really liked your outfit.
This way, your thoughts do not get the upper hand in the situation. They cannot make you feel bad without your consent.
Lesson #2: Accept the Scenario
What happens if the thoughts are the truth? What if you really did wear a rather awful outfit to the social event? What do you do then?
In such cases, know that your thoughts are exaggerating the situation as well. In a normal circumstance, you should shrug off the fact that the outfit was bad and decide that you are going to invest in a new outfit. Or wear something different next time.
What you are doing right now is accepting the truth. You are not rejecting what your mind is telling you, but you are rejecting how badly your mind is making the situation seem like.
One of the best ways to look at the truth is by asking yourself the following questions:

●
    
What can you do to improve in the future or rectify the situation?


●
    
Have you learned any positive lessons from it that you can use to motivate yourself?


●
    
Can you find support from your friends or family to deal with the situation?

Lesson #3: Convert Your Thoughts
Overthinking gets you nowhere and neither does a runaway mind that is focused on taking you to the dark side of emotions. Rather than allow it to guide you, why not guide it instead towards positive emotions?
Think of ways you can come up with constructive solutions to your problem or situation.
The first thing that you have to do is break free from the negativity. Distract yourself with some form of action. Use the "I can" statements to find something to do that will help you feel better.
Next, start thinking of the ways that you can deal with the situation you are facing. For example, if your thoughts are reminding you about how badly you performed at your job that day and reminding you that you are probably going to get fired, think of how you can give a constructive spoon on your thoughts.

●
     
What can I do to improve my work?


●
    

Why did I perform badly today? Was I distracted at work?


●
    
Was there a recent tragedy that affected me? In that case, I could try and ask my boss for a couple of days off work.

When you start finding solutions, you not only gain confidence in yourself, but you also overpower your negative emotions with positive responses.
Lesson #4: Designate a Time to Think About Your Stress
Sometimes, all you need to do is to vent out the stress that you are feeling inside. In which case, it would help if you set aside a small portion of the day to simply get rid of the stress you have been bottling up inside.
You do not have to spend a lot of time trying to figure out your stress. Simply take 15-20 minutes to exhaust your stress.
One of the best ways to perform this exercise is by keeping a timer on your watch or phone. When the alarm beeps, you know that you have reached your time limit. This way, you do not have to constantly worry about time while dealing with your stress (that would be even more stressful).







Chapter 10: The Power of Simplicity
Researchers have discovered that clutter and mess can add to your stress (Carter, 2012). Something as simple as a messy room can cause your mind to feel overwhelmed. Psychologists even suggest that by taking up simple activities like washing dishes, you can clean the clutter in your mind and reduce the stress that you are feeling.
But what causes the clutter and mess around you in the first place? What creates the environment that surrounds you?
It is the lack of simplicity. It is when you have been acting on impulse and increasing the amount of stuff you have that you might not really need.
So, let's see why simplicity is the key and how you can simplify your surroundings.
Decluttering Your Surroundings
Most of the time, we are aware of what should be doing and how we are going to do it. But we rarely notice where we are unless we enter a novel environment and our subconscious mind pushes us to use our conscious mind to absorb what we see, hear, and smell around us. For example, we rarely pay attention to the way our room or home looks. But when we enter the lobby of a magnificent hotel, we suddenly start noticing all the little details of the lobby.
This has repercussions. Because we are so used to our homes and we don't pay attention to them, we do not notice when they begin to accumulate clutter. We constantly add new objects to our environment that we do not notice their effect on us.
But the idea of clutter does not attach itself to just physical objects. Think of the various habits, routines, and activities that we pick up. We are not aware that we have changed ourselves in many ways until we stop and take a moment to evaluate ourselves.
But how can such physical and personal change enter our lives without our awareness? How can they change our lives so drastically when we should be able to recognize their influence easily?
Part of the reason has to do with the fact that it doesn't happen overnight. We add new habits, objects, ideas, and goals to our lives over a period of time. We usually turn to add new additions to our lives after we are comfortable with one. This is why it seems as though the changes happen in our lives seamlessly, and it is for this reason that we don't notice their influence on us.
In order to eliminate them from our lives, let us look at various ways to simplify our lives and surroundings.
Simplicity in Your Home
Home is where the heart is. But what happens when your home feels like a hurricane passed through it? It stops becoming a haven and you stop putting your heart into admiring it.
Remember how we talked about the emotional subconscious influencing you with the phenomenon of priming? Your home is an incredible priming machine. Whenever we step into it, numerous primes are fighting to grab your attention. They are competing for space in your mind. Many times, each of these primes has a different aim. The stack of books that are on your dining table are asking you to arrange them. The dishes in the sink, well, you know what they are saying. The pile of clothes that now looks like a small hill is waiting for your organization skills to help them out. Everything from the haphazard arrangement of your electronic devices to the way the chairs have been scattered across your house is bombarding you with primes.
Unfortunately, you have other things on your conscious mind.
This is why your emotional subconscious takes all of this information in holds it there to review at a later date. Occasionally, your emotional subconscious reminds you of these primes but when it does, you can't easily make a connection. This is why you start feeling like you are lazy and apathetic. In reality, you might be a person who enjoys an active lifestyle. But because of the way your home looks right now, you are being introduced negative influences by your emotional subconscious. These negative influences eventually turn into negative emotions, typically the emotion of stress.
So how do you declutter your home? The process is simpler than you imagine.

●
    
Firstly, set up a small storage area or space where you can keep all your things should you need to. This area will feature all the items you are planning to store or give away.


●
    
Get yourself boxes for those items that you are planning to give away or put into storage.


●
    
Now all you have to do is start arranging or placing the items into the boxes, depending on what you want to do with them. If you cannot accomplish the entire decluttering process in one go, then try doing it over 15-minute increments every day (may not sound like a lot of time, but you can get a lot done in 15 minutes if you simply put all your attention into the task at hand).

PRO TIP: Keep a timer or a stopwatch ready whenever you start working. This way, you do not have to focus on time and put all your effort into cleaning up. When the alarm on the timer or stopwatch rings, then you know that you have to stop.

●
    
If you feel confused about which area you should declutter first, then start with the space you use the most. Grab a pen and paper and list down the areas in the order of time you spend in each of them.


●
    
If you have to work on cabinets and other storage spaces in your home, then make sure that you write down these storage spaces on your list. Once you have them written down, you can then prioritize which one you would like to handle first.


●
    
Finally (and probably the most important advice), do not procrastinate and put yourself in a position filled with indecisions. Once you have made up your mind, stick to the plan. Even if you notice that progress is slow, do not give up on the process.

Simplicity in Your Digital Life
The digital world is an important realm. We depend on our digital devices to give us comfort and make our lives easy. But what if they 
become the reason for our stress?
Look at your mobile device and the number of apps you've installed on it. Do you really need all those apps cluttering your phone?
But the concept of digital clutter does not just refer to how many applications and devices you have with you. The idea refers to the time we spend on digital technology as opposed to doing something in the real world.
Let's see how we can declutter our digital lives.
Time on Your Digital Devices
How much time are you spending on your digital devices? To answer this, I would like you to remove all the necessary activities that are essential for your personal and professional lives. For example, if you are a digital marketing professional, then most of your time is going to be spent in digital space. But what about your personal time? How much time are you giving yourself to simply go out and take a walk or engage in a physical book?
The first step to decluttering your digital space is to start taking note of the time you spend on online activities. These include only the non-essential activities such as scrolling through your social media feed, watching online videos, playing games on your computer or even your console, and other such activities.
Now, start looking at areas that you can cut back on. For example, have you been playing PC games for two hours every day? Perhaps you could try one of the following activities instead:

●
     
Reading


●
     
Working out at the gym


●
     
Spending time with a friend


●
     
Creative activities such as writing or painting


●
     
Meditating


●
     
Taking a walk in the park


●
     
Learning a musical instrument

By simply choosing to absorb yourself in these activities, you are 
automatically teaching your brain that you are a productive individual. This, in turn, boosts positive thoughts about yourself in your mind. Your mind goes from "Well, looks like he is going to play his or her games again," to "Now this is wonderful. Look at the difference he or she has made."
When you start to declutter your digital space, you begin to notice the world around you. You begin to take notice of your surroundings and you understand yourself much better.
Simplicity in Your Activities
Have you ever been in a position where you are talking to your friend and he or she asks you, "How has your week been?" and your response was something along the lines of "It has been busy as heck! I don't even have time to take a breather."
The problem with that statement is that even though you are busy at work, you feel much busier than you should be.
That is because we are constantly in the mindset to do something. We feel that stopping would mean that we are not productive at all. With the number of professionals saying, "get busy" and "get into the grit," you feel like if you don't follow this advice, you are simply a failure or you are lazy.
But that is not true. You see, everyone has different goals in life. To match those goals, we put in a set amount of work. Now here is where it gets complicated. Rather than be productive, we focus on adding more work to our already overflowing workload. Instead of organizing our thoughts and attention, we end up doing everything haphazardly. This is why the work never seems to get completed and you are always in a state of momentum.
So, how do we declutter our activities?
Make sure you have a schedule. Evaluate your tasks and assign a set time to complete each task. Do not distract yourself while completing your task. Stay focused until you see that it has been completed.
Organize your priorities. These could include cooking, laundry, grocery shopping, or other everyday activities. You simply have to 
allot a particular time for these activities so that you are now engaged in them at certain hours of the day.
Add in what I like to call the "zero time" to your schedule. During this time, you simply do nothing. You are just sitting down and either meditating or letting yourself organize the thoughts in your head. Do not entertain yourself or listen to music. Simply enjoy your company or relax for a bit.
Try to leave work on time. There is nothing you can gain by staying back and trying to complete extra work. You should organize your day in such a way that you are able to go through your tasks before the end of your day.
Simplicity in Your Actions
Our actions do speak louder than our words. So, what exactly are they conveying?
We go through so many actions in our day that keeping track of them is going to be overwhelming. We begin to act in a particular way because of the stress that we are experiencing or the level of boredom that has crept into our lives.
There is no way you can manage each and every action in your life. That would mean sacrificing your attention on the things that matter to micromanage. Instead, you can motivate yourself to act in a particular way. Let's see how you can accomplish this.
Try and take up a challenge. It can be a physical or mental challenge. You could head to the gym. You can start working on Sudoku puzzles. You can even learn to draw. Each challenge allows you to get better at something. When you see yourself improving in a particular field, you begin to feel good about yourself and your capabilities. This eventually reflects on your actions because before, you had no confidence in yourself but now, you know you are capable of taking up challenges.
Another way to change your actions is by developing your skills. Let us say that you are a chef by profession. One of the ways that you can improve your skills by trying to make new dishes and practicing new techniques. This way, you are always improving yourself, which 
further boosts your self-esteem and confidence.
Do not set goals that do not have a clear sense of direction. For example, if you are planning to travel, then do not simply say that in 2 years, you are going to travel to 20 places. Rather, try and make a list of the places you would like to travel to based on the laws, your visa requirements, and expenses. This will allow you to plan better and begin achieving one goal after another.







Chapter 11: Living with Emotions
Your Life with Emotions
Now that you understand more about the emotional subconscious and the way it affects your life, you might be better equipped to deal with it.
However, there is only so much you can do.
Think of it through this example.
Let's say that you and your friends have decided to go on a cross-country road trip. You have packed all your stuff and soon, you find yourself driving away. Along the way, one of your friends starts playing some popular tunes. You and your friends all know the lyrics to the song. Your friends — already excited — begin to sing the song.
Now you have two options:

●
    
You can tell yourself that you are not going to let your subconscious mind take over and consciously focus on your driving.


●
    
Or, you can let your subconscious mind take over the driving while you focus on singing along with your friends and having a good time. Of course, if your subconscious mind experiences a sudden occurrence, such as an oncoming vehicle, then it will automatically notify your conscious mind.

It is similar to a situation where you are driving home and you get lost in your thoughts. When you arrive home and stop the car, you are jolted out of your reverie.
Instead of trying to dominate our emotional subconscious, which is doing its job based on the information you feed it, you should focus on working on your emotions. By using the techniques in this book and also developing your EQ, which many psychologists agree is as important as your Intelligence Quotient, or your IQ (Ball, 2017).
The key thing to remember here is that we all react differently to situations. Some people are unable to hold back the anger that they 
feel towards a particularly threatening scenario. Others are able to maintain a level of patience that would surprise even a Tibetan monk. But that does not mean that one person is better than the other. You see, people have strengths when it comes to certain emotions, but they might be weak when it comes to other emotions.
In the example above, the person who exhibits a lot of patience when handling anger might not fare so well when it comes to managing his or her sadness. That is why we each have to make certain that we are honest about our weaknesses without comparing ourselves to others.
After all, everyone has their emotional challenges.
Managing the Emotions of Others
Many people think of managing the emotions of others as a way of mind control or sixth sense capabilities. But the reality is much simpler and has got nothing to do with pseudoscience or mysticism. Managing the emotions of others comes with understanding them better. It is all about knowing where they are coming from and finding ways to help them come to terms with the emotions they are exhibiting. Here are some ways to manage the emotions of others.
Empathy
Before you even think about managing the emotions of others, it is important to get a glimpse of what they are going through. Try to see where their emotions are coming from. If you do not understand, then do not hesitate to ask questions to understand more. Make sure that you do not turn the questions into an interrogation. People don't like feeling that they are being probed for information. Be patient. People with high emotional intelligence ooze positivity. Others notice this positivity in the way that high IQ people move, present themselves, talk, or even gesticulate. Because they are easy to approach, they are easily trusted. This helps break the ice and allow them to understand people more.
Listen More
One of the simplest psychological tactics you can use is to listen 
more and avoid speaking too much. Most people dislike long pauses and awkward silences. They feel compelled to add something to the lack of communication that takes place. For others, they simply want an opportunity to speak without judgement.
Do Not Make Judgments
Do not feed judgmental ideas to your emotional subconscious or you might start reacting to other people based on those judgments. It might not seem very obvious, but subtle indicators might surface and people might pick up on them. For example, if you harbor prejudice against someone, then you might tend to disbelieve them more. It might happen in the way you question them or respond to them. Eventually, they pick up on the cues you are exhibiting and decide to not confide in you at all. Always keep an open mind and train your emotional subconscious to accept people of different cultures, ethnicity, gender, or sexual orientation. One of the best ways to do this is by reading more about the diversity of people. Learn about what makes them unique.
Talk Slowly
One of the things that you can do to make sure people have a good impression on you is to speak slowly. This also allows them to slow down to your pace. When you notice that the other person is speaking too fast and is probably anxious, then by simply speaking clearly and slowly tricks their brain into thinking that there is nothing to worry about. They, in turn, stop feeling anxious and you can have a proper conversation.
Create a Connection
Almost everyone in the world aims to create a connection with another person. They do this by finding common ground. By doing this, they are trying to validate themselves through an external source. One of the ways that you can get the other person to lower their defenses, calm their emotions down, and be more open to you is by talking about a common interest. This is one way of building trust as well.
Ask Questions That Explore
It is important to get to know someone using small talk. But if the conversation does not move on into more broader subjects of conversation, then the person in front of you might think that you are not confident, you do not want to get to know them better, or that you are uncomfortable around them. This lets them believe that they should be cautious around you and their emotions might reflect their train of thought. When you ask questions that explore, people begin to feel more comfortable around you. Eventually, they are guided by positive emotions. Here are some examples of exploratory questions or queries:

●
     
That's interesting. Tell me more about that.


●
     
What do you do?


●
     
What was it like being there?


●
     
How did it feel growing up there?

Of course, the situation matters as well. For example, if you were attending a business meeting where the main topic was about how to create a profitable partnership, I don't think your next response should be, "Tell me what it was like growing up there."
Letting Go of Certain People
Being the one to let go of someone or a certain relationship can be difficult. Sometimes, even painful.
But certain circumstances call for the need to say that you do not need a particular person or a group of people in your life.
If only it was an easy task.
Why do some people find it hard to let go of their partners even though those partners are emotionally and sometimes even physically abusive towards them? Why can't we just admit that we have a toxic group of friends and that it is best for us to find new people to make friends? Why do we refuse to simply let people go?
The answer might lie in one of the below reasons:

●
    
We become used to the people around us that anything they say or do might seem "normal" to us, even though we are the victims of an attack.


●
    

We might experience low self-esteem and due to that, our emotions might be so negative that rather than focusing on letting go of someone, we are more focused on how to manage our runaway emotions.


●
    
Sometimes, we might feel guilty about leaving. We feel that we are "abandoning" the relationship. We do not question the impact the relationship has on us. We only look at what our actions might cause.


●
    
One of the reasons could be that we fear what might happen when we let go of the person. Will we ever have more friends? Will loneliness strike us?

So how can we let go of people?
Think About the Positive Results
Don't try to think of the negative impact of your actions. Rather, try and think of what you are going to gain when you let go of the person. Are you going to be more independent? Will you feel less stressful? Will you have the opportunity to explore your talents without feeling like you are being judged? Whatever the reason, think of the positive side rather than worrying about the negative results.
Consider the Impact on Other People
Letting go of the other person might not be easy. You might find that other people close to you, such as your family and friends, might be impacted as well. Make sure you are aware of your actions and that you talk to as many people as possible before you commit to your actions.
In some cases, the person you are letting go might try to sabotage your good image. They might even try to affect your good standing. Try and think of how these factors might affect you. Can you deal with the repercussions? Can you prepare yourself for what comes next? How can you make sure that the person cannot harm you or your reputation?
Explain with Reason
Simply saying goodbye might be a bad move. Even if the other person has caused you harm, it is best to explain the circumstances and motivations behind your decision.
Talk with them and try to come to an amicable decision. If things go wrong despite your best efforts, then know that you have done your best and that there is nothing more you can do.
Don't be a Lone Warrior
Have people you trust with you. This does not mean that you corner the person you are letting go. Rather, it is good to have people behind you that support your decision. Letting go can be hard.
Are you letting go of a partner who has been abusive towards you? Talk to your family about it.
Through simple ways, try and seek comfort in the fact that there are people with you.
When You Are Alone
Do not worry if you feel that you do not have a lot of supporters. When you understand the side other people have chosen, then you might realize the reality of the situation: you are free to move on and find better relationships.
No matter what happens, do not see yourself as the victim. Know that you are taking a brave measure. There is no easy way out of this.
Allow Yourself to Grieve
If you want to cry, then do not hesitate to let your tears go. You have lost something and it is not easy to simply 'get over it'. Allow yourself to grieve but be aware of your emotions. If you find that your emotions are leaping over into the negative side, then make sure that you stop. Go ahead and do something to distract you. Be your own person. Enjoy the things around you. If you would still like to grieve later, you can. But do not let grief overwhelm you.







Conclusion
Emotions are never easy to understand. That is because for most of our lives, we have let them manage us. We haven't taken the time to understand them because we are too distracted by events that are happening around us.
We are busy at work. We have bills to pay. We are worried about our family.
But the important thing to realize is that if we do not set aside the time to manage our emotions, then we are always going to be stuck in an endless loop of negative emotions. We will never get the opportunity to break free and truly work towards things that add purpose to our lives and make us happier.
And before we know it, we have already wasted most of our lives playing catch-up to our emotions.
Our emotions are powerful, and they are also necessary. Without them, we might not be able to navigate the complexities of life.
But the key takeaway here is that we have to use emotions to help us go through life. We should be able to understand how they influence our lives.
You are not meant to merely survive life. You are meant to live it.
And the first step towards living your life is to manage one of its most vital components:
Your emotions.
On that note, stay happy, stay strong, and let's hope you change your emotional frame of mind for the better.







References
Balbusso, R., Waterman, R., & Lee, J. The human brain is loaded daily with 34 GB of information. Retrieved from https://www.tech21century.com/the-human-brain-is-loaded-daily-with-34-gb-of-information/

Ball, J. (2017). Emotional Intelligence: Why EI can be more important than IQ. Retrieved 19 July 2019, from https://www.irishtimes.com/life-and-style/health-family/emotional-intelligence-why-ei-can-be-more-important-than-iq-1.2953573

Bye, J. (2012). Psychology Classics: Wason Selection Task (Part I). Retrieved from https://www.psychologyinaction.org/psychology-in-action-1/2012/10/07/classic-psychology-experiments-wason-selection-task-part-i

Camp, J. (2012). Decisions are largely emotional, not logical: the neuroscience behind decision-making. Retrieved from https://bigthink.com/experts-corner/decisions-are-emotional-not-logical-the-neuroscience-behind-decision-making

Carter, S. (2012). Why mess causes stress: 8 reasons, 8 remedies. Retrieved 18 July 2019, from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/high-octane-women/201203/why-mess-causes-stress-8-reasons-8-remedies

Cudmore, B. (2017). The Evolutionary Roots of Instinct. Retrieved from https://www.the-scientist.com/notebook/the-evolutionary-roots-of-instinct-31217

Cherry, K. (2019). How Cognitive Biases Influence How You Think and Act. Retrieved from https://www.verywellmind.com/what-is-a-cognitive-bias-2794963

Cherry, K. (2019). Why Our Brains Are Hardwired to Focus on the Negative. Retrieved 18 July 2019, from https://www.verywellmind.com/negative-bias-4589618

Gladwell, M. (1991). Matters of choice muddled by thought. Retrieved from 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/politics/1991/03/04/matters-of-choice-muddled-by-thought/5e6f1511-0d9e-4263-bac0-9ee2fb2770ef/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.989ec7b0ef4f

Goldhill, O. (2015). Humans are born irrational, and that has made us better decision-makers. Retrieved from https://qz.com/922924/humans-werent-designed-to-be-rational-and-we-are-better-thinkers-for-it/

Hallinan, J. (2014). How far we'll go to feel in control. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/kidding-ourselves/201404/how-far-well-go-feel-in-control

Harvard Medical School. (2005). Type D personality traits can hurt heart health. Retrieved 17 July 2019, from https://www.health.harvard.edu/press_releases/type_d_personality

Heshmat, S. (2015). What is Confirmation Bias?. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/science-choice/201504/what-is-confirmation-bias

Heuristics. (2019). Retrieved from https://www.apa.org/pubs/highlights/peeps/issue-105

Holland, R., Hendriks, M., & Aarts, H. (2005). Smells Like Clean Spirit: Nonconscious Effects of Scent on Cognition and Behavior. Psychological Science, 16(9), 689-693. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-9280.2005.01597.x
IIHS. (2018). Fatality Facts 2017: Yearly snapshot. Retrieved 16 July 2019, from https://www.iihs.org/iihs/topics/t/general-statistics/fatalityfacts/overview-of-fatality-facts

Lindberg, S. (2018). Your Anxiety Loves Sugar. Eat These 3 Things Instead. Retrieved 18 July 2019, from https://www.healthline.com/health/mental-health/how-sugar-harms-mental-health

Ma, L. (2016). Anger: Breathe in breathe out. Retrieved 17 July 2019, from https://www.psychologytoday.com/intl/articles/200305/anger-breathe-in-breathe-out

Nauert, R. (2019). Are Emotions Universal?. Retrieved from 
https://psychcentral.com/news/2018/01/27/are-emotions-universal/10999.html

Nordquist, R. (2018). What is a Logical Fallacy?. Retrieved from https://www.thoughtco.com/what-is-logical-fallacy-1691259

Oswald, M. E., & Grosjean, S. (2004). Confirmation bias. In R. F. Pohl (Ed.), Cognitive illusions: A handbook on fallacies and biases in thinking, judgement and memory (pp. 79-96). New York: Psychology Press.
Stafford, T. (2015). Your subconscious is smarter than you might think. Retrieved from http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20150217-how-smart-is-your-subconscious

Zhong, C., & Liljenquist, K. (2006). Washing Away Your Sins: Threatened Morality and Physical Cleansing. Science, 313(5792), 1451-1452. doi: 10.1126/science.1130726








Dark Psychology Secrets

The Art of Reading People Through Mind Manipulation for Positive Results and Understand Who is Manipulating you and How to Handle it
JAKE SHARP
DEBUT BESTSELLING AUTHOR







Chapter 1 - Introduction to Dark Psychology
If you are not aware of the dark side of psychology, then you might very well be under the control of others. No matter what you might have experienced while under the power of those around you, where it all starts is within our own head.
The brain is a complex organ that is capable of an incredible amount of various skills. Some of us look alike, and some of us even think alike, but very few people will have brains that match each other. Even identical twins will have their own individual personalities. Out of all the organs within our body, the brain might just be the one that we're never going to be able to fully understand. It is one organ that we can't replace through transplants from other people, and we will not be able to improve our brains or use artificial parts when ours aren't functioning properly. Because of all this, it is easy to start to understand just how complex thinking patterns can become.
We can understand the reasons that we do the things we do. There's always an argument about whether nature defines who we are, or if it is the nurture that we receive growing up that really helps to decide the way that we think. Most would agree now as opposed to in the past that it is a combination of both. The genetic makeup you were born with combined with the things that you experienced as you were raised will help to decide what it is about your brain that leads you to think and act in the way that you do. For this reason, we are able to start to understand what factors might drive our impulses and the patterns of thought that lead us to the decisions that we make.
Dark psychology starts to make us question what might be lying deeper underneath just the initial surface of the human mind. It is easy to see that you go to the fridge to get a snack because you are hungry. You find a partner you love because you want to have someone to go through life with. You get a job so you can have money to buy the things you want and need.
But what about everything else? What causes a person to want to control someone else? To manipulate them? To emotionally harm them? This is the part of psychology that we will be discussing 
throughout this book. It is not about the natural animalistic impulses that help lead our path through life. It is the darker part of our worlds that lead us to act deviously that we really want to understand throughout this book.
Our brains are complex organs that create the center of who we are. You pick up things from other people as you grow in this world. You are taught directly and indirectly how to act. You're told that you should be kind to other people and that you should treat your loved ones with respect. However, there might be instances, such as witnessing marital abuse, that might teach you that violence is the way to act on your emotions. Although you might be taught to say, "please and thank you," in school, you might also have had rude parental figures who took advantage of others, teaching you how to be rude yourself. Though not many people will teach their children to directly be mean, emotionally manipulative, or controlling, it is certainly something that could still easily happen.


There are billions of neurons in your brain, all of which have the power to store information. Whenever you learn new information, new connections are created within your brain. We have an endless amount of storage in our brain—or seemingly endless, at least—so we 
are truly capable of learning anything. Not everyone is aware of this great power, and rather than nurturing a growth mindset, many people will just stick to the things that they already know. They can fall into unhealthy patterns that lead to unhealthy decisions, and eventually, they might lose the ability to have control over their own lives because they will not always know how to pull themselves out of the rut they've fallen into. We all make our own decisions, but it is easy to feel as though you don't have that power based on the things that you might have experienced.
Your brain is a complex organ that isn't just made up of one big part. Instead, it is multiple parts that work harmoniously together in order to help you survive in this world as best as possible. Signals are sent throughout your brain that let other parts know what needs focus and attention at the time. You start to unknowingly train your brain as you navigate through this world. Eventually, you become accustomed to reacting to certain things in different ways, and so your brain will get used to responding as you have in the past. This is seen in how some people might lash out at the first sign of stress, or they might naturally respond to anger with violence without even thinking about it. Even though someone might be stuck in their ways, they can still get out of this pattern with a little mental effort.
Our intelligence levels are based on many different factors. We have intelligence that we gain from reading books, watching movies, and doing other academic things. We then have our ability to be logical and reasonable, figuring out problems on our own without the help of outside sources. We also have our emotional intelligence that can assist in our ability to recognize our own emotions and the feelings and thoughts of others. The better you can increase all of these types of intelligence, the better off you'll be in life. A big part of freeing yourself from dark psychology is to have a high level of emotional intelligence.
The one true freedom we have in life is over our own minds and the ability to control our emotions. You can't control where you were born, the background you came from, your race, and many other things that you were given since the moment you entered this world. The one thing that you will always have control over—no matter what—is your ability to change the way that you think. No matter how stuck in a certain thought pattern you might feel, you will 
absolutely always have the ability to control your emotional reaction.
Other people can learn how to do this when we're not careful. If you are not in control of your emotions, then someone else might be able to take the reins. Those who are aware of how they can manipulate other people's feelings will target individuals with a low emotional intelligence level. Sometimes this is intentional, but other times we are just naturally drawn to certain types of people. It is time to take control of these emotions before someone else does.
Defining Dark Psychology
When interacting with others, you can either help them or hurt them. You can look at someone and think of a way to offer support, or you could look at them and see a way to use their emotional state as a way to gain an advantage over them. Brains are tools for surviving in this world, and like all tools, you can either use them to create something new or destroy something. If you were given a hammer, you could decide to create a new beautiful home using that hammer, or you could use it to destroy a house. The tool is just as it is. It doesn't change in either of those scenarios. What changes are the mindset, intention, and overall decision of what you are going to do with this tool.
We're taught to treat people kindly and help them to do better. It is a natural sort of unspoken rule that we should be loving and compassionate to your neighbors and look for ways to help others when we can. The issue with this is that we aren't often taught why we need to do this. Instead, we're just given superficial sort of ideas as to how we should be nice to others. Say "please/thank you/I'm sorry/how are you? /have a nice day," and many more phrases that get tossed around frequently. These become basic memorized phrases that start to lose all meaning after a while.
Throughout our lives, we're also taught how to hurt each other, even when it is not intentional. We're often told that everything is fine after hurting someone as long as you say "sorry." Because of this, we end up not fully believing everything that we're taught, and it becomes easy to forget The Golden Rule as we age and navigate throughout our lives. Sometimes, if you are not actively trying to be 
a kind person, it can be easy to fall into a negative mindset with those feelings spreading to others.
Sometimes, you're hurting so deeply that you might even be the abusers yourself. If you are harsh to yourself, always saying mean things and hurting yourself mentally, then it is rather easy to start to do this to others as well. Being a negative and abusive person can become the new normal because it might be the way that you have been treating yourself first. At the same time, if you were abused as a child, then this is how you are taught to handle other people. This is the way that you believe the world operates, so it is easy to start to inflict that pain elsewhere.
It is interesting to start to get to know the way that other people's brains work when using dark psychology. This is what dark psychology is all about. It is the how, why, and what of manipulation, control, emotional abuse, and all of the other challenging parts of how the brain works that dark psychology aims to unpack. The negative treatment of other people is common in the world today. If you go to any big celebrity's Instagram account, you will see tons of hate comments on the picture. If someone has an issue with a worker at a restaurant, it is easy to go home and complain online, possibly getting that person in deep trouble with people in higher positions of power within the company. Even in your own personal and romantic relationships, it can sometimes feel more natural to just be hateful and mean rather than actively working to build your partner up and make them feel better overall. Now more than ever it is important that we start to really understand dark psychology in order to prevent these kinds of toxic patterns from spreading to others. We all need to take charge of our own emotions and learn how to control them ourselves to create a happier and better world overall.
Now we know what dark psychology is: It is the study of more challenging thinking patterns that we all might have. What are the motives and goals of those who wish to manipulate other people? This is an answer we will provide in chapter 2, but let's first look deeper at whether or not these darker thinking patterns exist within all of us.
Do We All Have a Dark Side?
The true question that haunts many is whether or not we might all have this dark side lying dormant within us. Even the kindest of people might have a deep and controlling manipulator within their own brains. Is it part of the human condition? It is still the animalistic part attached to us that we've had since primordial times? Were our dark minds passed down to us from our ancestors, or is it something forever wired in our biology?


Perhaps we do all have a dark side. Whether or not this is true for everyone doesn't matter as much. The most important thing that we have to remember is that our mindset needs to be managed whether or not we really are happy or sad, positive or negative. Sometimes we start to think that we only need to nurture our emotions and keep them in check if they are negative. In reality, we should be conscious of the positive feelings that we have as well. It is crucial that we look deep within ourselves and analyze our lives in order to ensure that we are actually happy beings and not just faking it. If we suppress our emotions too often then this can be like shaking a soda bottle. Eventually, it will pop.
What is it to have a dark side? Ask yourself first what it means to have a darker mind. For those that state that they don't believe it is possible for them to have a darker side, we have to question if they just haven't looked deep enough at their own mental psyche yet. It can be scary to admit that you might have darker thoughts that you don't want to confront, but it is crucial that we are aware of these feelings so that we don't suppress them.
Think of those who are peaceful individuals. They might state they don't feel anger, but that isn't always healthy. Anger can be dangerous, but it can also be good. It is not the feeling that matters, but the reaction to this feeling. Having a light or dark side doesn't mean being free from anger or under its control. Your dark side is the one that makes you want to punch someone who made you angry, and your light side might be the one that wants you to be kind to this person, maybe even helping them, after they have upset you. Those feelings exist within all of us, and we can decide whether or not to act on them based upon whether or not we are in tune with our "dark/light" side.
What separates people from other animals is people's ability to empathize and to be intellectual. Your dog might come up to you and try to comfort you when you are sad, and this helps explain what sympathy means. To be empathetic means that you really understand what someone else is going through. If you just lost your job, when you get home from work you might start wondering what you are going to do now that you've been let go, and you might start to cry. Your cat might come up to you and sit on your lap, or maybe your dog will even try to lick your tears. It will only be a friend, a partner, a family member, or another human that would really be able to empathize with you. They would be able to feel your pain and understand what you are going through and using intellectual abilities to give you advice, help to change your perspective or do something else that actually helps you rather than just makes you feel emotionally better at that moment.
We still have these animal instincts that make us want to act impulsively. Even though we are separated from other animals because of this ability to rationalize and think, we still can't pretend that we don't have these natural urges or thoughts that might lead us to destructive behavior. We all have a fight or flight instinct within 
us when we are threatened. You might ready your body, your muscles getting tense and your heart rate raising when you feel as though someone might potentially harm you. This is your body's natural way to help fight off or flee from anything that could really hurt you, both emotionally and physically.
We've created societies that have helped to keep us civilized. The laws in place have helped us to control some of those animal instincts. That's not to say that everyone would be killing each other, but there would probably be a lot more people throwing punches and using weapons if that type of behavior didn't lead to legal trouble. That is because it is easier to release tension when you are mad by throwing punches than by working through the psychological factors that play into why you might feel the need to physically or mentally harm someone else.
What about the limits of the human mind? Who is the authority figure that is protecting us from being manipulated? These civilizations throughout time have helped to shape us into the functioning society that we are today. However, there are still legal limits that don't protect us from as much emotional abuse. Even acts like cyberbullying are hard to prosecute because we don't fully understand the intention or long-term effects of what this emotional abuse might do. There is no one policing thoughts entirely, so it can be much harder to break free from emotional control when someone else has manipulative skills.
Understanding Mind Manipulation
These ordered societies which prevent chaos also do something else for us. They provide us with other basic survival aspects we need. We have police officers, firefighters, and other types of public help that can assist us if we need it. We have hospitals and grocery stores that will provide us with the basic human survival necessities. Though we have plenty of outside sources to help keep this society running, there is still a lot more that we need to live a fully happy and healthy life. These are things that we will also need to find on our own, but not every person will be able to incorporate these aspects into their lives. This includes things like finding a family and a network of support or finding a passion or a reason in life as well as 
having entertainment and art that help keep us fulfilled, extra money to spend on whatever we want, fashion to express ourselves, and all the other fun parts of life that extend beyond the bare minimum of what is needed for survival.
Humans are a group species. This means that we need others to help us survive. Although some people might be able to survive all alone in this world if they have to, not everyone can say the same. Even if we don't physically need things from others, it is the emotional support that many of us are searching for in order to feel entirely fulfilled. What many don't realize is that we should be finding this emotional aspect all on our own.
Our brains are self-preserving. They are going to do whatever they have to in order to make sure that we are functioning properly and meeting all of our basic human needs. If our brains weren't trying to protect us, then many of us would have gotten into many more dangerous situations than we have experienced already.
How do our brains help us? Well, for example, when you walk down the stairs, your brain helps you find each step to make sure that you don't just fall down all of them. If you go to eat something that smells rotten, your brain knows this is a signal that you shouldn't eat it or else you might get sick. Even those who have attempted suicide know that there is still that voice whispering not to go through with that plan.
Pain causes us to take action and try to solve the problem. Pain is what is used in order to keep you restricted and in this place of preserving yourself. If you touch a hot pan, your brain knows that you shouldn't pick it up. If you fell off your bike the first time you rode it, then your brain might tell you that you should stay away from bikes. A bite from a mean cat tells us not to be mean to cats anymore.
What sometimes happens in our brains, however, is that we misinterpret this pain. We can become used to this pain, as well, and eventually become numb. This isn't a bad thing altogether. You can push past the pain of falling off the bike to get back on and keep practicing until you've mastered the ability to ride with no training wheels. You can push past the pain of running on a treadmill so that you are able to always increase your time and become healthier. If 
we push past our mental pain too often, we become used to this and start to think that it is normal.
Fear is also important in keeping us alive. Fear is what will tell you that the hill is too steep to ride down, that the dark alley is too scary to walk down at night, that the spider's nest in the corner isn't something that you should mess with. These fears can be heightened a lot depending on our minds, or we can calm ourselves down and work through these feelings.
Sometimes, we misinterpret these feelings. Fear can cause us to react emotionally in an unhealthy way. Both fear and pain can trigger stress, which is a reaction to our fight or flight instincts.
We can start to look for cures in all the wrong places. This is why some people might become addicted to alcohol or drugs in order to numb the constant pain or fear. Not everyone can fully understand what this pain is and where it comes from. Because they are already such natural things in small amounts, as we gradually increase the fear or pain in our lives, this becomes normalized as well. We will not think that there is anything wrong with the way that we're living, so it becomes more challenging to try and break free from these emotional patterns. Since we are a group society, we might actually end up depending on other people in order to try and alleviate some of these feelings.
Manipulation becomes a survival tactic. Rather than looking deep within to overcome these feelings, it can be easier for some people to manipulate others in order to get what they feel like they need. You may start to control people so that they serve you and provide you with the basic survival needs that alleviate your fear and pain. When we aren't able to control our emotional states, then we look for control in any other way that we can in our lives.
This is a mistake in our thinking patterns and how we interpret the need for desire and control. We think that having power over other people means that we have the power within our lives. Our brains will think that having this status is what is going to help relieve us from the inner turmoil that we feel on a daily basis.
This is when you can really start to understand mind manipulation. People aren't just natural sadists who manipulate you and others just out of sheer pleasure. Perhaps there are some people who do this, 
but a lot of manipulation is just a misguided attempt at taking back some of the power in their lives. What manipulators fail to realize is that no one else will ever be able to provide them with the happiness that they need to survive in this life.
Mind manipulation is ubiquitous. We often think of it in terms of that overly angry, muscled, raging man who might be controlling his girlfriend. This is very common, but manipulation is also found within all genders, all shapes and sizes, and all different kinds of people. Someone with very few muscles might be able to still control a group of people, so we should never equate manipulation with physical strength. It is a different kind of tool that is used by humans in order to serve their needs to alleviate fear and feel like they have power over other people.
The media has been controlling your mind for a while now. Commercials, movies, TV shows, magazines, and books all have the ability to change the way that you think. The more you expose yourself to this kind of media, especially the same media over and over again, the easier it is to start to control you.
There are basic manipulative tactics used, such as the bandwagon effect—"everybody's doing it." Then there are the more deeply embedded methods, such as commercials making their volume levels louder so that you can still hear the advertisement if you leave the room during a break in your show. The point of this manipulation is to have control over the consumer in order to keep them buying the goods and services provided by the company being advertised.
Those closest to you might be manipulators as well. It might be their personal way to try to alleviate the stress and emotional turmoil in their lives. It might also be a survival tactic because they depend on other people to provide them with the basic existence requirements that they need to have filled.
Sometimes, we will not even realize that we might be trying to control others in smaller ways. Manipulation can be so deeply embedded that we are unaware that it is present in certain situations both on the giving and receiving end of either side.
The Benefits and Value of Persuading Others
It is not always a terrible thing to be able to mentally persuade someone. We have to start to understand the difference between manipulation and influence. Manipulation is full of evil intentions with self-serving goals that will take advantage of other people. Influence is when a common goal is desired that will help to make everyone's lives better, not just the person that is doing the influencing. Both might involve some similar tactics, but the intention is what should be different.


The issue here is that we need to ensure we are doing it for the benefit of everyone. Much of the manipulation that we're already experiencing is something that can keep us under control, whereas influence should be something that helps empower many. Think of it like this: Adolf Hitler was a manipulative individual who convinced others that they should follow orders to serve a dark purpose. He managed to convince an entire society that they should wipe out a massive group of people in order to fix an issue that was entirely unrelated to what ended up happening. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was an influential leader who helped to empower first a small town and then an entire country. He helped others to see what they had been experiencing and managed to change the course of history, 
with positive effects that we can still see today.
It is also important for you to be able to protect yourself. There is value in being an influential and persuasive person because it can lead you to get what you want. Maybe you need a raise at your job, or you want to move to a new house with your spouse. If you can be a positive influence and understand how your words can bring you to a solution that is beneficial for both of you, it will help lead you to a happier and healthier life.
It can keep the peace between you and a loved one. Disagreements can turn into ugly fights when both people are feeling defensive. If one of you understands how to be a positive influence, you can actually talk your feelings out, which may bring the two of you closer lead to a compromise that leaves both of you happy.
When you can be persuasive, you will be able to better share your own emotions. It will be beneficial to understand both your own and the psychology of other people. Throughout the remainder of the book, we are going to break down the specific ways that you have been manipulated. We are then going to show you all of the methods that can be used to help you better become that influential person yourself. The more open-minded you can be in this process, the easier it will be to understand the reality of some of your most challenging emotions. Your life, your personal world, and the world, in general, can be a much better place if we all start to learn the ways that we can positively influence those around us.







Chapter 2 - Understanding the Persuader and the Manipulator
There are signs that you can see to determine whether you are the manipulator or the one being manipulated. Sometimes when you are currently under someone's control, you may not be able to notice you are being manipulated, but as you go through your life and become more aware of your own feelings and the emotions of others, it becomes a lot easier to start to see the dynamics of your relationship. You might not be able to realize what is happening until much later in life after you've been entirely removed from the situation. This is why it is so crucial that we become aware of manipulation and the way that it affects us now more than ever. If we aren't careful, it becomes incredibly easy to fall under someone else's control.
It's important to understand that not all influence is necessarily a bad thing. There are plenty of people in the world that seriously need some guidance. Maybe they were already in an abusive relationship where they were the one who was the manipulator. It is not like those who are abusive are always doing so because it makes them happy. Positive influence can help people realize that what they are doing is wrong because they are often in situations where they think that what they are doing is the right thing. Influence can also help those realize that they might be on the receiving end of this abuse. Women who have escaped from abusive relationships can help other women who are still trapped really understand the mind tactics used against them so that they can remove themselves in a healthy way.
It can be hard to identify these kinds of manipulative people because they come in all different shapes and sizes. We often associate a scary physical appearance with being a scary person. This is incredibly far from the truth. Often, the biggest manipulators will hide behind a big smile and deceptive eyes. They will not be wearing a badge that states that they are going to try and attempt to control us, so it is essential that we start to become more and more aware of the deeply embedded signals that help to let us know when someone 
might be a manipulator.
These people will have all of the qualities of someone who does not want you to know their intentions. They have managed to disguise their manipulative methods behind a thick cloak they've created. If you break through this barrier, they will still have manipulative methods to try and cover their tracks. A lot of manipulation is planned out, so they will be able to have backup plans if things don't go the way they envisioned. Manipulators love to have control, so they will be able to know how to orchestrate the situation in order to provide themselves with the biggest benefits in the end, leaving others to fend for themselves.
Once you've fallen into a manipulator's grasp, it is hard to free yourself. They will usually have convinced you that you are crazy and that you are in the wrong. They will make you question your thoughts and doubt yourself so that your self-esteem is so low that you can't do anything but depend on this person. They might have isolated you, making it harder for your friends and family to make you aware of the deeply embedded web of control that you have fallen into.
If you've known someone outside of a manipulative relationship, you understand how easy it is for you to see the lies, but for them, it is deeper than that. The manipulator will often show their good side to the person that they are controlling, maybe making themselves seem emotionally vulnerable as well. They are good at revealing some of their kind personality in order to keep themselves looking human in the eyes of the person who should actually be seeing them as a monster. They will lie and trick you into believing something about themselves that isn't true, making it easier to instill guilt and fear into anyone that might question leaving the manipulator behind.


This might be because if we all have that dark side in us, those manipulators might have that good side in them. If you have found yourself on the receiving end of emotional abuse, then you know that part of you wants to help the other person. Hurt people can recognize emotional pain within others, and abusers certainly have a part of them that is deeply hurt. Rather than wanting to shut their abusers out of their lives, many victims will take on a certain responsibility for the emotional pain that abusers experience. Even though they know what the other person is doing is wrong, they can still make excuses. They'll say things like, "he was abused too," or "he's had a really hard life." That might have been true, but all of us have experienced hurt, and that doesn't mean that it is OK to inflict that kind of pain onto other people.
When you can take manipulation and use it for good, it transforms into influence. When you stop trying to take from other people and instead spread the positive knowledge that you might have acquired, this can create a healthy, long-lasting relationship. The more you are able to positively persuade people, the more of an influencer you can become. Rather than just being someone who ignores emotions and just takes each feeling as it is, you can use all of these individual mindsets as ways to empower you and other people around you.
Influencers aren't bad. They know how to inspire different perspectives in others. The greatest influencers in the world found something that needed to be changed for the greater good and decided to inspire others to do this. They wanted a better world for themselves, but they also realized that the best world would be one in which everyone was benefiting and thriving rather than just themselves.
Manipulators want to turn you into a puppet. They have their own individual needs that they will use you to try and fill. Influencers would rather have you be the puppeteer of your own world. They understand that people will be more useful for the greater good if they can think creatively and on their own. Manipulators understand that you will be able to serve their purpose better if they can control you, and they want to control you so that you do what's best for them and not just yourself.
Manipulators want to exploit you while influencers would rather help you to thrive (Duncan, 2018).
Who These Individuals Are
Manipulators aren't always going to be aware that they are exhibiting unhealthy and potentially harmful behavior. Sometimes, they are simply lost in their delusions. Many abusers will have been through this themselves, so they will not think that what they are doing is necessarily wrong. Even when they might have moments where they question their behavior, their brains have become so adapted to their delusions that they will find a way to convince themselves that what they are doing is just and right.
Manipulators will do anything they can to make sure that they are always cast in a good light. They will put other people down in order to make themselves look even better. Rather than making fun of themselves, they will make sure others are the butt of the joke. The first sign that someone might be a manipulator is when they start to make jokes that only hurt other people in the process. These might be jabs at the way that someone looks, making everyone pay attention to their flaws so that those in the group are distracted from the manipulator's own shortcomings. They might joke about something that you said, making you feel dumb or stupid for sharing 
that phrase. This can cause them to look even smarter because they brought the attention of something less-than-intelligent to the rest of the group. It is common for manipulators to make themselves the center of attention by creating a platform for making fun of others their personality traits.
Sometimes, they will end up playing the victim. They might make you feel as though you hurt them by trying to bring up a way in which they actually hurt you. If you say to them, "I feel like you hurt me the other day," they can easily turn it back around on you by asking something like, "how could you think that of me? Don't you think I'm better than that?" They will distract you from the real issue, the biggest problem, all by turning it back around and making it all your fault.
Manipulators are really good at lying, so much so, that they have usually convinced themselves of their own lies. This is why even the evilest criminals will be able to fake their way through a lie detector test. They have convinced themselves so deeply to believe the lies that they've told that they will often have plenty of excuses to alleviate any accusations around their lies. They've already told these excuses to themselves in order to justify the lie in their brain, so it will be easier for them to recite the non-truths when they're confronted.
They use their control in order to have power over you. They are highly aware of the way in which manipulation gives them the upper hand, and they are going to exploit this power as much as possible. It is important for them to have this high level of power because they will be worried that should the tables turn, you will hurt them just as much as they hurt you. If a manipulator is already given power without trying, they will exploit this like crazy as well. Those who are in higher positions at work, those who have money, and those who have decision-making power will often use this to their advantage. Just look at individuals in the film industry who were exposed as recent victims of sexual abuse from prominent producers and other popular cast members who started to come forward about what they experienced. It was clear that they used their status and wealth in order to manipulate their victims and make them feel powerless so that they would give in to their demands. Then, even afterward, they were able to use their status in 
order to scare victims into silence, making these individuals feel as though they had no choice but to keep what happened to them a secret out of fear of retaliation.
They can belittle you and make you feel as though you are stupid. They'll use facial expressions such as scrunched eyebrows and dirty looks in order to keep you silent. They will mock you for the things that you say and ignore your thoughts all in an attempt to make you seem dumb. They will say things like, "what are you talking about," or, "you are not making any sense," in order to try and silence something substantial that you might actually be saying. Sure, what you share might not be the most intelligent thing at times, but no one should make you feel stupid for this. There are better ways of letting someone know that they aren't making total sense.
They often will try to make you seem as though you are crazy as well. If you bring something up to them, they might state something like, "you are remembering things wrong." They will outright lie in order to ensure that you think you are crazy. They will make you start to question your own memory, and therefore, start to question your own sanity. They will deny things as much as possible in order to better serve their delusions. They are going to make you feel crazy for bringing up issues, maybe telling you that you are overthinking it or that you are looking at something too deeply.
Manipulators will make you feel as though everything is your fault, and they will look for other ways to place blame. You will often hear many abuse victims state that an emotional or physical attack was their fault first for initially provoking the manipulator. Manipulators know that they still have to give a sense of control to their victims in order to keep them dependent, so they will give that control to the abused in the form of power over the abuser's emotions. They'll say things like, "you know that bothers me when you bring that up," or "you are making me really mad right now," when the victim tries to bring up times that the abuser might have hurt them. The abused will start to think that they are the ones with the problem and that they need to fix something about themselves; eventually, they will stop trying to help the abuser see their own negative patterns.
Manipulators can really drain your energy. They will completely suck the life out of you but provide nothing back to you. Your spirit 
will be stolen by these abusive individuals, and you will eventually have nothing left except for a shell of the person that you used to be. They will either keep you around forever as a loyal servant, or they will get tired and move onto the next victim. They will not care about the things that they did to you and will only live to serve their own intentions.
Manipulators don't personally grow. Rather than looking within themselves and improving, they instead look to others and blame them from their unhappiness or dissatisfaction with life. Sometimes those you know might use some slight manipulation tactics. We all do from time to time without thinking of it. What differentiates a manipulator from just a regular person with minor bad habits is that a manipulator will do whatever they have to in order to justify themselves. It is a pattern of abuse that you will see, whereas the average person will be able to look at themselves and grow within a toxic situation. What you will always be able to use to decide if it is manipulation or influence is an evaluation of the goal of the person who is trying to be persuasive.
The Goal of Manipulators
Manipulators will use you on part of their journey toward getting what they want. They have their own goals and desires, and rather than looking deep within themselves and controlling their own thoughts and emotions, they will start to control other people. Think about the last time you were on the couch relaxing and needed to get something from across the room. Maybe your phone was on the counter in the kitchen where your roommate was. It is easier to just ask them to get your phone for you and bring it to you rather than to get up out of your comfortable position and get it yourself, right? This is the kind of mentality that manipulators have. Of course, it is not manipulative to ask someone for a favor, but those who choose to manipulate others will know that it is easier to just have other people do things for them, so they will never bother to look deep within themselves and try to improve on their own.
Manipulators will feel as though they will not have control over their lives. Perhaps they haven't achieved a desired social status, or maybe they just don't have the patience to wait to obtain the things they want. They will look for methods of control by assuming power 
over innocent people. They will have gotten used to reacting on their emotions right away rather than thinking through them and working on them in a healthy manner, so this will lead to them looking for control more frequently than trying to work on themselves.
They might feel alone and as if others are out to get them. They usually will have been isolated at one point, and they will likely have unhealthy relationships. This can make them feel alone. Especially when you are in a power dynamic, it will be harder to connect with those beneath you if you maintain the restrictions of authority over them. This can be very lonely, so it is easy to start to feel as though everyone is against you. If you are a negative-thinking person, lack a feeling of control over a situation, and have isolated yourself from other people, then it is very easy to start to think of yourself with a "me vs. them" mentality.
They could be dealing with their own immense pain and feel best when they can exert that over other people. Think of the last time that you became frustrated with a physical object. Maybe you were trying to fix something that was broken, or perhaps you dropped something on your foot. Though this object doesn't have any feelings, it can still feel really good to exert your power over this object and inflict pain back. For example, think of someone who gets frustrated with their phone when it isn't working or grows angry while they're watching a sports game on TV. When things don't go their way, they might take it out on this object. This is because they feel as though they don't have power over the object that caused them the pain as it controlled their feelings. In an attempt to gain that power back, they hurt the object in order to stop themselves from feeling any more pain.
They might feel as though their life isn't fair. They will fail to see the good aspects and instead only focus on the negative things in their lives. It will be very hard for someone who is manipulative to see the privileges that they have been granted, so they will end up feeling as though nothing is good in their life and that everyone is against them.
Even though manipulators seem to have power, they usually will be rather self-conscious. This will create a desire within them to 
improve their self-esteem. They will make themselves feel better only by putting others down. Rather than reflecting on themselves and admitting when they're wrong, they're going to be much more likely to point fingers at others who are "worse than them" in order to cause distraction from their own biggest insecurities.
Sometimes they just simply hurt and are looking for a way to fill that pain by hurting others. It is a very lonely feeling to hold onto so much emotional pain, so they might be trying to desperately connect to someone else so that they don't have to go through the process of having so much emotional damage.
Remember that just because they might have deep underlying reasons why they manipulate, this does not mean what they do to you is OK. We are all hurt in our own ways, and some of us choose to take that out on others, and some of us will not.
The Goal of Influencers
It is important to remember that not all manipulation has to be a bad thing. Again, whatever you discover behind the true intentions of whether someone is manipulating you or not is going to be their overall goal. Are they going to try to help you for the good of everyone or take advantage of you just for the benefit of one?
Influence is when you know a great positive truth and want to share it with others. You might have discovered this on your own, or maybe you have been influenced by someone else and have decided to take that thought on yourself. Then you can spread that to others and create a better, healthier world where everyone is able to thrive rather than suffer. If you manage to do this, then you are going to be able to positively help everyone around you.
Books like this can be influential. As the author, it is import to convince those who are reading that they deserve to break out of the cycle of manipulation. As someone who has gone through this experience yourself, it is important to share messages with those who might be going through the same things in order to help them break from their fears. This could be a book about how to be manipulative yourself and the ways that you can use dark psychology to get what you want. Instead, we are going to focus only on spreading positive manipulation because that is what is going to 
be best for everyone in the long-run as well.
Influencers will want to share their passion. They will have discovered a greater truth and come to the conclusion that they know how to share it. Those who are influencers also have felt the pain that you have before. They have lived through darker times, overcome struggles, and discovered the way to pull themselves out of this. It can be hard to realize the ways that you can pull yourself out of your pain as an individual, so it is important to recognize that you are able to learn how to do this from others who have already experienced the same things as you.
Influencers will want a beneficial situation for everyone, not just themselves. Influencers know that they will not be around forever, but they still care about making sure that the world is going to be a better place long after they're gone. This might be out of the goodness of their heart or they might just want to ensure that no one has to struggle in the same way that they did for the rest of their lives.
Influencers will know how to listen to others. They understand that they're not perfect and will be more than willing to take advice from those around them. Influencers know that they don't have all the answers and that sometimes they will learn more about themselves from other people rather than thinking that they have all that they need on their own.
They will recognize their flaws and do their best to change. They will have the ability to admit that they are wrong and know that even if they are a pretty emotionally stable person, there is always going to be room for them to improve themselves.
They will stay fluid with some of their beliefs to remain always willing to be critical of themselves and of others (Caprino, 2014).
The Types of Mind Manipulators
We already know that manipulators come in all different shapes and sizes. There are a few similar types that you should know the difference between. We never want to lump all people into one group, because when we do, there is a higher likelihood that we'll make too many assumptions. Whenever you start to assume too 
much about a person, this can lead to you overlooking important details that actually matter. However, knowing these similarities is only going to help you grow as a person.
There are a few things that all manipulators have in common. These aren't necessarily patterns that have been learned, but rather, a mental solution in order to get the things that they might desire. Rather than being taught how to be manipulative, it can sometimes just be a simple pathway that their brain follows in order to try and help them get the things that they want the most from other people.
All manipulators will usually look for your greatest weakness to use against you. They will figure out what your biggest insecurity is and try to find ways to use that in order to gain power over you. They might try and discover what it is that you are bad at so that they can emphasize this trait in you and make you feel like you are a bad person overall because of this. They will often talk about your weaknesses and your flaws and make sure to point them out to others whenever they can in an attempt to humiliate you. Once they are able to do this, it becomes much easier to exert power over you.
They will often try to start competitions with you. Even in the smallest things that require absolutely no competition whatsoever, they will look for ways that they can prove themselves and "win." With a manipulator, an argument will never be something that helps both people grow and learn. Instead, it will only be a way for the manipulator to prove how much smarter they might be. They can go through life acting as if everything is a competition. Often, you might not even realize just how competitive someone else is or that they are constantly competing with you in their minds. You might bring something up as an accomplishment, and rather than being happy for you, they might point out a way in which they are better than you because of an equal or greater accomplishment that they have.
They will use your words against you as well. A manipulator is going to be really good at hanging onto every last word that leaves your mouth, and they will look for their chance to pull this out at the most random and unrelated times in order to prove their point and exert their power over you.
Guilt is a great tactic as well. They will try their best to make sure that you are feeling really terrible about a situation that they might 
have caused! They will find a way to make you feel guilty over your own emotions. Sometimes we might react in ways that aren't the healthiest, but we should never be ashamed of the emotion that we felt behind that reaction in the first place. 
They will be absorbed with their own perspective and unwilling to see things from anyone else's point of view. They will have created their own world in their own minds that only serves them. If someone else tries to break through the walls of the world and expose it to the truth, the manipulator will completely shut down and protect their ideologies like soldiers defending their homes. There is no getting through to manipulative people, and those manipulators that do manage to find the strength to realize the fault in their ways will usually make this discovery on their own.
Some emotional manipulation will be very hard to see. There are some people who have been developing their manipulative tactics since they were teenagers, letting them become the definition of who they are. The longer that someone has been manipulating, the better they will be at hiding their overt manipulative tactics and making them seem less harmful.
Other manipulation tactics will be more obviously violent. There might be some manipulators who use their physical strength to commit acts of violence that keep others subdued. They might be able to simply puff their chest and use an aggressive face in order to keep others under their control.
Within each of these categories, it gets a little more extreme the boundaries that they are willing to break and the lines they aren't afraid to cross. All manipulators will have more than one of these traits that we discussed. The level of how ingrained these are in their relationships and how violent they might be is what will really vary from person to person. Let's look at a few specific types of manipulators and the individual tactics they might use in an attempt to have control over other people.
Narcissist
Narcissists are the more common type of manipulators. They have created a world in which their own opinions, thoughts, and actions matter more than anyone else's. Often, narcissists come from 
abusive households themselves.
When we're children, we have a fight or flight response, but we will not always have the ability to react in the way we would as adults. We can't fight because we're small kids, and parents have more physical force over us. We can't flee because again, we're kids, and there's nowhere for us to really go other than in our parental guardian's care. As a response to this, we still manage to "flee" into our brains, isolating ourselves within a world of protection that we created.


Narcissistic tendencies will start to form as we get older as a response to the constant escape to this fantasy world that we have created in our minds. In this fantasy world, we live in a protected boundary with thick walls that we keep up in order to prevent others from getting in. In this world, we are protected, which means that the ego can't be disturbed. This is why narcissists will have trouble admitting they are wrong and seeing things from the perspective of anyone other than themselves.
Narcissists need a ton of attention. They have to have the center of the focus be on them at all times. When it is not on them, they will 
completely shut down. They will only be thinking of themselves, and the constant attention is needed in order to serve that little child that still sits protected behind the walls that they have built.
Narcissists will struggle to have empathy for anyone else. Their own problems have become so inflated that they can't imagine that anyone else is struggling as much as they might be. Rather than listening to other people and the experiences that others' might have had, narcissists will only care to share their own feelings. If you are talking to a narcissist about your problems, you will find that they will turn it around on themselves. You might say something like, "I've been feeling depressed lately." A healthy response is, "I'm sorry you are experiencing that, what can I do to help you through this?" A narcissist might say something like, "I'm depressed too," and carry on to talking about their own struggles. They will not look at a conversation as a way to interact with someone else; it will only be a way for them to start a conversation about themselves.
They will believe that they are the most important at the time. They might know they're not perfect, but rather than admitting that they can work on things themselves, they will blame their shortcomings on other things and other people. For example, if someone failed a test, they might tell others, "I really didn't understand that part of the test, but I also have to admit that I could have studied more." A narcissist will say something like, "The teacher of the class is terrible, and I couldn't focus because of the things that they did," while giving many other excuses.
Narcissists often have big ideas and will frequently fantasize about their success. They will envision a time in their lives when everything will turn out well for them rather than actively trying to work and grow toward this goal.
They think they are special and beyond comparison with most people, with the exception of those that they also believe to be special and important. A narcissist will honestly believe that they are better than most people. When they do have people that they can look up to, they will idolize these people and think that they can do no wrong.
Narcissists will likely have trouble being happy for anyone else. They will feel an intense amount of jealousy and do whatever they 
can to try and bring the other person down because of their successes.
Narcissists often feel as though they are owed something (Kassel, 2019). Of course, we are all owed our basic human rights. However, narcissists will still believe that they deserve special treatment above anyone else. They think that no one but them is deserving of the greatness that they want everyone else to give to them.
Psychopath and Sociopath
Sociopathy is commonly associated with being a psychopath. The two are different, however, and psychopaths share some characteristics with sociopaths, but they are certainly more extreme than sociopaths. This is really the darkest part of dark psychology. Most serial killers, murderers, rapists, and the worst abusers ever will either be a psychopath or sociopath. This is some of the strangest human behavior, especially because it is something that we can't recognize at all within other animals. Humans are the only animals that seem to kill and torture others just for sheer pleasure.
Psychopaths and sociopaths are both very aggressive. They believe that violence is a great way to get the things that they desire. They don't care whatsoever about inflicting pain on other people, which is why many will be so violent toward other people. 
They will not really be concerned with their image. A narcissist is going to be more worried about keeping up appearances and making sure that they are presented in a certain light, whereas a psychopath or sociopath isn't afraid to let their dark side show to others. Of course, the most skilled psychos of the world will be able to keep themselves looking good on the outside. Think of serial killers like Jeffrey Dahmer and the BTK killer who lived regular lives up until the moment that they were caught. However, many other psycho and sociopaths will not be afraid to yell and scream at a group of people if it means that they will get what they want/exert their power.
They have almost no boundaries and rarely show respect. Even if you blatantly ask them to stop, they will push the boundaries forward. Rather than really listening to the wants and desires of someone else and creating and maintaining healthy boundaries, they will create their own limits and force others to follow these rules.
They will not feel sorry for the things that they did either. They might say "sorry," but they will never actually mean the words that come out of their mouths. They have little remorse because they lack empathy.
Those Who Are Commonly Influenced
It is not your fault that you have been manipulated. If you are someone who has found yourself in multiple relationships with manipulators, you are not alone. Manipulators will commonly look for certain types of people in order to serve their own needs. You will rarely discover a close relationship between two manipulators because both will struggle to have the upper hand in the relationship. Sometimes we have certain traits that make us more susceptible to being a victim of this abuse. You are not at fault for this, and you should never allow yourself to take the blame for the abuse that you have experienced.
There are still certain things that people will look for when choosing a target. Manipulators want people who are more passive. They are looking for individuals who would rather put up with what the manipulators say rather than trying to actively fight the manipulation that the manipulators are attempting to enforce. People-pleasers and those who are highly sensitive to emotions will likely find themselves being desired by those who are skilled manipulators.
Sometimes it is simply our status they were after first. Manipulators might target those who have money or more status because they simply want that as well. Every so often there seems to be some story about how a celebrity might be dating someone who is only interested in the relationship because of the celebrity's fame. You'll hear the celebrity tell stories of the goodness of this person and how it is true love. This can be the case, but every so often, we might wonder if they are actually being a manipulative individual who is using this person to get the things that they want.
Those who are codependent might find that they want to help narcissists. They have a deep need inside of them to help others. Those who are codependent create their identity around being compassionate and providing other people with the help they need. 
They might actively seek out people they will be able to help and serve just to fulfill a need within themselves.
You might have low self-esteem and often be the first one to take the blame for a situation. If you are someone who constantly says "sorry" for things that aren't even remotely your fault, beware because this can be a trait that manipulators desire. They want people who are going to be harder on themselves because it will be easier for the manipulators to validate that negative voice within their victims.
Those who are passive and people-pleasers are more likely to fall victim to manipulators. None of these traits are necessarily something you should feel bad about. It is just important that we're aware of how they affect our interactions with others so that we can better protect ourselves in the future.
Symptoms of Dark Psychology
In order to really understand the way that this negative manipulation has affected your life, it's crucial that we become aware of the way that this kind of emotional abuse might have rewired our brain and the way that we perceive ourselves and the world. Throughout this section, we are going to go over a long list of both everything small that others might have used against you and everything big that might have really transformed the way that you think. Manipulators are really good at getting inside of your head and switching up the way your brain operates, so it's crucial now that we better understand what this looks like in our own heads so we can reverse our thoughts and live a happier and healthier life.
A common form of manipulation is the use of humiliation in victims. Manipulators will ridicule, mock, and judge their victims in order to ensure that the manipulators themselves are the ones looking the best. They will go very deep with their jokes and are not afraid to hurt your feelings. All that matters is that you are the butt of the joke. What this does to you is make you feel as though you are an embarrassment. You will be ashamed of certain aspects of your life, and it can make you very self-conscious in front of other people. Rather than dealing with real issues that you have with yourself, you might find it's simply easier to close yourself off so that you don't 
experience more hurt and pain from other people.
If you are someone who has experienced emotional abuse, then there is a very good chance that you will hear this person's voice in the back of your head. When you are feeling embarrassed or slightly ashamed, theirs is likely the first voice that pops into your head. You might consider what they would think if they saw you, and they will have you feeling guilty over your actions even when they aren't aware of the things that you have done. They have managed to slip into your head, and it can be incredibly challenging to get them out. You might find that you are even at the point where you are terrified of them or what they might do to you, especially if they were to find out the embarrassing or shameful thing that you did.
You might discover that you are someone who is always saying "sorry" or apologizing for things that you don't even have any part in. This is because the abuser shamed you for some time and always placed the blame on you. You will be filled with regret and remorse over things that you have absolutely no control over, all because you were made to feel as though everything was your fault. You will feel guilt and agony over things far beyond your individual reach, and you may go as far as to feel guilty for large political and social issues all because you feel ashamed of even your smallest actions.
You might discover that you have become a passive person who is no longer able to stick up for themselves. Even with interactions outside of your manipulator's presence, you might discover that it's best for you to just sit quietly and not participate in the conversation because you are too fearful or it brings about too much anxiety in general for you to feel comfortable speaking your truth and standing up for yourself. They will make you feel isolated and like there is no one that you can relate to, all so that it is easier for them to have control over you. They gaslighted you for so long and made you feel as though what you had to share had no value, so it will be even more challenging for you to stand up for yourself and say what's on your mind now.
On some level, you might have even found that you are interwoven with their problems and that you have become codependent on taking care of them. This is dangerous because even after you might end the relationship, you could still be deeply devoted to this person 
and feel frequent pain and anxiety when you cannot be there to take care of them. Codependency involves one person who might need help and aide in some way, and the other person needing to help them. It is often seen in parent-child relationships and with those who care for individuals with disabilities. You no longer feel the need to take care of yourself because someone has stripped away your own identity. In response, you now take on the role of caretaker for the other person in order to find fulfillment. It can frequently go unnoticed, but once you do discover again that you might have this issue, it can be rather damaging.







Chapter 3 - Dark Psychology Traits
Now that you recognize what a manipulator is, you can start to better understand some of the actual tactics that they use. It can be easier for some to start to understand what makes up a manipulator and the common signs that are easy to spot. What is it that they actually do in order to gain power, however? What methods are they going to be working with that will keep us trapped under their control for all this time?
Everyone will have their own methods of exerting control over other people. It will be dependent on the naturally powerful aspects they already have, along with the status that they hold in life. These tactics will become part of their personality and will be the way that they are naturally used to reacting to different situations.
Remember to not let these signals cause paranoia. Doing something once does not mean they're manipulative. Sometimes we might panic, and this could cause us to feel as though we need to do something quick to try and gain control over a situation. When we react off of our instincts, it can sometimes be because we aren't always thinking clearly, so maybe there's the chance that you've done something slightly manipulative in the past.
You are looking for a pattern of manipulative behavior. It's not just once instance of manipulation that should make you feel as though you need to run from a person who tries to be controlling. What you need to be more cautious of is a pattern of behavior that another person seems to have. If they are doing these things on a consistent basis, then it means that there's a good chance they'll have more manipulative tendencies. The biggest red flag is if this pattern keeps happening and there is no effort from them or even acknowledgment that they should try and change the way that they handle their emotions.
Sometimes this requires stepping outside the boundaries of how you might judge someone and viewing it from a bird's eye perspective. It can be hard to see all of the restrictions of manipulation when you are already trapped in the web. Try and picture if you were the person outside of a manipulative relationship. How would you view 
it compared to how others might? If you were sharing this experience with someone else and trying to describe it like you would the plot of a movie, how would it sound? Simplify it as much as possible and allow yourself some perspective so you can discover if you are really in a manipulative relationship or not.
Remember that you shouldn't be using these tactics to take advantage of anyone else. These are just methods that you can become aware of so if you feel as though someone is manipulating you, you will know how to escape from it. You have to come from a place of deep hurt and negligence to do this to someone else. Whatever pain you inflict on others is also pain that you might end up feeling yourself.
Always ask what the manipulator might want out of this situation. If there is something at stake, they could be manipulating you. Whenever you're not sure if you're paranoid about being manipulated or if you actually are being manipulated, always ask what their true intention is. If you can't figure out why they might be trying to control you, then they just might be doing so in order to gain power over you.
Body Language of Manipulators
Unfortunately, not everyone is going to have a big warning sign with them letting you know that they're going to try and manipulate you. If the world's biggest manipulators did have these warning signs, we'd be a lot better off. We would be able to walk away before falling into their manipulative tactics. It's so crucial that we start to pick up on the actual body language and tactics of these manipulators now rather than later. We can still remove ourselves and recover, but remember that it's always going to be easier to not have to deal with it at all. It's better to prevent getting a disease rather than having to try and cure it, so always look for ways to avoid these manipulators now.


One way that we can pay attention to how someone might end up treating us is by picking up on their overall body language. Listening to the words that they share and the thoughts that they have is really important, but you also have to ensure that you can pick up on the different kinds of body language that they use. The things that they do with their eyebrows all the way down to their feet can give you so much insight that you never would have noticed had you not made yourself first aware of this kind of language. Some of it might be intentional, but there are other instances where it's entirely subconscious as well. It might be a way to try and persuade you to do something, a type of body movement to make you more comfortable around them so you open up, or a way to physically scare you with their bodily movements.
Manipulators at first will keep themselves closed off. They will want to read you and understand who you are. They might be cryptic with what they say, but then you will also start to notice that they hold their bodies closed off as well. They might have their arms crossed or their body language turned away from you. Look at their jaw and the way that they are holding their faces. If they are tense and closed off, it might give you the idea that they are keeping things from you.
They can keep their mouths closed as well. Sometimes, they might even hold their hand over their mouth. Pay attention to if they make a fist and keep it clenched over the bottom half of their faces. This could be a sign that they are trying to hide something from you or keeping themselves from saying something that they actually want to share. Sometimes tight lips can do this as well.
They might try to make themselves bigger, which is why you'll sometimes hear people describe aggressors as "puffing their chests." They might stand up even though everyone else is sitting down. If they are standing frequently and making themselves as tall as possible, then they might put their hands on their hips as well. They might stand in a wide stance with their feet farther than shoulder-width apart. They might also sit this way, with their knees spread apart trying to take up as much space as possible.
Again, some of these body language signals might be a sign that they are just feeling anxious. If they're feeling self-conscious you should look at the way they might be closing themselves off with crossed arms or by holding a pillow on their lap to keep themselves blocked off. The thing you will always have to ask yourself is whether they are trying to increase their confidence or trying to exert themselves over everyone in the room.
Matching Body Language
It is not uncommon for us to match the same body language as those that we might be talking to. Sometimes it happens naturally without even thinking about it. How often have you found that you picked up on the smaller habits that other people have? Maybe they have a certain catchphrase or laugh in a specific way. Sometimes we just do this naturally, but look out for people who do this quickly or in a way that makes you feel a little suspicious. If someone is already saying your catchphrases after just a few hours of hanging out, then they might be intentionally trying to match your body language or behavior.
A manipulator is going to use this tactic, and they are going to take it way over the top. If you turn your head to the side while talking, they might turn theirs as well. If you take a sip of your water, so might they. If you get up and move around, they might as well.
It will be natural for others to want to turn themselves toward you so they can better hear the things you have to say. However, if their body language is constantly mimicking yours, then be careful about whether or not they're trying to manipulate you. Like everything else we discussed, it's going to be a pattern of behavior. It's not just going to be one instance of mimicking or only done at times that make sense. It will be a constant attempt to try and do the same things that you are doing.
This is because they want you to feel more open with them. They want to make you feel as though the two of you can share everything together. This is an attempt to be more relatable. If you really want to see whether or not they are being vindictive or doing it intentionally, start to change your body language. If they are matching and mimicking everything that you do, then it will be easier to notice this tactic in others.
Frequent Staring
Those that aren't fully listening to you will try to overly stare. Rather than actually engaging with what you're saying and staring at you to get a better comprehension of what you're saying, some manipulators will instead try to convince you that they're listening. They might be planning what they are going to say next, especially if you are in the middle of an argument. Then, rather than actually taking in what you are saying, they will think to themselves, "Keep eye contact so they know you're engaged."
Sometimes this staring is even a way to intimidate you. They might use their glare to make sure that you know that they're watching you. They might overly emphasize that they are looking at you and actually turn their entire body in order to direct it right at you. This is a method that they can then use in order to make you feel like they have more power over you.
They might make a face with their eyes but then tell you that you are crazy if you call them out for it. Manipulators are really good at keeping their brow straight in order to give you a direct glare. They will squint their eyes or make a grimacing face. If you ask something like, "What's wrong? Why are you making that face," they will reply with something like, "This is just my face." They will find a way to act 
as though they aren't giving you a weird look in order to make it seem as though you are misinterpreting the scenario and thinking too deeply about something that isn't true.
They will often be thinking about what to say next rather than actually listening to the things that you are sharing. All of these methods are easily picked up on if you start to really look at the way that they are looking at you. Either too much or not enough eye contact could be a sign that they're not fully engaged. Some people really have trouble making eye contact, and others will be anxiously thinking in their head, so they might try harder to make eye contact. Just look out for shady eyes and shifty patterns that might indicate they are attempting to gain control over you.
Quick Talking and Hand Movements
Manipulators will make sure that they talk with their hands and as fast as they can. These are two methods that you will notice frequently if someone is trying to convince you to do something. This is an especially common tactic if they want to convince you of something that will clearly be harder to push you over the edge on. They will want to urge you to agree because they know if you're given too long to decide, you will easily spot the weak points in the plan.
They'll talk fast so that you will not even be able to pick up on all the little things they might be saying. They might want to slip something in that you don't notice, but they still state it so that you can't say that they didn't warn you afterward. Think of the last commercial that you watched for a medication. They'll start saying all of the amazing benefits that their products provide, but then they will also slip in the warnings and side effects at the end of the commercial. The beginning will include dramatizations or "customer" interviews selling the medicine for you with pretty pictures and grand promises. After they've done this, the commercial ends with a speed talker stating scary things like, "This medicine may cause internal bleeding, bone loss, skin lesions, random hair growth, and could make your current side effects even worse." Make sure to always listen to all the fast talk you hear because you never know what scary warnings might be hidden within them.
Manipulators will also try to overstate their point by using hand movements. This is something that you will see with a lot of salespeople or those who are at least trying to be persuasive in minor negative ways. They will really talk up their point and try to prove what they're stating using grand gestures and wide or rapid hand movements. It's almost like they are the conductor of an orchestra trying to make sure that everyone is following their lead. This isn't as bad of a tactic because some people will just be more vivid storytellers who overdo the hand gestures. Just be cautious of this method especially when in a position where someone is trying to sell you a product or service.
Persuasion Tactics Used
If you are not sure whether or not you are being persuaded, always remember to question what the intention of this conversation might be. They might have every sign of being a manipulator, but are they actually trying to control you, or do they just want what's best for you? Sometimes people really do know certain things that we might need in our lives, maybe like a parent or a spouse. Just because they are going against what you're saying and have an idea for what you should do instead doesn't mean they're being manipulative. Always consider if it's just in this instant, or if it's natural for others to try and control you. There are still a few more methods of persuasion that we'll be discussing in order to help you become more aware of the embedded manipulative tactics others have used on you.


When manipulative people are mad, they might end up giving you the silent treatment. They will completely shut out and not give you a chance to talk. It is sort of like a "strike" from the relationship. They might think that if they completely cut you out of their life, they'll be able to scare you into running back and apologizing, accepting responsibility even if they were the ones to do something negative in the first place. It is a cold and calculated move that can really hurt the other person. They won't usually last that long, however. The thing is, the other person, the non-manipulator, will usually be the one to reach out because they are compassionate and empathetic, and it legitimately hurts them to try and go without the other person in their life. Next time someone gives you the silent treatment, let them go quiet. They will eventually come back to you. If they don't, then that's not a healthy person to have in your life anyway. Sometimes people need space, but they should let you know that first. It shouldn't just be an attempt to cut someone out of their life cold turkey.
They might try and take you to their "home court." This is a manipulative tactic that's frequently done by salesmen and other 
individuals trying to close a deal. It will involve bringing someone to a place where the person in control is more comfortable. This is done on a personal level as well. Maybe a partner wants to have a "talk," but they choose to only do so at their house or even in their car where they can be the one driving. If someone is being very adamant about having a discussion only in their own personal space, then this might be a sign they are trying to gain the upper hand.
They will not really give you much of a chance to talk. They want to take the lead in this conversation and interaction. They need to have the upper hand, which means that they will end up doing as much of the talking as possible. If you find that someone is frequently interrupting you, make sure that you ask them, "Can I finish speaking please?" Don't try to cut them off if they don't let you finish every time. Give them a minute and then allow a moment of silence to show that you are being as respectful as possible. They might realize just how much they aren't letting you talk at this moment, but they could also end up just interrupting you again. If the interruption continues and your efforts to speak aren't working, you can remove yourself from the situation and give them a chance to calm down. It will be better to have a serious discussion when both parties are willing to be active listeners.
They'll belittle you and make you feel as though you aren't very intelligent. They will ask things like, "did you really just say that?" or call you names like "stupid" and "dumb." They will make you feel as though you aren't intelligent enough to make your own decisions and look for ways to insult your intellect with passive-aggressive comments.
Pressure and time-pressing issues might be a way that they want to control you. This is another method that many advertisers will use in order to sell their products. They'll say things like, "this offer won't last" or "limited supplies," in order to make you think that you are missing out on a once in a lifetime opportunity.
Here are some more complex issues that you can start to understand in order to determine whether or not you are being persuaded.
Using Your Emotions Against You
Manipulators will know your biggest fears. They are very skilled at 
picking out your greatest weaknesses, and they will also be conscious of the things you are good at as well. They view many things through the lens of competition, so it will be common to know what you are good and bad at. Rather than trying to match skills and compete on a fair level, they will jab you in all of your weakest areas. Manipulators aren't afraid to play dirty. Once they are aware of your biggest weaknesses, they will take any opportunity they get to make sure that you are being exploited in these areas. 
They will see that you are happy, and they will take advantage of this as well. They will wait until you're in a good mood to ask for a favor. They will break the bad news to you only after cooking you dinner or giving you a gift. This isn't a totally terrible method to ask others for favors and such; however, they should be doing nice things for you all of the time and not just when they need something from you.
If you are feeling low or depressed, then they are going to help to ensure that you feel even worse. They might take advantage of this moment and use it to validate a feeling.
For example, imagine a couple that includes a boyfriend and a girlfriend. The girlfriend decides to go back to school to get a new degree. The boyfriend doesn't like this because it means that she won't be home as often to help take care of him, and his insecurities start to emerge surrounding her success and intelligence. He gets scared that she will meet new a partner at school and leave him once she improves her life like she wants to. She comes home from class one day and is upset because she failed a test. A healthy relationship would involve the boyfriend telling her that everything was going to be OK and that she shouldn't let one test stop her from achieving her dreams. In this relationship, the boy is manipulative, so he tells her that this is a sign that maybe she should drop out. He will use it to validate his negative perspective.
Charming and Love Bombing
A manipulator knows exactly what to tell you. They will be masters at flirtation and know exactly the right things to say that you want to hear from them. They will have several different cheesy lines they might be able to recite, and they will often use the same phrases among different people in order to charm them.
They have perfect lines that come out so smoothly. This is because they will often play out scenes in their head before actually living through them. As we've already discussed, they believe their own lies. It will be harder to catch them in these lies or call them out for being phony because they've already come up with lines of defense in their own minds.
They will want to get that same treatment back from you. They might overload you with love and gifts because they are expecting the same treatment in return. They might do these favors and then one day throw them back in your face when it comes time for you to do a favor for them.
They will not do this for other people. This is especially true for a romantic relationship. If you are noticing that they're very loving to you but rude to your friends, family, and even their friends, it's a good sign that they're phony. Genuinely charming people will be like that with most others, not just with the person that they want to manipulate.
Oversharing Then Reverse
There are a few phases that a manipulator will go through in order to try and win you over. At first, during the love-bombing phase, they will get you to tell them a lot about yourself. This is where they will act as though they are a therapist just there to listen to everything that you have to say and give you basic comments to help make you feel better.


They are then going to overshare with you as well. Everything that you went through they totally understand. If you lost a parent, so did they, and they know exactly what that felt like. If you were bullied in high school, so were they. They will look for every way to relate to you and go as far as to lie about their life in order to make it seem like the two of you are meant to be together.
They know just the right things to say in order to ensure that you are listening to them. During this phase, they are going to take everything about you and save it to eventually use against you. They will get you to open up so that it's easier to stab you right in the heart! That's a little dramatic, but it is a genuine tactic that many manipulators can use. They will want to make you feel as though you can trust them and tell them anything all so that they can gather the ammo they need to come back at you later.
They want to relate to you more than anyone else so that they can start to keep you isolated from everyone else. They will start to make you feel like your friends and family don't understand you and only they do. Don't be afraid of opening up to others, but ensure that you aren't blinded by someone who knows how to pretend as though 
they are good listeners.
Confusion and Un-Comfortability
Manipulators might push you past your boundaries but then make you feel bad if you bring this up. Manipulators will not care about what makes you uncomfortable or what doesn't. They will push you into situations that you are uncomfortable with and then get mad at you if you try to bring up how they hurt you.
For example, let's think of two best friends. The first one, we'll call him Jim, decided to play a prank on his friend Sam. He took the prank a little too far and ended up really hurting Sam in the process. Maybe Jim played a prank that his dog died or someone broke into his house. Sam didn't think this was funny whatsoever, so he gets angry and takes some time away from Jim. Rather than being a reasonable friend and apologizing for what he did, Jim is a manipulator. He ends up getting mad that Sam couldn't handle the joke and gives him the silent treatment for several weeks. You can see that he pushed passed Sam's boundaries and made it seem like Sam's fault that he was upset.
You'll often find that after having an interaction with a manipulator, you might wind up thinking something like, "What on earth just happened?" They can stab you in the stomach with a smile on their face and somehow leave you as the one that does all the apologizing.
"I was just joking" delivered in a passive-aggressive tone is a great way to make you feel as though you are in the wrong for being upset or sharing that you were hurt in a certain interaction.
They might call you by different nicknames rather than what you actually want to be called (Fellizar, 2018). They won't be afraid to push your buttons because it is a way to entertain themselves and gain control over you.
NLP Tactics
NLP stands for neuro-linguistic programming. It is a way that we can start to understand the methods in which we communicate and how we can manipulate the way we talk with other people.
N is for neuro. This is the way that our brains operate and the neural processing they go through when learning and applying different information. L is for linguistic. This is the language that you use in order to interact. P is for programming. It involves the way that we have been programmed to think in this world. A lot of the methods that we have discussed already are also neurolinguistics techniques in order to control you. These include:

●
     
Bringing you to their home turf


●
     
Talking fast and using large hand movements


●
     
Matching body language

Not all of these things are bad. You can try these persuasive techniques yourself. It's just important that you are ensuring that you are persuading and influencing another person in a positive way that will mutually benefit both of you.
Another popular NLP tactic is anchoring. This is basically weighing down an emotion so that it's easier to elicit later on. If they notice that you are in a particular mood, they might simply touch you. Then, if they want to elicit this mood later on, they will touch you in the exact same way.
They might not do this with you physically, but with objects as well. Let's say you're discussing a business deal with someone skilled in NLP tactics. At the beginning of the discussion, they put you in a happy mood ask how your family is or how your vacation was. At this time, when you're at your happiest, they might do something like tap the table twice with their fingers, a sort of natural nervous tick that goes mostly unnoticed. Later, as they're trying to really drive in the deal, they'll do this same tapping, bringing you back to that happy moment.
Look out for those who seem to be experts trying to elicit these feelings. More individuals go out of their way to train with these NLP methods than you might think!







Chapter 4 - Reasons for Analyzing People
We should all have a certain level of social cognition that will enable us to better understand and help the people around us. Since we are group animals who need others to survive, it's important that we know how to fit into this world. That's not an easy thing to do, but it can still be helpful to our survival to meet other people like us and make deeper connections with those that we can relate to.
When you use tactics to try and get a better understanding of how people operate, it makes it easier to predict what they might do or how they might act. Rather than trying to guess your way through this life, always wondering how other people are feeling, you can really start to take charge and better understand even the most complex people that you meet. This will help you throughout your life, but it will also enable you to help others. We all have loved ones who might be struggling who we wish we could help more, but that can sometimes be difficult. If you start to analyze people and better grasp where it is that they're coming from, you're giving yourself the chance to look for ways that you can actually help them.
There might actually be evolutionary purposes as to why it is that we, as humans, ensure that we can pick up and learn from the behavior of other people. A leopard doesn't teach its cub how to hunt by sitting it down and talking through the steps. The best way that these animals learn is to start with something small and work their way up, all the time watching their parents do the killing first to give them an idea of how it works. These mirror brain methods of comprehension also help us to pick up valuable information just like the animals that watch others to learn.
As we grow older, you can start to pick up on more of your surroundings. You often learn from the actions of those that teach you while you grow. It's important to understand all the ways that you learn about both yourself and other people when you sit down and really start to understand the many ways that the human brain really operates. You will be more in tune with various signals that help give you a better understanding overall rather than taking information at face value.
Many people will not actually say the things that are on their minds. Sometimes it is hard to express ourselves using only the words that we already know. We aren't always taught to express ourselves in healthy ways, so we might simply not know how to do that. There are situations where it can just be plain scary to open up and say what's on our minds. This difficulty in communication can lead to some very toxic and damaging relationships, so the better equipped we are to speak to one another, the easier it will be to navigate through life.
When you can learn to pick up on both verbal and non-verbal cues, it becomes easier to understand the intention of what others actually desire. At first, you might still miss some signs of people manipulating you. You might also realize that you are paranoid at times and looking too deep into signals that don't actually mean anything. Communication is a practice that not everyone will be perfect at, so don't feel discouraged if it takes a while to get used to understanding dark psychology.
The more you learn to analyze and understand people, the easier it becomes to manipulate them as well. This is to be done in a positive and influential way, of course. Let's discuss more in-depth about why analyzing people can be important.
Why Use Manipulation?
Manipulation is an easy way to get people to do what you want. If you are someone with power, physical strength, or a lot of money, you are already equipped to be more influential. Here's the issue, however. You could boss people around, tell them what to do, and intimidate others into listening to you. This can be easily done depending on your status in life. However, none of these types of manipulation is going to be substantial enough to last. Eventually, many people will realize the control that is happening and will be less easily persuaded. Others will be afraid and want to escape. 
You'll no longer want to manipulate people for negative reasons. If you really want long-lasting influence, it has to be done in a positive way. Others will be more influenced by you and have a greater level of respect when you are able to share a positive influence with them.
If you are a highly aware individual, then you will be able to use your influence for good and help to change things to make the world a better place. An influencer is someone who strives to be more of an equal with the people they are persuading. You will have a time when communication can occur, and you can be open with the other person. This will allow both of you to grow, and even when you don't know if what you're doing is the best choice, you will have an open dialogue with others that will help to keep the group moving in the right direction. A manipulator will think that they know exactly what's best for everyone, and even if they realize they are wrong halfway through, they will still do their best to ensure that they prove their point.
You will actually learn a lot about yourself from what you learn from other people. Sometimes you really need an outsider's perspective to grasp the reality of the situation you are the center of. They might be able to help you be more aware of the situation, or they might have gone through something similar that gives you insight into your own scenario.


You can help to break through the boundaries that people might 
have not been so willing to change in the past. You can help to show a positive influence and the way that it can transform lives for the better, enabling healthy relationships to form between you and those that you are closest to.
Manipulation will enable you to finally speak up for yourself and say what's on your mind. Rather than being a passive person who is afraid to stick up for themselves, you can be more willing to express your opinions, giving you the strength to stick up for yourself.
You can start to get to know people on a deeper level as you tap into their subconscious beyond just what you've discussed in the past. It can be easy to get defensive and turn away from someone, but when you really dive deep into the "why" behind emotions, it can end up bringing you and the other person closer in the end. All of these reasons we discussed are why it is important that we learn how to use manipulation but in the positive form of persuasion.
How to Protect Yourself Against Persuasion
We all have times when we've been easily influenced by others. Maybe you accidentally signed up for something you never would have if you'd been given more time to think about it. Maybe someone even swindled you or tricked you into a deal that ended up leaving you with the short end of the stick. Don't feel bad if this has happened to you. It's time now to become much more aware of the way that we can protect ourselves in certain situations.
Sometimes it is not so bad to let other people make decisions. It's nice every once in a while to have another person just make the decisions about what to watch on TV that night or what to eat for dinner. Not every night, of course, but there are some instances when we just might struggle to make decisions.
However, we should still always be as aware as possible of the ways in which we might be falling under someone else's persuasion. The first thing you can do to resist persuasion is to avoid the person trying to persuade you altogether. If you notice that they might be someone who is trying to trick you into doing something, then it's important to keep your guard up right away.
Next, you can try to put up a defense. Make them question what 
they're trying to sell to you. If you really aren't sure whether or not you're being manipulated, always ask more questions. Make sure you know the who/what/why/when/where of everything that you might sign up for. Be highly aware of both the positives and the negatives. Ask "what's the catch?" whenever something seems too good to be true. Make the manipulator face the truth so that they are exposed, and you are more protected.
Ask for some time to think when you feel pressure in the situation. If they aren't willing to give you a second to think without a substantial reason for needing the urgency, then it's a sign they are trying to trick you. If someone says, "unfortunately, you don't have time," always ask, "why?" If they give you a valid reason, such as a time period is ending or there's a greater risk on the line, then, of course, act as you should. However, a lot of deals can wait at least until the next morning, so you really have time to think things through.
Don't be afraid to say "no." It can be so hard to say "no" to certain people. Maybe they don't seem to take "no" for an answer, or perhaps they have been so kind and accommodating that you would feel guilty saying "no." Don't let this happen! No means no, and if you said it once, you shouldn't have to say it again. Don't let others shame you for saying "no!"
One of the best ways to protect yourself is to be confident and assured in your own core values. This can be done by developing your levels of emotional intelligence.
Emotional Intelligence
It is crucial that we all can reach a certain level of emotional intelligence. Your IQ is your ability to think intellectually and logically. Your emotional intelligence (EQ) is based more around your abilities to understand and recognize the feelings and emotions of those around you.
In order to have a high level of emotional intelligence, you need to be aware of what your emotions are and where they started to form. The first way to start to become more emotionally intelligent is to always ask "why." Why is it that you are sad? Angry? Jealous? Scared? When you have these more challenging emotions, always question where they came from and what purpose they are serving.
Ensure that you are separating the emotion from the reaction. If you are angry, you can either react by being quiet or punching a wall. The emotion is the same, but it is the reaction that is positive or negative. Being angry or sad, or any other challenging emotion is not a bad thing. It's when you don't think your reaction through that things can get tricky. Someone with a high EQ knows how to react to their emotions in a healthy way, whereas those with a low EQ often act only on impulses.
Always question your emotions and make sure that you are really looking deep within yourself. Did this emotion develop in the past? Is it a thought process you were taught? Is it something newer that you have developed?
Start to listen better to others as well. Really actively engage in what they are saying and don't just sit there and try to plan out what you are going to say next. Listen to their words and the subtext in between.
Voice your opinion and be honest with your feelings. As long as you are not hurting anyone in the process, you should always express how you are feeling. If you bottle up your emotions, then you will only hurt yourself mentally and physically down the line.
Remember to view things objectively. Don't label everything as either "positive" or "negative." There is plenty in between, and you will be able to find both a good and bad side to most things if you look hard enough. Strive for this ambiguity rather than putting everything in one box or the other.
Control your immediate reactions. Let yourself process your feelings for a moment before deciding to react. When you start to improve on this, it becomes that much easier to protect yourself from manipulation.
Symptoms of Brainwashing
After going through a period where you might have experienced emotional abuse, it is important that you realize all of the ways that this has affected you. To properly heal and move on, you need to know how this has altered the way that you think. Long-term manipulation can be especially embedded in our psyche. It can be 
challenging to break free from some of the thoughts and words that our abusers put in our heads in the first place. 
Those who have been brainwashed will believe that the person who has done the manipulation is the only judge of their worth. Many people who have been rescued from cults are still afraid of what their leaders might think, all because their values have become based on a scale that they were taught by their manipulator.
If you are highly unsure of yourself and always wonder what the person who might have brainwashed you would say, then this is a good sign they emotionally manipulated you. If you can hear their voice in the back of your head, they have successfully brainwashed you, and it is time to start ignoring that voice, or at least trying to resist it.
If you have experienced public shame from someone, then they likely played a role in brainwashing you. They tried to exert power over you in a public setting, and this can really damage your self-worth.
You might have become isolated from those who you used to be close with because of this person. Your friends and family might have tried to help, but your manipulator likely told you that they were all against you.
Perhaps you feel guilty and like you could have helped your manipulator more. This is a sign that you are brainwashed because you are putting the responsibility of their life in your hands and convincing yourself that you could have changed the way things ended up.
Maybe you have been taught to fear outsiders or even the beliefs of others that don't align with what your manipulator taught you. If the emotional manipulator denies that they have hurt you in any way, this is a good sign that you need to separate yourself from this situation.
Don't worry, your mental journey does not stop here. The first part of the book has concluded, and now it is time to get to the "how" of all of this! How are you going to use your new knowledge of manipulation in order to benefit you?







Chapter 5 - The Art of Manipulation and Persuasion
Manipulation is the dark side of persuasion. We aren't going to tell you how to be manipulative because that's not going to do the world any good. You might be able to get what you want, but you would hurt people along the way. Nothing worth something substantial is going to be gained by taking from other people first. If you really want long-lasting influence, you have to start to gain ways that you can be more of a positively persuasive person.
Don't persuade individuals who aren't going to be able to know any better. If someone isn't very intelligent and truly has trouble understanding basic concepts, then it's not a good idea to try and manipulate them. You should only help inspire others to think the things they would be able to on their own, just with a little guidance. To inspire someone is to give them a good idea that influences their own thinking patterns. It doesn't involve planting an idea in their head and tricking them into thinking something they wouldn't ever have thought on their own.
Never persuade someone to do something that you wouldn't do yourself, if in the same situation. If you aren't willing to do it, then it's a safe bet that it's not morally right to expect someone else to do it either.
Persuasion should not involve you taking from the other person. You shouldn't take something from them that leaves them with nothing. If you do take from them, then you should be giving them something of equal or greater value in the process. It is a shared experience that helps both of you become better people in the end.
There should always be a sense of freedom felt by the other person. Think of it like you would if you were to find a lightning bug in a glass jar. You could put a lid on the jar and keep that lightning bug for your enjoyment. Or you could help the bug and set it free. If you keep it in the jar, it will eventually die, but if you set it free in the world, it will go wherever it pleases. You can still help people by giving them their own freedom to make decisions that are best for themselves.
First, let's look at the frequent lies and deceptive tactics that you should avoid using at all costs and some other reminders of how you might have been manipulated in the past.
Deception and Lies
It is important that you are never deceptive on your journey of persuasion. The moment that you start trying to trick people into thinking something other than reality is when you become negatively persuasive. Lying is tricky. You could do it if you really wanted to, but with every lie, there is a truth. The lie could be long-lasting, but the truth will always remain just as long as the lie. It is only a matter of time until the lie is eventually discovered—if it doesn't eat away at you first.
You don't want to try and convince others of anything that is untrue. You should be cautious of the other ways that could be considered lying. Withholding the truth can sometimes be considered lying if you are intentionally keeping secrets in order to persuade the other person. Of course, there will always be things that not everyone necessarily needs to know. If you were staying in a hotel room, you wouldn't really want to know what everyone has ever done in that room. It would probably be more important for you to know if that room has bed bugs, however! If what you are withholding from the other person could negatively affect them, then it's safe to say that you should share the truth.
It is pretty easy to lie! For example, one of these is a lie. Pick out which one you think it is:

●
    
A whale's heartbeat can be heard when you're within a two-mile radius. 


●
    
There are over 2,500 squirrels that live in Central Park.


●
     
Coca-Cola used to contain cocaine.

Which one do you think it is? Guess what? All of these are true. The actual lie that was stated was that "one of these is a lie." It is just that easy to lie! You can do it whenever you want, at any time. The thing is, you won't always get away with it. If you don't get away with it, then you are going to cause more problems than what you might 
have had in the beginning when you initially chose to state the lie.
Is lying always wrong? That's for you to decide. Is it wrong to lie to a toddler about their pet cat getting run over by the neighbor's car? Is it wrong to lie to a customer about how good they look in a dress so you can make a sale? Is it wrong to lie to your spouse about cheating after you already broke things off with your mistress? We all might have different opinions about these. Maybe you think all are fine; maybe you think all are awful. Either way, they are common, and they are real, and we need to look out for these lies.
There are some common signs that someone is lying, and you need to be aware of these signs. First, look at the way that they are talking. Are they stuttering? Stuttering is a nervous tick that we can have, especially in high-pressure situations. Look at how someone might be stuttering or tripping over their words. If they are simply having trouble finishing a sentence, they might be nervous. If they struggle to keep up with the story and go off on too many over-explained tangents, they might be lying or at least bending the truth in their favor.
How long is it taking them to answer? This could indicate two different kinds of lies. If they take way too long, then they are thinking of the best way to respond that makes them look good. If they don't take long enough and answer really fast immediately after being asked, then they might have these answers already perfectly planned out. Look at what is being asked to determine whether or not they might be lying.
Are they seemingly nervous in their movement? Fidgeting, shaking legs, and playing with their fingers can be nervous ticks but adding them to sweating, shifty eyes, and frequent swallowing could indicate that they are lying. If they are too still and incredibly tense, then this might also mean that they are doing their best to stay composed. New manipulators who are still practicing their methods will likely be the ones to take too long to answer and be nervous and shifting. Skillful manipulators will be very still, collected, and ready with the perfect answer to all questions.
If they seem to look off to the right, then this might be a sign that they're lying. This is because the left side of your brain is in control of logic, and the right side is in charge of creativity. If you look at the 
left side, this means your brain is using the memory reasoning aspects of your brain, and you might be trying to recall details. You are using logic to help you remember the answer. If you look to the right, you are tapping into your creative side. You are trying to come up with excuses and lies in order to cover yourself.
If they are covering their mouths, then it might be a sign that they are attempting to withhold information. Trust your gut if you really think people are lying. Be careful if you decide to call others out. You don't want to accuse someone and have them end up losing your trust in the process.
Mind Control and Brainwashing
The difference between mind control and brainwashing is what your intentions are going to be. When you are brainwashing, you are wiping their head clean of everything that they might want to think on their own. You are trying to take their own thoughts and ideas away and instead replace them with your own. This is malicious intent.
Mind control is a little better, as you will still be able to help influence the way that they think, but you will not do it in a way that limits their own freedom. There are a few mind control tactics you can use for good.
The first tactic you can use is the amplification method. This involves highlighting the best parts of something and really running with that. To be honest, you should always make sure everyone is aware of the negative aspects. However, an amplification tactic can help others to get really excited about the smaller details of a project. If a company is rebranding, they might come up with a new catchphrase and let this become their point of selling. Maybe it's an image or a phrase that helps you to best remember the new products that they have created.
You can also make things seem scarcer. You might limit yourself or the things that you are trying to sell in order to make them more popular. Others will want to take advantage of the limited options in order to alleviate any fear they might have later over not following through with the purchase.
Point out legitimate compliments that go beyond just the basic ones that others are used to hearing. Don't tell someone that you like their shoes. Tell them that they have a great style! Don't say, "That's a good idea." Instead, try something like, "You have a really great ability to come up with new ideas." Give them more substantial compliments besides what is frequently said in order to give yourself a little advantage.
Go out of your way to do something nice for others-but don't accept anything in return at first. You'll want to show that you legitimately care and appreciate them, and you aren't just doing nice things to get something from them.
Help others to see the reason that there needs to be some action right now. Give them your perspective and remember to use objective phrasing rather than something that sounds more forceful. Don't say, "You should do this." Instead, say, "I feel as though doing this has helped me, so you might find it does the same for you if you try." Others want to think that they are coming up with all of their own ideas; they're not always going to be so keen to take on all the thoughts that you have. 
Use logic and science to back up your argument. If I told you that 80 percent of people who read this sentence believed I didn't make this sentence up, would you be more compelled to believe it? Of course, there's no way of knowing that it's true, but facts and numbers are going to help more people be willing to believe the ideas that you're sharing.
Remember the small details about other people. Ask about their family, remember their pet's name, discuss their interests, and so on. In order to better remember, associate that trait with something about them. For example, maybe your employee's husband's name is Ray, and he just got out of the hospital after surgery, which is why your employee, Susan, had to take a few days off. Remember that R
ay is her husband because she has R
ed hair. Associating the two R's with Susan will help you to remember more. Then, when she comes back, make sure to not just ask, "How's your husband?" Instead, ask her, "Is Ray glad to be back home?" It's so much more personal and shows that you legitimately care and aren't just asking to be nice.
Be flexible in the way that you are asking for things. If you show that 
you are angry, they didn't agree at first or are unwilling to compromise, that will be the first turn-off for the other person. Negotiation is all about letting both parties have a say so that everyone comes out of it feeling happy and comfortable with the decisions that they've made.
Always show positivity and enthusiasm. If you can't be excited about your own persuasion, why should anyone else?
Have backup plans for what you might be trying to persuade others of. Not everyone is going to say "yes," and the most detail-oriented plans we have can still go in completely opposite ways. Be prepared for what you might do when everyone turns down your offers.
Put yourself in their shoes so you will understand the things that might be red flags for them. Envision why they might just say no, not just what you will do if that's the way things go. If you can walk in someone else's shoes, you will better enable yourself to understand exactly where they're coming from.
Understanding Body Language
The first thing you will want to do when reading someone's body language is to remember the context that you are in. If you're giving an interview to a potential new employee, then, of course, they are going to be nervous. If you're interrogating a husband for the murder of his wife, then he is going to be nervous, but he's also more likely to be a manipulator than the person in the first example. The context is going to help reveal whether or not you should really have your guard up to protect against potential manipulators.


Look at the way that someone is holding their body. Are their arms crossed? Are they closed off? Rigid? Shaking? Start by taking in their overall stance first, and then you will be able to better understand the actual message they might be trying to show with their body language. Their posture and the way that they are positioned can give you an idea as to what they're saying through their bodies.
What is their smile like? Squinted eyes and wrinkled cheeks will show that it is a genuine smile. Eyes that stay the same and cheeks that barely move is a good sign that they are just faking the smile. Their eyebrows will also reveal a lot about whether or not they are genuinely smiling. Raised eyebrows can mean that they are really excited about something, whereas turned in eyebrows with a smile could mean that they are happy but still questioning what is going on. Straight and unchanged eyebrows are usually a sign that the smile is fake.
Pay attention to the way that they are nodding. Not everyone will realize it, but sometimes when we're saying "yes/no" while also lying, our heads can actually turn in the opposite way. Let's say that you're asking your spouse if they have a problem with you throwing 
a party this weekend. They might state "no problem" to keep the peace, but they could also end up nodding their heads up and down in a way that usually lets us know that the other person disagrees. This isn't necessarily manipulative, as they might just want to be nice and make the other person happy. It's still an example of how our heads can move oppositely of what we're trying to say, revealing our true intentions.
What is their tension like? Do they have a clenched jaw? Look at the corner of their jaw right below their ear. You will be able to see if they are really holding their jaw clenched at this point, depending on their facial structure. We all clench our jaws from time to time, especially if we're experiencing constant stress. However, rapid clenching and grinding can indicate that they are thinking deeply, which might mean that they are lying.
If they're scratching their heads or picking at something, they might be a little confused. They could be searching for more understanding, but it could also indicate that they are looking for a better lie to cover their tracks.
How to Predict Others
Sometimes we just look at the pattern of behavior of people based on their actions alone. We think that this is the way that they are going to act in any given situation. People show a lot through their actions, but it's important to still pay special attention to the decisions others are making to see if there is a hidden truth.
Make sure that you understand the full context of the way in which others are sharing their actions with others. You don't want to make assumptions just gathered from the basic understanding of a person. For example, you might have an acquaintance who is frequently hanging out in your circle of friends. This person is very closed off and quiet. They aren't very friendly to you, so you assume they don't like you.
You have predicted that if you invited them out for a solo hangout session, they would decline. However, you might not realize that this person is just very socially anxious. They don't do well in group settings but would absolutely love to get to know you one-on-one. 
You only made an assumption based on the basic level of understanding of this person, but there was a hidden truth overlooked when connecting these dots.
Don't let one single outlier be a reason that you assume someone is going to act in a certain way. Maybe you meet someone for the first time at a party, and they end up getting really drunk. You might assume that they are an alcoholic, especially since they were so willing to go over their limit after meeting new people.
Later on, you might discover that the night they met you, they had just gotten out of a relationship and wanted to let loose at the party after an especially hard day. Don't make assumptions based on what you have already learned. Consider other aspects to help you determine the entire truth or the bigger picture.
Get to know other people. Study human behavior! Always question why others do the things that they do. Understand the motives behind others. What is it that they really want? Are they searching for a greater truth? Are they fulfilling an empty part of themselves? Are they trying to make connections? Are they simply bored?
Decide if people are passive or if they are active. Do they let others do as they please and remain calm and composed throughout the situation? Are they more likely to assume leadership positions with or without prompting?
Are they reactionary or do they think more slowly? Will they give themselves a moment to think through their emotions and then respond, or will they jump and be aggressive at the first sign of a threat?
The more you practice analyzing others and going over data collected in your head, the easier it becomes to be able to persuade them and protect yourself from other's control.







Chapter 6 - Dark Psychology Steps
Now that you have a basic level of understanding of how manipulation and persuasion work, it is crucial that you begin to understand the more intermediate methods that some might use on you in order to get you to fall for their biggest deceptions. These are never for you to use yourself. We are only sharing them with you so that you are able to really see the most embedded methods that other manipulators will use to keep you under their control. The more aware and prepared you are of these dark psychology steps, the easier it will be to stop this manipulation from controlling you and taking your life in any direction other than what you want.
When you first start to crack open yours and others' mentality, it will be easier to pick up on little cues as you go along. Remember that it will always be a practice. At first, you might think that you can make easy assumptions and that you have it all figured out. There will always be layers to all of the truths you are uncovering. You might have realized that someone was manipulating you but look deeper. Why were they doing so? How did this affect you? What can you do to recover?
There are still some steps here that you can understand to better avoid being manipulated, and, if you choose to, use for your own purposes. That is not advised, but then again, we can't manipulate you into not being a manipulator. We can remind you that doing these things will never give you what you want. They might seem to at first, but you are filling a hole with all the wrong things. Eventually, you are going to need more power and more control. You will be addicted to the ability to manipulate others, and the simple things won't get you "high" anymore. You'll have to keep looking further and further for more ways that you can gain power over other people, and this is only going to hurt you the most in the end.
You should never take advantage of someone else, but in harmless settings, such as getting something small you want or maybe closing a business deal, you can use these tactics. Perhaps you want to ask your parents for some money, so you do the persuasion preparation 
method. Maybe you are trying to get others to buy your company's flood insurance, so you use the fear and relief method. As long as you aren't maliciously trying to take from others, you can be assured that your persuasion is positive.
Victimization
There are true victims in the world. Though we all have choices we can make, those that are abusive can take this ability away from their victims. They will replace their victims' own thoughts with thoughts of their own, making the abused feel trapped and helpless. To be a victim isn't a bad thing at all. Not everyone will be able to help themselves from falling into the web of lies and deceit that many abusers create to trap their victims.
Then there are those who will play the part of the victim all because they are looking to get sympathy from you. This doesn't happen as often as people think, but it is a method that some will use in order to get the things that they want. It is a way to tap into the sympathy and compassion of those who are close to the manipulator in order to make them fall under their "spell."
This is also a method of distraction. If you tell someone that they hurt you, they can say, "Well, you hurt me." This might make you think that you did something wrong, which turns the focus to you trying to apologize to them! They will flip the situation around so that you are no longer concerned with the issue that you brought up in the first place but instead are focused solely on ensuring that the abuser is taken care of at that moment. It is a common tactic to keep the manipulator from having to confront the real issues that they need to work through.
This method is especially useful for those manipulators who will see the good in other people. They will be able to see that desire to care for others and use that to their advantage.
You can tell if someone is actually a victim or if they are playing the part by how they respond to compassion or care that might be directed toward them. If they are a real victim, they will be appreciative and receptive to the care. They will use it as a way to help themselves feel better, and they will have a strong desire to 
work through their issues. Those who use victimization will take care of everything they can. They won't want to change and will instead do their best to make others feel as bad as possible about hurting them.
This method isn't going to work out in the long-run. People eventually grow tired of those that constantly put themselves in the middle of the drama. They will start to easily see through the wall of victimization that has been created and understand the intrinsic manipulation that has existed.
Fear and Relief
Fear and relief is the method of making someone scared and then being the one to provide the solution. It is like pushing someone off a cliff and then being the one to reach your hand out and save them just before it is too late. The idea of the manipulation here is to help show that you are a vessel for comfort. The part of you that created the fear in the first place is often overlooked and not always realized initially.


This is common in long-term relationship abuse situations. Think of a parent who always terrifies the child about the outside world. They might tell scary stories of all that could happen if the child were to ever leave home. Perhaps they are giving the child wild ideas about the outside world. But the parent will still act as the savior, making sure that the child always stays close by. They will use bad situations to validate their reasoning as well. A child might feel trapped by their parents, one day deciding to sneak out at night. They might end up getting into trouble, and when that is revealed to the controlling parent, they might say something like, "See, I told you something bad would happen!" 
This is a tactic that is often used by advertisers as well. It is less harmful in this scenario and would be the method that you might use should you be selling something that would help to alleviate a person's fear. For example, a plumbing company might share a scary fact about frozen pipes during the winter season, helping to sell more high-quality pipes and replacement services. You might not have initially been thinking about frozen pipes, but now you are, so you want to buy their service. It's not totally vindictive, as it could be a real problem that can be prevented.
If you feel as though someone is trying to manipulate you with this method, make sure that you are first aware of the threat that they're trying to make you believe. Are they inflating the issue? Is it really something that you need to spend time being afraid of? Are you in the middle of manipulation, or are you actually enlightened now by this new, fearful information?
The thing is that the abuser will never be the aggressor. They want to show compassion. They won't be evil and scary in this situation because they are trying to show the abused that fear is an outside source. They desire to be the ultimate point of comfort, so they won't show their aggressive side, as that would then make them too scary to be dependable.
If used in a gentle way, this method will not be so damaging. You should just focus on showing them the ways that you can help offer solutions for the true threat that already exists. Don't use fear alone to make them buy something. Use awareness to help enlighten them as to why it would be beneficial for them to invest in your product.
Sometimes, there is good news and bad news in a situation. It is important that you state the bad news first and then the good news. This can be your way of using the fear and relief method.
Think of the way that a doctor would tell patients about certain health conditions and frame it in a way that will actually get the patient to do what they need to do in order to improve their health.
For example, let's say that a patient is at risk for heart disease because they don't exercise and eat really unhealthily. The bad news is that they are a high-risk patient. The good news is that this can be reversed with a healthy diet and exercise. There are a few ways that this can be framed in order for the doctor to have a positive influence and actually get what he wants from this scenario. Here are the two alternative methods:

●
    
"Unfortunately, we've discovered that you are a high risk for heart failure and other cardiovascular conditions. These kinds of conditions can be very risky and with your age and health status, they won't be so easily reversed. You can seriously reduce your risk and prevent these from happening if you start on the DASH diet and exercise at least three times a week."


●
    
"It looks like you're going to have to start eating healthier and exercising. If you don't, you make your chances of having heart failure higher than they already are."

The first one is going to work out better for the patient and will likely have a higher chance of actually influencing them in the right direction. The first one lays out a fear. It paints a really serious situation that could scare the patient. However, then the solution is offered, and the patient's fear is reduced, making them more likely to continue with whatever will make them feel better.
The second one kind of paints both as "bad news." It discusses first what the patient has to do and then follows with even more bad news. They are likely going to leave the appointment feeling bad about themselves and hopeless, whereas the first has a higher chance of inspiring positive influence into that patient.
Likability and Flirtation
If you want people to trust you, then it is important that you are likable. This is so much easier said than done! Many of us have been trying since before junior high to try and get people to like us. However, don't fear! Now that we are older and more emotionally aware, it's going to be a lot simpler to really see the ways that we can get others on our side.
This is a harmless method for you to use! If you are truly charming, then others will be able to like you more. If you are a likable person, that will involve you being kind, funny, smart, and compassionate. None of these are bad, so of all the methods in the book, this is the best one for you to use with others. The biggest thing you will have to be sure of is that you aren't losing yourself, or your happiness, in the process.
If you are bad at being charming and people can see through your flirting, then only you will be the one suffering in the end. You might be able to charm some people, but there will still be the experts that can cut right through the façade.
Start first by making sure that your emotional reactions are under control. If you are someone who reacts angrily to news or can't handle the slightest change in a schedule, then it might be a little more challenging for others to get along with you.
Be very aware of the way that your face might appear to others. We're not talking about having an ugly or pretty face, of course. Keep your eyebrows relaxed with a slight smile. If you show happiness and positivity on your face, more people will be likely to respond.
Use open body language and engage with them in conversation. Don't just talk about yourself. Be giving and caring. Go out of your way to do things for them, no matter how small.
Have an overall positive attitude and always look on the bright side. Don't force this positivity on others, of course. If someone is in a bad mood, don't tell them to "suck it up, things can be worse!" That's true, but that's not going to help them. Instead, say something like, "I'm sorry you're going through that. Things will get better, and I'm here to help if you need me."
Don't be afraid to show your passionate and enthusiastic side. Some 
individuals get scared of showing their vulnerability because that means they might look weak to others. Don't let this stop you from sharing the love that you have and that others deserve.
Get creative with the compliments you give. Don't just pick up on one-liners from others that you hear. If you really want to be charming, it's time for you to get creative and come up with some substantial ways of impressing other people.
Persuasion Preparation
There are some ways for you to get prepared before you start to ask for whatever it is that you want. This will be like prepping them to say "yes" in order for things to work out in your favor.
What you might want to do first is to offer them something. This is the reciprocity concept. If you give them something, they might be more likely to feel as though they should return the favor. If you invite them over to dinner, then they might be more likely to want to bring a bottle of wine or to take you out to dinner the next week.
Another method is to ask for something small first. If you want to ask someone to do a chore for you, you might ask, "Do you mind sweeping?" Then after they agree, maybe you add in, "Could you take out the garbage, too, if you get a chance?" That makes it sound like two simple tasks rather than the long list of chores it could be when all grouped together.
When making a deal, it might be a good idea to ask for something greater than what you are actually hoping for. If you need to borrow $3,000 from a friend, you might ask first for $5,000. They will then propose a lower price because they don't have the full amount, but they are still going to give you what you initially needed because you primed the question by asking for more.
Always look for how you can better persuade before you go into a meeting as opposed to after. Be prepared to get the things that you want, and you will start to discover it's so much easier to start to see the power come back into your own life, especially the power that was taken away from you initially by the manipulator.
Know Their Baseline
Get to really know the person and what they're all about before you try and persuade them. What are their interests? Are they a sports-oriented person? Would they rather go to an art museum in the afternoon? When you can understand some of the things that make them who they are, it can be easier to adapt to that personality, therefore, making it easier to persuade them later on.
It is important to understand if someone has a thought that turns into a physical tick. If they're confused, do they scratch their heads, or do they squint their brows? If they're mad, do they shake their leg or do they pucker their lips? Start to associate what they are doing physically with what they are thinking so you can get more clarity about the way that they are acting.
It is important to look for differences in the way that they might be acting to really get a sense of whether or not they're lying or trying to persuade you. If they start to stray from some of the baselines that you already know them for, perhaps they are trying to change into a different person and become more influential.
The methods that will help to persuade you will not work for everyone else. Just because you are easily influenced by certain aspects doesn't mean that others are going to be the same. Cater to personal strengths and weaknesses.
The best method for salespeople is to make the buyer feel as though they are an individual. Get to know them on a personal level and they will be more likely to respond in a positive and healthy way.
The companies that thrive the most are those that work off making you feel like you are the only person in the world. In order to really make someone feel like this, you have to know them and what their world is.







Chapter 7 - Dark Psychology Case Studies
What does all that we have discussed mean so far? Is there anything substantial to be taken from this information? This might be starting to all make sense in your own personal world, but perhaps you are wondering if there are other situations in the world that can help you to better understand what this all means in your world. It can be easy to feel isolated and have trouble relating to other people, but there are scientific situations that help us to better understand the complexities of our relationships and emotions.
We have three different case studies here that will help you to better understand what it is that exists within us as people that might lead us to want to manipulate others. When we study other humans, we are looking at them in a controlled environment. This helps because oftentimes, the most that we know is based on our own personal experiences. It can lead us to wonder, "Is it just me, or is it everybody?" Case studies like these help us to understand the human condition rather than just ourselves as individuals.
The first study we will look at gives us a little insight into human behavior. In times when one leader can convince millions of people to believe the things that they do, it is important that we understand just how powerful some figures of authority can be. The better you can identify those who might attempt to manipulate you, the easier it will be to protect yourself in the long run.
The second study will help us understand exactly what we should be asking in order to determine if someone we know might be a narcissist. Since many manipulators are so good at covering their tracks and being deceptive, you never really know who might be trying to manipulate you. It is best if we start to ensure that we know how to identify a narcissist so that we never fall under their control.
The third study is one that will involve what manipulation in the future looks like. As we become more aware of what's going on around us, will it be harder to manipulate consumers? What might businesses do when those with purchasing power are no longer easily convinced? Rather than only thinking of manipulation as a tactic used between two individuals, we have to understand how a 
large group of people can be manipulated by a powerful institution.
The Milgram Experiment
How often have you found yourself doing something you don't want just because an authority figure told you that it was OK to do so? Maybe at work, a boss told you to do something against the rules, and you did just because you figured that no one else would get hurt in the process. They're the ones in charge, after all, so if they say it is OK, why wouldn't it be? We often don't realize just how powerful authority figures can be aside from the standard methods of control that we expect from them.
The Milgram experiment was an experiment led by psychologist Stanley Milgram in 1963 to determine the effects of social influence through authority figures. He set out to see how individuals might react when they are prompted to do something that might go against basic moral ideologies.
The study started with several participants, called "teachers," who were under the impression that they were just to be assisting in an experiment, not the actual subject. The "teachers" were the ones in charge of administering electrical shocks to other "volunteers." The teachers are the ones that were chosen for the study and were not given the information that they would be the ones that were actually studied.
Part of the experiment meant keeping the teachers from knowing the true intention of the experiment. The "volunteers" were actors. The teachers were told that the point of the experiment was to see how the volunteers would react to physical punishment when they weren't able to properly learn something. The volunteers were highly aware of the actual study, and they were known as the "learners." The teachers thought that the study was going to help see how the learners were able to better retain information when what they were taught was done so with physical stimuli.
The learner was hooked up to a device that would administer a shock. The teacher was told to read different pairings of words to the learner, who would then repeat those pairs back to the teacher. The teacher would also be responsible for giving a shock to the learner 
when they got the answer wrong. The teacher thought that the point of the study was to see if this electrical shock when giving a wrong answer would help the learner to provide the right answer more frequently.
The teacher and the learner could not see each other during this experiment. Throughout the test, the voltage of each shock got continuously higher. In reality, the learner wasn't feeling any of the pain because there was no actual shock. Since they were out of sight, they were able to use prerecorded noises to indicate the levels of pain that they were experiencing in response to the pretend shock. They would play a tape recording of them in agony, but the teacher couldn't see, so they didn't know that this was all fake. They believed that each shock actually harmed the learner. Everyone was in on it, and no one was actually feeling any physical pain. The teacher was the only one who didn't know what was going on, and they were the person solely in charge of administering pain to other people.
If the teacher decided that they wanted to stop, then the instructor of the experiment, who knew everything that was going on, had to say one of a few selected phrases. These included things like, "please continue" or "you have no other choice, you must go on." These were the only phrases that the experiment conductor would say, and the teacher would have to decide whether they should listen to them or not.
This is a pretty good setup for an experiment, so what ended up happening? Before even getting into that, Milgram asked his students at Yale where he was teaching at the time what they thought. Most reported that they didn't believe that anyone would take this experiment too far. They assumed the teachers would stop when the pain became too much for the learner. They were wrong.
What ended up happening in this instance is that the experiment conductor would tell the teacher to administer very painful shocks. Each shock was more and more intense, to the point that it would have actually killed the learner had it been real. The point of the experiment was just to see how far the teachers would go when told to continue by an authority figure. Would they stop and stick to their morals, or would they blindly listen to the experiment leader and continue giving higher and more deadly electric shocks to the 
people on the receiving end? Would they cause others pain just because they were told to keep going?
On average, at least 60% of participants or "teachers" wanted to stop before they reached the fatal shock but kept going, although this varied some based on area and demographic. This means that on average, 6 out of 10 people blindly listened to the authority figures and administered shocks even though some of the dosages could have been fatal and they themselves wanted to quit.
This was a very enlightening study just a few decades after so many innocent lives were taken during the Holocaust. Looking back on such horrifying acts of violence and the massive genocide that occurred, people may wonder, "How could so many people participate in this?" Experiments like this help show that it is much easier to influence others than many think, especially when they're completely unaware that they're being influenced (Milgram, 1963).
Are You a Narcissist?
There are many different ways that you can determine if someone is a narcissist. You can look at all of the things that we've discussed so far to see if they have any of the traits that we've mentioned. You can get to know them deeper and try to pick out any manipulative tactics that they have. You could give them a psychological test to determine whether or not they fit the description. But, there's one way that's easier than all of these to determine whether or not someone is actually a narcissist.
Ask them outright: "Are you a narcissist?"
It seems pretty simple and almost like a joke. However, studies have shown that this is one of the best questions to see if someone is a narcissist. There is a 40-question quiz that one can take in order to determine whether or not they are a narcissist. That test proves to be more thorough; however, we're not all psychologists who will be able to administer personality tests like this.
It is important that we identify these narcissists because they are going to be the ones who are the master manipulators we need to 
look out for. In order to protect yourself, you can ask this question when getting to know someone.
In 11 different experiments administered to over 2,500 participants, they were all given a 40-question test to determine if they were a narcissist, and then they were also asked to answer the singular question we listed above. The results were compared to see what people who were actually narcissists might say. During the test administered, there were some surprising findings to discover whether or not someone was a narcissist.
Those who answered that they were a narcissist, or at least that they had narcissistic traits, were more likely to respond with pride in their behavior. Rather than being slightly ashamed to admit that they were a narcissist, considering narcissists' terrible reputation, they would boast about their abilities to prove that they are more narcissistic than others.
The key here is that those who are narcissistic will not see themselves as having anything wrong with them. They believe that this is the way that life is supposed to be and that all of their behavior is justified.
They will be happy to show that they might be more arrogant. They will not try to hide the personality traits that they have as a narcissist. Instead, they will actually brag about their level of confidence and the way that they might be able to control others.
Those who might still believe they are narcissists but really aren't going to be more likely to be ashamed of some of the egotistical tendencies that they might share. We all have certain traits or have done things in the past that outside of the context of our lives could be seen as narcissistic. We've all told a white lie, been jealous of other people, or put our needs first when we could have helped others. The difference between the average person and a narcissist is that we know these things are wrong. We know that it is better to choose the other option and that we might have certain things that we need to work on. The average person might do something slightly narcissistic, but they will at least know afterward that they should have chosen to do something different.
This isn't the most detailed way of figuring out who is a narcissist, but it is essential for the common people to understand how to 
identify a narcissist (Van Der Linden, 2016). Next time you are on a date or meeting new people, you might try to casually slip in the question. Maybe you talk about a narcissist from your past, or maybe you outright ask the question in a playful way. If they state that they are and are proud, that's a red flag. If they state that they are and they're ashamed, or that they aren't, then this can be a good sign. 
You will be able to see how someone might really believe they are when you start asking simple questions like this. If you want to truly protect yourself from vicious manipulators, then this is the way to go.
If you ever ask yourself, "Am I a narcissist?" and are fearful of the answers, that's a good sign that you aren't as narcissistic as you might believe.
Facebook's Unknown Manipulation Experiment
Facebook has hundreds of millions of users, so it is safe to say that this is one of the top sites that many people frequent. The number continues to grow and likely will for a long time. It is a powerful tool that shapes the way our society operates in some ways.
Some of us upload personal information, while others simply share a few things here and there. We all have that one friend who posts and update every hour, and then there are the people on there who we forget we were friends with in the first place.


Regardless of what you are posting on Facebook, what matters most is how you interact with posts. Facebook makes billions of dollars from ad revenue alone, so the advertising world is an important market for them to tap into. Without ads, it is safe to say that Facebook wouldn't be as powerful as it is today.
How does this app affect our emotional state? In one study, Facebook took almost 700,000 user's profiles and manipulated what was shown on their feed. They would show some happy things and some more damaging things that don't give off good feelings. Then, at the end of the week, they focused on what the person who saw these images might share themselves.
The results were basically what researchers expected when they set out to test these theories in the first place. The profiles that were exposed to sadder pictures throughout the week were more likely to have sad pictures at the end of the week. Those who were given happy images were more likely to have joyous posts. While we can assume this would be the case, it is still enlightening to see it actually happen.
There was an uproar with this experiment because many people said 
it wasn't ethical (Meyer, 2014). Facebook does have users agree to certain terms, one of them being that they're allowed to do what they want with user information. However, many ask if this is morally right since it involves the unknown manipulation of the user's emotions.
Regardless of the ethics, the data still exists. You should ask yourself if you believe this is right or not to determine your own morals. Regardless of what conclusion you reach, this actual study still exists to remind us just how easily someone might be able to fall under the emotional control of a bigger corporation like Facebook.
This is just a reminder of how even minimal exposure can cause different emotional manipulation. Other advertisers can know whether or not they will be able to use your emotions based on the things that they show you first.
We have to be highly aware of the subliminal messages that advertisers and other market experts are using on us in order to get the things that they want-our money.







Chapter 8 - Final Advice on Dark Psychology
Before finishing up the book, there are a few things that you should remember as you continue on this journey. It will take some time to get used to yourself. If you are recovering from manipulation, then it's likely that this is a process that's going to take some time. You will have to retrain your brain to get the voice of your abuser under control.
You will also have to really get to know and understand people. You won't just want to focus on understanding yourself and the things that make up who you are. It's crucial that you pay attention to others and how they are acting as well.
Let every experience you have of watching other humans give you a little insight into what makes a person decide to act in a certain way. Look online at different documentaries that are available that could help to give you a little more insight into how and why someone might act a certain way. Even certain reality shows might be a way that you pick up on how other people are acting. The world is your library.
What You Put Out Will Come Back
It can be really easy to negatively manipulate someone, and doing positive persuasion might be a little harder. Negative manipulation just involves emotional reactions and blatant control. Positive persuasion is slower and takes time to master. However, this is also the method that is going to be more successful overall.
Whatever energy you put out into the world will come back at you. It doesn't matter whether you believe in karma or not. If you manipulate everyone in your life, eventually, you will have no one left. It might work out for a while, but it is not substantial.
It is like using rotten wood to try and build a foundation. It is like trying to cover up an infected wound with makeup. It is like painting plastic gold. It is fake, and it will eventually fall through and end up not working out the way that you might have planned.
Positive persuasion will turn you into an influencer. Once you start to gain a little bit of influence, you will find that it only becomes easier to increase this amount.
You might be someone now who has gone through years of their own mental abuse. Don't let this pain be something that you give to someone else. Work through it and let that be a driver for you to do better in the future, not an excuse to feel even more hurt.
Maybe you were the abuser and you wanted to get to know a little more about why you might do the things that you do. Hopefully, you have gained some insight so you know how to best handle others and manipulation going forward.
Always remember that what you do to other people will eventually come back to you.
Never Make Assumptions
Don't ever allow yourself to fall into a place where you think you know something. Once we start to make full assumptions, we are limiting our minds. Don't try to add up open-ended information and let that be a conclusion. You should only focus instead on the ways that you can investigate further.
Just because someone has tried a manipulative tactic with you does not mean that they are an evil person who needs to be removed from your life. We will not always be aware of the way that we might be subconsciously manipulative.
Assumptions are the easiest road that you can take. They are the shortcut, but that means that you are going to overlook a lot along the way. You will stop really digging deep into psychology when you only ever make assumptions about certain things.
If you are not careful, you can fall into a place where you only think negatively. When you make assumptions, you are making guesses. If you do this, you will miss a ton of valuable information along the way.
What to Do If You Get Caught in a Lie
Of course, you should never lie. However, if you do ever get caught in one, there are a few things that you can do to ensure that your reputation isn't ruined forever. It's always better to admit your mistakes and grow rather than pretending like you never lied in your life.
There might be times when you say something exaggerated that gets misconstrued. The worst thing you could do right off the bat is to get defensive.
Don't deny other people's feelings. Listen to them. The best possible thing that anyone could ever do is to just own up to the lie. Yes, it might be hard to admit that you are wrong, but everyone already knows the truth.
Apologize for any wrongdoing that you might have done. An apology should never be, "I'm sorry... but." That "but" is going to diminish your apology entirely.
Explain yourself, but don't use it as an excuse. "I did this because" is better than "I only did this because." It's a minor difference, but it's still a way to show that you aren't trying to excuse whatever it is that you did that could have hurt others.
Don't cover up the lie with another lie. You are just digging yourself into a deeper hole. That is the worst possible option that you could take if caught in a lie. It seems easier momentarily, but always consider what a bigger mess it might make down the line.
The best way to avoid this is to just never lie in the first place! 
Work on Yourself First
It will eventually become a natural process to look deep within yourself to find a greater understanding of who you, and humans in general, really are on the inside. In the beginning, make sure you are paying special attention to taking care of your own mental health.
It is very easy to look at someone else and see their problems and know exactly what they need to do to fix their lives. This can sometimes just be a method of distracting ourselves from our own problems, so be cautious of doing this.
Did you ever go over to someone else's house and see their junk 
lying around and think, "Wow, it is so easy to clean this; why is it like this?" But at the same time, you might have had your own personal mess in the corner. That's because it's easy to see other's problems since we are removed from them.
If you pay too much attention to fixing other people, then you will start to forget about yourself in the process. It is also important to look at your own problems because they might be the very things that you are recognizing in others that need to be fixed.
A lot of the hard lessons we have to learn in life we do so on our own. You can't control other people! You can only persuade them. Always remember to look for ways to improve overall.
Remember Your Rights
One of the most important steps in overcoming emotional manipulation and abuse is to remember your rights. Remember all the things that you are owed and that you deserve in this life. Once you start to forget this, it becomes easier for others to come into your life and take advantage of you.
You have the right to say "no" whenever you please. Sometimes, it's scary. You might be that kind of passive person who is more concerned with pleasing other people than you are with taking care of your own needs. Remember that anyone who truly cares about you is going to accept the times when you choose to say "no." You might be afraid that they will leave you or that they won't want to be your friend anymore, but if this is the case, then good riddance! You don't need that kind of toxic energy in your life, so it's best that you separate yourself from this kind of person sooner rather than later. If you don't allow yourself the ability to stand up for your rights, others are going to take advantage of this.
You deserve the right to feel however you want. It is the reaction that might not always be acceptable. For example, you have the right to be angry that your sports team lost. You do not have the right to throw the TV across the room because of this if this is a public space for the family. If you live alone and you paid for the TV, by all means, throw it, but remember that the reaction is separate from the emotion. No one is allowed to tell you that you don't feel a 
certain way. You know your emotions, and you are allowed to own up to them.
You have the right to enjoy the things that you like. Even if it's the worst movie ever made, a terrible song that is overplayed on the radio, or an actor everyone else hates, you like what you like! Anyone who shames you, belittles you, and makes you feel bad about these choices is not someone that you should be concerned about impressing!
You deserve the right to make your own decisions. This is the same as having the right to say "no," but remember, as long as you're not hurting anyone else, it is your body, your mind, your life, and your choice. If you want to go to a college out of state, do it. If you want to be a marine biologist, do it. If you want to binge-watch a TV show on your weekend off, do it. Don't let anyone else control your actions! You have the right to do whatever makes you happy and brings you closer to the life that you deserve!
It's OK to Walk Away
Often, the people who use the darkest psychology on us are the people that we are closest to. They might be your mother, father, sister, husband, neighbor, boss, girlfriend, and so on. No matter who it is, remember that you do not owe anyone a single thing. If they are emotionally abusing you, get out of there as fast as you can. It can be hard to just up and walk away. Not everyone is going to have the emotional ability to just leave as they please.
You might live with your parents or have children with your spouse. Maybe your boss abuses you but you can't leave because they might tarnish your name. Remember that most of the time, the negative side effects of leaving the abuser are never going to be as bad as experiencing the pain they inflict over and over again. You might struggle to separate yourself, but it is this manipulator that put the idea in your head that you are not allowed to leave or that you won't be able to survive without them.
Sometimes you might be able to work out a relationship, but it is not your duty to fix them. You have to focus on yourself first. Always remember the airplane scenario involving oxygen masks. The flight 
attendant will tell you to put yours on first before you help anyone else because, by the time you are done helping others, you will have died yourself!
Your needs should be your top priority, and from there, you might be able to work through other's issues in order to build a stronger, healthier relationship.







References
Caprino, K. (2014). 9 Core Behaviors Of People Who Positively Impact The World. Retrieved from https://www.forbes.com/sites/kathycaprino/2014/06/02/9-core-behaviors-of-people-who-positively-impact-the-world/#3e8a4d106b41

Duncan, R.D. (2018). Influence Versus Manipulation: Understand The Difference. Retrieved from https://www.forbes.com/sites/rodgerdeanduncan/2018/12/21/influence-vs-manipulation-understand-the-difference/#367a5f31470c

Fellizar, K. (2018). 7 Seemingly Charming Habits That Are Actually Manipulative. Retrieved from https://www.bustle.com/p/7-seemingly-charming-habits-that-are-actually-manipulative-8251149

Linden, S. (2016). How to Profile a Narcissist with One Simple Question. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/socially-relevant/201601/how-profile-narcissist-one-simple-question

Meyer, R. (2014). Everything We Know About Facebook's Secret Mood Manipulation Experiment. Retrieved from https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2014/06/everything-we-know-about-facebooks-secret-mood-manipulation-experiment/373648/

Milgram, S. (1963). Behavioral Study of Obedience. Retrieved from https://psycnet.apa.org/record/1964-03472-001









Anger Management

The Ultimate Self-Help Workbook for Men, Women, Teens and Parents to Take Control of your Emotions, Improve Emotional Intelligence and Change the Patterns of Intimate Relationship
JAKE SHARP
DEBUT BESTSELLING AUTHOR







Introduction
I want to thank you for choosing this book, Anger Management: The Ultimate Self-Help Workbook for Men, Women, Teens, and Parents to Control Your Anger, Hurts, and Improve Your Emotional Intelligence.
I am sure that we all know what anger feels like and have experienced it at some point or another. It might have been in the form of minor annoyance or a full-fledged outburst. Anger is primary and usually a healthy human emotion. However, when you lose control of your anger, it becomes somewhat problematic. It can disrupt your work, affect your interpersonal relationships, and even affect your overall quality of life. The inability to control your anger can be rather frustrating. It might leave you feeling helpless, and this only prolongs the vicious cycle of anger.
Well, you don't have to worry about all this anymore. The good news is that you can control your anger. You can learn to control your anger and even manage it to prevent any unhealthy episodes of anger in the future. This book will act as your guide along the way.
In this book, you will learn about the causes of anger, tips to identify your anger triggers, types of anger, and the harm anger causes. Apart from this, you will also learn about how you can manage your anger. Anger management is all about regaining control of your anger and reduce any emotional upheaval caused by this emotion. You cannot get rid of anger or even avoid it. However, the one thing that you have absolute control over is the way you decide to react and respond to your anger.
The key to leading a healthier and happier life lies in your hand. All that you need to do is start going through the practical steps and tips given in this book. So, if you are ready to learn more, then let us get started without further ado!







Chapter One: About Anger
Understanding Anger


Anger is a natural emotion which is triggered in a fight or flight circumstances in your body. Whenever your mind senses a threat, it generates fear as well as anger. The fear that is produced is due to the 
flight response triggered in your body, whereas anger is produced due to the fight response triggered by a perceived threat. Anger is the emotional response generated to prepare you for the fight because of a perceived threat. The tricky part is that your mind cannot distinguish between a real and an imaginary threat and generates the same response in both  situations.
An emotion like anger is quite natural and very real, even if the threat is an imagined one; the anger you experience is real. However, the reasons that trigger the anger might not always be real. If you are unaware of how your mind views a scenario, then your anger will be irrational.
Everyone experiences anger in different situations and in varying degrees. It is a part of life and experience. Anger can be triggered due to different reasons. It can be caused when you experience any unjust treatment like unfair criticism. Or it can also be triggered when you don't get what you want. As mentioned, anger can be experienced in varying degrees from slight irritation and frustration to boiling rage. Did you know that even boredom is considered to be a mild form of anger, which is exhibited as dissatisfaction?
Experiencing anger is quite natural. So, it is a good idea to learn to deal with it skillfully instead of wallowing in feelings of regret about something you said or did.
Why is anger considered to be good at times? Without anger, you might not be able to take a stand against any injustice or unfairness you are subjected to. Think of anger as your internal alarm system that alerts you when something isn't right. However, most people usually get angry about things that are greatly insignificant instead of any serious wrongdoing.
Did you know that anger is believed to be a secondary emotion? Do you know what  secondary emotion means? Usually, a primary emotion like fear, guilt, or sadness is the reason for anger. Fear can include worry and anxiety, whereas sadness can be due to many disappointments, loss, or even discouragement. Feelings of sadness or fear often make people uncomfortable since it makes them feel vulnerable. These primary emotions can also make you feel like you are not in control. Due to this, people usually avoid feeling any of these emotions. One simple way to do this is by subconsciously 
shifting all these emotions into anger. When compared to feelings like sadness, guilt, or fear, anger tends to give you a surge of energy, which can make you feel like you are in control. So, your mind will naturally try to opt for an emotion that makes you feel like you are in control instead of the ones that make you feel vulnerable and helpless. Anger can be a way in which your mind creates a feeling of being in control when faced with uncertainties.
For instance, when anger crops up between a couple, at times, it can be due to the fear of abandonment. In such instances, a combination of fear coupled with a likely loss, can fuel the anger. Uncertainty can also make you feel angry. Why does this happen? It happens because uncertainty usually means that something isn't known, and this can be quite scary for a lot of people. It is because the underlying feeling of fear or loss related to an experience of not doing something productive isn't pleasant to deal with.
Having a sense of control to a certain degree is desirable and is good for your emotional well-being. However, the need to always be in control will only cause suffering. Well, let us be real: there are only a few things that you can truly control in your life.
So, the next time you feel any anger, take a moment and see if you can identify the primary emotion that triggered it. You must do this regardless of whether it is strong or mild. If you are unable to concentrate on anything else other than your anger, take a break. Take a moment and analyze your thoughts that are fueling the anger you experience. You will learn more about gaining awareness of your emotions in the subsequent chapters.
Types of Anger
Anger is usually classified into three categories: passive aggression, assertive anger, and open aggression.  The kind of anger you experience tends to define your reaction to a situation that caused your anger. If you experience any anger, then the best means of expression for that anger is assertive anger. Now, let us look at what all these words mean.
Open aggression
Open aggression is the exact opposite of passive aggression. As the name implies, while experiencing this kind of anger, people usually lash out, and they can also become verbally or physically aggressive. This kind of anger can inflict harm on themselves and even those around them. It often takes on different forms like bullying, fighting, blackmailing, shouting, sarcasm, jagged criticism, or even accusing others.
Passive aggression


Most people don't like to admit that they are angry since they don't like indulging in any confrontations. This form of anger is referred to as passive aggression. Passive aggression usually leaks out in behaviors like procrastination when you don't like doing something. Maybe even becoming silent when angry, pretending to be fine when you aren't, or even sulking. Passive aggression stems from the desire for control.
Assertive anger
Perhaps the best and the healthiest way to handle anger is by being 
confident and controlled while talking, listening, or dealing with a specific situation. Assertive anger doesn't harm anyone and is a good way to express any anger you feel. It can also help relationships grow. Assertive anger is all about thinking before you say something and being confident while conveying your thoughts and being flexible to see the other's perspective. It means not raising your voice or being impatient. It is about trying to convey your point of view to others without showing any aggression.
Anger is often considered to be a negative emotion. However, when it comes to classifying your emotions, it isn't all black and white. You must understand that all the emotions you experience are natural by thinking of something as negative, the chances of repressing that feeling increases. Repressing your emotions isn't good, and it can take a toll on your overall well-being. That said, why is anger considered to be bad, and can it ever be good? Well, anger is usually said to be bad because it doesn't trigger a happy response.
Why Anger?
Different emotions tend to make you feel different things. For instance, happiness can make you smile and feel pleasant. On the other hand, anger makes your heart race, make your palms sweat, and give you an overall feeling of unpleasantness. Anger certainly doesn't feel good, does it? Anger can make you feel scared or even anxious. Since childhood, society has conditioned us to believe in the pleasure principle. It essentially means that we have been conditioned to seek all sorts of positive feelings while ignoring anything unpleasant or painful. If there is a feeling that you aren't comfortable with, the chances are that you tend to get rid of it any way you can. This overwhelming need to repress your anger or let it out in a rage is bad for you.
Do you ever wonder if any form of emotional discomfort can be good for you?
A lot of people find anger an  uncomfortable emotion. It results in physical sensations, which are quite unpleasant and are triggered by one's anger. It is also quite uncomfortable when the anger of others is directed towards you. At times, people tend to assume that others are angry with them even when there isn't any evidence showing the 
same. One's anger can be quite terrifying. For instance, the anger that you feel towards your children cannot only induce guilt, but it can also upset you. Since anger is an uncomfortable emotion, it becomes doubly difficult to examine your emotions or understand the reasons that trigger your anger. Apart from this, it also becomes difficult to accept your anger. However, anger is a basic emotion, it is essential, and you cannot afford to ignore it.
You must understand that anger will make you feel uncomfortable. This is exactly how anger directs attention to words itself, and you must not ignore it. Every emotion that you experience, including anger, is essential and plays a significant part in your life. If you want to understand your emotions truly, then you must learn to accept as well as experience certain discomforts. Keep in mind that there is no growth or change without any discomfort. Here are a couple of reasons why anger can be good for you.
Anger helps get what you want
How can you be certain what you need? Please listen to your anger. For instance, if you feel like your insides are rebelling while you're heading home after a long and tiring day at work and you get stuck in traffic. Now, your partner who has had a very relaxing day asks you to make dinner or pick up groceries. Then it is a sign that you are quite tired and that your partner needs to start helping out more.
Anger helps establish your boundaries
Do you feel like your stomach toss cartwheels every time you see your parents? Maybe you know they will ask questions you don't have answers to yet. They might ask you about when will you  get a better job, settle down with your partner, have a baby, or have another kid. If you experience any uneasiness, then it is a sign that you need to set some boundaries. It is time to say, "Don't ask me about my job, love life, or my plans about babies for a while."
Anger can help accomplish things
Does it upset you that your boss doesn't seem to appreciate all the effort  you put in? You can use your anger to direct yourself towards a more rewarding job. Does it upset you that there seems to be 
income inequality or a gender-wage gap?  Use the act of anger to get involved in activism or do something to change the situation. Anger, when directed in the right direction, can help you accomplish things.
Anger can strengthen relationships
A lot of people seem to think that anger is a terrible thing. They seem to believe that fighting with a partner is undesirable. Please don't be under the impression. Anger can strengthen a relationship. It is only when you have conflicts and disagreements with your partner that you truly understand the boundaries as well as their needs. Equality comes into a relationship only when you work together and overcome any disagreements or conflicts you have. When you start to fear anger or are scared that others will be angry with you, then all you do is commit yourself to inaction. It means that you tend to stay away from experiences as well as those people who might stir up any sort of unwanted emotion. So, is emotional discomfort any good for you? Well, the answer is yes. However, it doesn't mean that you let your anger control you. Anger is desirable only when you can control it and express it positively. If you cannot manage your anger, then all it will do is make you miserable.
Myths About Anger
Anger is considered to be one of the most powerful emotions you can experience. However, it is often misunderstood. Unfortunately, all the myths about anger tend to cause dysfunctional behavior. In this section, you will learn about the myths and the facts about anger.
Anger is always negative
Please understand that it is okay to feel angry. Anger is not only a normal emotion, but it is quite healthy. As mentioned in the previous section, anger can be quite helpful when directed in the right direction. History makes it clear that when anger is used wisely it can be helpful. A lot of social injustices were overcome because people became angry. What would have been the course of history had Martin Luther King, Jr. never been angry?
Anger and aggression are the same
A lot of people seem to get confused that the feeling of anger and aggressive behavior are synonymous. Anger is healthy but engaging in aggressive behavior isn't. You can healthily deal with anger without resorting to any sort of aggression. Aggression is never desirable.
Anger management is futile
When people don't have the necessary skills required to manage their anger, then their emotions can wreak havoc on their lives. Unhealthy expressions of anger cannot only cause troubles in your personal life, but it can also harm your professional life. Therapy, as well as anger management, are quite helpful when you want to reduce any aggressive outbursts. Anger management is never futile and believing it to be so is nothing more than a misconception.
It is all in your head
Again, it is a misconception that anger is just in your head. Take a moment and think about the last time you felt quite angry. You might have experienced an increase in your heart rate, felt that your face grew hot, and maybe your hands shook. So, it is safe to say that anger is not merely in your head, but it is a physiological response. Your body's physiological response tends to fuel your aggressive behavior, as well as angry thoughts. By learning how to relax your body, you can relax your mind which in turn can make you feel calm. To control your anger, you need to not only relax your mind, but you must relax your body as well.
Anger is released by venting out
It is believed that shouting, throwing things, maybe punching a pillow, or even trashing your home can make you feel better. It is believed to help because this is a means of venting any pent-up rage. However, these things will only make you feel worse. If you want to manage and control your anger, then you must understand the cause of the anger. If you cannot identify the cause of the anger, then you will never be able to deal with it. So, believing that having an outburst or venting it out will release your anger is a myth.
Ignore it, and it will go away
A lot of people seem to think that they can ignore the anger, and it will go away. If you're trying to suppress your anger, then you are not doing yourself any favor. Suppressing your anger is quite unhealthy. Don't smile to cover up the frustration you feel, deny any angry feelings you have, or allow others to treat you unfairly because you're trying to avoid a confrontation. Suppressing your anger and keeping it bottled up within yourself will only lead to an angry outburst in the future. As mentioned in the previous sections, suppressing your anger will only cause physical as well as mental troubles for you. Repressed anger can harm your heart's health, worsen your mood, or even create bitter resentment.
By getting rid of these misconceptions, you can change your mindset about anger. Doing this is the first step toward working on developing a healthy relationship with your anger.







Chapter Two: Nature of Anger
Connection Between Anger and Emotions
Knowing the truth will set you free. You might have heard this phrase a lot of times, and it stands true for anger. Understanding your emotions can help you understand the reasons for your anger, and in turn, this can help you regain control of your emotions. In this section, you will learn about the different emotions that anger usually masks.


Covering up any hurt
A lot of people tend to feel vulnerable when they are hurt. This is one of the reasons why people find that it is less threatening to display anger than show that they are hurt. We have all been conditioned to believe that being hurt means that we are weak, out of control, or even ineffective. This line of thinking can especially be hard on an 
intimate relationship. Since hurt usually translates into an angry argument. The feeling of being ignored, disregarded, underestimated, or even unlovable are primary reasons for the hurt that can stem from one's childhood, but they can easily reappear in a relationship in adulthood as well. Your self-esteem tends to get hurt because of criticism, or rejection, and this in turn, only revives any self-doubts you might have had. If any of these things sound similar to you, then it means that you must start working on loving yourself more. When you love yourself, all these other things will not rock your boat. If you are hurt, then try to work on expressing that hurt. Think about the reasons that made you feel this way. Don't try to cover up these feelings by using anger. When you do this, the cause of the problem stays unaddressed, and it only worsens any relationship.
Masking inner tension
Anger is also often used to mask any inner tension. At times, people tend to get angry to relieve themselves of any internal tension. The nervous system of such individuals tends to make them quite sensitive to a threat, regardless of whether such a threat is real or imaginary, and this means that they tend to live with a high level of internal discomfort. For such people, anger is something like a psychological balm, which helps their pain. Your body tends to secrete a chemical known as norepinephrine when you are angry, and this acts as a pain relieving salve for any internal tension. This physiological reaction of your body is one of the reasons why you tend to feel slightly better after an angry outburst. However, this relief that you experience is only temporary. Experiencing any internal anger or being upset triggers the release of norepinephrine which tends to numb any physical discomfort you experience. Using anger to mask internal tension is quite harmful to any relationship. However, all those people who are emotionally vulnerable tend to use this mask to survive in their relationships. Instead of doing all of this, it is better to learn to manage your emotions and identify them. Hiding, suppressing, or ignoring your emotions will not do you any good.
The fear of any emotional intimacy
It might sound strange, but a lot of people find it really easy to get attached to others by using anger as a means. This stands especially true in a romantic relationship. If you have trouble being vulnerable with your romantic partner, then it is quite likely that you use anger to mask your fear of any emotional intimacy. It essentially means that you are using your anger to mask any vulnerability that you feel. Getting angry is certainly easier than getting attached to someone. When you get attached to someone, it essentially means that you are vulnerable in front of them. Being vulnerable can, at times, mean being powerless too. This can be a scary thought for someone who has issues with emotional attachments. Therefore, such people tend to mask their vulnerability by using anger. If you want to be in a lasting romantic relationship or want to create a healthy lasting relationship, then you must work on being comfortable with any form of intimate dialogue. If you feel uncomfortable in a situation, then talk to your partner about it instead of repressing it. If you feel weak and vulnerable, then express the same. Having problems with emotional intimacy tends to stem from one's inability to express their anger constructively or even express any loving feelings they have.
Masking self-consciousness
At times, people tend to use their anger to mask any self-consciousness of the experience. Whenever a person feels self-conscious or is startled because of something that they are asked, they tend to resort to anger. Some people never really understand or learn how they're supposed to deal with their self-consciousness, and instead, they use anger to cover it up. Did you ever come across someone who tends to get irritated whenever faced with confrontational questions? Maybe a colleague from work who gets irritated when asked something in a work meeting? Usually, all their frustration or irritation is because of the fact that they have become self-conscious.
Being unassertive
People tend to use anger to mask their  assertiveness. If you think you have trouble being assertive, then you must learn how to express yourself along with your needs and desires in a comfortable 
yet confident manner. When you can do this, then you will be able to prevent yourself from getting angry. Learning to be assertive is a great way to prevent any angry outbursts. Assertiveness is a skill which will come in handy in all aspects of your life.
Masking sadness or grief
A common emotion that people tend to use anger to cover up grief or sadness. For instance, did you ever have an incident when you disclosed something deep and personal to someone you loved and had that person yell at you instead of sympathizing with you? Incidents like these can forever scar an individual. It might make them believe that expressing grief or sadness is not acceptable. They come to a stage where they start to use anger to mask their feelings.


A lot of people tend to respond to fear with anger. This is because humans don't like being vulnerable or exposed. If you want to have healthier and happier relationships in your life, then you must learn to accept and understand your emotions. Don't let your anger mask any of your feelings.
Connection Between Anger and Happiness
Anger is a very powerful yet normal emotion that we experience. However, when left unchecked, anger can turn toxic. The toxicity of anger can harm your physical, mental, and emotional well-being. Anger certainly has different faces. It might show up in the form of irritation, road rage, resentment, or even in patients. Whenever you feel angry, you tend to experience a surge of energy in your body, and this can become quite addictive. In fact, a lot of people seem to think that they feel truly alive when they are angry. As with alcohol, however, it might make you feel better momentarily, but it will certainly take a toll on you. Anger can effectively distort your perception of life.
We all tend to have certain triggers, issues, or problems that are suppressed or emotions that are repressed. Going around and telling others what they must do all the time will incite a rather hostile response because it triggers the feeling of rebelliousness like it did in our childhood. Most of the anger triggers that one experiences and can be traced back to their childhood. The same stands true for the way we deal with anger as well. When people tend to get angry, it triggers their response for self-protection. When angry, adults start to behave like children, they might kick, scream, cry, throw things, or even yell like a kid would.
If you want peace of mind, then you need to be mentally happy. Anger can destroy your mental happiness. Anger and stress are often used synonymously; however, while they are not synonyms,  they are closely related. Anger and stress are the inherent or natural reactions that our body produces to any harm or sense of deprivation. This reaction is produced regardless of whether it is real or imaginary. Whenever a person feels threatened or endangered in any manner, their brain activates the flight or fight response. This response tends to create anger and stress on the body. A person who is in a constant state of anger experiences a lot of mental stress.
Often, anger is destructive. You must understand that attacking or being angry will never solve a problem unless you take action to make things right. Anger often makes things worse, and it also destabilizes the body and mind relationship. Therefore, it is safe to 
say that anger when out of control, will harm your happiness. If you want to be truly happy, then you must learn to deal with your emotions. Nothing in life is uncertain, but the one thing you can always be certain of is the way you respond. Once you are in control of your emotions, it becomes easier to manage your responses to how you feel.
When you feel angry, a couple of changes take place in your body. When you're angry, your body  starts to get tensed, your heartbeat increases, your breathing becomes shallow, and it becomes quite difficult even to think clearly. If your body feels all of this, it can certainly become quite difficult to feel any happiness. So, if you want to feel happy, then you must learn to keep your anger under control. Here is an example that will help you get a better understanding of the situation: Alex hated her ex-husband. Even ten years after their divorce, she still believes that her ex-husband was to be blamed for everything that went wrong with her life. Yes, in all fairness he did cheat on her, he did lie to her, and he did break a trust. However, to be angry about this after ten years doesn't sound too sensible, does it? In fact, Alex started to believe that her ex-husband has ruined her life. All this anger that she experiences right now prevents her from being happy in the present. So, if she truly wants to be happy, then she must learn to forget, forgive, and move on. Her anger and resentment are preventing her from leading a happier life. The sooner she realizes this, the better it will be for her.


The way you judge a particular situation or even a person might be absolutely right. You might be irritated because of the actions of others. Your anger might even be justified. But does holding onto that anger do you any good? So, it is safe to say that any anger that you feel can effectively stop you from feeling any happiness. So, if you want to be happy, then you must learn to manage your anger.







Chapter Three: Checklist For Anger Detection
Common Behavior Exhibited When Angry
All those people who have an angry spirit tend to display the following characteristics:
Using justification
One of the main factors that contribute to the spirit of anger is the misconceived notion that a little anger is perfectly acceptable. Yes, it is true that  anger is a normal emotion, but this doesn't mean that you're supposed to hold onto it, nor does it mean you're supposed to let it get out of your control. By allowing a little anger to harbor within you is equivalent to lighting a small flame in a dry forest. Anger certainly tends to alert  the fact that something is amiss and that one must proceed cautiously to avoid any situations that can lead to words of potential bitterness. Also, anger might reveal that there are certain unaddressed hurt or grievances in your past which need to be addressed immediately so that you can resolve your feelings of anger. So, allowing even the tiniest bit of anger to linger within you is an unconditional invitation to potential trouble. Therefore, it is never a good idea to justify harboring even a little anger within yourself.
Anger can be controlled
The way people seem to think that a little anger is perfectly fine also to seem to believe that they can control their anger. Yes, you can learn to control your anger. However, when you cannot control your anger, it often transforms itself into ugly emotions like malice, bitterness, or even wrath. Usually, when people talk about controlling their anger, they often refer to their ability to be able to contain the damage that their anger has caused. However, you must understand that one angry response produces a different kind of hurt. An angry person might believe that he can control his anger, and when it turns out that he cannot, it only leads to more anger.
Insensitive to the hurt they cause


A lot of people fail to realize the damage their anger inflicts on others. Once they have had an angry outburst, they simply forget about it and move on. Such people don't stop and think about the damage they inflicted on others. Also, they don't bother to ask others for their forgiveness or apologize for their behavior. In fact, they often feel that their anger was justified and not unwarranted. At times, this insensitivity is caused because of a simple fact that we cannot see our expressions or hear our voice when angry. If you 
could witness yourself having an angry outburst, you will become mindful of your behavior and response.
Pride comes into the picture
As mentioned earlier, anger tends to give you a surge of energy. When you are angry, you can experience energy coursing through your veins. An outburst of anger or bitterness tends to give an individual a sense of power, control, and authority over others. They seem to think that they are better than others. This kind of thinking is quite problematic and doesn't do them any favors. A common trait displayed by people who have anger issues is that they take pride in their angry outbursts.
Quite indulgent
Those who use their anger as a weapon tend to do so to get their way. A person who is quick to anger will also be quite indulgent. They often tend to do things they like with little or no consideration for others.
Quick to get offended
Those with an angry spirit are certainly quick to get offended. They seem to have a short fuse which can go off at any second. Everything and everyone seems to be able to trigger their anger. Not only do they get offended easily, but they quickly jump into arguments too. A small discussion can spiral into a full-blown argument within no time. They don't have the patience to think carefully and often allow their emotions to guide their behavior.
Cannot forget or forgive
All those with anger issues are incapable of forgiving others or even receiving forgiveness. Not just this, but they also struggle with letting go of things. They hold on to many unpleasant memories, and this can fuel their perpetual anger. Their inability to let go only makes them angrier. If you come across someone who holds grudges about the pettiest of issues, then it is quite likely that that said individual has anger issues. Apart from this, they are incapable of asking for forgiveness. From their perspective, they can never be 
wrong. This kind of thinking makes them believe that they don't need any forgiveness. A person who cannot control his or her anger will also try to shift all the blame for their anger onto others conveniently. They will go to great lengths to get rid of any responsibility for their behavior.
Harsh on the outside
A person who is susceptible to angry outbursts might seem quite harsh on the outside. However, their anger is usually a means to hide their underlying insecurities. Usually, they tend to use their anger to mask any unpleasant emotions like hurt, guilt, or even sadness. If something makes them uncomfortable, they might seem quite harsh. However, they are quite sensitive and even more  sensitive to criticism, and the smallest of issues can upset them.
Anger Checklist
Now that you are aware of the different behaviors exhibited by those who have a problem controlling their anger, it is time to make an anger checklist. Those who struggle to control their anger tend to get angry with others, even strangers and tend to lash out or yell at them to express their anger. This kind of behavior usually interferes with their quality of life and prevents them from leading a happy and calm life. Here is a checklist you can use to decide whether you have any trouble controlling your anger or not.
Do you tend to frequently yell at others when they do or say things that irritate or offend you?

●
     
Yes


●
     
No

Does it feel like others do or say things to irritate you intentionally?

●
     
Yes


●
     
No

Do you easily lose your cool and get mad at others for "breaking the rules?" For instance, when someone doesn't follow the rules while driving?

●
     

Yes


●
     
No

When you get angry, does it escalate quickly?

●
     
Yes


●
     
No

Do you tend to hold onto your anger even after the event that caused your anger is long past?

●
     
Yes


●
     
No

When you get angry, do you lash out at others or even destroy their property?

●
     
Yes


●
     
No

Do you think about ways in which you can obtain revenge against those who angered you?

●
     
Yes


●
     
No

When you get angry, do you experience any physical symptoms like the quickening of your heart rate, warmth in your face, or any tension in your muscles?

●
     
Yes


●
     
No

Do you ever feel like maybe your anger was uncalled for or irrational?

●
     
Yes


●
     
No

Now, it is time for some self-introspection. Take some time and truthfully answer these questions. If your answer was yes for all or most of the symptoms mentioned above, then you have issues controlling your anger. However, don't you worry about it because this can be easily fixed! You will learn more about anger 
management in the subsequent chapters.
Identify the Causes for Your Anger
You can probably think of different reasons that make you angry. You might be angry because a referee didn't call out a foul made by the opposing team. A friend might have stood you up. Your child might not have cleaned his or her room as they promised. Maybe a driver cut you off during the rush hour. You might also be mad about any promises made by the politicians, which they didn't follow through, the prices of gas, and so on. The list of people or situations that can make you angry can go on for a while. However, the two reasons that all these issues can be summed up to are the violation of any expectations you had, or they somehow prevent you from attaining your goals. We all expect fair treatment and get angry whenever we're yelled at for no apparent reason. If you were craving for a soda and the vending machine doesn't work, that can trigger anger. If others don't follow your idea of social norms, it might make you angry. Here is a silly reason that can trigger your anger; perhaps you don't like the idea of people wearing sandals and socks together. If you see this abhorrent trend, it violates your idea of personal taste and can annoy you.
Everyone has different anger triggers, and they tend to vary according to one's age, culture, and even gender. However, an event or a person by itself isn't sufficient to trigger one's anger. There lies a mental aspect wherein we get to decide whether our anger is justifiable or not and who is responsible for it. In the blink of an eye, our mind analyzes who is to be blamed, and before you know it, you are angry. For instance, you might get angry that a driver cut you off during  rush hour. Your anger might be justifiable here because the driver was breaking traffic rules. However, would you still be angry if you knew that the driver had a medical emergency to attend to? Well, the way our brains process the trigger result in whether you get angry or not.
If you want to learn to manage your anger, then you must become aware of your anger triggers. It can be an event, a situation, or even a person who can trigger your anger. Once you know your triggers, you can start anticipating your likely response and therefore, you 
can be a better position to express your anger constructively. In this section, you will learn about the common anger triggers.


Unfair treatment
People tend to feel rather irritated, annoyed, or even slightly enraged when they are treated unfairly or when something unfair happens. Who wouldn't get mad when they are doled out unfair treatment? However, as you know, life is never fair. Unfair events are bound to happen at some point or another. Here are a couple of common instances of unfair events. For instance, someone might cut in front of you in a queue. Your boss might criticize you for a mistake made by your colleague. Your peers might give you a poor work evaluation. You might get a ticket for speeding or jumping the signal even when you didn't. Regardless of whether what has happened to you is truly unfair or not, the one thing that matters is your reaction to it. Is your reaction apt to the situation, was it mild, or completely out of proportion?
Response to pressure
The world that we live in these days is full of different stressors. People tend to feel like they are being pressurized to keep multitasking and constantly increase their productivity. However, there are certain things that are inevitable, will get in your way, and slow you down. For instance, you might get stuck in a traffic snarl after a long day at work, might be running late for an important meeting, might be running late to catch a plane, or have to constantly respond to your family member's texts while busy with work. All these things can make anyone feel quite stressed and frustrated. However, these things are, at times, unavoidable. You can probably set a couple of limits for certain types of specific interruptions. For instance, you can probably tell your family members not to text you while you're at work unless it is an emergency. However, there are different frustrations and delays, which are unavoidable or inevitable in daily life. If you let your anger  get the best of you  in such circumstances, all it will lead to is an increase your stress and nothing else.
Dishonesty and disappointment can trigger anger
It's quite common to feel upset, annoyed, or angry when someone let you down, doesn't keep up the promises, or exhibit any dishonesty of any kind. Everyone tends to encounter these instances at one point of time or the other, and it is quite normal. For instance, your partner might cheat on you, your best friend might forget your birthday, your children might not like you, your boss might not give you the promotion he promised, a friend fails to keep up her promise to help with your shift. It is quite normal that any of these instances might trigger your anger. It is  normal to feel annoyed. However, you must try to analyze which of these events tends to happen to you frequently and trigger irrational anger.
Any threat to your self-esteem
Everyone likes to feel good about themselves. Even a person who has low self-esteem doesn't like being put down and doesn't like being subject to any criticism. At times people might react to any threat to their self-esteem by expressing sadness or even engaging in 
self-loathing; however, at times, others can respond with anger. Any threat to one's self-esteem can either be real or an imagined one. For instance, receiving a bad appraisal, getting criticized or disrespected, making a fool of oneself in front of others, being stood by a date, or doing something equally embarrassing can be a threat to one's self-esteem.
Experiencing discrimination or any prejudice
History is proof that anger and rage can be transformed into something that can be life changing and remarkable. For instance, Mahatma Gandhi and Nelson Mandela channeled their anger regarding prejudice and discrimination and turned it into a movement to change the world. Whenever a person is subjected to any prejudice or discrimination, they tend to respond with anger, rage, or irritation. The nature of discrimination or prejudice that they are subjected to can be implied or even blatant. Common examples of prejudice and discrimination exist in the form of sexism, racial discrimination, discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation or any disability, discrimination based on religious beliefs, and so on. Well, this list of common prejudices can go on for a while. It is quite common for anger to be triggered when one is subjected to any intolerant or prejudiced behavior.
Being attacked
Violence has certainly become quite common in today's world. Being the victim of any abuse or violence tends to create anger, and this is quite natural. Some might respond with anger, while others might experience anxiety or even depression. At times, chronic abuse also changes its victims  into abusers. Abuse can exist in several forms from being blatantly obvious to subtle. A couple of examples of a broad category of abuse include assault and battery,  sexual abuse, domestic violence, verbal abuse, child abuse, any war trauma, or even verbal intimidation. As with discrimination and prejudice, you might either be the victim or the perpetrator. Regardless of the role you play, it does involve a lot of anger.







Chapter Four: Reasons for Anger Management
Costs of Anger
At times, anger is beneficial, provided you address it quickly and healthily. However, any anger when not expressed properly or when it is suppressed for long periods can harm your body. Here are the different ways in which an unhealthy episode of anger can harm you.
Your Heart's health


Anger can have a significant effect on your heart's health. A lot of people are unaware of the physical damage that anger can have on their cardiac health. According to Dr. Chris Aiken of the Wake Forest University School of Medicine, the risk of a heart attack doubles within two hours after having an angry outburst. When you express anger indirectly or take steps to repress it can also harm your heart. A study suggests that those who are prone to angry outbursts or 
have anger management issues have a greater risk of cardiac diseases when compared to those who don't have any severe anger issues. If you want to protect your heart and improve its health, then you must start addressing your emotions before you lose all control.
Increases the risk of strokes
If you have any anger issues, then you should be aware of this. The risk of an individual having a stroke due to any internal bleeding in the brain or from a blood clot increases three times during the two hours after an angry outburst. It is also said that the risk of rupturing an existing brain aneurysm increases by six times after an angry outburst. However, the good news is you can control these angry outbursts by coming up with positive means to express your anger. By conditioning yourself to express anger in a constructive way can help control your temper. You will learn more about these strategies in the subsequent chapters.
Harms your immunity
If you notice that you are constantly angry, then your chances of falling sick tend to increase. In a 
study conducted by scientists at the Harvard University, it was noticed that even the mere recollection of an anger episode from the past reduced the levels of immunoglobulin A for almost six hours. The immunoglobulin A is an antibody and it usually is the body's first line of defense against any foreign bodies or infections. By developing effective communication skills, using humor, and restructuring any negative thoughts can help regain control of your anger.
Worsens anxiety
Anger tends to worsen anxiety. So, if you are a chronic worrier, then your anger will only worsen your anxiety. GAD or generalized anxiety disorder is a condition wherein an individual tends to experience high and uncontrollable levels of anxiety in their daily lives. Existing research shows that the symptoms of GAD can be exponentially worsened if the individual has any anger issues.
Depression
Anger is a common emotion, but the inability to control it can harm one's mental well-being. It is believed that angry outbursts coupled with susceptibility to anger can cause depression. Also, anger can prevent an individual from experiencing any pleasant emotions. So, it is a good idea to get involved in activities that you enjoy so that you don't have the time to think about your anger, which in turn can change your overall mood.


Hurt your lungs
You don't necessarily have to be a smoker to harm your lungs. Being perpetually angry can harm your lungs according to a study. In this study, scientists at the Harvard University used a hostility scale to monitor the health of 670 men over a period of eight years. The results of this study showed a decreased lung capacity in all those participants who were hostile most of the time. This led the researchers to conclude that the increase in stress hormones due to anger tend to cause inflammation of the airways in your body. A combination of all these factors can effectively harm your lungs if you aren't careful.
Shorten your lifespan
You must have heard that happy people tend to live longer. Well, 
this is true because those who experience high levels of stress tend to have shorter lives. Experiencing constant stress and anger can effectively shorten your lifespan according to a study. If you are uncomfortable about expressing your emotions, especially powerful ones like anger, then it can have a negative effect on your overall well-being.
The Inability to Express Anger
Some people don't seem to think that anger is problematic. Whenever something frustrating happens, they can handle their feelings without suppressing them or having an angry outburst. However, not everyone feels comfortable with their anger. Most of us tend to suppress our anger because society has conditioned us to believe that anger is a negative and undesirable emotion. Ignoring a powerful emotion like anger is unhealthy.
When you ignore your anger, you tend to create an internal imbalance of emotions and face an internal struggle that others are unaware of. You might look fine on the outside, but you might feel like you are being disrespected, ignored, or even feel like your emotions don't matter. You might be stopping yourself from speaking up because you don't want any confrontation .
You might disguise anger by using indirect comments or might even opt for sarcasm as a means to express your anger. All these things essentially mean the same thing — you are suppressing your anger. Suppressing your anger is almost as bad as being unable to control your anger. In this section, you will learn about the ways in which anger can hurt you when you leave it unexpressed.
Impact on communication
The natural reaction triggered by anger tends to affect your ability to understand what is being said accurately. A lot of fights or arguments tend to escalate because people react based on what they think is said instead of what is said. Passive anger or anger which isn't expressed actively tends to break free in ways you cannot anticipate like pretending that things are fine when they aren't or agreeing even when you want to disagree. People seem to think that 
they can avoid any troubles by ignoring their anger. Well, this doesn't work, and suppressing anger will only lead to the formation of resentment and more anger.
Affects your health
As discussed in the previous section, anger tends to have an impact on your overall health. Well, the same stands true for unexpressed anger. Suppressing anger can lead to an increase in the risk of heart disease and strokes, weakens your immune system, increases anxiety, and can even shorten your lifespan. Repressing anger leads to several harmful physical manifestations, which affect your quality of life.
Impact on your emotions
You cannot manage your emotions without identifying them. For instance, you tend to feel fear in your stomach, anger in your head or upper body, whereas you experience heaviness in your heart when you are sad. Once you identify the emotion, you are experiencing. The next step is to accept it without any judgment. You cannot classify feelings as either good or bad, because they are a natural part of life. You require practice and show some self-love if you want to identify emotions. You increase your risk of dependency as well as addictions if you avoid or suppress your feelings. You might unknowingly develop certain compulsive behaviors to cope with any repressed emotions. Instead of doing all this and harming your mental and emotional well-being, it is better to recognize and accept your emotions.
Effect on values
The longer you suppress your anger, the more difficult it is to regain control of that anger. Anger is a powerful emotion which can turn even the most mild-mannered person into someone quite aggressive. Denying or suppressing your anger causes it to leak out in unanticipated ways, and this can cause more harm than you ever thought was possible. Your anger can get the best of you, and it can have a negative impact on your values. Did you ever notice that when your anger explodes, you tend to become extremely critical of 
others and perhaps say or do things that you normally wouldn't? Well, this is one of the reasons why suppressing anger is a bad idea.
Effect on trust
Anger can create a false image. You might say that everything is fine, but your behavior says otherwise. All those who like to please others tend to gain the approval of others by avoiding conflict. So, this tends to create a pattern of codependency. Pretending that things are fine even when they aren't will create problems. If you never express your anger in front of your family or friends and on one fine day you have an angry outburst, then the way others view you will change. Denying your emotions will only create a lot of confusion and trust issues in a relationship. Trust is one of the pillars of a healthy relationship. So, if you aren't your authentic self, it will certainly cause problems in the future.
Please remember that emotions are temporary, so ignoring them is a bad idea. Don't repress your emotions. Instead, you must take steps to learn to control your emotions.
About Anger Management
Anger management is a process that helps you identify your anger triggers or stressors. It essentially provides you simple steps that you can use to manage your anger and stay calm even in frustrating situations. It helps you decrease the chances for any angry outbursts. It is impossible to avoid certain anger triggers; however, anger can be controlled. You can learn to respond calmly instead of reacting harshly when your anger is triggered. Anger management is not a new concept, and it dates back to thousands of years. Some of the famous philosophers like Francis of Assisi, Aelius Galenus, and Lucius Seneca all highlighted the need for adjusting one's perspective to lead happy lives. Their philosophies also talk about the need to avoid any such situations that incite anger. Some of the prominent modern-day anger management gurus include Louis Dundin, Peter Stearns, Howard Kassinove, and Raymond Novaco.
Anger management provides certain guidelines that give an individual a chance to handle their anger and express it in a 
constructive manner. It encourages people to examine their anger triggers and devise the appropriate response to those triggers in the future. Anger management strategies encourage individuals to identify their usual emotional reaction to any given situation and make any necessary changes to prevent anger from getting the best of them.
Benefits of Anger Management
Anger management strives to reduce and manage the emotional and physiological triggers, which incite anger. At times, you cannot get rid of change or avoid certain things, people, or circumstances which trigger your anger, but you can certainly control the way you react. One thing you will always have absolute control over regardless of the circumstances is the way you choose to respond. In this section, you will learn about the different benefits that anger management offers.
Empathy quotient
Anger management helps improve your empathy toward others, and in turn, this helps you understand other people's perspective. Usually, anger tends to escalate because people fail to see a situation from the perspective of the other person. Once you start becoming more empathetic, instead of thinking about everything from your perspective, you become more considerate towards other people's perspectives too. If you can do this, then it reduces the chances of a conflict. Also, empathy is a brilliant trait, which will come in handy in all aspects of your life.
Better relationships
Usually, most people tend to avoid their loved ones when they realize that their anger can hurt others. Since your closest circle consists of people you love, they often become the unintended victims of your angry outbursts. By learning to control your emotions, it makes it easier to develop healthier and happier relationships.


Gives insight
Anger management gives you a chance to learn about your anger its triggers, and its causes. The way that you feel and behave is directly related to what you feel and experience. By becoming aware of your emotions, you can easily understand what prompts them. For instance, you might realize that your anger is usually because of some repressed guilt or sadness you feel. Often, anger cloaks certain underlying emotions. So, anger management gives you an insight into your feelings and emotions. Once you understand all this, it certainly becomes easier to control and manage your anger.
Better judgment
Does a fight with your loved one make it difficult to concentrate on your work? Well, anger can cloud your judgment. When you are angry, rational and logical thoughts tend to go out of the window, and instead, anger tends to govern the way you react and behave. When your anger is under control and you are calm, you can think clearly and make better decisions. Anger management will help control your emotions, and this, in turn, will improve your decision-making skills.
Less stress
A significant benefit of anger management is the ability to manage stress. When your stress levels decrease, you will notice that it 
becomes easier to avoid any anger triggers and stay in control of any situation. Less stress also means better health. Apart from this, it improves your efficiency and productivity. So, by learning to manage your anger, you can effectively reduce your stress levels.
Avoid aggressive communication
Anger is quite a powerful emotion, and it often triggers aggression. If you can communicate effectively and efficiently, then you can easily avoid any angry outbursts. A lot of problems can be solved rather easily if you can communicate efficiently. By communicating this way, you can reduce the chances of miscommunication and express yourself clearly. Instead of responding aggressively, when you learn to manage your anger, you will be able to assert yourself in a proper manner. Anger management will help you understand that you can effectively assert yourself without resorting to aggression.
Understand your responsibility
Anger management will help you understand and recognize the ways you are responsible for your anger. It helps you become aware of your anger, along with the reasons for it. A combination of these factors will help regulate and manage your anger.
Now that you are aware of all the different benefits of anger management, it is time to learn more about the steps involved in this process.







Chapter Five: Anger Management Steps
Steps to Follow
Awareness
If you want to understand their emotions, then the first step is to have self-awareness. If you want to learn to manage your anger, then you need to be able to recognize and use your emotional self-awareness to analyze a given situation and respond accordingly. As mentioned in the previous chapters, anger is considered to be a secondary emotion. There's always an underlying emotion, which triggers your anger. As stated earlier, anger is often used to cloak other unpleasant emotions. The most common emotions that are closed by anger include fear, depression, sadness, hurt, and anxiety.
If you can learn not only to recognize but also label feelings, then you will be able to determine the best course of response when you feel angry. Anger is a basic human emotion. It is often a sign of any perceived threat or danger. Everyone tends to feel some anger from time to time. Anger becomes troublesome when it becomes too intense, lasts too long, leads to any aggression or violence, harms your health, is triggered too frequently, or harms any of your relationships.
The way you respond to anger is usually based on the emotion that triggers your anger or emotions that are cloaked with the help of anger. For instance, if the emotion that you are suppressing is hurt then the way you respond differs from how you would have responded if the emotion you were trying to hide or suppress is anxiety. Becoming aware of the primary emotion makes it easier to deal with the secondary emotion, which is anger. You cannot control an emotion if you're not aware of it. Therefore, self-awareness is particularly important in anger management.
Avoidance
Who doesn't get angry from time to time? It is quite normal to experience anger. However, every person has different anger 
triggers. As mentioned in the previous chapters, you can make a list of your anger triggers. Once you have a list of the triggers you know will incite your anger, then you can take remedial action. Certain triggers cannot be avoided, but there are some that you can avoid. Learning to avoid getting angry is a great way to prevent yourself from having any angry outbursts. Anger can disrupt your life. However, by avoiding any anger triggers, you can reduce the stress that your experience.
Forgiveness


Forgive and forget is undoubtedly an excellent policy to follow in life. Holding onto grudges does you no good whatsoever. However, it is not easy to follow this policy. You must learn to forgive yourself for any angry outbursts you had in the past. Your anger might have hurt others. So, you must not only forgive yourself for this, but you must also ask for forgiveness. If you don't forgive yourself, it only builds up resentment and  fear. A combination of these factors will only feed your anger. For instance, you might have said certain hurtful things to your partner in a fit of rage. So, the first step is to accept the things you said and then ask for forgiveness for them. Once you have done all of this, then you can work on forgetting about all of those incidents and moving forward with your life. A lot 
of people seem to hold onto silly and rather petty grudges. Instead of building up the stress that you experience, it is simpler to let go of it.
Courage
It is not easy to accept one's anger. It is usually because we all seem to think that anger is a negative emotion. Anger is very normal. Therefore, it is important that you accept your anger if you want to fix it. It takes courage not only to recognize the causes of your anger but also to accept it. A lot of people find it rather uncomfortable to accept their anger. Self-awareness, along with courage, is essential to control your anger. If you don't accept this emotion, it can wreak havoc on your life. Courage is essential to not only taking responsibility for your anger but also for the harm it does to others. Understanding, recognizing, and accepting your flaws takes a lot of courage. Without accepting all of this, you can never truly gain control of your anger or any other emotion.
Communication
When you are angry, you cannot think clearly. This, in turn, affects the way you communicate. Your anger can prevent you from understanding what the other person is saying as well. Miscommunication or the lack of effective communication can fuel one's anger. Therefore, effective communication is one of the strategies of anger management. The ability to communicate effectively and efficiently about what you feel can help regulate your angry responses. In the modern world, there are various means of communication. However, it is quite sad to note that there is a lot of miscommunication going on. It is easier to solve any conflicts if you can express yourself clearly and without any ambiguity. Not just that, but by becoming a good listener, you can understand the other person's perspective as well. Effective communication and listening skills are vital for any healthy relationship. The inability to express yourself can further fuel your anger.
You will learn in detail about each of the steps of anger management in the subsequent chapters.
Habits to Develop
When anger comes knocking at your door, and it most likely will, then it can hurt your happiness. In this section, you will learn about certain habits you must cultivate if you want to learn to manage your anger.
Setting boundaries
A good habit that you can start working on right away is to start setting boundaries on people who trigger your anger. The ability to set boundaries will come in handy in all aspects of your life and not just for managing your anger. Maintaining a healthy boundary means two things:  you are confident enough to confront someone, and at the same time, set certain limits to prevent anyone from violating any of your emotional boundaries. It can be something as simple as saying,
"I am not going to allow XYZ to push my buttons," or
"I will not allow anyone to take advantage of me unfairly."
Look under the surface
An emotionally intelligent person realizes that their real reason for anger lies deeper than what they can see on the surface. So, if you want to improve your emotional intelligence, then you must learn to probe and do a little self-introspection to understand the cause of your anger. By taking a step back and understanding the cause, you will soon realize that your anger is merely your body's response to something that disturbs you. Any feeling of failure, fear, anxiety, or any other emotion that you can think of can trigger anger. So be honest with yourself and try to understand what is bothering you.
Learn to respond
"The longer I live, the more convinced I am that life is 10% what happens to us and 90% how we respond to it." - Chuck Swindoll.
Well, this is true. You must learn to respond and not react. Though these words are used synonymously, they are quite different from one another. For instance, if you grab a hot frying pan, you're bound 
to drop it immediately. This is an example of a reaction. If you think, process, and analyze your answer before saying it, then it is a response. A reaction happens instantly, whereas a response takes conscious thought. Nothing is certain in life, and there are plenty of things that you cannot control. However, the one thing that you can always control is the way you choose to respond to a situation. Here are a couple of simple tips you can follow when you feel like your anger has been triggered:

●
    
If you know that you're being triggered, then walk away if you can. If you cannot, then don't concentrate on the trigger.


●
    
Acknowledge your anger and then talk to someone you trust about it to get a better perspective of the situation.


●
    
Take a moment and think about the potential consequences you'll have to face if you lose control of your anger.

By following these simple steps, you can learn to respond to your anger instead of reacting to it.
A short pause
Taking a brief pause of about six seconds when involved in a heated discussion is a very good idea. Did you know that the chemicals triggered because of your anger last in your brain for only about six seconds? So, when you take a break when you're angry, it reduces the production of these stressors. When you feel furious, then pause yourself for at least six seconds before you say anything harsh. Do you remember the age-old saying  a stitch in time saves nine? So, instead of saying something that you will later regret, it is better to take a pause and reconsider what you're saying.
Reach out
Most of us have the tendency to seethe in anger and allow resentment to fester after an argument or a misunderstanding. You might even go to the extent of cutting the other person from your life altogether. Instead of waiting for the other person to apologize, why don't you make the first move? Be the bigger person and reach out after an intense argument. Please keep your ego aside, and work on communicating if you think that the relationship is worth saving. 
It does take a little courage to reach out to someone else after an unpleasant conversation. However, it is the right thing to do.
Shift
After a heated exchange, it is quite unlikely that your anger will disappear in the blink of an eye. If you still feel furious, then you need to make a conscious effort to change your thoughts from focusing on the negative aspects to the positive points. A simple shift in your perspective can help calm you down.







Chapter Six: Awareness
Self-Awareness for Anger Management
Ignoring your anger might seem like a good idea. So, to speak, anger is usually fueled by different ways we function. Our physiology, the way we think, self-esteem, any vulnerabilities, ego, or even health problems, can make us angry. It takes a great degree of self-awareness to understand all the factors that contribute to one's anger. In this section, you will learn about different areas of functioning that trigger your anger. The more areas that you treat, the greater is your chance of regulating your anger responses and turning them into something healthy.
Befriending anger
If you want to learn to manage your anger constructively, then you must find the right attitude towards anger. When you're angry, it certainly isn't easy to think clearly. Therefore, the first thing you must do is try to take a dispassionate stand while examining the way your anger operates. You must observe what you experience when you're angry. Anger is not only normal but also a useful emotion. You don't have to think of it as a virus that must be kept at bay. You don't have to protect yourself from your anger. When you can express your anger constructively, it can help you attain your needs, established boundaries, and develop meaningful relationships. Try to keep an open and curious mind while approaching anger. This is the first step in learning to manage your anger. Don't think of anger as your foe;  think of it as your ally.
Body's level of arousal
As mentioned in the previous chapters, anger tends to trigger your body's flight or fight response. This is one of the reasons why you feel the adrenaline pumping through your veins while you're angry. This basic response tends to increase the levels of arousal in your body. A high level of body arousal tends to release certain chemicals and hormones that agitate your brain, insight negative feelings, and 
even harm your working memory. The first thing that you must do when you feel any anger is to take a moment to calm yourself. Take a couple of deep breaths and calm your mind. Then the level of arousal in your body also decreases. This, in turn, helps regain control of your feelings as well as your process of rationalization. A combination of all these things will prevent you from saying or doing something that you might regret later.
By including relaxation exercises as well as strategies for managing stress a part of your daily routine, it will become easier for you to stay calm even in an adverse situation. These strategies will help reduce your level of body arousal while increasing your self-control and self-awareness. In turn, all these things will prevent you from acting impulsively when angry.
Uncover the fear of hiding behind your anger
You must make a note of all emotional conflicts that make you feel threatened and ignite your anger. We all tend to carry some emotional baggage to avoid the other. Some people seek loss, acceptance, or recognition from those they love. Others tend to have certain strong rooted beliefs or values associated with their identity  when they are challenged; it almost feels like a personal assault. If you want to control your anger, then you must become acquainted with the fears your anger hides. Learn to unmask the emotions your anger is effectively hiding. Only when you realize those emotions will you be able to regulate your anger and express it healthily. You must know your triggers so that your anger doesn't creep up on your unexpected deal.
All or nothing attitude
Having an all or nothing attitude tends to make people feel angry when others or circumstances tend to conflict their ideas. Having this attitude about your ideas or beliefs about who you are, or the meaning of a specific situation can prompt an emotional outburst, especially when such beliefs are countered. Please understand that it isn't about questioning whether you can hold a specific belief or not. Instead, it is about insisting that no other belief is correct. It is perfectly all right to have certain beliefs about yourself. However, the trouble starts when you start to over-identify with these ideas. 
There are certain reference points like religion, self-image, culture, beliefs, nationality, politics, and values around your existence. However, these beliefs can also stimulate anger. When you are so invested in your beliefs that you fail to accept or even understand others' ideas, it leads to conflicts.
You can learn a lot about yourself from your anger. Anger is informative. How good or bad your anger depends on the way you deal with it. Therefore, it is safe to say that anger must not be treated like a virus, which must be avoided. Instead, you must work on owning it, studying it, and working on all other areas of your life that contribute to words and unhealthy expression of anger.
Develop Self-Awareness
In this section, you will learn about different tips that you can follow for developing self-awareness.


Objectivity matters
Trying to see yourself objectively can be a rather tricky process. 
However, trying to see yourself for who you are can be quite rewarding. To do this, you must make a conscious and consistent effort. When you can see yourself objectively, then you can finally learn to understand, accept, and improve yourself. So, how can you start doing this? A simple way to get started is to make a note of your general perceptions about yourself. You can make a list of the things that you're good at doing and the things that you must improve on. Take some time and think about all your accomplishments. Take a walk down  memory lane and think about all the circumstances that made you happy. You can also ask your loved ones to assistance with this process. Once you do this,  analyze if anything has changed. If things change, then what are the reasons for these changes? Once you do all of these things, you will certainly have a new perspective about yourself.
Maintain a journal
You are free to write about anything that you want in your journal. Even if it is not related to any of your goals. Once you start to record your thoughts, you will start to feel lighter. Not only that, but it will also give you a fresh perspective about the thoughts that go through your head. Once you unload all your thoughts onto paper, you can start looking at them objectively. Also, it frees up space in your mind for new thoughts. Make it a point to spend some time every night to record all your thoughts in your journal. You can write about how your day was, the things you experienced, the emotions you felt, or pretty much anything else that you want . This will give you a fresh perspective on how you perceive yourself and what others might think about you.
Practicing self-reflection
If you want to develop self-awareness, then you must spend some time for self-reflection every day. It means you are required to set some time aside and take an honest look at yourself. You can walk on improving yourself when you do this. Self-reflection is certainly a process that is easier said than done. To do this, you need to take a long and hard look at yourself. Maintaining a journal requires some degree of self-reflection. It doesn't take you longer than 15 minutes to do this. However, while doing this,  ensure that you find a quiet 
spot for yourself.
Meditation and mindfulness


Meditation is a great way to improve your self-awareness. Most meditative techniques involve some breathing exercise or the other. However, it doesn't mean that all meditative practices are the same. Even a little time spent on self-reflection can give you better clarity about who you are as a person. Not just that, it also helps identify the emotions you experience and feel every day. Only when you become aware of what you feel, will you be able to devise a plan of action to deal with those emotions. Think about your divorce. You can think about all the experiences you've had. You can also make a note of thoughts that go on in your head. Try to identify why you feel the way you do. Frequent meditation is a great way to not only relieve stress but to get a better understanding of yourself. You don't necessarily have to sit and meditate. Even doing routine tasks can be quite therapeutic. You can analyze all of these things while you go for a leisurely walk in the evening, perhaps a jog after dinner, or even while washing dishes.
Emotional Awareness
Now, let us look at some simple steps that you can follow to develop your emotional awareness.
The first step to developing emotional awareness is to notice your emotions and label them. You merely need to notice all the different emotions you experience. Once you notice them, start labeling them. For instance, you might say, "I am happy," when an important meeting goes your way. Or maybe say something like, "I am angry," when you get passed over for a promotion that you were anticipating.
The next step is to start tracking a specific emotion. Since you're trying to become more aware of your anger, the emotion you need to track is your anger. Make a note of all the times when you feel angry and how it crops up. Whenever you feel angry, make a note of it in your journal. Also, make a corresponding entry regarding where you were, whom you were with, or what you were doing when you felt angry. Also, make a note of whether the emotion you experienced has the same intensity or not.
Start improving your emotional vocabulary. This is quite a simple step. However, being able to differentiate between different emotions is necessary for developing emotional awareness. A simple way to do this is by going through the alphabet and naming one emotion per letter. For instance, people tend to use words like anger, irritation, annoyance, or rage synonymously. They might all stem from the same emotion, but their parents are anonymous. Start differentiating these emotions.







Chapter Seven: Avoidance Strategies
Basic Strategies
Do you seethe with anger when someone cuts you off at rush hour? Do you ever get annoyed when your partner refuses to cooperate with you? Anger is a healthy and normal emotion, but it is also important to deal with it constructively. Uncontrolled anger cannot only take a toll on your overall well-being, but it can also harm those around you. In this section, you will learn about certain strategies you can use to avoid letting your anger get the best a few.


Think before speaking
When you're angry, it is quite easy to say something and then regret it later. In the heat of the moment, it is quite easy to lose control of the things you say. Therefore, make it a point that you take a couple of moments to gather your thoughts before speaking. Taking a minute will not only give you a chance to think about what you're saying but will also give the other person the same opportunity.
Calmly express your anger
Once your calm, you can start thinking clearly. When you can think clearly, it becomes easier to express your anger in a way, which is non-confrontational yet assertive. Instead of engaging in conflict, you can calmly state what your needs and concerns are. When you do this, you can control your anger and also reduce the chances of hurting others.
Exercise can be helpful
By engaging in physical activity, you can reduce the chances of losing control of your anger. If you feel like the intensity of your anger is increasing, then try to distance yourself from the person or situation that triggers your anger. You can go for a brisk walk, or even a joke around and reduce any mental tension that you experience. When you exercise, your body produces endorphins, which help reduce the stress hormones generated by your movements. A combination of these factors helps regulate your anger and clear your mind.
Taking a timeout
Please don't be under any misconception that timeouts are only for children. The modern lives we lead these days are quite stressful. The hectic schedules that we have these days can also be quite stressful. So, getting a couple of minutes of quiet time can help you feel better. It will prepare to deal with your day without getting frustrated or annoyed.
Think about the possible solutions
It is always important to understand the reasons that trigger your anger. Once you realize the reasons, the next step is to start working on a solution. Does it drive you crazy that your child's room is always messy? A simple solution to this problem is to shut the door. Is your partner never on time for dinner? Then plan the meals at a time, which is convenient for both of you. Remind yourself that your anger will not fix anything and that it isn't a solution to a problem. Anger only worsens the conflict. Therefore, keep your anger aside for a minute, and think about what you can do to fix your problem.
"I" statements
If you want to resolve a conflict, then you must avoid criticizing or blaming others. Therefore, start using "I" statements to describe what your problem is. Don't forget to be respectful and specific while stating things. For instance, instead of saying, "You never help me with any chores," you can try saying something like, "I am upset that you didn't offer to help clean up after dinner."
Never hold onto any grudges
Holding onto grudges is quite easy. Try to understand that forgiveness is powerful. By harboring grudges, you are essentially allowing all sorts of negative emotions to fester. If you allow anger to fester, it will easily overpower any positive feelings or emotions present within. By learning to forgive someone who upset you, it will help strengthen your relationship. It will also reduce any emotional stress you experience.
Start using humor
You can use humor to change the direction of a  situation. Whenever you start getting angry, why don't you use humor to lighten the tension? However, stay away from any sarcasm. Sarcasm will only worsen the situation.
Practicing relaxation
Whenever you feel like you're getting angry, you some relaxation skills. A simple relaxation technique that you can use is concentrating on your breathing. You can also visualize and relaxing in your mind or replace a calming phrase or word like "I feel calm, and "I can relax." Alternatively, you can also listen to some soothing music, or make a note in your journal.


Apart from all of these things, you must understand when it is time to ask for help. Start using these simple steps to manage your anger.
Two-Steps to Control Anger
It might be tricky to not succumb to your anger when something provokes your anger without any warning whatsoever. Since anger is triggered when you feel helpless or powerless when faced with something unplanned, your anger is your body's attempt to fix the situation. It is a means to find some balance. Think of your anger as praising you first in protest and proclaiming that you will not be subjected to any injustice. However, there are certainly a lot of problems to this knee-jerk reaction of resorting to anger. Though the most significant problem is that getting angry never resolves the issue at hand. If resorting to anger has to make any sense, then it must need  important criteria. The first one is that your anger must be directed towards someone who has intentionally hurt you through their behavior or words. The second point is that the anger that you're expressing must somehow help you achieve your goal, or it must be helpful to you.
If you take a moment and think about it, seldom are both these criteria  fulfilled when you're angry. In this section, you will learn about a very simple strategy you can use to manage your anger. You can use it to resist giving in to the temptation of having an angry outburst and avoid getting angry altogether. However, this strategy will not work unless you want it to work. You need to have the motivation to not only go through this exercise, but you must also desire the outcome it provides. In this case, it means overcoming any unconscious resistance you might have imagined in your head. Getting angry is quite easy; it might seem like you will feel better once you express your anger. Usually, anger is only counter-productive and doesn't resolve any issue or meet your needs.
Giving in to your anger might feel like it is an immediate reward for feeling morally superior. Your anger might also make you feel a sense of self-righteousness, which in turn helps your self-image. Your anger can help mask  any anxiety that you will feel. So, your anger is essential in helping you feel empowered. It can also protect you or your psyche from feeling any sorts of vulnerability and avoid dealing with any unpleasant emotions. Anger can, at times, give you a sense of control, especially when you're faced with a difficult situation. Apart from this, it can help you get your way by intimidating others. These are some of the immediate advantages giving into anger can give you. However, none of these are good, because it doesn't address the reason why you got angry in the first place. Giving in to these advantages might be rather tempting.
If you take a minute and look at these advantages, you will realize that you are ready to express your anger constructively. All it's doing is giving you immediate relief. This isn't a long-term solution for anger management. You must understand that to control your anger, you need to work through it. Instead of all this, here is a simple two-step procedure you can use to avoid getting angry. The first step is to relax, and the second step is to reassess. Let us look at these two steps in detail now.
The first step is to try and relax. As I've mentioned before, anger triggers the flight or fight response in your body. Before you allow anger to get a hold of you, you must find a way to get rid of all the unhealthy  fighting energy that is produced in your body. Do this before you think about engaging your anger. When this response is 
triggered in your body, every cell in your body is prepared to fight. A broad generalization is that anger is your body's reaction to some form of perceived threat. So, it triggers an inherent response in your body to prepare itself to fight for its survival. All these changes make it quite hard to think clearly and rationally. So, it is safe to say that anger not only has a powerful effect on the way your body responds to it, but it also affects your thinking.
The modern society has certain ethical and legal constraints that are place for our own good. Therefore, it is quite unlikely that in a fit of rage, you would want to harm the person who causes your anger physically. Yes, there have been instances where people have acted dangerously when in control of their irrational rage. However, this seldom happens. Keeping  this aside, let us talk about the first step to avoiding your anger. As mentioned earlier, anger prepares your mind and not just your body for a fight. Once anger overcomes you, you will quickly lose your ability to rationally and objectively assess any situation. At this point, you must understand that any rational thoughts no longer guide your thinking. Instead, it is guided by a primitive response in your brain. The "I am right, and you are wrong," thinking generated by anger is quite childlike. In this state, all that you can probably think about is the grave injustice you were subjected to or how the others are wrong, while you are right.
Anger tends to distort your ability to think effectively. If you want to regain any emotional equilibrium, the first thing you must do is find a way to calm yourself. Once you have your emotional equilibrium, you can start re-evaluating the situation and overcome the childlike instinct, which anger triggers. This is what the first step is about while trying to avoid your anger. Once you are calm and have successfully completed this step, you can move on. The next step is to re-evaluate and reassess the situation. An angry mind is always clouded with bias and self-righteousness. To calm your mind, you can try deep breathing, meditation, listening to soothing music, visualization, or even engage in any form of exercise as well. If you know a way to calm yourself, then that's wonderful. However, if you are uncertain about what you can do, then it is important that you select a strategy.
A simple way to regain control of your mind is to practice breathing exercises. This makes you feel like your entire body is fully charged. 
You can start feeling the power coursing through your veins, and your heartbeat rising. By practicing any form of deep breathing techniques, you can start calming your mind and released suspension, which is built on the cause of anger in your body. A simple way to go about this is to concentrate on your breathing. Take a couple of deep breaths, and your mind will feel lighter. You will learn about different relaxation techniques in the subsequent chapters.
Remember that the method you use to calm yourself will work regardless of whether it is a simple breathing exercise or an elaborate exercise plan. As long as the method you choose works for you, it is all good. The point is to buy yourself some time before you start ventilating your frustrations. Once you are calm and your mind is relaxed, it certainly becomes easier to think about the reasons why you are angry. It also gives you a moment to decide whether your anger is proportional to the situation or not.
The second step is to start reassessing the situation. It essentially means that you must try to see the situation that triggered your anger objectively. When anger gets a hold of you, it is quite difficult to see things clearly. However, once you relax your mind, it is certainly easier to see whether your anger is justified or not. Anger is often the consequence of having a negative perspective about whatever has just happened. Once you alter the way you view a situation, then the emotion triggered by it will also change. Here are a couple of questions you can ask yourself while reassessing the situation.

●
    
Did XYZ mean what I think I hear him or her say? Do I need to verify whether what I have assumed is true or not?


●
    
Is this situation really as bad as it seems to me? Is there any possibility that I might be overestimating its significance? Am I taking things too seriously?


●
    
I feel like I am right, and I am being treated unfairly. However, is my opinion a mere extension of my self-interested bias? Is it possible that I am not being treated unfairly?


●
    
Maybe XYZ has certain concerns or needs which prompted him or her to behave as he did. Can I talk to them about these things?


●
    

Instead of focusing on all the bad, can I concentrate on what I like about XYZ and not seethe in anger?


●
    
Is there any evidence that shows that I was doled out unfair treatment?


●
    
Can I change the way I am looking at this situation?


●
    
Will my opinion change if I view this situation from XYZ's perspective?


●
    
Am I making a bigger deal of it than it actually is?


●
    
Is it likely that I was given positive criticism, which might help me later?


●
    
Is there any possibility that I might have misunderstood the situation? Maybe I didn't communicate as effectively and efficiently as I seem to think that I did.


●
    
Is my anger justified? Or am I using my anger to mask some unresolved feelings?

Well, you can ask yourself numerous questions, especially when you feel like your vulnerability is being triggered. By answering the questions discussed in this section, you can re-evaluate the situation. Since the situation itself didn't trigger your anger, it is time for some reevaluation. Your anger stems from the negative meaning, or interpretation that are associated with the situation. So, you must think of different ways in which you can view the cause that triggered your anger. An objective assessment of the reasons that triggered your anger can help eliminate the need to get angry altogether.
By avoiding any unnecessary anger in your life, you will naturally feel more relaxed and happier.  Keep in mind that external events cannot trigger your anger unless you allow them to. You always have a choice to decide whether you want to give in to your angry impulses or not. Once you stay calm and reassess any situation, you will understand that the anger you experienced was uncalled for.







Chapter Eight: The Art of Forgiveness
Whenever you decide to forgive, you are essentially making a conscious decision to give up any thoughts of revenge. Are you wondering why you need to forgive? When you choose to forgive someone, you don't have to make any excuses  or access any wrongdoing, which has happened to you in your past. You don't have to forget any trauma you were subjected to necessarily. It is merely about letting go of any resentment. When you do this, you are essentially getting rid of any suppressed anger within. While you forgive someone, it is not necessary that you must try for reconciliation. You might forgive someone, but you can also choose to end that relationship. It certainly helps improve your overall psychological well-being. When you're angry or have any resentment within, then revenge might seem like a good idea. However, holding onto a grudge or plotting revenge, is merely a waste of your time and will not do you any good.


A lot of people seem to think that revenge will make them feel better. 
Wouldn't it be better if you could get even with someone who wronged you? Well, you might think that revenge will give you the satisfaction you desire. However, it will only make you feel worse. It is quite easy to get sucked into any temptations about indulging or plotting revenge. It might be a fantasy that you like obsessing over and might think that payback is the best way to get over any injustice or wrongdoing you think you faced. However, when all you do is think about revenge, you are essentially concentrating only on the hurdle of experience. The more time you spend thinking about your grievance, the worse it will get. Instead of finding a way to solve the problem on hand, if you concentrate on the hurt you suffered, it will only worsen your mood and make you feel dissatisfied. The longer you focus on the negative aspects, the longer it will take for you to find happiness. Also, if you're not careful, you can become quite obsessed with these negative thoughts.
Forgiveness is an act of generosity towards others as well as yourself. When you forgive someone, you're offering them a gift of compassion, even if what that person has done was wrong in the past. However, you are also granting yourself compassion by forgiving . Forgiveness can help in forming better and healthier relationships. Apart from this, it also helps reduce any emotional stress you're experiencing. By learning to forgive, you can let go of your anger rather easily.
Learning to Forgive
Anger and hate can be triggered rather easily. However, learning to forgive is an art. Forgiveness doesn't come naturally, and it takes a conscious effort. Once you decide to let go, you can free yourself from the unnecessary burden of blame, resentment, or anger. This process certainly takes a little effort, but it will be worth your while. You must understand that the art of forgiveness is not restricted to a single act, but it is an ongoing process. You cannot truly forgive yourself or others unless you come to terms with your anger. It certainly isn't easy to let go, especially when you know you are right and that you deserve justice, but it is always in your best interest to let go. The good news is you can learn to forgive. In this section, you will learn about the five steps you can follow to develop the skill of 
forgiveness.
Acknowledging your anger
You cannot forgive if you do not accept your anger. So, you must make a conscious effort to understand, acknowledge, and accept any anger or pain you feel. Feel your anger as deep and intense as you can and connect the same with certain instances or transgressions committed against you. You cannot truly let go of your anger until you accept that your anger is present, and it is real. Until you feel it and connect yourself with it, you cannot let go of it.
Forget about revenge
You cannot truly forgive anyone if you indulge yourself by thinking about possible revenge. If you want to move towards forgiveness, then you need to stop plotting about revenge, regardless of how justified you think it is. So, if you are certain that you want to let go, then you must make a conscious effort to stop thinking about revenge or punishment. Take a moment and think about it. How can you possibly ever move on if you keep going back to the same incident?
The other's perspective
When you're under the influence of anger, it is quite likely that you will think about things in an absolute manner. However, this sort of thinking that everything is either black or white isn't good. Black-and-white thinking leaves no room to think about all the shades of grey, which might have influenced the other person to act or behave in the manner that they did. Take a moment and forget about your anger for a while. Instead, try to think about things from the other's perspective. When you do this, you might be able to understand why the other person acted the way they did. By taking a mental timeout and reframing your thoughts or by looking at the situation objectively, you might get a better understanding of the situation. It might even allow you to be compassionate towards the other person. A combination of these things certainly makes it easier to grant forgiveness.
Accept the hurt
Yes, other people's words or deeds might have harmed you, however, remember that there is nothing that you can do today to change the past. Let the past stay where it belongs — in the past! Your past can be a learning experience for you, but you must not allow it to control your present. You always have the option to take the pain you have felt and then transfer it to the person who caused you the same pain. Well, this sounds rather petty and doesn't give any productive results. You are the only one who has the power to let go of your thoughts and anger.
The final step is to grant forgiveness once you go through the previous steps, all that's left for you to do is let go of your resentment.
Steps to Forgive and Forget
Once you decide to let go of any anger or bitterness, it can certainly improve your overall well-being. In this section, you will learn about a couple of simple steps you can follow to forgive and forget.
Saying a prayer


Whenever you feel like any negative feelings or any anger about someone or something that harmed you is entering your mind, turn 
to prayer. Instead of focusing on the hurt you experienced, it is better to pray for the person to find their way back to some happiness. Here is an incident, which will help you get a better understanding of this. One fine day, a wise man and his disciples were walking along the road. All of a sudden, an angry man in a carriage drove past them in a rush and pushed them aside. The wise man and the disciple fell down. Instead of getting angry with the driver, the wise man said, "May you find what you seek!" The disciple was quite surprised by the wise man's reaction. The disciples asked him, "Why did you say a prayer for a man who behaved poorly?" The wise man replied, "A happy man would never be unkind to others and wouldn't have pushed us thoughtlessly." So, the next time you feel yourself getting angry, think about the wise man's story and say a prayer.
Being grateful
A lot of people seem to associate their happiness with external events. You might think that your happiness comes from others. However, the truth is that you need to seek your happiness within yourself. Instead of focusing on any resentment or anger, shift your focus toward something happier. The key to your happiness is in your own hands. Instead of wasting your precious time thinking about the times you were miserable or angry, focus on the good things in your life. Make it a habit to write at least five things that make you happy every day. It can be something as simple as having your favorite cup of coffee in the morning.
Learn your lesson
In the philosophy of Buddhism, it is believed that the greater the difficulties you face, the more misfortunes you suffer, the closer you are toward enlightenment. Regardless of whether you believe this or not, it is certainly a positive way to look at all the difficulties you face. Instead of wallowing in misery and grief, or holding onto your anger, it is better to think of every obstacle you face as a test to your character. If you feel like you're being tested right now, then ask yourself what you are being tested for? Maybe you need to double your patience? Perhaps it is about learning to forgive others? Or maybe it is about learning to forgive yourself. Learn to be grateful 
for every experience you have in your life. There's always a silver lining if you look closely.
Let go of any resentment
Resentment doesn't harm anyone else, and it's only victim is you. If you want to stop hurting yourself, then let go of any resentments you have today. Holding onto your resentment will only prevent you from being happy. Also, feelings of resentment will increase any emotional stress you experience. Instead of being in control of your emotions, your emotions will start controlling you. One emotion that you must never allow to dictate your life is anger. Resentment and anger tend to go hand in hand. So, let go of resentment if you want to let go of your anger.
Obtaining revenge positively
Are you thinking about obtaining revenge? Well, you don't have to obsess over it or form a strategy to obtain revenge. The best revenge you can possibly obtain is living a happy and fulfilling life. If you consciously train yourself to think compassionate and loving thoughts, then you will attract positivity into your life. Likewise, if you hold onto any negative thoughts or anger, all that you are doing is attracting more negativity into your life. It is a vicious cycle, and you must break free of it. To do this, it takes a conscious effort, practice, and consistent. The law of attraction states that you tend to attract what you think about. If all your thoughts are focused on your anger, then you will never be able to let go.







Chapter Nine: Act of Courage
Courage is important to take responsibility for your anger and the harm it does to others. It also takes courage to accept your flaws and mistakes. Learning to accept the responsibility for your anger needs courage.
Living in fear of expressing your emotions isn't truly living. It is merely about existing. At times, the fear of emotional vulnerability might prevent a person from accepting his or emotions. The antidote of fear is courage. Courage is the willingness to do the right thing, even when it is not easy. For instance, we tend to suppress certain memories, because they're either too painful to bear or their expose some other vulnerability of ours. Children tend to suppress their memories often or avoid things that cause any pain. However, you must understand that you're no longer a child. As an adult, you need to take control of your emotions. Before you can take control of your emotions, you must first acknowledge their presence and learn to accept them. It takes courage to accept any emotion that makes you vulnerable.
Anger is believed to be a secondary emotion. It essentially means that a primary emotion like hurt, grief, dissatisfaction, or irritation, can trigger anger. In fact, a lot of people tend to use anger to disguise any of their emotional vulnerabilities. If you want to take control of your actions, then you must acknowledge your vulnerabilities. Everyone is vulnerable, and there is nothing wrong with accepting that. If you suppress your vulnerabilities, you are only worsening them. If you want to learn to let go of your anger, then you must have the courage to accept the underlying emotions that trigger your anger. Security is not about being able to foresee the future. Instead, it is about accepting yourself for who you are and loving yourself regardless of what you feel. If you start to brood over your feelings or get stuck inside your head, then all you are doing is allowing your emotions to control you. A lot of people tend to judge themselves for having so-called negative emotions like anger. Yes, anger is certainly not a desirable emotion, but it is normal. Pushing it aside, or ignoring it, will only make it worse for you.
When you suppress your emotions, they only get stronger. It's almost like trying to ignore the delicious chocolate cake which is kept in the refrigerator — the more you try to ignore it, the stronger is the temptation to intrude. These days, it has become quite natural to classify emotions as being either good or bad. Being positive all the time seems to be a new trend that has overtaken this world. People are told not to be angry all the time. People are asked to ignore certain unpleasant emotions. Everyone seems to be suppressing anything that makes them feel uncomfortable. It almost seems like the world is overrun with the tyranny of positivity. We not only do this to ourselves, but we also forced the same thinking onto others. There's a common feature that exists in bottling up your feelings and displaying false positivity, they are all rather rigid reactions to emotion.
Embracing false positivity or ignoring your emotions is not going to help you in the long run. It might help keep up your spirits for the time being, but it is not a fix for your anger. You must learn to accept your emotions regardless of what others think about it. To do this, you need courage.
Improving your Emotional Courage
Avoiding or ignoring your vulnerabilities will only make you angry. To turn things around, you need emotional courage. Emotional strength and emotional courage are quite different. Being emotionally strong is about your ability to bounce back from an adverse situation. However, emotional courage is about accepting your vulnerabilities. It is about understanding that you can feel what you are feeling and that it is not wrong to experience different emotions. In this section, you will learn about a couple of different steps you can follow to improve your emotional courage.
Stop overthinking
So, let us assume that you are angry about something your spouse did. She or he might have said something that resonates with an emotional vulnerability you have. Now, you might be angry because what he or she said is actually true. So, you must have the courage to accept that vulnerability because it is a part of who you are, and you 
cannot ignore it. The more you ignore this vulnerability of yours or don't accept it, the angrier you will become and instead  overthink things. Your emotional courage is susceptible to leaking, which means, the longer that you wait, the less courage you'll have to accept things. For instance, let us assume that you want to ask someone out in your social circle. You might want to avoid any such situations that might result in a possible rejection. However, you start becoming angry when you notice that someone else is making a move on the person you want to go out with. Instead of overthinking things and worrying about being rejected, the best thing that you can do is make the first move. Stop being  angry and do what you initially wanted to do. This will help you let go of your anger.
The threshold matters
You might be apprehensive about bringing up a topic, which might lead to an argument with your spouse. The topic may be something that you have an issue with, and it might have been bothering you for a while. The longer you suppress it, the more intense the emotion becomes, and it can make you angry. Instead of doing all this and giving yourself a lot of stress, the best thing you can do is talk about it. You do know that you can talk to your spouse without allowing a discussion to turn into an argument, don't you? Take a couple of minutes and think about the issues that are bothering him or her and then focus on talking to your spouse about it. Doing this is better than sitting and worrying about how the talk will progress. Instead of pushing yourself to your absolute limit, it is better to take that pressure off your chest and prevent the buildup of any suppressed emotions.
List of pros and cons
Make a list of the pros and cons of accepting your emotions. What is the worst that can happen to you if you accept the fact that you're sad? Well, you might worry about it for a while, but that's about it. Now, think about the tests that can happen to you if you acknowledge the same emotions. Once you know that you are sad, then you can start making changes or taking action that can help remedy that situation. When you have a list of pros and cons in front of you, it becomes easier to understand why it is better to accept 
your emotions the way they are.







Chapter Ten: Art of Communication
Control Anger Using Communication
Communication is vital to establish and maintain a relationship. By learning to communicate effectively and efficiently, you can avoid plenty of misunderstandings. In this chapter, you will learn about the different steps that you can follow to control your anger by using your communication skills.
Step one
The first thing you must do is to calm yourself down. Before you say anything to anyone, make sure that you are calm, and are in control of your emotions. You can use any of the relaxation techniques that are discussed in this book to help you do this. Don't communicate when you're angry. Instead of saying something harsh and then regretting it later, it is better to be careful. Remind yourself that you're supposed to listen before you say anything. By being calm, it can help you get a better understanding of the situation.
Step two
Now, it is time to think about the situation objectively. Don't assume that you know how the other person feels or you know the reason why they behave the way they do. Instead of all this, you must focus on the issue at hand. Think logically about how a specific issue affects you and think about how you can handle the problem. By doing this, you not only get a hold of your emotions, but you can also be more objective about the situation. A combination of these factors, in turn, helps control your anger.
Step three
Learn to respond assertively instead of responding aggressively. To assert yourself, you must start using sentences with "I" instead of "you" in them. For instance, if your colleague was supposed to hand over a report to you on Thursday, which was due on Monday, an 
aggressive response to this situation would be "You always do this to me, and it makes me look bad in front of the boss. Why do you keep doing this?"  When you respond aggressively, it makes the other person defensive too. In turn, all this merely escalates the situation. Instead, you can say something like: "I was expecting this report on Monday. Was there any trouble which caused this delay?" By merely rephrasing your words, you can diffuse the situation effectively.
Step four
Don't overgeneralize. There are certain words like "always, never, or everyone," that you must not use in a discussion. For instance, instead of saying, "Everyone takes undue advantage of me," and working yourself up into a fit of rage, you can focus on the specific instance that upset you.
Step five
You must not only be mindful of the words that you say, but you must also be mindful of the way you say them. The tone of your voice, the expression, along with your body language, convey your emotions. If the words you are using are mild, but the tone of your voice is aggressive, then it will make the other person defensive. So, be mindful of all this. Don't display any gestures that can be construed as being aggressive.
Communicating When Angry


We all get mad from time to time. The tricky part is learning to communicate effectively without hurting the other person when you are angry. A lot of people tend to resort to passive aggression when angry while others tend to lead all out. Some people tend to display passive aggression until the other person confronts them about the issue at hand. Then again, there are some who respond harshly to their anger and say things that they later regret. Learning to communicate when you're angry is very important if you want to control anger. Understand that there is always a constructive and healthy manner in which you can express your anger. In this 
section, you will learn about a couple of tips you can keep in mind to ensure that you don't hurt anyone while communicating.
Feel your anger
When you get mad about something, don't deny your anger and instead feel it. You might believe that you're supposed to cover up all your negative emotions with positive ones. However, this isn't true, and you are entitled to free what you want to. Embracing your anger  helps you get a better grip on it.
Don't react to anger with more anger
You must never respond to someone else's anger with anger of your own. It will only worsen the situation and will not help solve the problem at hand. Instead, you must be mindful of your emotions, and you must understand when you're getting angry merely because of someone else's anger. Understand that people say things when they are angry. However, you don't have to take everything personally and then respond in kindness. Don't enter a dead space of negative energy. Instead, take a step back and try to understand what the other person is feeling. When you do this, you might just realize that all of the anger is because of a misunderstanding or some form of misinformation.
"I" feel
While communicating the reason for your anger, please make sure that your use "I" feel statements. It might sound cliché, but it is quite helpful. When you start using statements with "you," it lends a rather accusatory tone to the entire conversation. So, it is a good idea to talk about how you feel instead of talking about what the other person said or did.
Subject
Please stick to the issue at hand and don't stray away from it. When you are talking to someone while seething with anger, it is quite easy to get distracted from the subject matter. It is easy to start throwing around accusations and blaming others. Understand that you can easily make your point without resorting to any personal attacks on 
others.
Listen
If you want to communicate effectively when you are angry, then you must be prepared to listen to what the other person has to say too. You must suspend any internal dialogue for the time being. Ensure that you are listening carefully if you want the other person to do the same. Doing this will help you get a better understanding of the situation.
Write your thoughts
There are some people who find it easier to write about their thoughts instead of talking about them. If you're upset about something and you're not certain how to convey the same to the other person, then you can start writing about it. Once you start writing down your thoughts, you'll get a better understanding of what you're feeling. Not only that, but it is also easier to express yourself to others this way.
If even after trying all of these steps, you're not able to continue anger while communicating with someone, then it is time to take a break. Try to distance yourself from the situation or the person physically. Go for a quick walk or a jog and calm your mind down. Once you feel better, you can return to the conversation.







Chapter Eleven: Connecting Emotions, Thoughts and Mind
Emotions, thoughts, and your attitude can help curb your anger. There exists an undeniable connection between all these things. In this chapter, you will learn about the different ways in which you can curb your anger by controlling your thoughts, restoring your self-confidence, and letting go of anxiety.
Control Your Thoughts


Your thoughts tend to dictate what you feel. If you think happy thoughts, you will naturally feel happy and might even start smiling. However, if you start thinking about all the times that you were upset, you can start getting angry. For instance, you might start smiling when you think about your children or your pet! However, you might start getting angry when you think about the much deserved promotion that you didn't get. So, it is safe to say that you 
can control your anger by controlling your thoughts. If you allow your thoughts to control you, you can easily get overwhelmed and lose sight of what's important in life.
Your mind is certainly the most powerful tool that you have in your arsenal. Your mind, especially your thoughts, can affect the way you perceive and interpret reality. Did you know that an average person thinks over 70,000 words per day? All these thoughts would be rather useless if they don't do you any good and are just a waste of energy. Your thoughts can certainly run amok at times, but why don't you control them? After all, it is your mind, and they are your thoughts. It inherently implies that you are the master of your thoughts. Then why is it surprising that a lot of people are unable to control their thoughts these days? Remember, it is time to take your power back, and it is time to take control. You need to become the master of your mind. As your thoughts change, your emotions will as well because your thoughts and emotions are interrelated. Happy thoughts provide happy emotions. However, negative thoughts will only contribute to negative emotions. In turn, negative emotions will garner more negative thoughts. Do you see how all of this is a vicious cycle? So, it is time to overcome all of these things and regain control of your mind.
In this section, you will learn about a couple of simple tips that you can use to control your thoughts.
Please stop for a moment and take a deep breath. Focus on the moment you have at hand and nothing else. Constantly thinking about your past or worrying about the future will only make you anxious. Instead, try to stay in the present.
You need to observe all your thoughts but don't try changing them. Notice all the thoughts that are going on in your mind and stop your inner self from making any criticisms. Think about the reasons why you have those thoughts and the reasons that prompted you to believe that you lose control over them. Try to take an objective look at all your thoughts. Once you do this, you will get a better understanding of where your negative emotions are coming from.
Once you do this, it is time to address all your thoughts. Make a mental note to address your thoughts as well as your worries.
Don't let negativity get a hold on you


Negativity can sneak up on you quite quickly. It can be stemmed from a negative emotion that you are harboring within yourself, or it could be because of something external like negative feedback or toxic people around you. While certain things are beyond your control, the one thing that you can control is the way you feel about yourself and your life. Don't let any negativity live within you. You cannot control what others think about you, but you can certainly control the way you feel about yourself. There are different ways in which you can manage all the negativity. You can start by identifying and challenging such negative thoughts. You can reduce your interaction with harmful and toxic people. If you think you are in a toxic relationship, figure out how to break free from it. Don't entertain negativity in any form. If a person doesn't contribute to your growth or well-being and instead brings you down, stay away from such a person at all costs. At times, you will have to interact with people who are negative, and you cannot avoid such meetings. 
In such a situation, set some boundaries and don't let their words get to you. Don't take everything personally.
Positive self-talk
Make use of positive self-talk for building up your mental strength. Making use of positive affirmations will help you in developing a positive outlook while getting rid of all negativity around you. Take a couple of minutes and look at yourself in the mirror and say something positive and motivating to yourself. You can say something that you believe in or something that you would like to be true to yourself. A couple of positive affirmations that you can make use of are: "I am working on becoming emotionally stronger," "I am learning to manage my stress effectively manage my stress, and I'll be kind to myself," "I am working on achieving my goals, and I will continue to do so," or anything else that you can think of.
Stay calm even under pressure
Whenever you feel that a particular situation is escalating quickly, and you feel that your emotions are going to boil over, learn to keep your cool. When you learn to control your emotions instead of letting them control you, you are giving yourself an opportunity to weigh in your options before deciding on a particular choice. Take a minute, count to ten before you let a negative emotion boil over. This might sound like a cliché, but it does work.  Before having an emotional reaction towards something, take a moment to gather your thoughts, and react accordingly. You can try practicing meditation as well, and it can help you in maintaining your calm. Meditation can help you in staying objective while providing you with the necessary time for making sense of your thoughts and emotions. Instead of reacting immediately, you can weigh in your thoughts and emotions and then think of your next step.
Letting go of petty things
If you are always sensitive to the petty annoyances and verbal barbs or taunts that we all tend to come across daily, then you will end up becoming quite bitter. Also, you will be wasting a lot of your precious time and energy thinking about unnecessary things, which 
don't matter at the end of the day. When you start spending time thinking about  such things and start paying attention to them, you are making them a significant problem that will increase your stress. Learning to adjust your attitude can help you in letting these petty and trivial issues go without increasing your level of stress. You are not only preventing the wastage of your valuable time and energy, but you are also saving yourself the trouble of having to deal with extra stress. Instead of stressing yourself out about all these things, you should develop a healthy routine of thinking about the things that are bothering you, then take a deep breath, calm yourself down, and once you are calm, think of the best way in which you can deal with that issue. For instance, if your spouse keeps forgetting to put the cap on the tube of toothpaste after using it, you should understand that such a thing isn't as important to your partner as it is to you. If this bothers you, think about all the other things that your partner does that makes you feel good and in comparison, you can certainly let this small flaw of theirs go. Don't try to be a perfectionist, at least not all the time. When you do this, you are setting high expectations for yourself, and these tend to be entirely unrealistic. Try to be realistic while thinking about things and don't let the idea of perfection create any additional stress or burden. You can make use of a straightforward visualization exercise that will help you in letting go of the little things that seem to be bothering you. Take a small stone or pebble and hold it in your hand. Transfer all the negative thoughts that are bothering you into that pebble. And once you are ready, swing it as hard as you can or toss it into a pond. Visualize that all the petty problems are drowning along with the pebble that's sinking. You are casting away all your negative emotions.
Changing your perspective
We tend to get so caught up in the problems that we tend to look at things from a different perspective. A fresh perspective towards existing troubles can help in solving your problems. If you feel like you have hit a dead end with something, take a break and relax. Once you feel refreshed, start thinking of ways in which you can tackle that problem. If you change the way you are approaching a problem, you might find a solution to it in no time. Here are a couple of 
different things that you can try for getting a new perspective on things:

●
    
You can start reading. Reading the daily news or a book can help you in stepping into someone else's world, and this serves as a good reminder to let you know that the world is a vast place and that your problems are nothing significant when you think about the entirety of the universe we live in.


●
    
You can start volunteering. When you start interacting with others who could use your help, you certainly will get a different perspective of how things are.


●
    
Ask your friends for some advice if you feel lost and make sure that you are thinking about the advice your friend gives you.


●
    
Step out of your comfort zone and start traveling. It will certainly help you in getting things in perspective.

Maintaining a positive outlook


All those who are mentally as well as emotionally strong tend to be happy with what they have. They usually have a positive outlook on 
life and don't complain much. This doesn't mean that they don't have any problems. Of course, they have problems just like everyone else, but the difference between them and everyone else is that they can see the bigger picture and know that the challenges they are facing are a part of life. Maintaining a positive outlook towards life will provide you with the mental and emotional strength that you will need for tackling any problem you come across. Remember that bad times will pass, and the good times are just around the corner. Don't lose hope in the meantime.
Start thinking before you act
Whenever you feel like you are stuck in a difficult situation, take a while to think things through. Don't react instantly, and don't be in a hurry to make a decision. It will provide you with sufficient time for your emotions to diffuse, and you can start weighing in your options with an open mind. It is important that you do this, regardless of the situation you are in. If you can afford to, then take some time and list down the pros and cons of a situation. Make a note of how you are feeling as well. Try finding some positive points about the situation you are in, and this can help in changing your perspective towards things. At times, the smallest change in perception can make a huge difference. Follow the ten-second rule. Give yourself ten seconds for something to sink in before expressing yourself. Even if your partner tells you that he or she wants to end the relationship, take ten seconds to compose yourself, and then respond.
Examining all the alternatives
Once you have managed to compose yourself, before you decide on a course of action, think clearly about the circumstance you are in. What happened, and what are the possible options available to you? There will always be more than one path that you can opt for. For instance, let us assume that your friend asked you to do something morally wrong and you are torn between your loyalty to your friend and your sense of morality. So, now you will need to weigh in the different pros and cons and decide accordingly.
Select the right path and stick to it
Make use of your inner voice or your conscience for guiding you. Trust your instincts, and you are likely to be correct. At times, the answer might be quite clear and distinct, but it might be hard to do the right thing. Do not let the problem fester into a more significant hassle than it already is. You need to make a call and stick to it. You can always ask others for an opinion and weigh their opinions before concluding. However, remember that it needs to be your own decision and no one else's since you are the one who will have to live with the consequences of it. If you feel like you are stuck, think about what someone you admire would do in such a situation. The decision that you make should be something that you can live with. And don't do something because someone thinks that it is a good idea. Do it because you want to.
Reflect on your experiences


Once a problematic situation passes you by, think about the way in which you dealt with it and the outcome of that situation. Would you like to change something about the way you dealt with it, or are you proud of yourself? Remember that wisdom is derived from practice. 
Examining what happened and the way you dealt with it will help you in making any changes the next time you have to deal with a similar situation. If things worked out for you, then it is all good. However, if things didn't exactly go as you planned, even that's all right. You had a chance to learn, and that's what it was. It was a learning experience, and you will be careful in future.
Who doesn't have negative feelings? A smart person knows that there is no point in encouraging negative thoughts, and such a person would try to reframe all their negative thoughts into positive ones. Instead of getting discouraged by the negative thoughts, they would think of a way in which they can make it positive. They consciously try to change the pessimistic dialogue in their head to something positive that will encourage them to work harder. Whenever they feel low, they give themselves a pep talk.
Restore Self-Confidence
A lack of self-confidence can make you angry. By learning to restore your self-confidence, you can let go of anger. In this section, you will learn about a couple of simple tips that you can follow to restore your self-confidence.


Invest your energy carefully
Ask yourself an elementary question: "What is the worst that could happen." More often than not, we tend to place a lot of importance on "likely" or potential problems. Our energy reserves are finite, so instead of wasting it all on worrying about hypothetical problems, why don't you concentrate on building and developing your personal and professional relationships? Spend your energy on positive and important things like your personal and professional goals that you would like to achieve. If you are really worried about something, then why don't you take some action to correct the problem or minimizing the risk? Be careful while investing your energy and time.
Visualization can help
If you are doing something for the first time, then visualize that you have done that task in the past. Close your eyes for a moment and conjure up a vivid image where you have succeeded in doing what you are doing now for the first time. The mind doesn't know the difference between vivid imagination and something that's real. So, make your imagination as vivid as you possibly can.
Try copying others
Find a role model for yourself and observe their attitude and behavior. Try adapting all their positive qualities while letting go of the negative ones. Try being as confident as that person seems to be. How can you do this? Try talking to them, provided you have access. If you cannot talk to them, try gathering as much information as you can about them.
"As-if"
Try making use of the "as-if" frame of mind. This is quite simple. Imagine that you are a self-confident individual and think about the manner in which you would approach a given situation. How would you behave? How would you move? How would you talk? And what would you be thinking? When you do this, you are encouraging yourself to put yourself in a state of mind where you are self-assured and confident. Do this often, and within no time, you will start feeling confident as well.
Step into the future
Take a peek into the future and ask your "future" self if the problem that you have to overcome is as difficult as you think it is. At times, the problem might not be difficult or even complicated. We tend to complicate it. Make use of the 5x5 rule. Take a moment and think about whether the problem that you are faced with would matter to you five years down the line. If your answer is no, then it isn't worth wasting 5 minutes of your time. At times a slight change in perspective can be really helpful.
Let go of the negative internal self-talk
Self-talk is useful only when it is positive. Negative self-talk can make you feel quite low. Ignore the nagging internal voice that isn't positive. You have the option of listening to it or ignoring it. So, decide carefully. If the voice is bothering you, mute it! After all, it really is in your head. So, you can decide whether you want to listen to it or not.
Self-confidence is a beautiful accessory, and when you are confident in yourself, you will be able to think more clearly and decide rationally. Self-confidence also helps improve your ability to get a hold of your anger.
Ending Anxiety and Worry
Anxiety and worry can certainly worsen your anger. In fact, it is believed that anger is often used to mask these emotions. Anxiety and worry are two emotions that can make you feel rather vulnerable. In a bid to mask these vulnerabilities, people often turn to anger. By resorting to anger, you aren't addressing the primary emotions that caused your anger. If you leave them unaddressed, then it will only increase the stress that you feel.
Overcome anxiety and worry
Whenever you feel like your anxiety is creeping up on you, you must take steps to relieve yourself of that anxiety while quickly. Here are a couple of things you can do to overcome anxiety and worry in 
your life.
Please try to find goodness in at the moment, even the ones that you are not fond of. If you watched the Harry Potter movies, then this quote will sound familiar to you: "Happiness can be found in even the darkest of times, but only to those who remember to turn on the light." So, it is easy to find goodness if you look hard enough. A lot of us tend to fear the present. Usually, this fear stems from knowing that the present isn't as great as you hoped it would be in the past. However, by escaping your present all that you're doing is adding, want your anxiety and worry. Learn to be mindful of the moment that you are in. Live in the moment, let go of the past, and stop worrying about the future. There's nothing that you can do to change your past, and the future is unpredictable. However, the present is yours. So, don't stop living because you're worried about something that has already been done or something that will be done.
A major cause of anxiety is the fear that you cannot make everything right and that you cannot do everything. Take a moment and tell yourself, "I cannot possibly make everything right, and it is perfectly normal."  Accept the fact that there are certain limitations that you have and understand them. Pushing yourself past to breaking point while you're trying to do everything will only burn you out. All this added stress will merely make you angry. Instead of doing all this, try to work with your limitation. Don't judge yourself and don't push yourself to breaking point. Try to do as much as you can and seek peace in it.
The modern world certainly makes it quite difficult to live in the present. Most of us are usually dreaming about the things that we need for the future or are looking at great memories from our past. All these things are distracting us from fully living in the present. There's only one thing that you have to do, and that is to stop. Please live in your present. Feel the moments as they pass you by because they will never return. Enjoy the time that you have, and spend it doing things that you like. Instead of ruining your present worrying about other things that you cannot control, use this time to do something that you enjoy.
Allow yourself to be surprised at times. A lot of people seem to think 
that they know everything. Most of us are trying to credit or charge things before we have even seen or experienced it for ourselves. Stop trying to prove to the world that you know everything. It is okay not to know everything and let that element of surprise exist in your life.
Meditation Helps


In this section, you will learn about a simple guided meditation that you can use whenever you feel anxious or worried. To truly experience the benefits of this meditation, you need to find a well-ventilated spot that is free from all distractions and noises. Ensure 
that you have a comfortable spot to set in and that the temperature in the room is pleasant. Avoid any harsh lighting and keep away all your electronic gadgets. This meditation can take anywhere between 15 to 30 minutes. So, ensure that you're comfortable. You can either sit on a comfortable chair or lie down on a yoga mat. Once you're comfortable, close your eyes and prepare your body for a journey of relaxation.
Please remember that this is your time and all that you have to concentrate on is yourself. Keep your eyes closed and start to take a slow and deep breath through your nose. Exhale slowly through your mouth. As you breathe in, try to feel the oxygen coursing through your veins. When you exhale, feel the tension leaving your body. Visualize that the tension from your body is lifting of slowly and it is swirling in the air around you. If you are feeling angry, you can visualize that the air that you breathe in is red in color. However, you are free to choose any color that you like. As you are exhaling, feel the red color leave your body.
Now, take a deep breath. Breathe in and slowly through your nose to the count of four.
As your inhaling, imagine a warm and pleasant shade of blue entering your body fulfilling. Your diaphragm will extend as air enters your body through your lungs. Breathe in until your lungs feel like the bursting with oxygen. Now that your lungs are full hold onto your breath for two seconds. Now, it is time to exhale slowly through your mouth. Ensure that your breathing pace is steady while exhaling. Exhale to the count of four. One... Two... Three... Four. As your exhaling, you can feel the colored breath leaving your body.
This cycle of breathing is referred to as rhythmic breathing. Now, breathe and slowly and steadily to the count of four. Then hold your breath to the count of two. Now, it is time to exhale to the count of four. Whenever you feel tense and nervous, you can use this technique. It helps get control of your breathing. Once the oxygen is running through your veins, you will feel lighter and calmer.
Now, that you feel calm and composed, it is time to bond to the next part of our meditation. Keep breathing normally, and you will feel the tension leaving your body. We all tend to carry a lot of tension in 
the muscles present in our shoulders and neck. Push your shoulder of words to wordy or yours, hold this position, and then release. Accept and understand that your body is slowly relaxing. Use your breath to get rid of any tension that you feel in your body. As you start to relax, your limbs will start to feel heavier. The tension in the muscles in your back will slowly dissolve. If you feel any tension in your shoulders, concentrate on tightening those muscles for a second and then relax. You can feel your shoulders relaxing, and you can feel all the muscles in your body relaxing. Bask in this pleasant feeling for a minute.
Continue to breathe deeply and steadily. Now, visualize that you are walking up a beautiful marble spiral staircase. The steps are made of white marble that looks very pristine and calming. You noticed that there is stonewalled to your left and you're tracing your fingers along the wall as you are walking up the stairs. The stone feels cold and pleasant to your torch. Keep climbing slowly. There are a lot of steps that are spiraling up ahead of you. As you're making your way up the staircase, you're slowly leaving all your problems behind. The more you walk, the more problems you have left behind. It feels wonderful to keep walking like this. The height doesn't bother you.
You start to experience a sense of relief as you gradually make your way up the staircase. Now, you are slowly reaching the top step. As you reach the top, you're greeted by inky blackness. As you move onto the platform, you look up, and you see a beautiful starry sky with millions of stars staring down at you. It feels wonderful to look upon the sky and see all the sparkling lights. You're experiencing freedom, happiness, and warmth. Sit on the marble platform, and gaze at this guy for a while longer.
Continue to do this until you feel truly relaxed. Let go of all the anxiety and worry that was bothering you. Understand that you are in control of your anger. Once you feel comfortable, it is time to bid adieu to this place and make your way back to reality. However, while you're doing this, the feeling of pleasantness that you experienced during the meditation will not go away. You can hold onto this feeling for as long as you want. In fact, you can remember this feeling every time you feel your anxiety creeping up on you.







Chapter Twelve: Positive Ways to Express Anger
When Jane happened to come across a rather suspicious text on her partner's mobile phone, she immediately suspected him of cheating on her. She confronted her partner about the same that night. It turns out, she wasn't wrong, and he indeed was cheating on her with his colleague. However, he did promise to end the affair and never indulge such behavior again. Jane was livid with anger and asked her partner to leave their house. But he started to cry, apologize, and even plead with her to not end the relationship. She finally relented and allowed him to stay. However, that night and the next couple of days, anger kept piling up within her. She did not express the anger she was expressing, continued to smile like she always did, and even tried to be nice to her partner. Over the next couple of days, the anger kept simmering within her. Stress started to build up. A part of Jane wanted to stay well behaved and exhibit socially accepted behavior and love her partner. However, another part of her, the one which was livid with anger, wanted to do anything but that. After ten days, she fell sick due to a combination of depression, fatigue, and sore throat. It isn't surprising that she fell sick. As you know, anger is a very powerful emotion, and keeping it bottled up within made her sick.
Everyone has experienced anger at one point or another in their lives. The real question is, what can you do with this feeling? Should you act on it or must you repress it? If you act on your anger, more often than not, you will end up hurting yourself or someone dear to you. On the other hand, if you keep it all bottled up within, it will increase the stress you feel. Apart from this, suppressing anger can harm your physical, mental, and emotional well-being. Well, it seems like regardless of what course of action you plan to take, anger can hurt you either way. Therefore, it is quintessential that you learn to deal with your anger constructively and express it healthily. At times, you cannot avoid your anger and, in such cases, expressing it constructively is a good idea. By doing this, you are not only acknowledging your emotions but are able to express it too.
Express Anger Without Hurting Others
Learning to express your anger constructively will reduce any stress you experience and also make you feel heard. If you want to lead a healthy and happy life, then you must learn to not only manage your anger, but you must also learn about the ways in which you can express it healthily. In this section, you will learn about creative ways that you can direct your anger toward something constructive.
It might sound a little old fashioned but writing down your feelings on paper when you are angry will help you feel better. Grab a pen and a sheet of paper and start noting everything that you are feeling. The things you write don't necessarily have to make sense. This is a great way to get rid of any undesirable thoughts. Also, once you write things down, it will give you a better understanding of why you are feeling the way you do. If you like to draw or paint, then go ahead and do so. If not, you can always purchase a coloring book and use it for therapeutic reasons. Coloring and painting will distract your mind from any angry thoughts.


Play a sport. It is never too late to learn to play a sport. Perhaps you 
were always interested in learning to play tennis. Well, there is no time like the present to learn. Playing a sport gives your body a chance to get rid of the anger and replace all the stress hormones with feel-good ones. You can play tennis, volleyball, basketball, or anything you like. Another great way to express your anger is by practicing. Throwing punches will certainly calm you down. Once you are calm, you can start thinking rationally. You can also go to the gym and exercise if you want. Exercising will not only help manage and express your anger constructively, but it will also improve your overall health. If none of these sports appeal to you, you can go on a run or go for a relaxing dip in the pool.
Singing can calm you down. Listening to music can be relaxing, while singing along can be a great stress buster. You can sing the way you want and don't hesitate even if you cannot sing. Use your voice to express your anger constructively. Dancing is a good way to let out your anger too. Dance to your heart's content. You can turn your living room into a dance floor and let go of your anger.
Start using a gestalt technique for verbalizing your anger. Place a chair across from you and imagine that the person you are angry with is sitting opposite to you. Start verbalizing why you are upset and what triggered you to the imaginary person. Let out your anger, and once you do this, you will feel better.
Once you do all these things, you will be able to talk calmly. You can use a combination of these techniques to calm down. When you are calm and have regained your composure, it is easier to talk about the things that bother you. The techniques discussed in this section will not only help regulate your anger but are great ways to tackle any stress you experience too.
Deal with Anger Constructively
Any issues with anger are often linked to various mental, emotional, physical, or even social challenges that one faces. In this section, you will learn about ways in which you can deal with your anger constructively.
Don't avoid any confrontation
A lot of people find anger to be an uncomfortable emotion and tend to avoid any confrontation. However, anger is a legitimate emotion and can help identify any problems you are facing. Shying away from anger or repressing it will only lead to an angry outburst in the future. Think of your mind as a pressure cooker and your anger as the steam that builds up within. If you don't let the pressure out, then the cooker will burst. It might not happen immediately, but it will eventually happen, and it cannot be avoided. If you don't want to have an unhealthy episode of anger, then you must learn to accept, embrace, and understand your anger.
It is time to get in touch with your feelings and any repressed feelings you are harboring within. Is it possible that the present situation triggered a rather uneasy memory from your past? Perspective is quite important if you want to settle a conflict and walk away unscathed. Don't write off your feelings or emotions as being silly. Learn to validate your feelings if you want to control them. A lot of people keep their anger bottled up because they don't like confrontations. However, dealing with the emotion that's troubling you is better than allowing it to trouble you for longer. You don't have to suppress your anger.
Avoid the blame game


No one likes to be told they are wrong, and no one likes being caught on the wrong side. However, if you get defensive and attack the 
person who pointed out your mistake, it will only worsen the situation. Learning to express your anger constructively is about communicating what you feel and the reasons for it. Don't be under any misconceptions that it is okay to put others down while expressing your anger constructively. For instance, if your loved one has let you down, don't resort to name calling or blaming them. Instead, you must concentrate on telling them about how their actions hurt you. Indulging in the blame game is never a solution, and it will not solve your issues. While talking about an issue that angered you, try to stay on the topic. Stay in the present and only talk about the things that upset you. It might be quite tempting to bring up the past or point out their flaws; however, doing all this will only worsen the situation and might even cause irreparable damage to the relationship. If you don't blame others, it becomes easier to diffuse the situation.
Keep your calm
It might seem quite tempting to have a big rant. However, understand that there are better ways in which you can get your point across to the other person. You need to stay calm if you want to express your anger constructively. Something as simple as the tone of your voice can make a huge difference while conveying your anger; the words you use matter too. When you're communicating, ensure that you are conveying to the other person that you care about them and that you don't have any harsh feelings towards them. While expressing your anger constructively, your goal must be not to hurt the other person, but it must be about trying to explain the reasons for your anger. When you stay calm and level headed, it becomes easier to talk about the things that are bothering you. Engaging in a confrontation is not a bad idea; however, letting your emotions control you is certainly a bad idea. When you keep your cool and talk calmly, it will prevent the situation from escalating. When you're angry, you might say things that you will regret later. Therefore, the trick is to recognize this earlier on and stop it before it gets out of hand. It might not be easy, but you need to pay attention to what you're saying and the way you say it.
For this strategy to work, if you require some thought in advance, consider all the benefits that you can get by approaching conflicts 
with a calm mind. It certainly will increase the chances of you being listened to, reduces the scope for any guilt later on, and it does not harm your relationship. All these things will give you the motivation to keep you calm, even in a stressful situation.
Keep things professional
If the person you're confronting isn't a family friend, your partner, family member, or as a colleague at work, then remember to keep things professional. Before you decide to confront the person, ensure that you take a couple of deep breaths and calm yourself. Please don't allow yourself to get overly emotional in the situation. Try to end the confrontation as soon as you possibly can and try to resolve the issue too. While engaging in such a confrontation, ensure that you have all the necessary facts to support your statements. Instead of blaming others, come up with suggestions on ways in which you can deal with certain circumstances in a better manner in the future.
However, just because you're angry doesn't mean that you have the liberty to allow it to spin out of control. By practicing these simple steps mentioned in this chapter, you can easily express your anger constructively.
Try Yoga


Yoga has been used for hundreds of years because of its healing properties. It helps improve your overall well-being — mental, physical, and emotional. The different poses suggested by yoga improve not only your flexibility but also have a calming effect on your body and mind. It is normal to get angry. Perhaps there have been instances wherein your anger ruined an entire day or upset your mood for days together. Anger is as important an emotion like joy, but you must learn to calm yourself and refocus so that you don't allow anger to control you. There are different practices and techniques suggested by yoga, which can help regain control of your anger.
The first step is to realize and accept the fact that you are angry. Take a couple of deep and calming breaths as soon as you experience a wave of anger. This must be your first line of defense. When you 
acknowledge any anger you feel, the next step is to consider the damage your anger can cause if you give into it. Once you do these two things, you can start using different yoga poses to regain your composure and reel in your anger.
Here are a couple of basic yoga poses that can help curb your anger.
The Corpse Pose or Savasana is considered to be the most relaxing of yoga poses. It helps calm you down mentally as well as physically. To perform this pose, all you have to do is lie down on the ground or the yoga mat on your back. Place your arms by your sides with your palms facing upward. Allow your feet to rest comfortably and keep breathing until it goes back to its natural state. The only thing you must concentrate on is your breathing. Concentrate on the calming effect of your breath and nothing else. Try emptying your mind of all thoughts. Once you do this for a couple of minutes, you will feel better.
The Child's Pose comes in handy while trying to strengthen the relationship between your body and mind. It is believed that this pose can help you get in touch with your true feelings. This is another pose that has been designed with the sole purpose of promoting relaxation. To assume this pose, you must assume the tabletop pose. You essentially need to get down on all fours. Slowly move your arm backward and place them by the side of your body. While doing this, slowly move your head closer to the ground until your forehead is resting on the floor. If you want, you can also stretch your arms forward and extend them until they lie on either side of your head.
Nose Breathing is one of the most effective breathing techniques prescribed by yoga. The great thing about this exercise is that you can perform it whenever and wherever you want. It is also known as the Complete Breath or the Three-Part Breathing exercise. It helps purify your mind and get rid of any anger. Don't be in a hurry while doing this. To perform this exercise, you must start out by sitting with your back straight. Place a hand on your abdomen if you want to and let the other one rest on your thigh. Start by inhaling slowly and deeply through your nose. Let the breath that you take fill up your abdomen, and you can feel your abdomen move upward. Then, it is time to exhale slowly, and you will be able to feel the air rushing 
out of your body and through your nose. Repeat this exercise for a couple of minutes, and you will feel calm and refreshed.
Another simple breathing technique that you can follow is to take breathe in deeply through your nose. Breathe in deeply at the count of four: one, two, three, and four. Now, you must hold your breath to the count of four: one, two, three, and four. The third step is to slowly exhale through your mouth to the count of four: one, two, three, and four. The final step is to hold your breath to the count of four before you inhale. Repeat this exercise whenever you feel stressed or angry. It will quickly help dispel any internal tension and allow you to see things clearly.







Conclusion
I want to thank you once again for choosing this book. I hope it proved to be an informative and enjoyable read.
Anger is a basic human emotion like happiness, joy, or sadness. Expressing your anger is a good thing, but you must do it constructively. An angry outburst will not only harm your overall well-being, but it can harm your relationships too. If you notice that you are constantly angry, or don't have any control over your anger, then you must take steps to control your anger. Anger is not a negative emotion, provided you know how to express it.
Anger often cloaks other emotions you might be repressing like hurt, sadness, disappointment, or even guilt. By identifying your anger triggers, you can finally uncloak the underlying emotions that prompt your anger. There exists an undeniable connection between anger and your ability to be happy. Anger can eat up any happiness you experience and replace it with unnecessary bitterness, which further fuels the vicious cycle of anger. The good news is that you can break free of this cycle with a little effort.
Anger management is important if you want to control your anger and manage the way you respond to the anger you experience. Anger management techniques given in this book include simple and practical tips that everyone can use in their daily lives to ensure that they don't let anger get the best of them.
The first step to managing your anger is to learn to identify your anger triggers. The checklist given in this book will help you along the way. When you can identify the causes of anger, it becomes easier to deal with them and express your anger in a better way.
Once you become aware of the reasons for your anger and the way you respond to it, you can start taking corrective action to prevent anger from disrupting your life. You cannot get rid of anger, but you can certainly learn to avoid getting angry. The relaxation tips and techniques given in this book will help you avoid getting angry.
Apart from this, learning to forgive and accepting your anger are two important steps to managing your anger. Forgive and forget is 
certainly a good idea. Holding onto grudges or unnecessary anger only harms you and does you no good. Also, ignoring your anger, suppressing it, or not acknowledging it will only worsen the situation. It takes courage to do all this!
Learning to communicate effectively and efficiently will help reduce any angry outbursts. Apart from this, effectively communicating your feelings will prevent any misunderstandings and strengthen your relationships. By becoming mindful of your emotions, you can certainly control and manage them. Also, the different tips about expressing your anger in a positive way will help you deal with your anger and regain control of your life.
Well, the key to turning your life around and managing your anger lies in your hand. All that's left for you to do is start implementing the practical tips and steps given in this book to start managing your anger and preventing any angry outbursts in the future. Remember that it takes time, consistent effort, and patience to learn to control your anger. Please be patient toward yourself and show some self-love! Don't get frustrated and don't give up, it will take a while, but it will certainly be helpful in the long run.
Thank you and all the best!







References
Anger Management. (2019). Retrieved from https://www.helpguide.org/articles/relationships-communication/anger-management.htm

BENEFITS OF ANGER MANAGEMENT - A1 Counselling. (2019). Retrieved from https://a1counselling.com/issues/anger-management/benefits-of-anger-management/

Brandt, A. (2016). 4 Reasons Why You Should Embrace Your Anger. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/mindful-anger/201606/4-reasons-why-you-should-embrace-your-anger

Conquer Anger Through Self-Awareness. (2013). Retrieved from http://www.psychologyineverydaylife.net/2013/09/27/conquer-anger-through-self-awareness/

Elliot, C., Smith, L., & Doyle, G. (2019). How to Identify Your Anger Triggers. Retrieved from https://www.dummies.com/health/mental-health/how-to-identify-your-anger-triggers/

Farris, M. (2019). The Effects of Anger - How it Impacts You, Even If You Think It Doesn't. Retrieved from https://www.thedailypositive.com/effects-of-anger/

Kubzansky, L. D., Sparrow, D., Jackson, B., Cohen, S., Weiss, S. T., & Wright, R. J. (2006). Angry breathing: A prospective study of hostility and lung function in the Normative Aging Study. Thorax
, 61
(10), 863-868. doi:10.1136/thx.2005.050971
Masks of Anger: The fear That Your Anger May Be Hiding. (2012). Retrieved 1 from http://www.psychologyineverydaylife.net/2012/05/29/masks-of-anger-the-fears-that-your-anger-may-be-hiding/

Morin, A. (2015). 7 Myths About Anger (and Why They're Wrong). Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/what-mentally-strong-people-dont-do/201512/7-myths-about-anger-and-why-theyre-wrong

O'neil, G. (2018). Be Careful - Anger Can Ruin Your Life. Retrieved 18 July 2019, from https://gerioneill.com/anger-health-relationships/

Pratt, K. (2014). Psychology Tools: What is Anger? A Secondary Emotion. Retrieved from https://healthypsych.com/psychology-tools-what-is-anger-a-secondary-emotion/

Strong, D. (2019). 7 Ways Anger Is Ruining Your Health. Retrieved from 
https://www.everydayhealth.com/news/ways-anger-ruining-your-health/

Vann, M. (2019). Anger Management: How to Keep Your Temper in Check. Retrieved from 
https://www.everydayhealth.com/womens-health/managing-your-temper.aspx

What Is Self-Awareness? (and 8 Ways to Become More Self Aware). (2019). Retrieved from https://www.developgoodhabits.com/what-is-self-awareness/

What is Self-Awareness and Why is it Important? [+5 Ways to Increase It]. (2019). Retrieved from https://positivepsychology.com/self-awareness-matters-how-you-can-be-more-self-aware/

Williams, J., Paton, C., Siegler, I., Elgenbrodt, M., Nieto, J., & Tyroler, H. (2019). Anger Proneness Predicts Coronary Heart Disease Risk. Retrieved from https://www.ahajournals.org/doi/full/10.1161/01.CIR.101.17.2034




