




 
 
Emotional
Intelligence
How to
Increase EQ, Interpersonal Skills, Communication Skills and
Achieve Success
Thomas Richards











©
Copyright 2015 - All rights reserved.
In no way is it
legal to reproduce, duplicate, or transmit any part of this document in either
electronic means or in printed format. Recording of this publication is
strictly prohibited and any storage of this document is not allowed unless with
written permission from the publisher. All rights reserved. 
The information
provided herein is stated to be truthful and consistent, in that any liability,
in terms of inattention or otherwise, by any usage or abuse of any policies,
processes, or directions contained within is the solitary and utter
responsibility of the recipient reader. Under no circumstances will any legal
responsibility or blame be held against the publisher for any reparation,
damages, or monetary loss due to the information herein, either directly or
indirectly. 
Respective
authors own all copyrights not held by the publisher. 
Legal Notice:
This book is
copyright protected. This is only for personal use. You cannot amend,
distribute, sell, use, quote or paraphrase any part or the content within this
book without the consent of the author or copyright owner. Legal action will be
pursued if this is breached. 
Disclaimer Notice:
Please note the
information contained within this document is for educational and entertainment
purposes only. Every attempt has been made to provide accurate, up to date and
reliable complete information. No warranties of any kind are expressed or
implied. Readers acknowledge that the author is not engaging in the rendering
of legal, financial, medical or professional advice.











Table of
Contents
 
Introduction
Chapter One:Historical Roots
Chapter Two:What is
Emotional Intelligence?
Chapter Three:Building blocks
of Emotional Intelligence
Chapter Four:The Competencies
Chapter Five:Improving your
Emotional Intelligence
Chapter Six:Understanding
and developing empathy
Chapter Seven:Strategies to
Improve Emotional Intelligence
Chapter Eight:What Role Do the
People Around You Play?
Chapter Nine:Assess Your
Level of Emotional Intelligence!
Conclusion
Free Bonus Guide
Checkout My Other Books












 
Introduction
Are you someone who has
difficulty gauging your own emotions or those of others? Have you ever found
yourself unable to see your emotions coming and, as a result, have ended up
saying or doing something you wish you hadn't?
If the answer is yes, then you have come to the right place.
This book will help you understand the deep labyrinths of emotional
intelligence, its associated usages and how you can draw on it make to make
yourself smarter, faster and better in life. 
I want to thank you for choosing this book, "Emotional
Intelligence: How to increase your EQ and achieve success by mastering emotions"
and hope you find it interesting and enlightening. 
There has been a great change in people all over the world.
People are now more aware of their emotional lives and, accordingly, have tried
to attune themselves to the emotions of other people. Even in management, there
is a considerable shift in the style of working. Most roles all across the
world has become more customer oriented. People have had to learn how to work
better as a team. This has different societal normal and imperative. It has
been found that people who are socially skilled are successful and excel both
academically and professionally. What is known as emotional intelligence (EI)
or emotional quotient (EQ) is now seen as a determining factor in assessing
people's potential. 
This book will help you identify you level of emotional
intelligence you know enjoy as well as how to build on it. It will explain how
IQ (Intelligence quotient) can help you do wonders academically, but how an
emotional quotient or emotional intelligence can help you do wonders in your
professional life and your personal life. The book will tell you what
techniques you to use in order to master an understanding of emotional
intelligence.
Your environment plays a strong role in helping you
understand yourself. If you live in an area where your neighbors do not care
for each other and might not even know each other's names, you will end up
behaving the same way. If you live in an area filled with joy and love, you
will learn to be the same way.
Emotional Intelligence works on one key foundation - empathy.
This is the most essential value every human being must possess. Developing
your empathic capacity is the best way to make better use of the emotional
intelligence that's already part of you. 

Let's get started on our journey toward building your
emotional intelligence! Let's look at where you are now and where you can
go.  Let's find out how you can build
your empathy, your social and self-awareness and manage your relationships more
effectively.  
You'll find that emotional intelligence is an integral part
of who you are and that building it up is primarily a matter of being aware of
where you are in relation to others and vice versa.  As you develop your EQ, you'll be surprised
at how rapidly your life and the quality of your relationships will change for
the better.












 
 
Chapter One

Historical Roots
It was not until the 20th century that people began
to understand that intelligence did not necessarily only mean cognitive
functions like problem solving, memory, and learning. There was more to
intelligence than that. Scientists began to realize that there were
non-cognitive aspects of intelligence that existed and played a great role in
people's way of being in the world. 
To understand the
nature of emotional intelligence, it's important to distinguish it from
specific personality quirks or traits. 
More than just a cheery disposition, or "niceness", emotional
intelligence is about having the ability to approach others with an
understanding of their emotional state, at any given time.  The ability to discern internal turmoil,
sadness, or anger, for example, are hallmarks of emotional intelligence.  This ability points to an empathic nature
that is sensitive to other people.
Emotional
intelligence can mean you are the calm in the eye of the storm; able to slow
down long enough to assess the situation. 
It also means you are open to the emotional landscape of other people
and able to effectively approach them in order to mitigate, lead and "feel
with" them.
E. L. Thorndike, an American
psychologist, is known as one of the most frequently cited psychologists of the
20th Century.  His pioneering
work in the field of education at Columbia University forms the foundation of
what is now known as modern education psychology.  It was Thorndike who, in 1920, identified a
particular type of intelligence, called "social intelligence", which helped
people understand and manage those around them. 
In 1940 David Wechsler identified the notion of non-cognitive
intelligence. He argued that you could not define intelligence until you
defined the various aspects of that intelligence unrelated to any cognitive skill
that could be measured. 
Inventor of the
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS), this psychologist contended that
intelligence was actually a combination of influences which were not all
governed by cognitive processes.  In
1940, he distinguished "non-intellective" from "intellective" factors in human
intelligence.  In this way, he created an
entirely new column of intellectual attributes, including emotions and the
influence of social environments. 
Wechsler believed that these newly defined non-intellective elements
were strong predictors of a person's ability to succeed in life and work.   It was with this distinction that the
emotional life of the human being became an important factor in determining
global intelligence.  In essence,
Wechsler's work paved the way for an understanding of a holistic (or "total")
intelligence that invited empathy to the party.
It was in 1983 that
Howard Gardner in his book, 'Frames of
Mind: The Theory of Multiple Intelligences' stated that people have
multiple intelligences. In defining the concept, Gardener's model rested on
eight types of ability.  These were:  musical, spatial, linguistic, mathematical,
physical, relational (inter and intrapersonal), natural/realistic.  To these, Gardner later posited that moral
intelligence should be added.  Gardener
believed that each person featured a highly individualized combination of all
these abilities in varying degrees.
Gardener also
believed that intelligence was a phenomenon arising from the interaction of the
mind and body working in concert.  The
relationship of the physical to the intellectual was key to this understanding
and departs radically from the Cartesian idea of the mind/body split, adding
emotion as a factor in the formation of intelligence, also. 
He further believed
that the presence of all these abilities, in proportions great and small,
indicated that environment had the potential to draw them out for the greater
good.  In other words he believed that,
given the right set of circumstances, any person was capable of not only
attaining success, but of personal distinction. 
In providing the right context in which human potential might thrive
(due to these innate abilities), Gardener believed it was possible for anyone
to create, invent, thrive and provide great value to society.
The two dominant
models through which Gardener defined multiple intelligences were:
1.     Intrapersonal
Intelligence: This is the ability to understand personal emotions and
feelings. This is referred to later in the book as 'Personal Competence'.
2.     Interpersonal
Intelligence: This is the ability to understand another person's emotions
and feelings. This is referred to later in the book as 'Social Competence'. 
Gardner strongly
believed that these intelligence types, which were non-traditional, were as
important as the traditional intelligence types and that they were a better
gauge to predict a person's future performance and success. Although the term 'Emotional Intelligence' was not being
used at the time, there were scientists and psychologists who tried to
understand the concept. 
The first known use
of the term "emotional intelligence" appears to be in a paper written in 1964
by Michael Beldoch.  This usage was
closely followed, in 1966, in B. Leuner's "Emotional
intelligence and emancipation".  But
in 1985, the term was first used the way it is today. 
In Wayne Payne's
doctoral thesis, 'A Study of Emotion:
Developing Emotional Intelligence'. 
Payne's dissertation focused on the society's traditional rejection of
the emotional life of human beings.  He
theorized that this rejection had resulted in some of society's greatest evils,
including drug and alcohol addiction, mental illness, the propagation of
violence in armed conflicts and the role of religion in them.
People have now
begun to study these different models to understand the essence of emotional
intelligence. 
As modern psychology
synthesized the ideas of the emotional intelligence pioneers summarized above,
a model finally emerged on which our modern understanding of EI has been
founded.
In 1995, Daniel
Goleman identified the modern model of Emotional Intelligence. It was through
the work of this psychologist and behavioral scientist by which the term became
internationally known and applied. 
Goleman was primarily concerned with how EI applied to the workplace and
relationships in them.  He claimed that
it was EI which determined the level of success people had at work.
In collaboration
with other psychologists, Goleman formulated the idea that people could be
measured for an EQ (emotional intelligence quotient), thus making it a
counterbalance to the determination of IQ. 
Departing from traditional ideas of intelligence being measured by
academic standards (like math, for example), Goleman's EQ testing sought to
determine the extent to which those measured were able to interact successively
with the people around them.  Instead of
measuring how well the subject could complete skill-testing questions,
Goleman's test evaluated how well subjects fared in terms of empathy, their
awareness and control of their emotions and their ability to gauge the
disposition of other people.  Nowadays,
these are known as "soft skills".
It is this model
that has become popular and is now being used across the world. This model is
explained in the latter part of this book. 
Emotional Intelligence and
Intelligence Quotient
The
term Intelligence Quotient arose when psychologists began to understand that
memory and problem solving skills (meaning cognitive skills) were essential for
every human being. 
William Stern was a
German psychologist who developed the concept of measuring intelligence.  Later in life, he was to admit that tools
used to gauge the cognitive ability of people might also be used against them
for purposes that were less than noble. 
All the same, his pioneering work in the field laid the foundation for
the modern study of human intelligence, early in the 20th
Century.  His book, 'The psychological methods of Testing Intelligence' is a seminal work in the field.
Decades following
Stern's book, psychologists began to believe that even a non-cognitive approach
was essential. In 1940 the idea of personal and social factors of intelligence
had become popular. The two sets of attributes were differentiated under the
rubrics 'intellective' and 'non-intellective' elements of intelligence. It was
proposed that these non-intellective elements were essential for a person to
have in order to succeed in both personal and professional lives. 
Getting along at work
Traditional
ideas about leadership tend not to focus on the emotional makeup of the leader.  Rather, they identify traits like toughness
and drive as being fundamental to the makeup of a successful leader.
While it's true that
these attributes are helpful, they certainly aren't the end of the story.  Everybody's experienced the type of boss whose
"toughness" is at the root of punitive behaviors in the workplace that make
others uncomfortable.  Leaders like this
can be downright scary.  When they want
it done, they want it done now and you'd better do it right.  The "my way or the highway" boss is not the
most popular guy in town.  He will get
things done, but the road to the goal is usually littered with causalities of
his workplace style.  Sometimes the
"drive" people traditionally associate with leadership can mean driving right
over valuable team members who haven't managed to meet the leaders exacting
expectations.
More and more, the
concept of leadership is shifting to one much more nuanced and dependent on
emotional characteristics.  While it's
important that a leader be tough and decisive; driven toward the achievement of
professional and corporate goals, without emotional intelligence, a leader can
be an intimidating figure and the source of unnecessary friction in the
workplace.  That friction can result in
high turnover rates, stress-related absences and even failing to realize
important goals.
Emotional
intelligence in the workplace is probably the most important survival skill any
employee can have.  It doesn't matter
what position on the totem pole you hold. 
Whether you're working in customer service, or filling up a gas tank,
being able to relate to fellow employees, superiors and customers is crucial to
success in the workplace.  For those of
us with aspirations to lead, emotional intelligence is what sets one apart as
having the "right stuff" to do it.
Workplaces are full
of human dynamics that require a keen eye, an open ear and an emotional
openness if they're to be navigated effectively.  It's really no different than personal life
and frankly, it's a mistake to draw too heavy a line between these two spheres
of life.  The people you work with are
made of up of all the same human foibles our friends and families are.  They take them to work with them, just like
the rest of us.  
Because of this
reality, working life can sometimes feel like a children's sandbox, rife with
competition, petty grievances, jealousy and vindictive backtalk.  But rising above it all is possible.  Developing your emotional intelligence
quotient (EQ) will give you the tools you need to climb out of the sandbox and
view it from a safe distance.
They say there's one
in every office.  The same is true of any
workplace you'd care to name, because there are people in every workplace.  People are made up of life experiences and
its wounds, too.  We all have a unique
emotional landscape.  Think about
yourself.  What riles you up?  What makes you happy?  What triggers you to bring inappropriate
baggage from past experiences to contemporary situations?
Getting along at
work isn't all about sucking up to the boss (although that can help).  It's about knowing who's in the sandbox and
what you have in common with them.  The
best place to start with any person is discovering the common ground.  To do that, you need to know what your own
values are.  You need to understand what
sets you off and you need to be able to find out where you intersect with your
co-workers - and where you diverge.
Personal details are
always useful, but you don't need to pick people's brains to find out what
makes them tick.  All the information is
right there in front of you, if you're an observant person.  Work styles are revealed in any number of
habits.  Everything from punctuality to
the timing of coffee breaks can tell you a lot about your co-workers.  Do they work through lunch?  Do they take long lunches?  Do they tell jokes that make you laugh - or
do their jokes make you and others uncomfortable?  Are they considerate of others, or do they
seem unconcerned about the wellbeing of those around them?
The water cooler is
an icon of office dynamics, but it needn't be precisely a water cooler.  It can be the area outside where people
gather to smoke cigarettes (a place you should stop by, even if you don't
smoke).  It can be a lunchroom, or a
loading dock, or a nearby coffee shop or bar where colleagues gather after a
day's work.  You need to be there.  Not all the time.  Not for hours on end.  You just need to show up.  Because it's at the water cooler that the
dynamics of the sandbox will be most baldly revealed.
It's when people
have removed their workaday hats and settled back into "personal time mode",
that they're most likely to draw you a picture of what's going on inside
them.  While they may be reluctant to
discuss personal matters in the workplace itself, they will certainly share
some of these matters over a coffee, a beer, or a cigarette - maybe even over a
quick bite at lunch.  What's important,
though, is that you show an interest in your colleagues and a willingness to
hear what's on their minds.
Being well liked is
always beneficial, in any workplace.  But
part of being well liked is being well informed.  People who listen are always at a
premium.  Listening is the most intensely
active form of communication.  That may
sound counter-intuitive.  Remember,
though, that while you're listening, you're collating information about the
person you're listening to.  You're
absorbing information about the person's communication style, what's going on
in his life and his emotional state. 
The most important
lessons you can learn from you co-workers will inform your understanding of
yourself and vice versa.  The emotionally
intelligent person who feels with those around him is able to move through his
working life with confidence.  It's not
easy to pull a self-aware person into the internecine feuds that happen
wherever people gather.  The self-aware
person knows that involvement in petty workplace politics is a waste of
time.  Instead of rolling around in the
sandbox with everyone else, the emotionally intelligent person will go to the
root of the conflict and seek resolution. 
Equipped with his knowledge of his co-workers and the self-awareness
that has helped him obtain that knowledge, he's well placed to be an asset in
any workplace and a force for harmony and productivity.
Having left the
sandbox behind, the emotionally intelligent person confidently stands apart as
an example of how to play well with others. 
Take his shovel.  He won't throw a
tantrum.  He will find another shovel, or
work with his hands.  He will then
quietly take you aside and find out why you felt you needed his shovel.  He will not yell.  He will reason with you and get to the bottom
of the conflict.  This is how the
emotionally intelligent person handles and resolves conflict.  Without walking passively away, he steps
back, takes a good, 360 look at the context and then, manages the conflict.
Getting along at
work is something we all need to do.  
But getting along doesn't mean being anybody's doormat.  It doesn't mean you go along to get along.  It means you see people for who they
are.  It means you know who you are.  You know your strengths, weaknesses and
tendencies and you see them in others. 
By feeling with your colleagues and understanding that your humanity is
an emotional commonality, you get a gift that will last a lifetime.  This gift is far better than passivity or
just keeping your head down.  This gift
is that of self-awareness that benefits you and everyone around you.
In 1940, the Ohio
State Leadership Studies conducted a research project through which it was discovered
that a person who was able to establish mutual trust, rapport, respect and
warmth with his colleagues did well in the organization he worked in. This
holds true even with respect to personal relationships. A person who is warm,
kind and affectionate and worries about other people's emotions, is bound to
have a large circle of friends who shower him with warmth, love and affection. 
A variety of studies
motivated a number of psychologists and research centers to come up with tests
that helped them gauge emotional intelligence. These tests involved questions
on various emotional factors like sensitivity, interpersonal skills, empathy
and approachability. 
The progenitors of the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional
Intelligence Test (MSCEIT) defined emotional intelligence as a type of
social intelligence that involved the ability to monitor and control one's
emotions and feelings. It was also helpful to be able to differentiate between
the feelings and emotions, depending on the situation and to use that information
effectively to guide his thoughts and actions. These psychologists developed a
program to identify the measures of emotional intelligence. They also tried to
understand the significance of emotional intelligence through this program.
They concluded that there were certain underlying skills that are the basis for
emotional intelligence. They summarized these qualities as the accuracy with
which one can perceive and understand the emotions that they have and also the
emotions of other people. These emotions could be regulated and controlled in
order to achieve one's objectives. 
Salovey and Mayer
proposed that emotional intelligence has four fundamental aspects that closely
mirror Goleman's. These are:
1.     Ability
to recognize emotions
2.     Ability
to understand emotions
3.     Ability
to regulate emotions
4.     Ability
to control and use the emotions
The idea of
emotional intelligence being a secret to success appealed to a group of
researchers in the late 20th Century. They began to worry that a
high Intelligence Quotient did not help people succeed in their personal or
professional lives. In fact, IQ only helps 4 to 25% of the time when it comes
to succeeding in life. (You might have assumed that your Intelligence Quotient
would help you achieve success more than 90% of the time -but that's OK, many
of us make the same mistake.) While it runs against conventional wisdom and
conventional perceptions of intelligence and success, this statistic implies
that life success depends on factors other than your Intelligence Quotient. 
As an example, you
might consider the research conducted in Somerville, Massachusetts. This
investigation took place for a period of forty years on a sample of 450 boys
who resided there. The study was conducted from the boys' childhood to their
lives forty years later. It was found that their level of IQ did not make too
much of a difference in the success they enjoyed in their professional and
personal lives. It was the experiences they had in childhood that made the
biggest difference. It was what they had learned through those experiences that
were of fundamental importance in the way they dealt with different situations
in life. 
This does not mean
that high Emotional Intelligence can compensate for a low Intelligence
Quotient. This idea is fallacious and is responsible for causing people to
believe that the Intelligence Quotient has little, if any, importance in life.
There are a variety of life situations in which you will have to implement your
Intelligence Quotient. For instance, when applying for a new job, your
Intelligence Quotient is tested through an Aptitude Test. However, once you
have secured the job, being successful in your new workplace almost solely
depends on your emotional intelligence. Your success depends on how you tackle
the difficulties and challenges you will face at work, and also how you get
along with your subordinates and colleagues. 
It was Daniel
Goleman's books, 'Emotional Intelligence'
and 'Working with Emotional
Intelligence' that popularized the notion of EQ. He stated that in the
past, people had believed that a high IQ was an adequate determinant of
success, since it was assumed that one had only to demonstrate expertise in
their chosen field in order to succeed. But now it's known that a combination
of IQ and emotional intelligence is what produces success. In life, we're all
called upon to demonstrate the ability to handle ourselves and others, as well.
We must all be able, not only to be competent and even excellent in our chosen
careers, but also sensitive, diplomatic and empathetic. 












 
 
Chapter Two

What is Emotional Intelligence?
Emotional intelligence can
best be described as a person's ability to measure and monitor their emotions
and to use this ability to think and behave accordingly. Everything in the
world is driven by emotions. It was Charles Darwin who stated that the
expression of emotions was essential for survival. 
In 1995, Daniel Goleman published 'Emotional Intelligence: Why it can Matter More than IQ'. In the
book, he defined emotional intelligence as the understanding of feelings and
emotions, empathizing with others and also enhancing one's way of life by
regulating emotions and reactions arising. 
Emotional intelligence is a combination of 19 different
competencies. These competencies are segregated under the four areas that
comprise emotional intelligence. It is these competencies that help us
understand, be aware of and control our emotions and also, to understand and be
aware of other people's emotions. Only when this knowledge is used effectively
will a person be successful and able to help others achieve success. 
The 19 competencies compromising emotional intelligence under
Goleman's five categories are as follows:
Recognizing your own emotions and the consequences of letting
them out to play.
Having an intimate knowledge of your strengths and
weaknesses.
A strong sense of self-identity and your intrinsic
self-worth.
Being flexible and open to change.
Effective impulse control and being able to control your
emotions.
Being reliable, accountable to yourself and conscientious.
Persistence in working toward your goals.
Being sensitive to the feelings of others and open to
honoring them (empathy).
Dedication to service.
Keen awareness of the social make up of groups and their
dynamics.
Support for those around you, including their development.
Ability to lead by inspiration and example.
Ability to persuade others effectively and strategically.
Catalytic ability to make change happen and then manage it.
Communicative and receptive to others.
Ability to resolve conflict.
Ability to nurture relationships and collegiality.
Ability to create cohesion and energy in a group.
There are two aspects of emotional intelligence that should
be considered. The first is that emotional intelligence is very important when
it comes to personal success, (more important than IQ). Emotional intelligence,
unlike IQ, can always be improved, which is why you're reading this book.  We're going to be talking about some of those
methods and strategies.
A director makes movies because he's passionate about
portraying his view of the world in film. A conqueror plunders cities because
he is intensely driven by a need to do so and to profit lavishly from his
efforts. A writer creates poems and short stories because his emotional life is
so rich and intense that it spills out into the world.  It can't be contained. A chef innovates with
his ingredients and techniques because of his passion for food.
Look around and you will find myriad examples of activities
driven and run by emotions. Man is a social animal. Whether we like to admit it
or not, we do many things and take countless decisions rooted in our emotions.
Because of this, it's important that we not only understand emotions but also
actively apply that understanding in daily life. Emotional intelligence is
vital to developing one's emotional maturity. 
But it's incredibly important for anyone working in the fields of
personal development or client management. Emotional intelligence is a
fundamental support to the successful and satisfying living of our lives, both
professionally and personally. 
If you've ever read the book 'Teen Idol' by Meg Cabot, you
will understand perfectly what emotional intelligence is. The protagonist is
someone who tries to understand what every other person in high school is
feeling. She teams up with an actor who has come to study life in a high
school. He is a child actor, who tells the protagonist that on the first show
he'd ever acted in, a Reverend had come to the film set to teach the crew and
actors about empathy. This Reverend told the actors that it was essential they
understand the emotional lives of other people. 
He taught them that respect for the feelings of others was vital and
that their actions should flow from that respect. 
Emotions sometimes defy logic and compel us to do things we
might not do normally. For all of us, regardless of our station or role in
life, emotions occupy a pivotal place in our activities. They're not just
something we feel. They pull and push us around and compel our actions. They
are often the driving force behind works of genius.  But they are also behind many of the most
stupid and even evil actions and behaviors attributable to human beings. 
For instance, as a child you might have squabbled with your
friends or classmates if they broke a toy of yours. You might have been the
best of friends, but a small toy came between you. Because your emotions were
bound up in that toy and its significance to you, you let them get the better
of you. There are may have been other times when jumped into a fight because
your friend or sibling was being harmed. You probably felt you had every right
to annoy your sibling or friend, but if someone else were doing it, you
wouldn't accept it. This happens, even now, in your adult life. That's because
of your emotions. As you read this, you can clearly remember the numerous times
emotion was the reason you jumped into a fight, took up a challenge, or offered
someone your help. The sea of emotions within us guide our behavior and
sometimes, they rule us, subduing our capacity to think rationally and
logically.
Acquiring the skills of emotional intelligence is a matter of
self-mastery, but it's also a matter of reading the emotions of others. In
order to be emotionally intelligent, you must learn to observe and study human
emotions. Of course, you cannot be expected to be a scholar in psychology, but
careful observation can sometimes reward you with knowledge regarding human
thinking and behavior. Every human being is different. We all feel things
differently and react differently to a wide range of situations.   Understanding your own emotions and those of
others is a tool that will serve you well in life (or perhaps this
understanding is based on the acquisition of a number of tools).  Acquiring a mastery of human emotional life
is a matter of opening yourself up to self-examination and the examination of
others.
Have you ever observed what you see around you every day and
analyzed it from an emotional standpoint? 
A stranger helping a blind woman cross the road.  A child crying because of her grandfather is
being sent to an old age home.  Couples
breaking down mentally after separating from each other.  There are so many events in our lives that
invite emotional analysis, but rarely do we take the time to view them in this
way.  We may empathize to a degree, but
we're much more likely to judge.  In the
span of any given day, emotions are all around us. Just taking the time to see
any of the situations I've mentioned above and so many others through the lens
of human emotions changes the whole picture. 
We can learn much about ourselves and other people by doing so. 
For example, Joseph is a bully who threatens other kids at
school and steals their lunch. Very few know that Joseph is bullied at home by
his foster father who is bankrupt, jobless and a drunk. In order to feel
confident and come to terms with what he suffers at home, Joseph projects his
suffering onto others. Joseph's actions can never be justified, but he's not
the only one to be blamed for them.  His
domestic situation is untenable and to deal with it, he brings it to school
with him and acts it out on other children. By not rushing to judgment in
confrontation of Joseph's actions, you're given the opportunity to see the
underlying motivations for them.  And
this is how emotional intelligence supports a richer relationship with the
world around you.  It illuminates
otherwise dark corners, bearing understanding. 
We often jump to conclusions and judge people for their
actions. We fail to understand the rationale or the emotions driving these
actions. Without understanding Joseph's world, it's easy to dismiss him as an
unpleasant, unlovable boy. But by doing that, nobody is addressing the
suffering he lives with at home.  Nobody
is helping Joseph, or seeing him for what he is - an abused child.   As Joseph grows to adulthood how will his
bullying evolve?  Will he become a
corporate raider?  A corrupt
politician?  A criminal?  
The example of Joseph is only one of many opportunities that
unfold around us every day of our lives to apply the skills inherent in
emotional intelligence.  By applying
these skills, we can make life much more livable, much fuller and better for
ourselves and those around us.
What
is the role of our emotions?
One of the most important things we
need to understand about emotions is that they are subjective.  While emotions may arise from external
sources, they are our responsibility and they are within our ability to master.  Our emotional responses to the world around us
can result in any number of life challenges. 
When we don't hold ourselves accountable for the way we react to life as
it goes on around us, we are essentially letting it roll over us.
Each of us has a unique and highly personal emotional
life.  Our responses to life events are
highly individualized and may be a combination of a range of emotions.  A first date may find us feeling both
excitement and fear.  The same might be
said of a vacation abroad that involves flying on an airplane to a destination
we've never visited.  The experience of
watching our children grow may fill us with pride, but at the same time,
sadness and what might be described as a "bittersweet" sensation.
Everybody reading this book will be familiar with the
expression "I let my emotions get the best of me".  Many of us have said this at times when we've
lost control of our emotions.  And that's
the truth.  Our emotions ruling us and
causing us to behave in ways that aren't normal for us stems from an inability
to recognize them as our sole responsibility.
It's not the other driver's fault that we have descended into
a hell of road rage, swearing and flipping the bird, all the way.  It's our fault.
It's not our friend's late arrival at an appointment that has
caused us to dissolve in bitter tears, wailing about the injustice of having
our precious time wasted.  It's us.
It's not the death of our cat that has provoked our refusal
to do anything but sit at home, drinking endless cups of tea and staring
forlornly at a vase of rapidly decaying tulips all day.  That was our sole decision.
The driver may have been in the wrong, but we chose to lose
it.  Our friend should have shown up on
time, but we chose to fly into a self-pitying rage.  It's very sad that our cat has gone to kitty
heaven, but shouldn't we focus on our happy memories of life with kitty,
instead of feeling sorry for ourselves?
Our reactions to the emotions we feel are not the
responsibility of anyone but ourselves. 
Claiming that responsibility and understanding how to take charge of our
emotional lives is an important step toward reaching a higher level of
emotional maturity.  It's also an
important step toward a deeper understanding of the emotional lives of others.  In knowing ourselves, we come to know others
and in coming to know others through self-awareness, we arrive at empathy's
door.  We become more willing and able to
feel with others.
Our emotions can also influence our physiological realities,
manifesting themselves in conditions like heart disease, anxiety, sleeplessness
and a host of other ailments we needn't have. 
If you've ever experienced a panic attack, or a "fight or flight"
response, you'll know the sensation - shaking, sweating, physical tension, the
feeling that your skin is crawling, or that the hairs on the back of your neck
are standing up.  All these responses
stem from emotions.  Our emotional life
is so intensely powerful, it can even cause some of us to lose our hair, or experience
a phantom pregnancy (the physical appearance of pregnancy, without the presence
of a fetus, due to the intense desire for a baby).
Once an emotional response has taken root, it can also
manifest in behaviors we would not normally engage in.  Anger or rage is one of the most intense
human emotions and can result in destructive actions that can harm ourselves or
those around us.  Love, they say, makes
us do crazy things.  When it's not
returned, it can transform and become anger, causing us to become destructive,
or even homicidal.  By not managing our
emotional life, we're inviting it to take the wheel; to drive us to whatever
moonscape of devastation it chooses. 
Lost employment.  Lost
relationships.  Lost self-respect.  Unbridled emotions are the highway to hell.
In 1972, Paul Eckman identified six human emotions that are
common to all of us, all over the world. 
These are - fear, sadness, anger, disgust, surprise and happiness.  At the end of the 20th Century, he
added to the list, citing amusement, pride, shame, contempt, embarrassment,
excitement and pride.
But the lines between these emotions are not always
clear.  Sometimes, they seem to run
together, creating "super emotions". 
Robert Plutchik's emotion wheel is a tool developed in the 1980s as a
means of displaying how our emotions can blend and become something entirely
different.  Whatever they become, they're
a reflection of who we are as individuals. 
They are governed not only by external factors, but by our experiences
of life, our relationships and our contemporary circumstances.  Culture can also play an important role in
our emotional lives, especially when it comes to behavioral outfall.
In certain cultures, it's perfectly acceptable to indulge in
emotional displays.  In others, not so
much.  In Japan, for example, displays of
emotion are considered completely undesirable and self-control, a virtue.  In Italy, however, emotional outbursts are
widely accepted (and practiced).  While
these may sound like clichés, they're cultural realities that can't be denied.
Charles Darwin noted that emotions served certain biological
purposes.  Darwin was the first, for
example, to explore the manifestation of emotions in people's faces and our
ability to recognize them.  In his 1872
book, 'The Expression of the Emotions
in Man and Animals', Darwin advanced the idea that all human beings display
their emotions via physical signs.  He
further challenged the conventional wisdom of the time by claiming that all
animals do this.  This was a lot for the
Victorian era, during which animals were not viewed as having any kind of
emotional life, to absorb.  Darwin
believed that emotion was a commonality throughout the natural world, in all
species of animal and also, that emotion had evolved with all types of living
creatures.
Using a series of slides depicting a wide range of facial
expressions derived from emotions, Darwin conducted a landmark experiment.  He asked a group of his friends to view the
slides and then, without any prompting from him, to guess which emotion each of
the slides depicted.  What he discovered
is that some of the facial expressions were too ambiguous to decipher.  He also found that several of the slides
elicited near unanimous responses from his control group.  These were happiness, sadness, fear and
surprise.  Viewed with suspicion in his
time, Darwin's pioneering experiment is now the basis for the work of modern
day psychologists attempting to find out why some people can't read facial
expressions.
Have you ever you felt in your bones that something bad might
happen to you? Has this caused you to appear tense, or apprehensive to those
around you?  Or have you felt that
something great was about to happen, walking around with a smile plastered on
your face all day?  
Your emotions are like the traffic lights on the street. They
signal to others your emotional state. Wearing your heart on your sleeve may be
a quaint expression, but if you're human, you've done it.  You wear your emotions on your face, too. 
We all know there are consequences for our actions.  Outcomes can be good, or bad, depending on
the circumstances. But where do these actions come from? They stem from our
emotions! There are physical, social and mental consequences to being ruled by
our emotions. The brevity of the consequences, or their severity, depends on
your ability to control those emotions. 
Some people are blessed with high levels of emotional
intelligence. That's because they are able to monitor and control their
emotions. These people enjoy balanced emotions that they're intensely aware of
and the ability to harness them.  This
allows them to engage in more fruitful relationships with others, due to the
enviable ability to be measured in terms of emotional response.
There are times when you choose to renounce the world because
you do not want to feel anything anymore. There are times when you have had
your heart broken and have been deeply hurt. Life's twist and turns impact us
all, in different ways. People also choose to deal with pain in different ways.
Sometimes people choose to ignore pain, but this is unhealthy! When you ignore
profound emotions, you can affect yourself mentally and physically. Your immune
system weakens and you run the risk of consequences to your health and
wellbeing. Paying attention to your emotions and learning how to control their
intensity is part of emotionally intelligent growth. 
Emotionally intelligent people are not only more successful
in their lives but are also happier and healthier. In order to enjoy the kind
of happiness and contentment in life you deserve, it's essential you learn to
develop your emotional intelligence. With a basic understanding of your
emotions, how they arise and what scenarios and situations trigger them, you
will be able to better manage and control them.












 
 
Chapter Three

Building blocks of Emotional
Intelligence
A variety of models have
been suggested to understand emotional intelligence. The first model suggested
was the 'Ability Based Model'. Emotions
are seen as information about those around you in the Ability Based Model.  They are signposts that assist us in
discerning the context we find ourselves in and which help us find our way
around it.  ABM suggests that all people
have varying ability to understand information provided by emotions, but also
varying ability to apply this understanding to how we go about relating to
other people.  ABM identifies a series of
abilities that constitute emotional intelligence:
Perception - This is how we pick up the various clues we're
given by people's faces, vocal inflections and cultural cues.  Included is how we perceive our personal
emotional landscape.  This ability is
fundamental of emotional intelligence.
Employment - This is how we use emotional information to
inform our IQ activities (cognition). 
Emotional intelligence allows us to make the most of our shifting
emotional landscape and our moods to facilitate whatever it is we're doing at
any given time.  That can be interacting
with others at work, or attending a wedding.
Comprehension - This is how we understand emotional
information and its role in our social and business setting.  Our ability to comprehend the interplay of
emotions in our relationships and the minute changes that sometimes occur in
them is key to the quality of our interpersonal lives.
Management - This is how we control our own emotions and work
to help others control theirs, through interpersonal mediation.  When a high level of emotional intelligence
has been attained, an ability to manage any emotion present, even an emotion
which might be viewed as less than constructive, can help us move toward  desired outcomes, whether at work, or in our
personal lives.
This model posited that the ability to perceive emotions is
what constituted emotional intelligence. 
The second model was 'The
Trait Model'. The Trait Model of EI is based on an individual ability to
perceive the function of his or her own emotions and the ability to manage
these effectively.  This model is
measured by self-reporting and not observation and has much more to do with
individual personality traits (thus, trait model) than ABD.  
Because of its generality and self-focused nature, the Trait
Model posits EI as a trait inherent to the person and driven by individual
personality.  Another way of referring to
this model is "self-efficacy" (self-effectiveness in the practice of
emotionally intelligent imperatives).
A third model is what's known as the 'Mixed Model'.  This is also known as the Goleman Model.
Goleman
Model
This model of emotional intelligence
is widely diffused. Goleman's model presents emotional intelligence as a
variety of skills that constitute effective leadership.   Outlined in Goleman are five facets that
comprise emotional intelligence.
Goleman broke these five areas into four different sections.
These parts are the different aspects through which emotional intelligence can
be measured. 
They are Self-Awareness, Self-Management, Social Awareness
and Relationship Management. Of these four facets, Self-Awareness and
Self-Management has been categorized into Personal Competence, while Social
Awareness and Relationship Management have been categorized into Social
Competence. But what are personal and social competence? 
Personal Competence
This area concerns Self-Awareness and
Self-Management. The main aspects to consider are: knowing your emotions,
managing them and motivating yourself when the situation demands it. But what
is Self - Awareness?
Self - Awareness
Simply put, self-awareness is about
how well you know yourself. A self-aware person will be able to identify how he
or she feels, objectively. Knowing not only your emotional setting, but its
potential effect on those around you, is an ability that sets some apart as
leaders.  A good leader is able to
honestly assess his or her own emotions, and listens to an inner voice that
leads to sound decision-making.  An
important facet of self-awareness is the ability to objectively take stock of
personal strengths and weaknesses, as well as core values, thus leading others
toward the achievement of communal goals.
Self-awareness assists you in identifying your emotions and
how they impact outcomes in a variety of situations. This can further be broken
down into self-awareness, self-assessment and self-confidence. Self-assessment
is the means by which you're able to identify your strengths and weaknesses.
This can be extended to self-assessment of the intensity of your emotions. You
can also come to understand the kinds of emotions you're likely to experience
in different situations. 
For instance, you have children at home who love coloring.
They color on any sheet of paper they find around the house. Then one day, they
come to your workplace and are elated to find treasure there, in the form of
paper. Unfortunately, the paper they happen to choose to color on is the 20
weight corporate letterhead. If you're having a great day at work, you will find
it hilarious that your children have used up that very costly paper and will
maybe find time to explain to them later that it's not for coloring. However,
if you're having a lousy day, you might lash out at them, doing a mental
calculation of how much paper (embossed and reserved for official
correspondence) costs. 
Your emotional setting on any given day can determine what
your reactions might be.  Assessing
yourself will help you understand your emotions and the reactions they provoke
much more fully. 
Self-confidence is a term we all understand. It means knowing
exactly who you are, regardless of what kind of situation presents itself. For
example, there might have been a time in school or college where you'd been
blamed for having done something you would not have ever dreamed of doing. If
your first reaction was to defend yourself, people might question your honest
(protesting too much). If you had confidence in yourself, you might have waited
for the ill wind to pass you by. You would have had the confidence to know that
a friend or a colleague would step up to speak in your defense. Holding back
means that you have self-confidence and that no situation can bring you down
since you trust yourself and have faith in yourself. 
Self - Management
This begins only when you have
conducted self-assessment and have become aware of your strengths and
weaknesses. Self-management is the practice of managing your emotions and not
letting them run the show. You could call it self-control. 
Self-management (or self-regulation) is your ability to get a
grip on your emotions when they well up. 
Impulse-control speaks to how you manage your emotions to prevent them
from bursting out into the world as behavior that can be destructive to you and
those around you.  It's also about your
ability to adapt to the changing contexts and vagaries of life.  How well do you shift gears?  Can you catch a curve ball?
Self-management helps you maintain equilibrium in your
emotions, no matter what situation arises. Through this practice, you will be
able to identify how loyal, trustworthy and morally sound you are. This stage
is where you motivate yourself toward achieving what you really want, pushing
yourself intentionally toward that goal. 
Social Competence
Social competence is the fine art of
working with others and moving in and out of conflicts with aplomb. How you
manage your relationships with people around you, either personally or
professionally defines your level of social competence. It's also very much
about how you handle situations in your life and work, including those that may
arrive with difficult people.  Are you
the people whisperer?  A good leader is
exactly that. 
Your ability to deal with people (some of whom will
undoubtedly be difficult) defines your level of social skill or
competence.  All leaders have enhanced
facility in this area.  Knowing how to
manage the relationships encountered in the workplace and interpersonal
challenges and conflicts is key to successful leadership.  The ability to communicate with other people
and to hear what they're saying is one that no professional can do
without.  Communication is not all
talking.  A lot of it (most of it,
actually) is hearing.  Hearing what
people have to say and synthesizing it to arrive at resolutions satisfactory to
all involved is not magic.  It's good
communication.  Good speaking and good listening.
People whispering, in other words.
A socially adept leader will also be able to make sense of
the mixed messages and accusations that sometimes arise in interpersonal
conflicts.  Without laying blame, or
being punitive, an emotionally intelligent leader will still the quiet waters
by knowing his or her way around those involved, with aplomb and savvy.
Empathy can best be explained by the phrase "feeling
with".  When others are experiencing
difficult emotions, what is your response? 
Do you recoil from having to be in the presence of emotional
turmoil?  Or do you try to find a way
into the emotional life of whoever's experiencing the turmoil?  Those who are able to feel with others are
empaths.  Being an empath doesn't mean
dissolving into turmoil, or becoming part of it.  It means finding in yourself the ability to
identify with what the other person's turmoil means and what it feels
like.  
In decision-making, empathy is an important tool. Divorcing
emotions from any given task can result in a mechanistic management style that
can bounce back on the decision-maker. 
Having a reputation as "cold" or "heartless" may sound like a classical
depiction of the savvy manager, but it's really not productive in terms of
relationships with others in the workplace. 
It's also damaging to the overall professional profile of the
decision-maker.  Taking into account the
emotions of people effected by workplace decisions is the basis of sound
decision-making.  When co-workers and
subordinates come to understand that the decision-maker is considering
emotional impact, they will come to respect the process and honor it,
regardless of outcomes for them.  They
will know that a measured decision has been made and that the impact of the
decision on the lives of all concerned has been part of the measurement
employed.
Motivation is much more than the drive toward a goal.  Motivation is the internal dialogue about why
we do what we do.  Why did we come to do
this job in the first place?  What are
our hopes and dreams?  What are our core
values and how to we live them out and model them to others, each day.  Remembering who we are and why we're involved
in the work we are is key to getting ourselves out the door each morning.  It's easy to forget why we came to the party
in the first place.  When the going gets
tough, the tough don't just get going. 
The tough remember why waded into these waters to begin with.
Drive without an ethical framework can be the bus under which
many are thrown.  You don't want to be
that bus.  The professional damage
inherent in a management style which doesn't model respect for others should be
obvious.  Mindful motivation means your
drive is not lived out without consideration for those around you.  The undercarriage of your bus is free of
those it might have driven over, had you placed your will toward a professional
goal over the wellbeing of those around you. 
You can sleep at night.
Vision is a leadership quality that applies to the
traditional construct of the ideal leader as much as it does to the
contemporary one, which encompasses emotional intelligence.  Vision is a foundational quality in any
leader.  The visionary sees beyond
conventional wisdom, to something else; something new and something altogether
better.  The visionary sees the future
and the promise it holds, but also, a number of means of getting there.  To get to that vision, the visionary knows
it's not a solo endeavor, but only if the visionary leader in question has the
kind of emotional intelligence required to make it happen.  That means seeing himself for what he is and
likewise, seeing others for what they are. 
Self-awareness and social awareness are integral to the makeup of a
visionary leader.  You can't get to where
you're going without the right people coming along for the ride and the
visionary leader knows this.
At every point in your life you'll be challenged as to how
competent you are socially. You're tested on your social competence even during
a job interview. A favorite question of most interviewers is based on how you
handle friendships. If you were to be promoted and your friend (who had
desperately worked for a promotion) was not promoted, how would you handle your
friend's disappointment? Would you give up on your career or your friend? You
are often bewildered when such a question is posed. You might falter and try to
please your interviewer by saying that you'd choose the company, or your
career, over your friend. This is, however, not the right answer. You are
always expected to strike a balance between the two. An answer that reflects a
judicious balance between work and personal relationships is always the best
one.
Social Awareness
Under personal competence, you've
read about self-awareness, and the skill of understanding your own emotions and
reactions to situations around you. Social awareness is all about you
understanding the potential for emotional reactions. If you are socially aware,
you're able to empathize with others. You must be able to estimate the
potential emotional response that you'll receive from the people around you,
depending on any given situation. If you are socially aware, you will be able
to read the emotional dynamics in play, and also learn how to strengthen the
relationships you maintain with people you love or work with.
Relationship Management
Nobody likes a "scene".  The Italians even have a name for them
"scenette Italiani" (Italian scenes).  If
you've ever spent time in Italy and observed people there, you may have seen
couples walking in the street, engaged in prolonged (and very public)
spats.  The Italians seem to take these
in stride.  They're a part of life.  While a public scene may add a little spice
and interest to the day of those observing it, nobody looks down on it, or the
people involved.  It's just another day
in Italy, where people give free rein to their emotions.
But most of us don't live in Italy.  If you're a North American (Canadian,
especially), you'll know exactly what I mean. 
People don't care for public venting of emotions.  They don't care for raised voices, fits of
pique, or temper tantrums of any kind. 
Giving into one's emotions in the North American context is considered
to be a sign of mental instability and a lack of self-control.
Canadians, especially, seem to reserve a special place in
hell for emotional displays.  They don't
even know how to respond to them.  If
someone's having a public meltdown, the Canadian way of dealing with it is to
simply pretend it's not happening.
"Nothing to see here folks! 
Move along!"
Childhood tantrums are particularly frowned on.  Parents dealing with a toddler in the throes
of such an emotional display are treated to the disapproving looks of all those
in the immediate vicinity.  But to be
honest, that only makes matters worse for the parents.
Passive aggression is said to be the Canadian national
sport.  While most Canadians (like most
Americans) are from all over the world, once they arrive in the land of the
silver birch (and home of the beaver), they're expected to learn the nuanced
ways of the Canadian worldview.  That
means learning to put a lid on their emotions. 
To be pleasant and non-offensive is the Canadian way of life - even if
all hell is breaking loose.
In Canada, it's considered a virtue to find the nearest paper
bag, breathe into it and emerge only when whatever crisis that has descended on
your immediate context has evaporated. 
It is better to hyperventilate in privacy than to be drawn into an ugly
scene in public.  It doesn't matter if
the scene involves friends, colleagues, or your spouse.  You're not going there.  It's not the Canadian way.
While much of what I've just said is offered in jest and as a
tribute to the pacific Canadian temperament, it has a basis in truth.  But Canada is only the thin edge of the wedge
when it comes to the suppression of emotional reactions.  It's shot through our society.  It's a social value to refrain from indulging
in emotional scenes, fits of temper, or even to stand up and say what you
believe, in many instances.  It's just
not considered socially acceptable.
And that's not healthy.
While nobody wants to spend their lives throwing fits,
there's got to be a happy medium between the extremes of not reacting at all
and over-reacting.  Isn't moderation what
it's all about?
People (including you and I) carry around a variety of
emotions with them every day.  They don't
leave them at the door when they come to work, either.  They may pretend that the emotions they bring
along with them to work are "on hold", but if the truth is told, the emotions
most of us would like to believe are left in the personal sector of our lives,
come along for the ride.  They're who we
are.  That doesn't mean they need to rule
us.
Let's go back to Canada for a moment.  The ideal Canadian is someone who doesn't let
on that he or she is having a bad day. 
Neutrality is the order of the working day.  This emotional Switzerland is, of course, a
figment of everyone's imagination, because it hasn't gone anywhere.  It's lurking there, just under the
surface.  At any moment, a misplaced
word, or a moment of disappointment can bring it all to a boil.
And the solution? 
Communication.
Relationship management has nothing to do with manipulation,
or the control of other people. 
Relationship management is entirely rooted in communication and
communication stems from the fact that a relationship exists.
Without a relationship in place and actively so,
communication is unlikely.  At best,
limited communication can exist without a relationships having been fostered
and nurtured, but limited communication is no substitute for the real thing.
Relating to other people, in whatever setting, is primarily
about intuition, reading the signs other people provide (whether verbal or
otherwise) and inviting people to the discussion.  Asking people how they're doing will not
always work immediately, but it opens the door. 
It invites people to work themselves up to the moment when they feel
safe enough to tell you what's going on. 
Building a relationship with someone is primarily about trust and once
that trust is established, communication, which is open and constructive,
becomes second nature.  It becomes the
nature of the relationship.
Investing in quality relationships is a time-consuming
pursuit, but all the time you spend on the investment is time well spent.  Instead of sending an email to thank someone
for dinner, a job well done, or the birthday night out they've just treated you
to, why not buy some thank you cards and postage stamps?  In these days of rapid fire media, the
receipt of an ink and paper thank you is a sign that you value the person
you've sent it to.  It's a sign of
thoughtfulness that's rarely seen nowadays. 
Wouldn't you like to receive something like that?  Would you hold someone who'd taken the time
to send you such a token of their gratitude in higher esteem?
I know I would.  And
here's the best part - people who hold you in high esteem are more likely to
confide in you and invite you into their emotional worlds.  They're more likely to seek your
counsel.  That's powerful.  When people respect you, you become a
listening ear and a source of advice, comfort and most of all, friendship.
People like to talk about themselves.  This is one of the most important rules of relationship
management you can learn.  Your interest
in other people is your foot in the door. 
When you display a natural curiosity (and yes, this is a skill you can
foster) about other people, you will find it's like opening a window to
communication.  When you're able to find
out who someone really is and what they really think, soon you'll discover that
you're on the same page with them, more often than not.  
Half the problem with human relationships is that we don't
say what we mean.  Taking an interest in
other people, their thoughts, struggles and personal worlds is a means for you
to not only know others better, but to know yourself better.  Two-way communication - listening and sharing
your own thoughts, in conversation with another - is one of the most reliable
means of building self-awareness available to you.  
Relationships are built on what we have in common, but the
curlicues and architectural flourishes live in our differences.  These, despite what many believe, are what
make our relationships richer.  They're
how we learn and grow.  Imagine spending
your life solely in the presence of those with whom you agreed, or who were
exactly like you?  What if everyone
around you had exactly the same thoughts, the same experiences, the same
beliefs?
How boring would that be?
Being nurtured by the differences you encounter between
yourself and others builds humility, another characteristic of the EQ. In
humility, we can see what we have to learn and where our growing edges
are.  We can be nourished by what others
have to contribute to our knowledge.  We
can also learn to be more ready to feel with them, where they stand (and not
where we'd rather they stand for our personal comfort).
Once a valued relationship, based on two-way communication,
has been established, you're free to tell the person you're in that
relationship with what you really want. 
Without two-way communication, this level of honesty will be
possible.  Honesty, without openness, can
be read as hostility or aggression. 
Simply, the foundation of trust being absent, so is the
understanding.  Communication is the
foundation of all relationships and trust is what makes it flow effectively.
Listening may sound like a passive activity, but it is the
most active part of the communication process, as I've said earlier.  In every interaction, be entirely
present.  Focus yourself on the person in
front of you and what they're saying.  When
your mind wanders, the lines of communication have fallen as surely as
telephone lines might in the midst of a storm. 
Your interior world has intruded on the interaction you're having and
its quality has been damaged.  Listen
intently, indicate that you understand what's being said.  Collate the information you're absorbing.
And please, turn off your phone.  Do not, for any reason, fiddle with your
mobile device.  Don't thumb through a
newspaper, or allow your eyes to follow that attractive stranger down the
street.  Be in the moment with the person
you're interacting with.
Be cheerful.  Be
approachable.  Decide each and every day
that you're going to have a good day. 
When you exude a sense of contentment with yourself and the world around
you, others will not only gravitate toward you, they will trust you and seek
you out.
Managing relationships isn't a chore. It's an ability that
flows from the emotionally intelligent person. 
It is second nature when you are sensitive to the world around you and
the people in it and the role you're there to play, in every moment.
This is all closely related to social awareness. Only if you
are aware of the feelings and emotions of the people around you, will you be
able to strengthen those relationships. In order to strengthen your
relationships, you need to have insight into them and what makes them tick. You
will have to identify what the needs of the people you're in relationship with
actually are. Every relationship has its problems. Some are very trivial and
some might be huge. You can always avoid the trivial ones. 
For instance, what if you're promised a friend to meet him this
weekend. You may not have seen each other for quite some time, because of
mounting responsibilities at work. But you've been asked to come to your
parents' house for Sunday brunch. Instead of cancelling the meeting with your
friend, you might invite him over to your parents'. That way you spend time
with your parents and your friend. This helps you avoid a trivial squabble with
both your parents and your friend. 
Relationship management also deals with communicating your
emotions to other people and hearing them out. You will have heard the saying,
'it takes two to tango'. You can't expect someone to respect you and listen to
you when you don't treat them with the same respect. That being said, you must
be honest. There may be times when you're hesitant about being honest with
someone you know, because of the potential for difficult emotional responses.
If you choose your words carefully, you'll realize you can be honest without
inflicting hurt. 
For instance, your friend has asked for your help in selecting
a gift for his partner. You might not be very keen on going with your friend to
the store to look around. But you agree to go with him on the pretext of
getting out of the house. Your friend might ask for your opinion on a certain
product. You might either show no interest or might respond with a sarcastic
comment (a la Chandler Bing of the TV show, Friends). This would probably
irritate your friend. Instead, you can choose to show a little interest and
give him honest but polite feedback.
Slight adjustments in our attitudes toward other people and
their foibles (hopefully growing from our developing self-awareness) can make
all the difference between damaged and even broken relationships and continuing
goodwill.  It doesn't really take that
much effort.  All you really need to is
step back and ask:
"How would I like to be treated?"
And that's where empathy begins and emotional intelligence is
born.












 
 
Chapter Four

The Competencies 
Goleman has identified competencies that must be achieved
under the four domains that have been mentioned above. 
Self-awareness and
self-management are the domains that fall under rubric of personal competence.
Goleman stated that the following competencies must be achieved in order to
ensure that you are both self-aware and able to manage your emotions. 
Self-Awareness
I've
mentioned earlier that being aware of your emotions and being capable of
assessing them is fundamental to emotional intelligence. There are three
factors you must master in order to get a handle on the first aspect of
Personal Competence.
-       
Emotional Awareness
-       
Accurate Self-Assessment
-       
Self-Confidence
Once you've mastered
these areas and feel you understand yourself and those around you in these
contexts, you can be certain you have mastered the first building block of
Emotional Intelligence.
Self-Management
Self-management
is the ability to control your emotion. 
This is not the same as suppressing them.  Giving yourself a moment to respond to an
intemperate remark, or a difficult situation is a skill you can consciously
develop to limit the likelihood of giving in to your emotions when it's least
appropriate.
Your ability to
relate to others has a great deal to with being aware of where you're at
emotionally.  When you're aware of your
emotions and able to manage them, you're free to see others much more clearly
and also, to feel with them.  Your own
emotions having been taken out of the relational occasion, this is how you come
to be known as a reliable, steadfast presence. 

There are six areas
to consider in order to gain control of your emotional responses. Once you've
gotten a clear idea of how to integrate these areas into your daily life, you
will have mastered the two building blocks that fall under Personal Competence.

Self
- Control
Your
ability to control your emotions and the behaviors arising is one of the most
important ways you can develop yourself and your potential. You might have a
short temper or perhaps worry about petty details in any given situation. Don't
waste your time or potential on emotional outbursts, or temperamental
displays.  Above all, don't allow
yourself to be dragged into the dramas of others.  When you have mastered yourself and your
emotional reactions, you will be well on the way to being able to mediate these
in others.  But first, you must be able
to control your own emotions in order to give others confidence in you, your
reliability and your stability as a personal presence. 
Transparency
Your
honesty, integrity and loyalty must not only be beyond reproach, but seen to be
so by others. You should be able to demonstrate that you are a trustworthy
person. There is no substitute for high levels of integrity and moral values.
By developing your
core values and living by them as rules of life, you will never lack the
confidence to engage in full disclosure. 
Having developed the ability to navigate life confidently and with
integrity, you won't hesitate to let others see exactly who you are.
Because you like
yourself and they like you, too.
Adaptability
Life's
circumstances can change rapidly.  One
moment, all is well and the next?  Not so
much. You need to be able to adapt to changing realities and circumstances with
ease. Being able to adapt means having the humility to explore what changes you
might make in yourself in order to do so. 

Achievement
Everyone
is keen to achieve - new challenges, new relationships, new goals and new
horizons make life interesting. We all have hopes and dreams. You have to be
driven in order to achieve these and that drive must derive from motivation.  
Motivation is a
fountain that's fed from within by always reminding yourself what it is you're
reaching for.  Persistence and resilience
are the source of its daily renewal. Consider Luke Brandon from the Shopaholic series.
He was driven to achieve his dreams.  He
worked hard to establish his own PR Company, Brandon Communications. Achieving
your ends is largely dependent on the way you relate to the world and the way
you feed your dreams from that internal source of persistence and resilience.
Initiative
When
you have decided to achieve something in life, there will be many opportunities
to reach your goals.  They won't always
just land in your lap, though.  You'll
have to keep your eyes peeled and then, once you've identified an opportunity,
you will have to reach out for it.  Seize
every opportunity you get. You know the old saying, 'When one door closes,
another door opens'? Stepping up to that open door without hesitation is a
facet of initiative many find difficult. 
But with the confidence that comes from fostering your EQ, you won't
have that problem.
Optimism
The
grass may sometimes be greener on the other side of the fence, but on your
side, there are well-cultivated plants, blooming flowers and trees that provide
shade.  So what if the grass is greener.  
You can plant your
own, right?  
When you see each
new day as not only a challenge, but an opportunity and a fresh start, you're
ready for what it has to offer you (and to give it what you have to
offer).  Believing that life can and will
continue to be an adventure, learning from those adventures and not giving in
to negative thinking patterns is a quality that will not only gift you with
greater confidence, but will attract opportunity to you.   Optimistic people are like opportunity
magnets.
Once you're on top
of these key competencies, you've mastered two of the domains that comprise
Emotional Intelligence. The next section concerns the next step in drawing your
blueprint of moving forward in life with emotional intelligence.
Social Awareness
This
is where the EQ rubber really meets the road. 
Your ability to navigate social situations and to be aware of the
dynamics in play is where your emotional intelligence grows into its full
stature and it's most useful manifestation. There are three competencies here
to consider.  Please note that the first
of these is foundational and indispensable to the practice of intentional
emotional intelligence.
Empathy
You
might have heard people asking you to put yourself in their shoes and
understand what they're going through. This is empathy in a nutshell.  The ability to feel with others is the
cornerstone (even the foundation) of emotional intelligence.
Everybody wants
others to see things their way.  But what
about the other side of the coin?  People
behave the way the way they do because of a combination of factors.  Their unique life experiences and ingrained
belief systems play a huge part, as do family and relationship circumstances,
health, financial considerations and any number of attendant, intermittent
realities they're struggling with at any given time.  They have opinions and imperatives, too and
the ability to take these into consideration as you walk among others, is work
for even the most emotionally intelligent person.  
Other people are not
always going to be able to articulate why they feel the way they do about
things, or why they react the way they do. 
Your job is to see beyond the masks we all wear sometimes and get to the
root of where the person's coming from. 
Your job is to feel with other people to better understand them and
yourself.  You will find that the
viewpoints of other people, regardless of how divergent they may be from yours
will enhance your understanding and your unique way of seeing things.  You will also find that others respond to
someone making a genuine effort to find common ground by trying to understand
their viewpoint.  They tend to open up to
you and you, in return, have become more skillful at the art of emotional
intelligence.
Awareness
of the Environment
Change
is constant. You've heard this before, I'm sure.  That's because it's true. For you to master
social awareness, you will need to be open to changes in your immediate
environment, learning to sense subtle shifts that may later become seismic. You
will need to become like Jasper Cullen in the Twilight series. A vampire with
the power to change the environment around him once he is able to assess it,
Jasper Cullen is your new role model in the area of this competency. You're
aiming to be a catalyst, remember?  Know
your environment and then work toward the changes it needs to be even better.
Service
Servant
hood sounds servile to many of us nowadays, but the nobility of service touches
both the servant and those served, resulting in benefits that reach well beyond
the mundane needs of all concerned. 
Servant hood provides a model of mutual and outflowing benefit that
increases in concentric ripples of growing circumference.  It provides widespread benefit well beyond
its immediate context.
And that's powerful.
There is nothing
'lowly' about servant hood.  In fact,
servant hood is probably one of the most powerful leadership roles in
existence.
Taking on the role
of a servant means finding ways to understand those you serve.  This is not the servile role of anticipating
needs and acting immediately, yelping "How high!" as you jump.
Servant hood is
about reading the bones.  It's about
having your very sensitive antennae out, working overtime and picking up the
signals needed to interpret the landscape you're operating in the midst of.
Knowing how those
around you feel and understanding how you can work with and for them is a
position of limitless influence (which is something much more profound than
power).
Think about the way
you interact with your family. Your parents probably have certain expectations
of you.  Your partner, as well and on top
of everyone else looking to you for satisfaction, are your friends, with
competing expectations. Identifying and quantifying these expectations and
their hierarchical importance is part of life. 
The same principle applies to your working life.
Discerning your
boundaries, while at the same time maintaining these important relationships
and how to keep all involved satisfied doesn't need to be stressful.  Not everyone's demands on you are
reasonable.  Not everyone's expectations
are realistic, or in keeping with what you want for yourself.  The trick is finding a way through it all
and, while remaining true to yourself, giving something of yourself to those
who need it. An emotionally intelligent person understands not only that this
is possible, but knows how to achieve it. 

The key word is
servant hood - a servant to all, but a slave to none.  You have interests too and your
self-knowledge and awareness will have already brought you to this important
understanding.  That is not to say that
the needs of those around you are secondary. 
It means to say that your EQ guides you to the sweet spot where the best
possible scenario is realized - for everyone involved.
The final building block
is Relationship Management. It is essential that you master this, because how
you relate to others is the acid test of how well you've come to master
yourself toward becoming more emotionally intelligent. Once you are able to
achieve the competencies that are covered here, you will have built a framework
for emotional intelligence that will not only serve you all your life, but
serve others.  It's something you can
build on, continuously learn from and become the most valuable person in the
room by practicing and living out your knowledge.
Relationship Management
If
you master this domain, you will be able to bring about change in the
environment around you. You will be able to manage conflicts both effectively
and sensitively and also build stronger bonds with everyone around you. 
Inspirational
Guidance
When
people come to you with a conflict they're facing, your first imperative is to
empathize. Where are they, in their emotional lives?  What's thrown them off balance? Have you ever
been where they are right now?  Listening
actively, intentionally and with the passionate desire to resolve the conflict
sets you apart as the inspirational, listening ear and problem solver that most
people are looking for.  There's a reason
people travel far and wide to find guidance from shamans and gurus.  People want to have confidence in someone who
can provide them with some kind of illumination of the problems they face in
their daily lives.  When you're capable
of being that shaman; that guru, you're providing people with inspiration,
service and guidance that raises you in their esteem.  Being available to people should never be
forced.  You have to mean it.  It has to be authentic.  If there's one thing every living person can
sense it's a lack of authenticity. Mean what you say.  Say what you mean.  Be sincere. 
Emotionally intelligent people can't help but be those things.  It's become a part of them.
Influence
There's
a reason influence is better than power. 
Power implies oppression and an enforced adherence to the way things
are, because somebody says they're that way.
Influence, though,
is much more subtle.  Influence is the
application of persuasion, using conversation and relationship to reach people
toward enlisting them into a certain goal. 
Sometimes it's a change in a workplace structure.  Sometimes it's an intervention, a petition, a
methodology.  Whatever it is, applying
influence is always the most effective way to build consensus.  Demanding the agreement of others can
work.  Intimidation is a powerful weapon.
But influence is gentle, relational and much more effective in the long term.
It brings people into a conversation and solicits their opinion.  It opens the discussion to include new
voices.  At the same time, these
tentative voices (often unaccustomed to being consulted) seek the leadership of
someone who has the confidence to lead.  
Influence is a
powerful force for good in the world and also, a powerful force for
change.  In fact, it's more powerful than
power.  Power demands, while influences asks.  Influence reasons, while power pummels.  When one has influence, one (in truth) has
all the power.  
Ultimately,
influence is the goal of the emotionally intelligent person who cares what
happens to other people.  Wanting the
best for everyone in your sphere of influence is undeniably a primary goal of
those who boast high EQs.  Because it's
influence (not power) that is the neck that turns the head.
When you're seeking
to gather people around an idea, or a project, influence is what will bring
them around to the support you're seeking. 
By finding consensus among other people; by asking them what they think
and then sharing with them what you think (built on the information they've
provided you with and the commonalities inherent), you will be able to move
mountains you would have had to blow tunnels through with power alone.
When you understand
the emotions and feelings of the people around you, you will be able to change
their minds, but you'll find that your mind will change in the process also, as
all involved share, trade and build together. 
Developing
Others
There
are times when the people around you are skeptical of their abilities and feel
that they're not up to the challenges they're presented with. These are the
reluctant heroes of the world.  They know
they're smart.  They know they're
talented.
But they're shy.  
Having worked with
the emotionally unintelligent for most of their lives, they're afraid to step
up and be who they are.  The emotionally
intelligent person knows how to motivate reluctant heroes and push them to
their full potential. An emotionally intelligent person can pick a reluctant
hero out of crowd, polish that shy, retiring, beaten down person and put them
on the gold medal podium.
Because a person
with EQ is not afraid that someone with talent is going to take their shine
off.  The emotionally intelligent person
is not insecure, but relishes the advancement of other talented people.  The more talented people there are in the
vicinity, the emotionally intelligent person knows, the better everyone is
going to do.  It's a no brainer.
Many hands
(especially when they're talented hands) make light work.  People with EQ know this and don't indulge in
the envious ways of those who haven't mastered the secrets of emotional
intelligence.  They like the idea of
having people around them who can be counted on.  They're not threatened by them.  They're energized by them.
Be
a Catalyst
A catalyst is an
engine of change.  Without undergoing any
change itself, a catalyst is the locus for changes in other substances,
expediting the process.  But our context
is not chemistry.  There's an alchemy
involved (the interplay of the people working together, or relating in others
ways), but we're talking about relationships and people here.  Being a catalyst means being the grease in
the wheels; the spark in the four stroke engine.  Leading, you initialize and manage those
around you.  This is much more than being
an example.  This is being the vessel of
change itself.
In his book, 'The Catalyst Leader:  8 Essentials for Becoming a Change Maker',
Brad Lomenick examines the qualities that make up this type of leader.  In the lead is "calling".  Being called is a strong sense of being "cut
out" to do something.  Second is
"authenticity".  If you're not who you
say you are, people will know immediately. 
You must be coming from a place of genuine desire to do whatever it is
you've come to do.  Passion is next on
Lomenick's list.  Your love of what
you're doing and your strong belief that it needs to done and done well will
speak to those around you and be a beacon for the kind of change you've come to
make as a catalytic leader.
These qualities,
while at the top of the list, are nothing without your innate ability to make
change happen.  As the catalytic leader,
part of the story you're telling is exemplary. 
Leading by competent example is a powerful message to those around you,
instilling in others a desire to do as you have shown them, with your
consistent actions and innate ability.  
Courage is the next essential
cited by Lomenick.  Boldness also sends a
strong message to others that it's ok to step up and be the person who says
change is needed.  
Recently, I watched
a video online about a group of penguins who'd been confronted by the sudden
presence of a rope in their path.  In the
video, the entire group stops, heads bobbing furiously.  Finally, one of the penguins approaches the
rope and stumbles over it.  Soon, another
follows, then another.  That first
penguin was a catalytic leader.  It had
the courage the others in the group didn't have to take a stab at getting past
the rope and to the other side.  Once
over, the others in the group saw that it was possible and most followed suit,
one after the other.  Courage tells those
looking to you for leadership that being the first penguin over the rope is not
only OK, it's exhilarating.
The catalytic leader
operates from principle, above all and this is a practice that is tangible and
visible to others.  Having a set of
principles means nothing unless others can see how these play out in your daily
life.  Resting on them is not
enough.  Principles are lived out and
followed.  Again, they are exemplary.  When those around you can see that your
principles are applied to all you do, they will follow your example and change
can be effected.
Finally, the hope of
the catalytic leader is realized in his belief that everything is possible,
including (and especially) change.  This
hope plays out in catalytic leadership via a willingness to collaborate with others;
to draw out their strengths and bring them to the project of the change.  Where others may see leadership as a solo
endeavor, involving perhaps delegation to a chosen few, the catalytic leader
knows that giving people meaningful things to do; things that matter, brings
change to the people he's collaborating with, above all else.  This is a fundamental function of change -
that people embrace it on a personal and professional level and that they have
a stake in it.  A catalytic leader will
understand this and act on it.
Manage
Conflicts
We
can't always agree with everyone.  The
world would be a much less exciting place if we could.  But when conflicts arise, we can learn to
manage them effectively and professionally. 

Weddings provide a
wonderful metaphor for the many conflicts human life offers as we walk through
it.  Mom doesn't care for your choice of
dress.  Dad doesn't like the band you've
chosen.  Chicken or fish?  Buffet or table service?  It doesn't matter who's getting married,
someone in the immediate vicinity of any wedding planning process is going to
have a bone to pick.   You may not be
able to make everyone the happiest camper in the tent, but you can bring peace
to that tent.  Knowing how to manage
people's expectations is probably the best place to start.
Is it your
wedding?  Then perhaps it's incumbent on
you to make that clear from the start. 
Is it your dress?  Then it kind of
doesn't matter if your mother likes the dress or not, you will be the one
wearing it.  There's no need to make mum
feel unimportant, or slighted.  There is,
however, a need on your part to let mom know that while you value her input,
you have dreamed of wearing a dress just like the one you've dreamed of your
whole life.  If you take the time to have
a sit down with her and talk to her, you'll find she'll understand.  Do it before you act, though.  Manage mom's expectations before those
expectations have the chance to transform themselves into a needless conflict.
When people know
what to expect and what's expected of them, they're less likely to build
themselves up to a conflict later.  A
wedding is a project, above all else.  In
the project management model, timelines for all associated tasks are laid out
in a grid, with those responsible assigned from the outset.  All concerned can see what they've been given
to do and when they have to deliver on the task.  If you're the bride (or project manager), you
can find something for mom to do that she'll enjoy.  But the dress?  That's your action item.  Clarity is a key skill in managing the
expectations of those around you and in doing so, you've avoided the
eventuality of most conflicts arising from misunderstandings (which are born in
the mud of poor communication).
Once conflicts and
the resentments that come with them have formed (and sometimes, even the best
management skills can't avoid them all), putting your emotional intelligence to
work will help you wade into those murky waters and help all involved extricate
themselves from the unpleasant dynamic they're embroiled in.  Getting to the bottom of a conflict is EQ's
finest hour.  You know who you're dealing
with.  You have a clear idea of their
trigger points and you know how to massage them out of the conflict.  This is not babysitting.  It's the work of relationship management to
operate from understanding and knowledge of the people around you.
Building
Bonds
Every
person you meet presents an opportunity to form a bond.  Whether that bond is a mutual interest, or
activity, or a shared passion, forming bonds with others strengthens the stuff
of your world.  Bonding with those around
you widens your circle and creates a bigger network of people from whom you're
able to draw inspiration, support and collegial knowledge.  
Maintaining bonds is
worth the effort.  Whether it's a note of
thanks (written and mailed, not sent by email), or a phone call inviting
someone to join you for a cup of coffee, maintaining your circle of contacts
and relationships is key to building a network of strong bonds that will serve
you and those you have built those bonds with, as you move through life.  It's easy enough to lose touch.  This is a lesson we all have to learn.  The regret that comes with losing contact
with people whose presence in our lives we value, should be enough to teach us
that taking the time to keep up with them is a valuable life practice that we
should foster daily.












 
 
Chapter FIVE

Improving your Emotional
Intelligence
Emotional intelligence, as
discussed in the previous chapters, is the ability to dive into your emotional
side and make use of it in order to enhance your life. It's the successful
evaluation and use of your emotional inventory and intentionally drawing on it,
in order to better express yourself. 
This is your foundation for interacting successfully with those around
you.
Some might wonder if it's even possible to improve your
emotional intelligence quotient (EQ). It most certainly is.  The fundamental difference between IQ and EQ
is that the former cannot be developed and sharpened over a period of time,
while the latter can be radically enhanced. Your IQ stays the same throughout
your life and regardless how much you study and practice, it rarely changes
from a fixed number. On the other hand, EQ is variable and welcomes change.
This chapter seeks to guide you through a variety of methods by which you can
successfully develop your emotional intelligence. Let's get started.
Notice your
Emotional Reactions
Humans are reactive beings. Isaac
Newton was right in saying that "for every action, there is an equal and opposite
reaction". But when it comes to feelings, the reactions arising may not be
quite so cut and dried. In the realm of emotions, reactions are dependent on so
many variables.  These are as
multifarious as the people involved, because we're all so resolutely
unique.  
Stimuli are triggers that make things happen.  Like a spark that becomes fire, they can
trigger both great reactions and small. 
Stimuli get the ball rolling.   In
the world around us, emotional stimuli can be a certain combination of words, a
color, a smell, a sound, or a sight. 
Regardless of the quality of the stimulus encountered, it has the power
to evoke an emotional response.  
Memories, both pleasant and unpleasant rise up.  Childhood, a first kiss, a special event, a
parental punishment, or past traumas can all rise up inside people experiencing
these stimuli.
We don't always react to the same situation in the same way.
Our reactions are dynamic and are capable of changing faster than you realize!
Often when we reflect on our reactions to certain events, we wonder why we
reacted the way we did. Our emotions and reactions can surprise as well as
shock us sometimes.
Notice how you feel during the course of the day. How do you
react when interrupted in the middle of a meeting? Do you feel angry? Are you
only mildly irritated? Keep track of your emotional responses by taking note of
how you react to certain, unexpected events. Our visceral (gut or immediate)
reactions; those that come suddenly, are those that can tell us the most about
ourselves.  These reactions are us being
our most real.  Learning to analyze them
objectively is a foundational life skill of emotionally intelligent people. 
It's also worth paying extra attention to your mood upon
awakening. How do you feel when you wake up? Being aware of your first thoughts
of the day is a practice that will assist you in taking responsibility for them
and being more able to adjust your mood, as you start the day. 
Are your earliest morning thoughts negative?  Do you wake up wishing you could go back to
sleep, or perhaps still irritated about something that happened during the
course of the previous day?  
Shift gears.  Resolve
to be at your best.  Again, this is a
life practice, not a magic trick.
Our
bodies, our minds and our emotions
Our body plays as important a role in
emotional intelligence as our mind. Our mind and our body are intimately
connected. An action in one may trigger a reaction in the other. One maybe
affected due to the other shutting down. Human bodies are designed in a wonderful
way, and interconnection between the mind and the body are part of that. 
The great French philosopher who wrote the famous words
"cogito ergo sum" (I think therefore I am), Rene  Descartes, knew that there was a synergy
between the mind and body long before science even began to understand what
this might be.  His letter to the learned
doctors of the Sorbonne was written in the 17th Century.  The problem with his theory of the mind and
body is that it was essentially based on a dualistic understanding.  His reflections on the mind and body have,
however, led to more integrative explorations of how our mind and body work
together.  
Maurice Merleau-Ponty was a contemporary of Jean-Paul
Sartre's.  Sartre's existentialism was
taken one step further by this philosopher. 
Merleau-Ponty was a phenomenologist who believed that the body was much
more than a vessel for the mind, but served as a means for human beings to have
a world.  He considered the body to be an
essential means for our brains to be present in the world, but he also believed
that it presented an interactive borderland that served as our mind's public
presence.
Heady stuff, I know, but it's important to understand that
the body and the mind are deeply and intimately married to one another.  Going beyond Descartes's tentative
reflections to understand the body as being as much "us" as our minds is a
start.  Learning what our bodies can tell
us about our minds is building on that understanding.  
Our bodies send our brains signals capable of leading us to a
better understanding of our emotions. No human emotion goes unnoticed by the
body. We experience a variety of physical clues and signals revealing emotions
we're often reluctant to make known to those around us. Sometimes we don't
realize the emotions we're feeling at the time they're happening, because we're
so engrossed in the situation. At such times, the body's language can be
instructive and its counsel should be sought. Learning to listen to what your
body is saying can tell you a lot about the emotions you're experiencing. 
For example, when you're excited, you might feel 'butterflies'
in your stomach. Similarly, when you're sad, you experience a physical ache
that might manifest as a headache. Your head thumps and feels as though it has
been shut in a cage. When you're nervous, you might fidget or bite your nails,
without realizing that something is making you nervous. These signals, don't
originate in your body.  They originate
in your mind.  Transforming into
emotions, they manifest as physical red flags that can help you assess the
emotion you're experiencing.
It's now known and well documented that stress, whether in
the home, at work, or in from other sources, can manifest itself as both
emotional and physical malaise.  There is
no question that experiencing a variety of life pressures can literally make
you sick.
Some people experiences rashes, muscle tension, or even what
may feel like arthritis.  Others
experience digestive problems due to stress. 
As all people are different, all responses to stressors in their lives
are different.  
Do your shoulders tense up when someone speaks with you in a
certain way?  Maybe all some people have
to do is walk in the room to elicit that kind of physical response from
you.  Maybe there are some people who
cause you to smile the moment they walk in the room, or laugh.  
When the phone rings, do you jump?  When a crisis arises, do you begin to shake
uncontrollably?
Taking careful note of your physical reactions and asking
yourself why you're experiencing them is key to getting to the bottom of your
emotional life.  This is important
self-awareness to document and collate. 
You can learn about yourself.
Start now.  Write down
your physical reactions when you sense them occurring.  Then unpack them.  Drill down to the emotion, the thoughts you
had at the moment you sensed you were feeling that emotion in your body.  Then drill down a little further.  What was the stimulus that set this whole
chain of events in motion?
Knowledge is power and there is nothing more powerful than
emotional intelligence.  By developing
your self-awareness and understanding how you react to certain stimuli, you
will become more able to master your emotional responses.
Understanding
the connection between your Emotions and your Behaviors
Emotions are not just felt. Emotions
also compel certain behavioral changes. It's natural that when we feel certain
emotions, we react.  As said above, our
emotional life is a continuum that moves from the world around us, into our
minds and bodies.  What we experience is
all part of our emotions in our interactive beings, because everything we
experience affects us as whole beings.  
In most instances, behavior is triggered by emotions. How you
behave is largely ordained by what emotions you're experiencing.  Your experience, prejudices and thoughts
co-mingle with external stimuli to form emotions that lead toward certain
behaviors - but not necessarily. 
Understanding how your emotions impact your behavioral patterns can
support you in learning how to manage them.
The key to emotional intelligence lies in learning about the
connection between emotions and behaviors. When you're angry, for example.  How do you respond to that emotion?  Are you a yelling, screaming, blaming
banshee, shooting toxic flames of temper in every direction? Do you tend to
avoid conversations when you're irritated for fear of snapping (because you
don't trust yourself)?  When you're in a
good mood, you greet people with a smile, compliment others more often, and
feel much more content with being in the world, interacting with those around
you. 
We are fully capable of ruling our emotional lives and
mastering the behaviors that sometimes arise from the emotions we experience.
Your emotions are ever changing and capable of varying a hundred times during
the blink of an eye, without even being aware. Imagine this occurring
throughout the average day, experiencing myriad emotions you don't even know
you're having. Dealing with such emotional abundance while you're driving,
working, preparing breakfast, interacting with friends, doing the grocery
shopping - is a lot to manage. Despite how stable you believe yourself to be,
you're as emotional as the next person, whether you know it (or like it) or
not. 
Check yourself
You can feel it.  It's welling up inside you like a geyser.
It's ready to blow at any moment, as your colleague at work vents, while the
pile of work you're itching to get to mocks you.  Without your emotional intelligence toolbox
at the ready, it's likely Old Faithful will just bust out in a torrent of
annoyance. But flipping out at this annoying, talkative colleague is not going
to make you any friends.  It's not the
right behavioral response to the situation.
So check yourself.
As your colleague indulges in his time-wasting rant, take a
deep breath.  Count to ten.  Now decide to manage the irritation you're
feeling.  Take control of the emotion by
recognizing it as an inappropriate response to an entirely manageable annoyance
and then act accordingly.  
You have a lot to get through today, but maybe you can go get
some lunch and talk to your colleague about whatever's bothering him then.  How about a drink after work?  Diffuse the emotion.  Manage the colleague.  Get back to work without so much as a blip on
the radar.
The threat of tears, while perhaps less subject to the will
of many (even the emotionally intelligent), can be addressed similarly.  If you've been doing your EQ homework, you'll
know what triggers your tears.  A
rejection.  An unkind word.  Disappointment.  Blaming.
Your boss is tearing a strip off you a mile wide.  It's unpleasant and you feel that familiar
sensation stirring in the pit of your stomach, bubbling up toward your
throat.  You know that at any moment,
this sensation can spill out your eyes and tumble down your cheeks.  This is not, by any means, a behavior that
will win you any points with a boss like this.
But your boss doesn't deserve to see you cry and being a
self-aware person who has mastered his emotions, you identify the sensation,
while holding your boss's enraged glare. 
You are not about to allow the emotion to set the tone of this
incident.  Instead, you're going to keep
your eyes dry and your head up. 
Having identified the threat of tears, you ask yourself one
important question, "How will bursting into tears help?"
It won't.  All it will
do is demonstrate to your boss that you are unable to bear up under his
(unfortunate) fits of pique. He can always find someone else who will be able
to.  Bursting into tears is also (in some
cases, at least) the desired effect. 
Your boss is not happy, so you can't be happy either.  Tears satisfy your boss's need for
domination.  Not acknowledging that
effect by keeping your emotions under control, puts the ball in your court.
Your boss looks a fool.  You look like a
rock.
Are the kids running around the house like wild animals?  Is the television blaring in the next room?
The blender on high?  Is your head about
to burst in a supernova of noise-induced stress?
You're just about ready to come barreling out of the den, all
guns blazing, when you stop yourself. 
You stand there for a moment, ask yourself what your values are with
respect to dealing with your family.  You
ask yourself how your kids will feel if you start yelling at them for having
the kind of fun kids like to have (usually loud).  Then you consider the deep freeze that may
occur if you confront your husband about leaving the television on full bore
(and set to a rowdy sports match) while mixing drinks in the kitchen.
Honey, it's not worth it.
Do the check in.  The
noise and pandemonium have triggered you and your response was about to be one
that might have repercussions for days, or even weeks.  Ask yourself how you might better handle the
situation.
Now walk into the living room and turn the volume down on
that damn TV.  As you pass the kitchen on
your way to find the kids, you blow your husband a kiss.
Finding the kids, you stand and look at them, not breathing a
word.  Don't worry. They will see
you.  They will notice that your lips aren't
moving.  They will see your eyes, staring
silently.
By getting a read on the stress reaction you're experiencing,
you're able to take it in hand, subdue it and transform it to the kind of calm
usually reserved for Four Star Generals in the theatre of war.  No blood has been shed.  There are no casualties.  There is only the silent knowledge that you
are not enjoying the volume of the day's activities.
Victorious, EQ scepter in hand, you remain Queen of the hill.
Taking stock of your emotional reactions before allowing them
to become behaviors, expressed in words and actions that might prove damaging
to your relationships or career, is a valuable life skill.  Emotionally intelligent people know
themselves.  They nurture their emotions
as real, instead of ignoring them.  They
recognize and greet them and then they head off the behavior they're capable of
generating before it seeps out into the world, bringing with it the threat of
toxicity.
Having mastered knowledge of your emotions, you're now able
to prevent the damaging behaviors that can result from them.
Quit judging
your emotions

Self-judging your emotions is a bad
habit you need to break to grow to the full stature of emotional intelligence.
Your emotions are a natural feature of being human. Imagine your emotions to be
fresh, hot clay.  You're the potter.  You're going to mold your emotions into a
manageable shape that will serve you in life. 
Make friends with them.  Get to
know their rough edges; their growing edges. 
Then shape them into a format that's beneficial. 
Labeling your emotions as "good" or "bad" is
counterproductive.  They're yours.  Labeling them doesn't help you manage
them.  A better practice is to become
aware of them so they can be employed in your daily life, instead of permitting
them to rule it.  You need to feel what
you feel without deciding whether there's value in the emotion, when it
comes.  It's very important to receive
your emotions in their raw state. 
Applying valuations to them will interfere with your ability to fully
appreciate and understand what you're feeling. 
Your emotions are interpretative guides that provide insight
into your behavioral patterns. As discussed in the previous section, your
behavior is heavily influenced by your emotions.  Emotions are a tremendously crucial factor of
your personality and thus, integral to the way you're perceived by others.  In mastering them, you are given the
opportunity to acknowledge them as part of what makes you who you are. 
It's vital that you interpret your behavioral patterns in
order to grasp how you can adjust them to more clearly reflect who you are. If
you don't accept your emotions as they come, you won't be able to weigh the
behaviors that arise from them.  In
accepting your emotions "warts and all", you're enabled to build on that
acceptance toward a more thoroughgoing acceptance of yourself and others. A
good way of embracing your emotions as they are is to focus on the stimuli that
trigger them.
Jealousy is a good place to start.  We like to call this emotion "the green-eyed
monster", due to its negative connotations. 
Jealousy can make people do awful things, if they let it get a grip on
them.  But it's giving in to the emotion,
not the emotion itself, that's the true cause of the behavior and that results
from choices. 
We all make choices about the way we're going to respond to
our emotions.  The trick is in being
awake to the fact that choices exist and that our responses are not
pre-ordained.  We decide how we're going
to react and taking that power; choosing to make the right decision, is how to
transform emotions we might normally deem negative into moments we can learn
from and build on.
There she is. Flirting her brains out with her ex.  The green-eyed monster peeps around the
corner and comes out into the light.  No
longer lurking in the shadows, it strides into the glare of your white hot
emotion and asserts itself. 
But you can wrestle it to the ground.
Why are your jealous? 
Does the guy have better hair than you? 
A better job?  Do you harbor a
secret fear that your girlfriend might still be interested in him?  Maybe the arrival of the green-eyed monster
is triggered by residual fears riding in on the baggage of past
relationships.  Identify the source of
the emotion.
Is it based on something other than apprehension?  Is it just free-floating anxiety about being
dumped?  Latch onto the source of what
you're feeling.  Own it.  Acknowledge it and send that green-eyed
monster back into the shadows of your sub-conscious, where it belongs.  Not doing so; giving in to the emotion you're
experiencing could lead to an altercation with your girlfriend, her ex,
fisticuffs - even probation.  Anything is
possible where jealousy is concerned, so own it.
Forget about beating yourself up about feeling jealous.  Figure out where the feeling came from. This
is part and parcel of the self-awareness project you're engaged in as someone
moving toward a mastery of emotional intelligence.  In knowing the source of your emotions, you
can move beyond applying value judgments to them and into a place of
self-knowledge.
In a perfect world, all our emotions would be those we deem
positive and sunny.  But that's not
realistic.  Life is what it is and our
emotional responses are what they are. 
It's not good, bad or indifferent. 
It just is and that's not your fault. 
You're not a bad person because you feel jealousy, or envy, or
rage.  You're just a person having an
emotion.  It's how you process that
emotion and respond to it that determines the outcome of entertaining it to
begin with.
We can't program ourselves to feel only the emotions we deem
"proper" or "good".  All emotions have
value, because all emotions are an important part of what makes us human.  People have feelings and some of those
feelings are not pretty.  You have to look
at them anyway.  They're who you are and
nobody's perfect.  Let's face it.
Instead of trying to banish the emotions you don't care to
have, have them.  But be aware of what
they mean and why they've arisen.  Be
aware of what triggered them and how you might best respond.  In knowing your emotions, you will know
yourself and in knowing yourself, you will be better able to find empathy for
others.  They're feeling all the same things
you are, at various times.  In that
common ground is an EQ key.  Emotions
can't be assigned a value.  They can only
be understood.
Have you
noticed patterns in your Emotional Behavior?
Our emotions, despite how varied and
random they can be, tend to follow a particular pattern. By maintaining a
record (or journal) of your emotional reactions, you can spot your
patterns.  Have you been keeping a daily
journal of your emotions, their triggers and your responses and behaviors
arising? Take it out, have a look and see what I mean.
An emotional pattern is a similar chain of events that occurs
whenever a particular emotion arises. When I say 'similar chain of events", I
mean that reactions and behaviors which result from which ever emotion is in
play tend to be consistent, regardless of when they occur.
If you pay close attention, you will see similar patterns in
your emotions, too. You don't have to be in a heightened emotional state to
notice, either. Jogging, working, driving - you could be doing just about
anything, but emotional patterns come up all the time, any time.  These indicate our personal predictability in
a variety of emotional settings and can serve as red flags for some of the
adjustments we might want to make in how we respond to them.        
Here is how you can benefit from keeping a record of your
emotional behavior. We all tend to follow behavioral patterns most suited to
our emotions. If you react a certain way to say, "emotion X" today, after five
years, when "emotion X" recurs, you're probably going to react the same way.
Humans usually react the same way to the similar emotions regardless of when
they occur. 
It may happen that the 'certain way' we just spoke of in may
not be the ideal way, and yet we keep going back to it, because it's imprinted
in us to do so. However, when we notice behavioral patterns, we can more effectively
manage them.  We're more equipped to
react appropriate than when we're oblivious to our unique patterns. Therefore,
learning about your patterns is a great way to control your reactions and
modulate them effectively. 
Tame your
reactions
An emotion is like a wild, untamed
horse. You can try to put a saddle on it and ride it according to your own
whims and fancies, but you may end up thrown off. However, how you react to
your emotions is entirely in your own hands. You may choose to react spontaneously,
but this can be problematic. Unbridled (and unsaddled) reactions may be the
most natural, but not the most desirable. Regulating your responses is always
helpful in enhancing your emotional intelligence. This is knowledge that will
help you attain peak emotional intelligence. Knowledge implies awareness.  Unless you are in touch with your true
emotions and appropriate behavioral reactions, you won't attain the level
you're hoping to, in terms of emotional intelligence.
This is another area where journaling can be your
friend.  Consulting what you've written
about your emotional life, over time, can create a chronology of your
behavior.  Looking back, you'll begin to
see patterns in your reactions to a variety of emotions and also, the stimuli
that provoked them.  In recognizing your
behavioral patterns, you're given the opportunity to put a saddle on your
emotional wild horse and tame it.
How can you improve your reactions to reflect enhanced
emotional intelligence and move through life with a more keenly developed
awareness of your triggers and emotions? 
The next time you feel angry or frustrated, instead of
letting your emotional glass spill over, stop. 
Think. Try to foresee of the consequences of inappropriate behavior.
Other people, mostly on-lookers, may not even be aware of your emotions so they
are highly likely to judge you on the basis of an emotional outburst. Ask
yourself where what you're doing (or about to do) seems consistent with your
usual nature, how you're perceived by others and your ethical framework. You
are not being asked to portray yourself as polite, civilized and the most
perfect person on the planet, but behaving in ways that lead others to see you
as emotionally fragile, or temperamental is a choice. 
Emotionally intelligent people don't lose it.  Emotionally intelligent people use it.  They take hold of the emotion, recognize it
for what it is and choose not to let whatever emotion they're feeling rule
them.  They put a saddle on it.  They ride it and then, they walk away from
the emotion unscathed, their reputations intact.
Before stomping off in a huff in the white hot heat of a
disagreement, expletives pouring from your mouth, take a moment to consider
alternatives. Maybe there's a way to resolve the disagreement without losing
it? Or maybe the disagreement has arisen due to a communication breakdown. Try
solving the problem instead of reacting to it. You will realize that reacting
spontaneously to a situation, and being led into acting out by your emotions
will not serve you.  It will only
exacerbate and compound the disagreement, by layering unnecessary conflict on
top of it.   You're already in the midst
of a disagreement with someone.  Do you
really need to add a conflict that may stay with you and the person you're disagreeing
with over time?
No.  You don't.
You need to grab your saddle, throw it on that wild horse's
back and ride it.  Control it.  Make it work for you.  The passion you're feeling in the heat of a
moment of discord can be harnessed for good. 
Instead of stomping off in a huff, you have the opportunity to transform
that passion you're feeling into something positive - resolution of a
disagreement.  Emotionally intelligent
people see the opportunity in conflict. 
They understand that in the heart of every disagreement is a
transformational power; an opportunity for them to excel at what they do best -
being catalysts.
Emotional intelligence gets to the heart of the disagreement
and sees there a kernel of potential - a seed that might be planted.  In every disagreement or conflict, two sides
of a competing opinion are at war. 
Instead of going nuclear, get smart about it.  What is the other person really saying?  Does their side of the argument have
merit?  How can it inform your own
opinion?  
Even if you can't find common ground concerning the subject
of the dispute, you can diffuse the conflict by seeing the other person's
effort to get his point across for what it is - discourse.  Listen. 
Learn.  Understand.  As an emotionally intelligent people you will
ride off into the sunset victorious if you do these three things instead of
choosing the nuclear option.
You're
not Houdini

We'd all like to think we can run
away from our emotions.  They're such a
pain sometimes!  But they're part of what
make us human beings.  Difficult, at
times, uplifting at others, changeable and inconvenient, emotions are the very
stuff of life, so trying to escape from them is futile.  You're not Houdini and your emotions are not
a straightjacket.  Your emotions are a
vital part of living life well and as your most authentic self.
The problem is not that you have emotions.  The problem is that you are not in touch with
them, unless you're doing what you need to in order to become more emotionally
intelligent.  In developing your EQ, you
are being given tools for a life lived more abundantly.
Most of us try to get out of all that emotional stuff.
Situations, emotions, people or problems - most of us try to escape anything
that overwhelms us. Despite how capable we are, there are times we fail to deal
with issues that present themselves in various forms. When this happens,
instead of facing these issues, we seek to escape them. This not only doesn't
resolve the issue, it can actually aggravate it. What's more, you're being a
bit of a coward and there's nothing that says "not a leader" more than
cowardice.  There is nothing less
emotionally intelligent.  Nothing less
inspiring.  Nothing less attractive. When
you adopt an escapist attitude, you're not dealing with your emotions the right
way. When you don't deal with your emotions adequately and face them head on,
you run the risk of bottling them up. This can have an adverse effect on your
behavior, your relationships and even your health. 
Being an escapist robs you of the opportunity to grow in
emotional intelligence. Further, running away from your emotions is a denial of
emotional intelligence.  The message
you're telling yourself is that you aren't up to the challenge of confronting
your emotions; that you can't deal. 
That's not the right kind of self-talk. 
It's negative, self-sabotaging and not at all adult.  You need to stand and deliver.
Some people distract themselves from their turbulent
emotional lives by watching television, listening to songs or reading. While
some of these are healthy enough habits in themselves, they shouldn't be
employed to escape your emotions. 
Television, especially, is a habit that can rob you of precious time
that might be better spent journaling, or networking, or just catching up with
people you enjoy being around.
Television is also an isolating, passive pursuit that fails
to engage you as a whole person.  It's
something we consume in inordinately huge amounts, failing to recognize the
time drain it represents in our lives. 
That time is precious.  Use it to
get your emotional house in order.  Turn
off the TV and turn on to your emotional life and how it can improve your
world.  
'Television will not improve your life.  Developing your emotional intelligence most
certainly will.
Here concludes the first phase of your journey toward greater
emotional intelligence. By now, you'll have started the work required to
achieve the following skills -
·      
Control over your emotions.
·      
Control of how your emotions can produce an
effect on your behavior.
·      
You're learning to read the patterns in your
emotionally generated behavior.
·      
Your behavior is no longer as impulse-driven.
You're calmer.  You think before
responding. Your intellectual reflexes haven't slowed.  You just take a moment before acting. 
We've focused, in this chapter, on improving your ability to
be aware of your emotions, the things that trigger them, and enhancing your
understanding of the psychological aspects of emotional intelligence and how
you might work to develop it.  
But developing your emotional intelligence toward a better EQ
doesn't end there.  We've already talked
about empathy as "feeling with".  In the
next chapter we'll develop further thought and practice with regard to this
essential skill of an emotionally intelligent person.












 
 
Chapter Six

Understanding and developing
empathy
Empathy is a word we all know. But do we really understand, on
an emotional level, what it entails? In simple terms, empathy is to "feel
with". 
In practice, though,
empathy is a state of mindfulness in confrontation of the feelings of others
and further, the ability to enter into those feelings by feeling with
them.  By finding in ourselves the mirror
of what other people are feeling (generated by our common humanity), we have
the incredible ability to share what they're feeling.  The intimacy of empathy should not be lost on
the reader.  Empathic care is probably
one of the most powerful of all the human abilities.  When we look into the hearts of others and
understand their emotional landscape, we have in our hands the power to change
not only ourselves, but the world around us.
Most of us begin
learning about empathy as children. It's a difficult job, but our parents and
teachers, aware that this is a key human quality, work to teach us about
empathy from an early age.  Lessons about
bullying and social ostracism and about the ethical treatment of other people
come early.  The moment we begin to
interact with other children and adults, the lesson of empathy begins.  We learn by it's not OK to pick on people
because they're different.  We learn we
need to play well with others and to share our toys with them.  These simple lessons form the foundation for
life-long learning about empathy as a necessary skill and an emotional gift.
As we move through
life, we sometimes forget those early lessons. 
We catch ourselves picking on people because they're different.  We don't play well with others at times we
should.  We don't share well.  Falling short though, is not reason for
despair.  Falling short is an opportunity
to return to the basics and enhance our ability to feel with others.  We're not bad people because we sometimes
fail, empathically-speaking.  We're just
human beings, with forgetful natures that are sometimes also very
self-focused.  Looking outward from a
renewed awareness of our emotions, we're learning, in these contents, how to be
more alive in our emotions by becoming intimately familiar with them.  In doing so, we're freeing ourselves to
understand the emotions of others.  Our
self-awareness extends outside ourselves to embrace the world. 
In order to develop
a sturdier, more well rounded ability to empathize, we need to learn to become
more aware about what's going on emotionally with the people around us. By
working to see the world through the eyes of another, we're not only improving
our relational abilities.  We're making
the world around us a better place, one person at a time.
Becoming more empathic
While
empathy may not sound like an area subject to formulaic improvement, there are
some steps you can take to arrive at enhanced empathic ability. Here are three
steps toward improving your empathic ability.
Immerse
Imagine
yourself in the place of the person you're working, living, or interacting
with.  Truly imagine yourself inhabiting
their skin and their reality; living in their situation. This is not always
pleasant.  It may feel unduly intrusive,
or even invasive.  But the truth is that
by standing in the place of the other person, you gain insight into their
emotional world and your response to it. 
If you're practicing mindful, emotionally intelligent life skills, you
will have gained some knowledge of this person's interior life from previous
interactions.  If this is someone you
don't know, looking and listening for clues and cues will tell you what you need
to know.  Be open to the other
person.  Look.  Listen. 
Learn.  Immerse yourself in the
world of the other person to better understand what they're feeling.
Observe
Body language
provides important clues, as we've discussed earlier in this book.  Everyone has their little "tells" (things
that give away something about themselves). 
What are they doing with their hands? 
Are they fidgeting with them, or are their hands still?  Fidgety hands can tell us someone is nervous,
or anxious.  Is the other person looking
directly at you, as they speak?  Looking
away may be for the purpose of formulating a thought, but it can also mean an
unwillingness to be open with you, for any number of reasons.  The person you're talking to may even be
autistic.  Are the person's shoulders
drawn inward, or thrown back?  Hunched
shoulders can indicate timidity, but don't jump to conclusions.  There may be a physical problem you don't
know about and that's something that can affect people's demeanors, so it's a
clue.  Shoulders thrown back may be read
as confidence, but if the chest is unduly pushed out and the hands are on the
hips, the person is deliberately adopting a defensive stance, masquerading as
offense.  It's a warning.
People give us many
clues as to their emotional status.  All
we need to do is be open to them and watch. 
These clues will support your ability to feel with whoever it is you're
dealing with.
Engage
Engagement
is not about having the conversation. 
It's about how you have it.
Engaging fully means
being completely present to the other person. 
Your mind may not wander.  To be
fully present means to be aware of every aspect of the conversation.  Content, subtext (what's underneath the
words), clues inherent in body language and verbal tics (um, uh, you know,
like, etc., which may indicate that the person is being very careful about
choosing his words) all work together to paint a picture of what the person is
feeling as they speak with you.  It's up
to you to draw on the information you're being freely given toward a better
understanding of what that is.
Following is a
preparatory exercise for those interested in deconstructing the emotional
content of empathy.  By asking yourself
these three questions when learning to more effectively practice empathy, you
will have drawn yourself a simple roadmap to doing that.
Take a single sheet of paper, dividing it
into three sections.  At the top of each
section, write the following words - what, how and why.  Now choose a recent life example in which you
were hoping to model empathy.
What?
What
is the person telling you?  If you were
listening carefully, you will have made note of some key words, phrases, tics
and clues the person was giving you. 
This is part of the what, even though it may not be what the person told
you directly.  Picking up on linguistic clues (repetitive
phrases, unusual word choices, vocal emphases and verbal tics) is an important
road to understanding other people and their emotional lives.
How?
How
is the person telling you what he's telling you?  Body language you noted in the course of the
interaction is part of the how.  What did
the other person's body tell you while he was talking?  His body was talking too!  Write down the clues - droopy posture, drawn
in shoulders, lack of eye contact, fluttering eyelids (possibly lying), fidgety
hands.  What was the person's tone of
voice as they spoke?  Was it
consistent?  Was there conviction behind
the words?  Did you feel as though this
person wasn't really committed to what he was saying?  Writing down the quality of the message's
delivery is key to understanding what's behind the words being said and also,
subtext.
Why?
Why
is the person telling you what he's telling you?  Is there a back story you might discern from
examining the quality of the person's delivery of his message to you?  His body language?  Were there any clues to be had in the key
words?  Understanding what's living
behind the words people say is another important skill in developing empathy
and thus, emotional intelligence.  This
practice teaches us not to take things at face value, but to look deeper and to
understand the emotional underpinnings of the surface message.
Deconstructing a
recent interaction will assist you in learning to be able to do the same in the
moment.  Without becoming distracted from
the core message, you can train yourself to be fully engaged and to gather
information from subtext, body language, inflection, tone and emphases, as well
as tics and word choices.
This will take you
one stop closer to an understanding that will prepare you to feel with the
people you encounter in your life.  This
powerful skill is one we should all work on daily.  It is at the very heart of creating a better
life for yourself and others.  Empathy
makes the world a much pleasant and sane place to be.  Practicing it mindfully is both reward and
gift.
Let's review:
What
is empathy? 
Empathy
is learned behavior that you can enhance through practice, full and mindful
engagement with others and open awareness. Feeling with others is achieved when
you genuinely sense the common humanity in their emotional life and identify
intimately with it.
Why
is it important to show empathy towards others?
Without
empathy, we are not only not living up to our human potential, we are most
probably psychopaths.  Only psychopaths,
of all the types of human beings on earth, lack the ability to empathize.
Think about that for
a minute.
The inability to
empathize is the basis for one of the world's most deadly, problematic and
societally damaging personality disorders. 
So you see, empathy is a core human quality.  The inability to engage in it (or worse, the
refusal to do so) divorces us from that core.
Sympathy is
superficial.  We feel "sorry" for
people.  We don't feel "with" them.  Feeling with others is not only an
acknowledgement that we share a common humanity with others and care deeply
about them, it's a practice of radical equality that demands we see all people
as intrinsically valuable.  We love them
as we love others.  We feel with them, as
we feel for ourselves.  Empathy is
dignity.  Sympathy?  Something much less noble.  
When we sympathize,
we hear what someone's saying, but we really don't care.  When we empathize, we hear.  We closely observe.  We feel with. 
We care.
Once you have a
handle on the two questions shown above and their implications, move on to the
activities below to further expand your understanding of the role of empathy in
the development of your EQ.
Activity 1
As
a child you probably had some objects you held dear. As you grew older, the
objects reduced in number but the attachment towards those objects deepened. If
there is an emotional relationship to certain objects, then losing them will
impact you deeply.
Consider this
situation. Your friend is a huge fan of Pink Floyd. He's had the opportunity to
meet the band while they were on tour. He's even managed to get the band
members' autographs on a record jacket! A theft occurs at your friend's home
and this record album, with all the cherished autographs, is lost.  Your friend is depressed. You go over to
cheer him up. 
Extension
to the Activity
1.     Do
this as a role play. Ask a friend to help you with this activity. Take turns
acting the respective roles. 
2.     Take
a journal with you when performing this activity. Make note of how you feel during
the role play activity. 
3.     What
role did you find most difficult to do? Why did you find it difficult?
4.     You
are faced with situations on a regular basis where you are expected to show
empathy. Think about how you react to such situations. If you feel that your
empathic response is somehow deficient, see if you can identify different ways
you might improve it. Write down different methods you think might be effective
and why. Mention the goals you hope to achieve through this activity. At the
end of a specified period, check on your progress.  Remember: 
empathy is not a display for the sake of other people.  It comes from within.  Authenticity is rooted in your understanding
of empathy as a fundamental component of being a feeling human being. 
Activity 2
The
President of your country has decided to give an Empathy Award. This is to be
given to the person who has shown the most empathy towards the others. You have
been given the chance to nominate someone for this award. Do some research
toward deciding who you'd like to nominate for the aware. You can even nominate
someone from history if you choose to. When you have decided on a nominee,
answer the following questions:
1.     What
is the name of your nominee?
2.     Why
have you nominated that person for the award? State valid reasons as to why
they should win the award.
3.     What
can you learn from the person you have nominated? 
Extension
to the Activity
1.     The
person you have nominated has won the award! The President wants you to present
the award. You want to tell the world how the person you nominated deserves
this honor. How would you prepare the speech and what would you include?
2.     How
would you work towards empathizing with other people so that someone might
nominate you for such an award in the future?
Keep in mind that practicing
empathy is more important that receiving public recognition for your
practice.  Empathy is, in fact, a reward
in itself and an honor to practice.  It
makes the world a better place and when you practice empathy as a way of life,
you are effectively changing the world for the better.  This is just an exercise to improve your
understanding.
After performing
these activities, record your answers in the journal you've been keeping to
track your triggers and emotions and behaviors arising.  It's all knowledge you can draw on later. 












 
 
Chapter Seven

Strategies to Improve Emotional Intelligence
As discussed throughout this book, it's possible to develop
and improve your Emotional Intelligence. This improvement can continue
throughout the course of your life. We all have a certain level of emotional
intelligence. You might be better at some areas compared to those around you,
but there are numerous ways you can work on your weak points.  Now that you're developing your
self-awareness in order to become a more emotionally intelligent person, it
will seem much easier to identify where you may be falling short.  Checking in with yourself regularly will
ensure that your development and progress continue and that you're growing to
the full stature of an emotionally intelligent person.
Strategies to Improve your Self -
Awareness
When
you're working towards enhanced self-awareness, you need to address and
understand your emotions and how they affect you. You will have to assess
yourself carefully and analyze your emotions, how they're triggered and how
they become behaviors (for better or worse). Remember not to assign values to
your emotions.  They're what they are and
they're part of who you are.  What's
important is how you respond to your emotions and how that plays out in
behavioral responses.  
There
are no Good or Bad Moods
There
is no such thing as a good mood or a bad mood. Your perception does not amount
to the emotion's value and assigning values is useless.  What's valuable is recognizing and harnessing
your emotions to improve your EQ and your ability to relate to other people.
Getting a handle on how your emotions are triggered, how you process your
emotions into behavioral responses and how these responses affect those around
you and their perceptions of you is what really matters.
Journal
This
is something you may find you love doing. 
Remember keeping a
diary when you were a kid?  Not everyone
kept one of these in childhood, I suppose, but those of us who did remember the
confessional quality of writing down our thoughts, as well as the catharsis of
being able to unload in a non-judgmental forum (because it was secret). You
wrote about your hopes, dreams and secret crushes, who you were mad at and what
you wanted to get for Christmas. In much the same way, journaling about your
journey towards self-awareness can provide you with insights into your
emotional life and those of the people around you. Making a note of your
milestones is important, but capturing your emotional landscape (even when it
doesn't seem that exciting) can render a great deal of insight into how you and
your emotions get along.  Self-assess
honestly.  Make sure to include those
moments when you believe you might have managed your emotions, or those of
others, more effectively and why.  Include
as much detail as you can, because this will help you recall the "flavor" of
the moment you're writing about.  
Question
Yourself
Question
your motives, your responses and even your integrity in all you do.  Being honest and transparent with yourself
helps you to do the same with others. You are your most rigorous critic.
Challenging yourself and working to track your emotions demands your complete
honesty.  Who are you trying to fool,
otherwise?  Not yourself, I hope.  You need to be as transparently self-critical
(without applying value judgments) and analytical as possible.   There are certain values you believe in, and
it's these values you need to question. Are you being true to them?  Are you sure of them?  Do others know you because of your adherence
to them?  Remember the physical
manifestations of your emotions in as much detail as possible to gain even
keener insights.  Those you found
unpleasant are probably the most valuable to you in terms of developing your
emotional intelligence.  
Your thoughts and
emotions become actions and those actions are within your control.
Feedback
This
is an essential factor. There are people who have known you all your life who
can provide you with useful external feedback. 
You know yourself, but you're working on knowing yourself better, and so
the opinions of those who know you through other lenses (family, work, social
life) are intensely valuable in the project of becoming a more emotionally
intelligent person. Make sure you're requesting feedback from those you know to
be unerringly honest and unflinchingly able to talk to you about what they
observe.  You don't need to be told
you're a terrific person.  That doesn't
grow you.  You need honest feedback that
helps you move forward.
Strategies to Improve your Self -
Management
Recognizing
and mastering your emotions is the beginning of mastering your reactions to
them.  The behaviors emotions can provoke
are not outside your control, as discussed in this book.  They are entirely your creatures and thus, in
your command.
Following are some
strategies to help you manage your emotions before they seep out into the world
and sabotage you.
Take
Deep Breaths
Giving
in to impulse, as discussed earlier, is a destructive habit you can break.
Instead of losing it, take a deep breath. Count backward from ten. Concentrate
on slowly counting off the numbers until you reach one, as you breathe in and
out at each count. Once you're calm, your head will be clear of the red fog
that has descended in the emotional turmoil you've experienced.  This will prevent you acting out
inappropriately and possibly damaging relationships at home and at work. Some
conflicts demand that we sleep on them. 
Clear your mind of the incident (don't take it to bed - it's the worst
thing you can possibly do) and hit the hay. 
In the morning you'll be refreshed and, having had a good night's sleep,
a cooling off period and a little time to reflect, you'll be able to resolve
whatever the conflict was.  Time and
patience are your best friends.  Even a
count of ten of time you can use to diffuse inappropriate responses to your
emotions.
Always
Under-react 
There
are certain situations in which your emotions might provoke you to
over-react.  Don't give in.  Over-reacting (especially in the workplace)
can be interpreted as impulsive, inconsiderate of co-workers and even
dangerous. As stated above, give yourself a moment to assess.  Slow down. 
Read the person you're in conflict with and then arrange yourself to
give a response within an emotional range that's not only reasonable, but
probably much less dramatic than what was expected.  
Seek
Advice 
If
you don't have a mentor or a trusted advisor in your life, now's the time to
make a point of finding one.  Sometimes a
life coach can help, but chances are you already know someone who fits the
bill.  Seeking the counsel of someone you
admire and want to emulate can be a wonderful experience that will illuminate
dark corners you may have missed in your pursuit of emotional intelligence.  Is there someone in your workplace who's the
calm in the eye of the storm?  The voice
of reason?  Talk to them about the
possibility of bouncing your thoughts off them. 
Tell them what you're doing and how you're doing it.  They will not only be flattered, but will
enrich your journey toward developing EQ. 

Have
Fun!
Life
is supposed to be fun.  Building a better
you is not so much work as a playful, inquisitive journey of self-discovery. Be
happy.  Be of good cheer. You're on the
right path.  Waking up each day with the
thought that you're going to be happy is probably one of the most effective
life hacks you can practice.  Starting
from an intentional dedication to being happy and positive just makes the rest
of the day easier. 
Keep
yourself focused
Stay
focused on improving your emotional intelligence by remembering why you put
your foot on the path in the first place. 
You're doing this for you, for those around you and to be the best
version of you possible.  This should be
your primary focus each and every day. 
Remain optimistic and know that what you're doing is making a difference
to you and those around you.
Learn
to accept change
What
can I say?  Life is change. It's as
inevitable as the sun rising and setting each day and there is nothing you can
do about it. Don't just learn to adapt. 
Live to adapt.  Learn to love
change.  Accept its challenges and its
potential.  Change can be difficult, but
it can also mean the difference between mediocrity and greatness.  By accepting the challenge of improving your
emotional intelligence, you've already embraced that concept.  Now apply it to everything around you.  Know that everything will change and that
change is not only good, it's where greatness begins.  It's where life blossoms and your potential
as an emotionally intelligent person can truly take flight. 
Strategies to Improve your
Social-Awareness
Learning
how to understand and interact effectively with other people is a key gift of
well-developed emotional intelligence. As mentioned in Chapter 6, it's
essential that you empathize with the people around you. Only when you master
the ins and outs of social awareness will you be able to understand why other
people say and do the things they do. This section provides you with simple
strategies to develop your social awareness. 
Body
Language
Being
able to read other people's body language is an important tool toward
developing your understanding of them. 
But your body talks, too.  What is
it saying to others? While it's necessary to listen as well as observe, body
language is an important means of getting to the heart of what people wish to
communicate.  It can reveal important
information about subtext and intent. 
Your own body language is also something you should be keenly aware of. 
Remember
People's Names
It's
essential that you develop a means of remembering the names of the people
around you.  People's names are important
social markers.  Remembering them and
greeting people with them sets you apart from those who lope through life,
calling out "Hey, you!" because they can't remember people's names.  How do you like it when someone you've met
and conversed with doesn't remember your name? 
Not much, right? 
People like to know
that they're important enough to you for you to remember their names.  It's a sign of respect and also,
courtesy.  It's a sign that you value
them and who they are enough to make a point of filing their name away for
future reference. 
One effective strategy for remembering names is to
remember a characteristic about the person in question.  Do they have red hair?  How about a favorite saying, or habit?  Little memory tricks like these can help you
master the art of matching names to faces. 
Those who are able to do this are much more successful with people
generally, but particularly in the world of work, political life, and in
organizations.
Note only
Necessary Details
When
learning more about the people around you, getting lost in trivialities will
only distract you from learning what you really need to know.  You're not interested in what color shoes
they're wearing, or what brand of perfume. 
You're interested in who they are, what they do, what they enjoy, what
makes them happy, what makes them laugh and how they relate to you (and vice
versa).  Don't sweat the small
stuff.  Pay attention to what matters.
Be intentionally present
It's
important to stay engaged with people at all times.  Allowing your mind to wander prevents you
from being fully present.  There is no
easier way to give people a bad impression or lose their respect than not
paying attention to what they're saying. 
Your mind is not elsewhere.  It's
right where you are, in that moment, with the people you're with.  And turn off your phone.  There's nothing less respectful than fiddling
with your phone in the middle of a meeting, a social event, or a
conversation.  Emotionally intelligent
people don't let their telephones get between them and where and who they're
with.  They know better and so they're
present in a very real, very engaged and entirely conscious way.
Walk
in their Shoes
Every
single one of us has baggage.  Our lives
and experiences inform our emotions, thoughts and actions. All that's happened
to us shapes us and this is something we can't change.  All we can do is be aware of these influences
on our emotions and behavior, in order to see the inherent learning they
represent. Our circumstances (including economic ones) further impact our way
of being in the world.  This is as true
of anyone as it is of you and me. 
Understanding this will prepare you for and open you to people who are
not exactly like you.  It will help you
understand where they're coming from and inform your interactions with
them.  You'll learn from them as much as
they will learn from you.  As an
emotionally intelligent person, your ability to feel with others is your ticket
to a wide world of variety, learning and adventure.  Being able to feel with those who aren't
exactly like us is endlessly rewarding and fascinating.  Think of the people you'll meet and the
friends you'll make.  Think of how your
circle will widen, all because you've accepted the gift of empathy for
others.  
Focus
on the Big Picture
As
discussed earlier, people don't always say exactly what they mean.  Sometimes, you have to delve a little
deeper.  When you don't know someone well
enough to do this, where you delve is in the wellspring of clues and cues
people provide you with as you talk to them. 
Their intonation, their body language, their emphases and their language
are all signposts along the way of you coming to understand motives and
subtext.  Not everyone is gifted at the
art of verbal communication.  For some,
it's easier to get their message across using non-verbal signals that they may
or may not know you're reading.  Your
subtle interpretation of these signals is a way forward toward understanding
those who may not be able to communicate what they mean with words, as
effectively as you are.  There are also
many who are afraid to say what they mean, what they want, or to engage in any
interchange that might be interpreted as conflict.  It's up to you to find your way in, following
the non-verbal bread crumbs they drop.
Understand
the context
Context
is everything.  Interpreting the context
you're in goes a long way toward interpreting the people in it.  What is the culture of the context?  What are its expectations?  What are its unwritten rules?  Is there a pecking order?  If so, where are you in it and where are
those around you?  All these factors can
assist you in determining the quality and content of your interactions with people
in any given context.
You're not going to
talk to an elderly man in a church the same way you are to a millennial in a
bar.  You're not going to talk to your
mother over the Christmas turkey the same way you are to a coworker over a
sandwich.
Know where you are
and who you're with and guide your words and actions accordingly.
Judge
the mood of the room
In
any given situation, emotional undercurrents can be sensed in communal
form.  Whether you're at the office
cocktail party, or throwing darts at a party in your friend's basement, you can
feel the mood in those around you.  You
can hear it in the tone and tenor of the conversations going around you - even
in the volume of that tone.  Being able
to gauge the texture of a social situation is a skill you can develop over time
by making a point of seeking it out and identifying it.  It can support you in any number of social
and business situations and is a great exercise for developing your social
awareness.
Strategies to Improve your
Relationship Management
Everything
you've learned about emotional intelligence has been leading you to a mastery
of managing relationships with other people. 
By gaining intimate knowledge of your own emotions and how they operate
and drive your behavior, you are enabling yourself to more effectively and
sensitively manage your relationships with others.
Whether at home, in
your social circle, or at work, every relationship you have is one which can
either help you or harm you and much of that effect has to do with how you manage
yourself and process that self-management into managing your relationships with
others.  
In gaining knowledge
of your emotional life and how to manage it, you're coming to an understanding
that what you have in common with other people is the very core of being
human.  The emotions we all share and
live with are common to us all, on some level. 
So what we know about ourselves, we can apply to other people and
transform into knowledge and a socially adept methodology of how we relate to
others.
Be
honest
In
learning to be honest with yourself, you have come to formulate an ethical
framework for how to extend that learning to those around you.  Your honest self-assessment is the foundation
of relating to others with complete integrity. 
In knowing yourself and liking yourself as you are, you are enabled to
extend the same courtesy to those you're in relationship with.  Loyalty and sincerity are strong components
of honesty.  You don't stab people in the
back.  You don't lie.  You don't cheat and you don't betray those
with whom you've formed honest relationships. 
Your reputation can only burgeon as being a person worthy of trust and
someone others can discuss problems with and confide in with the full knowledge
that you are the vault.  (What is said to
you, stays with you.  You're the Vegas of
confidantes). Trust is one of the building blocks of sturdy relationships of
any kind.  Once established it can only
be maintained by complete consistency and dedication to that consistency.  By being on people's side, you'll find
they'll be on your side, too. 
Be
curious
When
interacting with others, the "85% rule" applies.  That means you should be listening 85% of the
time and asking questions and responding to what you're hearing for only 15% of
the time.  That may sound counter
intuitive, but an emotionally intelligent person, as we've already pointed out,
is first and foremost an expert listener. 
Listening, not talking, is the power position.  It's where you gather information and
knowledge about the person you're talking to and discover how you might more
effectively relate to them.
Curiosity doesn't
demand your constant inquiry.  It demands
the initial question being asked and then listening attentively for the
response to the question.  Your genuine
interest in the response is what's driving your explorations.  When you're genuinely interested and not just
making noise, it will become apparent that you're authentic and invite the
person you're speaking with to share freely.
Communicate!
Communication
is key.  As I've pointed out above,
though, communication is more than 3/4s listening and interpreting what you're
hearing.  The knowledge you receive from
listening is the foundation of your relationship with the other person.  Your interpretations of what you're hearing
have the power to transform the relationship and strengthen it.  When you listen, others trust you.  
The same can be said
of you in relation to others.  Be
open.  Be honest.  Say what's on your mind and don't hold it in.   Shrinking from communication at times when
something important is on your mind can shrink the relationship itself.  It's important that you model the same
transparency with others are you're encouraging them to model with you.
Keep
your word
Following
through is the best way to deliver on the trust capital you've built in your
relationships.  Not following through
undermines the relationship, your reputation and also, your
self-perception.  If you say you're going
to do something, make sure you do it.
A very important
rule is this:  "Under promise.  Over deliver".  Be modest in your promises to other
people.  In this way, when you're able to
go over and above what you've promised, you not only deliver, you bring added
value.  This builds you up in others'
eyes and builds you up in your own.  It's
always the best policy to manage people's expectations about what you're able
to do for them.  When you can, though,
surprise them by putting a bow on your promises.  Over deliver.
Show
you care
Take
the time to ensure that those around you know you're not just saying you care,
but that you genuinely do.  Make that
call to offers condolences, or to congratulate someone.  Sit down over coffee to commiserate about a
loss, or celebrate a victory.  Being in
relationship means reaching out when it's appropriate and being present to the
needs of others.  It means sharing their
triumphs and tragedies.












 
 
Chapter Eight

What Role Do the People Around You Play?
We began our journey
toward emotional intelligence by looking inside ourselves for our sore spots
and weak points.  We found out where we
could make our innate emotional intelligence more effective. We did a bit of
tweaking and rummaging around in our emotions to identify how we could be in
more intimate contact with them and harness them for our benefit and that of
those around us. 
But how can other people can play a role in the enhancement
of our emotional intelligence? Now that we've drilled down into our emotions
and gotten to know them a little better, we can move outwards to those around
us to find out how they can help us move even further along the path.  Our relationships can teach us a lot about
our level of emotional intelligence.
Open your mind and grow your EQ
When your emotional quotient is under
developed and unattended to, you're more likely to judge, argue, backbite and
create unnecessary conflict in whatever group you belong to or interact in.
Because you haven't taken the time to open up to yourself and those around you,
you don't have the tools you need to give you access to other people's
perspective.  
It's often the case that people with low EQs are operating
from something other than an informed position. 
They are defensive and argumentative. 
They pick fights, because what they're really trying to do is
relate.  They just don't know - so they
bicker instead to let you know they're in the room (basically).  For the most part, the low EQ person isn't
interested in the other person's point of view, because he's pre-judged it
based on very little information.  His
emotional intelligence is stunted and because of that, he's not sure why he
feels the way he does, or reacts the way he does.  He just does.
People are always going to disagree with you.  There's no question.  Emotional intelligence isn't some kind of
voodoo that suddenly hypnotizes the world into seeing things your way.  It's just a way to be open to the differences
in others, based on what you know about yourself.  How do you react to those who disagree?  If your response to divergence is emotionally
intelligent, it's able to listen carefully to what the other person is saying,
while being ready to lay out the reasons you disagree. It's also the ability to
discern areas of accord within the context of the disagreement, toward
resolution.  Emotionally intelligent
people are interested in resolution, above all else.  That doesn't mean they're ready to capitulate
to avoid the conflict.  It means they see
the potential for the conflict to be transformed into something better.
Listen to learn
When you intentionally and carefully listen
to others speak, you will learn.  You
don't know everything.  As an emotionally
intelligent person, you're aware of that. 
You know that others have much to teach you about yourself, your
viewpoints and the diversity of the world around you.
The very nature of the world is diversity and that's inherent
in the wonderful diversity of people, everywhere and their way of seeing
things.  Even in conflict, what others
have to teach us; how they can illuminate and improve our understanding is
remarkable.  Opening yourself to that
truth by practicing active and engaged listening (not just being quiet while
others talk), is a high level skill.  It
serves not only the people you're listening to, but you.  It also serves to transform conflict into a
learning experience you wouldn't otherwise have and that is of enormous value.
While it's important for you to speak when appropriate, as
we've said earlier, it's not the most important part of the communication
process.  You can guide that process by
being the one who genuinely and listens for understanding and not just for the
sake of giving someone his turn to speak.
You're not just sitting there waiting for your turn to share
an opinion, or a thought.  You're there
to absorb what's being said in order to truly understand it.  Listening is a process that includes
interpretation and collation with competing thoughts being expressed.  To be truly gifted in the art of listening,
it's important that one listens fully and with complete engagement.
Relating
with empathy
The world spins really fast these
days.  It's a competitive bustling place
with a "me first" attitude too often in play. 
Car horns blast on the highways and byways, in the pursuit of getting
where ever it is we're going before the next guy.  We compete for work, housing, life partners,
and consumer goods.  In all the
competitive noise around us, finding space for empathy can seem a difficult
endeavor.
But empathy plays out in all the little things we do each day
and all our interactions, no matter how insignificant they seem.  Being aware of other people is not just a
matter of discerning whether they're having a good day, or a bad one.  It's being aware that each one of us is going
through something.  Everybody has a life,
full of all the usual human challenges. 
Starting from that place as we go about our daily business is empathy's
home base.  It's where we should start in
every interaction, from getting on the bus, to riding up in the elevator, to
signing in for our shift with the others on our crew.  Every single one of us is carrying a small,
personal world on his shoulders.  Knowing
that and learning to make that your starting point in your dealings with others
will teach you a great deal about being human. 
You can learn from others if the first thought you have about them is
that they are just like you, climbing up the same daily mountain.
You don't need to know that the woman behind the counter at
the coffee shop has just discovered she's pregnant.  You don't need to know that your bus driver
has just been in an altercation with a passenger who spat on him.  What you need to know is that every person
you come in contact with is a world you're entering.  As you step into that world, will you make it
a better one, or will you drop a bomb on it?
Empathy is that important and it's that powerful.  
The Hindu word "Namaste" is spoken as a greeting of respect,
but in its meaning is a beautiful and relevant thought in terms of living
empathically.  It means "I bow to the
Divine in you".  Whether you believe in a
deity or not, it's really the thought that counts.  In acknowledging the mysterious, sacred
nature of other human beings, you have drawn yourself a line in the sand as to
how you're choosing to interact with them. 
You don't need to know anything about a person to model respect for him,
based on your common human condition.  To
see others as intrinsically divine is to only acknowledge the humanity you
share with them, but to live out a duty to make life more livable as a thinking
feeling person.
Everything else will flow naturally from this understanding,
when practiced mindfully.
See
the tree for the forest
Sometimes we get so lost in the
forest that we forget to see the tree. 
But the tree's the thing, especially where living out your emotional
intelligence is concerned.
Not everyone is open to saying what's really on their
mind.  Some people couch their
terms.  Veil their words.  Resort to innuendo.  Not that there's anything wrong with
that!  All the same, to get to the bottom
of what people are saying can sometimes feel like pulling teeth.
For the emotionally intelligent, though, it's just part of
the service.  As stated earlier in this
book, reading the silent signals people send while they're speaking is a worthy
art form that unlocks a secret world of hidden meaning and subtext.  When you've become truly expert at this,
you'll begin to wonder why people even bother trying to obscure the true
meaning of what they're saying.  It will
all become rather painfully obvious.
Body language is the key to a someone's mental vault. Once
you've put the key in the lock, you have access to the meaning behind their
words.  You needn't make a point of
telling them so.  Emotional intelligence means
assessing a situation toward improving it, not sabotaging it by saying "gotcha".  Us the information you glean from studying
people's non-verbal cues to guide the interaction toward greater clarity and
(hopefully) full disclosure.  An
emotionally intelligent person isn't trying to trip anybody up, or catch them
being evasive.  The point is to get to
the heart of the matter. 
The four gems
of emotional development
Being self-aware is the ability to
recognize one's own emotions and their sources. The trait of self-awareness
helps you recognize your strengths and boundaries and how these impact our
presence among others and how they respond to us and perceive us.
Self-management is the quality of bringing about a balance between your
emotional needs and those of others. It is managing your emotions in order to
be a more effective and useful presence in the world - a leader, in other
words.
Being socially aware sharpens your understanding of your own
emotional life and, in so doing, having the ability to get in touch with what
those around you are feeling. When you are socially aware, you empathize with
and understand other people's emotions. You are no longer concerned with your
own emotional life.  In knowing yourself,
you are enabled to reach out in empathy to others. A socially aware person is
able to effectively manage his relationships and bring harmony to his immediate
context.  This makes him incredibly
valuable and a trusted presence.   A
dedication to healthy communication, rooted in emotional intelligence and its
facility with the complexities of human relationships is a hallmark of EQ and
one that is widely sought after.
Don't take
life too seriously
Life is to be lived.  Constant striving is not what we were put on
earth for.  Maintaining a healthy sense
of humor and a strong sense of humility bring to life a whole new dimension of
gratitude.  This is reflected outward and
plays out in our relationships.
Positive people draw others to them.  People seek them out and want to be around
them.  In moving toward well-developed
emotional intelligence, you've already decided that's who you want to be.  The rest is as easy as deciding that your
life is a work of art that you're co-creating, through your actions.  It will influence those around you in unexpected
and marvelous ways.  It will make a
difference.  Life is better with a smile
on your face, innate self-confidence and an awareness that we're all in this
together, hoping for the best.
Each day is a new opportunity for you to forge a way in the
world that makes it a better place for you, and for everyone you come in
contact with.  Emotional intelligence is
catching and that's a good thing!  
Journaling
as a life practice
We've talked quite a bit about
recording your emotions and the response and behaviors that arise from
them.  This practice can continue to have
value for you as you develop your emotional intelligence and move toward its
full potential.
Writing your thoughts and emotions, as well as the events of
the day down each night before you go to sleep is a wonderful way to maintain
contact with yourself at the deepest level. 
While it may sound self-indulgent, journaling is a gift to yourself, as
it's a chronicle of who you are while you're living each day.  As time passes, you'll notice that the
quality of your entries will change and you insights will deepen.  Making journaling a permanent life practice
is one of the most positive things you can do to enhance your life. It's also a
practice maintained by many emotionally intelligent people to check in with
themselves and not allow life to knock them off course.












 
 
Chapter NINE

Assess Your Level of
Emotional
Intelligence!
Here is a simple test that
will help you assess your level of Emotional Intelligence. It is fun to know
where you stand. Only when you know, will you realize there is more you can do
to improve! 
Question
1
You are on an aircraft. You have been
notified by the pilot that you are going to go through a patch of clouds that
will cause turbulence. No sooner has he said this than the plane begins rocking
from side to side. What would you do?  
               
i.         
Do not pay any attention to the turbulence. 
             
ii.         
Become alert and look for any signs of panic in other
passengers. Concentrate on what the stewardesses are saying and also keep a
constant eye on the emergency instructions card.
           
iii.         
Do a little of both (i) and (ii).
            
iv.         
I don't pay attention to turbulence during a flight.
Question
2
You are in class and are being
awarded grades for the project you've been working on. Your partner takes
credit for all the work you've done. What would you do in such a situation?
               
i.         
Confront your partner in front of the entire class.
             
ii.         
When class let out, you talk to your partner privately.
You tell your partner that you would appreciate it if you were given credit for
your work on the join project.
           
iii.         
Do absolutely nothing about it.
            
iv.         
When your partner is done speaking, you stand up and
make clear you worked on the project, too, explaining to the class in detail
what course of action you too took to complete the task.
Question
3
You are a college student and have
done extremely well on a test that was conducted in class. You expected to get
an A. Instead you got a C. It was important to you that you score well on the
test in order to move toward your chosen career path. How do you react?
               
i.         
Create a plan that to you improve your grades to the
level you need to achieve your goals. 
             
ii.         
Tell yourself that you are not cut out for the career
you have chosen.
           
iii.         
Motivate yourself to do better in the other classes in
which you have performed consistently well. Ignore this class a little and
spend more time where you can improve your grades.
            
iv.         
Try and persuade your professor to give you the grade
you were expecting.
Question
4
You are on your way to an exam. Your
friend is driving you to school. On the way, a car dangerously cuts across the
lane you're in. You might have had an accident if your friend hadn't slammed on
the brakes in time. She is furious with the driver of the other car. You are
late for the exam. What would you do?
               
i.         
Tell your friend to ignore the other driver and be glad
that she is safe.
             
ii.         
Try distracting her by talking about her favorite books
or by putting on her favorite CD.
           
iii.         
Complain about the other driver with her.
            
iv.         
Tell her that you once faced a similar situation. You'd
made up your mind to follow the driver. Then, you realized that he was on his
way to the hospital. Tell her that this is remotely possible. 
Question
5
You and your partner are discussing
certain issues you've been facing. The discussion has escalated into a huge
argument. Voices are raised. You are both annoyed and hurt. During the course
of the argument, you start blaming each other. You are attacking each other
personally, saying things you will regret later. What's your next move?
               
i.         
Take some time away from the discussion in your
respective corners. Calm down and then get back to talking.
             
ii.         
Do not say anything to your partner. Listen to him with
patience.
           
iii.         
Apologize. Ensure that you make your partner apologize
to you too.
i.                   
Stop talking for a little while. Pick the discussion up again
and explain your side of the discussion in the simplest manner. 
Note down all the answers to the questions. Below is the
score for each question. 
Question 1: If you have chosen either A, B, or C you have
secured a score of 10 points. You have a score of zero points if you choose
option D.
Question 2: If you have chosen B you score 5 points and 10
points if you have chosen D. You do not score any points for options A or C.
Question 3: If you have chosen B you score 5 points and 10
points if you have chosen D. You do not score any points for options A or C.
Question 4: If you have chosen C you score 5 points and 10
points if you have chosen D. You do not score any points for options A or B.
Question 5: You score 10 points if you have chosen answer A.
You do not score any points for B, C or D.
Once you have totaled your score, you'll have a better idea
where you stand in terms of your emotional intelligence. If your score is low,
you have no reason to worry. You have been given plenty knowledge in the pages
of this book. This knowledge will help you improve on your emotional
intelligence. 
If you have scored high, then you know your level of
emotional intelligence is already well developed.  Congratulations. That doesn't mean you don't
have to stop developing yourself, though. There's always room for improvement,
but congratulations on already having absorbed many of this book's lessons and
discerning how they might apply to your daily life.











 
Conclusion
Our emotions guide so many
of our actions in life.  They don't have
to rule us, though.  In our
relationships, in our workplaces and in the streets we live on, emotions are
always at work, driving decisions and actions. 

Unbridled emotions cause so much damage in the world.  War, hatred and greed are only some of the
big ones.  Every day, people suffer from
the unconscious acceptance that they have no control over their emotions.  Either that, or they squash them down,
becoming angry, depressed and even physically sick. Broken marriages, lost
employment and general societal malaise all result.
But there's no need for any of it and now, you know why - and
you're going to step up and do something about it and bring others along for
the ride.
With this book, I've tried to show you a better way; a way
that has transformative consequences for the way we live, work and relate with
one another.  Regardless of how
intimately connected with our bodies our emotions are, in understanding that
connection and taking responsibility for it, we can be part of a movement that
is calling humanity to a better way of living.
Empathy is a word that isn't spoken often enough or loudly
enough in our world.  It is the bedrock
of a society that places the common good first and the most effective way for
human beings to live together.  When we're
able to feel with others, it's difficult to engage in armed conflict with them.  It's difficult to double cross and hate them,
or to swindle them.  
Empathy is a value that should be instilled in children as
early in their developmental lives as possible, toward building emotionally
intelligent adults who value a world in which understanding is a societal
value.  These are the leaders of tomorrow
and clearly, emotionally intelligent leadership can make a tremendous
difference in the way we all live.
Already, emotional intelligence has risen to a prominence
superseding that of IQ in some sectors of the business world.  It's understood to be the fundamental stuff
of leaders and successful people everywhere. 
In that understanding is the seed of a world that can be changed by
children being born today.  If EQ is
understood to be the most important facet of a leader's skill set, then surely
we'll be teaching children how to value their emotional intelligence and
develop it sooner than later - right?
I certainly hope so.
You're already well on your way to being a catalyst for the
kind of change you want to see in the world. 
You've taken the step of reading this book and are busily working on
your EQ.  By getting in more intimate
contact with your emotions and how they play out in the world around you,
you're becoming more able to relate to and empathize with other people.  You're making a difference, not just in your
own life and competencies, but in theirs. 
You are now a positive force for change in the world.
That's good news.  
Thank you for caring enough to read this book and for taking
the time to develop your emotional intelligence.  I hope you've enjoyed what you've read
here.  If you meet me out there,
somewhere, I hope we'll understand and empathize with one other on the deep
human level I sincerely dream of all people being able to, in the not too
distant future.
Namaste!












 
 
Free Bonus Guide

Fundamentals of Successful
Thinking

Free Bonus "Instant Access"
Click Below For Your Bonus: https://success321.leadpages.co/fundamentals-of-successful-thinking/











 
Checkout My Other Books
http://www.amazon.com/Problem-Solving-Strategies-Mastering-Critical-ebook/dp/B00SP5VW5E/ref=sr_1_1?s=digital-text&ie=UTF8&qid=1427559683&sr=1-1&keywords=problem+solving
 
http://www.amazon.com/Body-Language-Understanding-Communication-Encounters-ebook/dp/B00U3DHO7G/ref=sr_1_9?s=digital-text&ie=UTF8&qid=1427561246&sr=1-9&keywords=body+language
















