




Essentials of Investments








The McGraw-Hill/Irwin Series in Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate Stephen A. Ross
Franco Modigliani Professor of Finance and Economics Sloan School of Management Massachusetts Institute of  Technology Consulting Editor







FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Block, Hirt, and Danielsen
Foundations of Financial Management Fourteenth Edition Brealey, Myers, and Allen
Principles of Corporate Finance Tenth Edition
Brealey, Myers, and Allen
Principles of Corporate Finance, Concise Second Edition Brealey, Myers, and Marcus
Fundamentals of Corporate Finance Seventh Edition Brooks
FinGame Online 5.0
Bruner
Case Studies in Finance: Managing for Corporate Value Creation Sixth Edition
Cornett, Adair, and Nofsinger Finance: Applications and Theory Second Edition Cornett, Adair, and Nofsinger M: Finance
First Edition measures discussed in this chapter DeMello
Cases in Finance Second Edition Grinblatt (editor)
Stephen A. Ross, Mentor: Influence through Generations Eighth Edition Grinblatt and Titman
Financial Markets and Corporate Strategy Second Edition Higgins
Analysis for Financial Management Tenth Edition
Kellison
Theory of Interest Third Edition
Ross, Westerfield, and Jaffe Corporate Finance Tenth Edition
Ross, Westerfield, Jaffe, and Jordan Corporate Finance: Core Principles and Applications Third Edition
Ross, Westerfield, and Jordan Essentials of Corporate Finance Seventh Edition Ross, Westerfield, and Jordan Fundamentals of Corporate Finance Tenth Edition
Shefrin
Behavioral Corporate Finance: Decisions That Create Value First Edition
White
Financial Analysis with an Electronic Calculator Sixth Edition







INVESTMENTS
Bodie, Kane, and Marcus
Essentials of Investments Ninth Edition
Bodie, Kane, and Marcus
Investments
Ninth Edition
Hirt and Block
Fundamentals of Investment Management Tenth Edition
Jordan and Miller
Fundamentals of Investments: Valuation and Management Sixth Edition
Stewart, Piros, and Heisler
Running Money: Professional Portfolio Management investors will choose to hold First Edition
Sundaram and Das
Derivatives: Principles and Practice First Edition







FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND MARKETS
Rose and Hudgins
 Bank Management and Financial Services Ninth Edition
Rose and Marquis
Financial Institutions and Markets Eleventh Edition Saunders and Cornett
Financial Institutions Management: A Risk Management Approach Seventh Edition Saunders and Cornett
Financial Markets and Institutions Fifth Edition







INTERNATIONAL FINANCE
Eun and Resnick
International Financial Management Sixth Edition







REAL ESTATE
Brueggeman and Fisher
Real Estate Finance and Investments Fourteenth Edition Ling and Archer
Real Estate Principles: A Value Approach Fourth Edition







FINANCIAL PLANNING AND INSURANCE
Allen, Melone, Rosenbloom, and Mahoney Retirement Plans: 401(k)s, IRAs, and Other Deferred Compensation Approaches Tenth Edition
Altfest
Personal Financial Planning First Edition
Harrington and Niehaus
Risk Management and Insurance Second Edition Kapoor, Dlabay, and Hughes
Focus on Personal Finance: An Active Approach to Help You Develop Successful Financial Skills Fourth Edition Kapoor, Dlabay, and Hughes
Personal Finance Tenth Edition
Walker and Walker
Personal Finance: Building Your Future 







Essentials of Investments


Ninth Edition
ZVI BODIE
Boston University
ALEX KANE
University of California, San Diego
ALAN J. MARCUS
Boston College








Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition Zvi Bodie, Alex Kane and Alan J. Marcus ISBN-13 9780077148249
ISBN-10 007714824X


British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library Library of Congress Cataloguing lu Publication Data The Library of Congress data for this book has been applied for from the Library of Congress Executive Editor: Leiah Norcott
Production Editor: Alison Davis
Marketing Manager: Vanessa Boddington Printed and bound in Great Britain by Bell & Bain Ltd. Glasgow Published by McGraw-Hill Education (UK) Limited an imprint of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., 1221 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY, 10020. Copyright © 2013, 2009, 2007, 2005, 2002, 1999, 1996, 1993, 1990, 1986, 1982 by McGraw-Hill Education (UK) Limited. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written consent of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., including, but not limited to, in any network or other electronic storage or transmission, or broadcast for distance learning.
Fictitious names of companies, products, people, characters and/or data that may be used herein (in case studies or in examples) are not intended to represent any real individual, company, product or event.
ISBN-13 9780077148249
ISBN-10 007714824X
© 2013. Exclusive rights by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., for manufacture and export.
This book cannot be re-exported from the country to which it il+xml; charset







About the Authors











Zvi Bodie
Boston University Zvi Bodie is Professor of  Finance and Economics at Boston University School of  Management. He holds a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and has served on the finance faculty at Harvard Business School and MIT's Sloan School of Management. Professor Bodie has published widely on pension finance and investment strategy in leading professional journals. His books include Foundations of Pension Finance, Pensions in the U.S. Economy, Issues in Pension Economics, and Financial Aspects of the U.S. Pension System. Professor Bodie is a member of the Pension Research Council of the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. His latest book is Worry-Free Investing: A Safe Approach to Achieving Your Lifetime Financial Goals.










Alex Kane
University of California, San Diego Alex Kane is Professor of Finance and Economics at the Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies at the University of California, San Diego. He holds a PhD from the Stern School of Business of New York University and has been Visiting Professor at the Faculty of Economics, University of Tokyo; Graduate School of Business, Harvard; Kennedy School of Government, Harvard; and Research Associate, National Bureau of Economic Research. An author of many articles in finance and management journals, Professor Kane's research is mainly in corporate finance, portfolio management, and capital markets.


Alan J. Marcus Boston College Alan Marcus is the Mario J. Gabelli Professor of  Finance in the Carroll School of  Management at Boston College. He received his PhD from MIT, has been a Visiting Professor at MIT's Sloan School of Management and Athens Laboratory of Business Administration, and has served as a Research Fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research, where he participated in both the Pension Economics and the Financial Markets and Monetary Economics Groups. Professor Marcus also spent two years at the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), where he helped to develop mortgage pricing and credit risk models. Professor Marcus has published witent="applicat







Brief Contents

Part ONE
ELEMENTS OF INVESTMENTS
1   Investments: Background and Issues
2   Asset Classes and Financial Instruments
3   Securities Markets
4   Mutual Funds and Other Investment Companies
Part TWO
PORTFOLIO THEORY
5   Risk and Return: Past and Prologue
6   Efficient Diversification
7   Capital Asset Pricing and Arbitrage Pricing Theory
8   The Efficient Market Hypothesis
13.11 and  9   Behavioral Finance and Technical Analysis
Part THREE
DEBT SECURITIES
10   Bond Prices and Yields
11   Managing Bond Portfolios
Part FOUR
SECURITY ANALYSIS
12   Macroeconomic and Industry Analysis
13   Equity Valuation
14   Financial Statement Analysis
Part FIVE
DERIVATIVE MARKETS
15   Options Markets
16   Option Valuation
17   Futures Markets and Risk Management
Part SIX
ACTIVE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
18   Portfolio Performance Evaluation
19   Globalization and International Investing
20   Hedge Funds
21   Taxes, Inflation, and Investment Strategy
22   Investors and the Investment Process







Appendixes
A References








Contents

Part ONE
ELEMENTS OF INVESTMENTS
1   Investments: Background and Issues
1.1   Real Assets versus Financial Assets
1.2   Financial Assets
1.3   Financial Markets and the Economy
The Informational Role of Financial Markets
Consumption Timing
Allocation of Risk
Separation of Ownership and Management
Corporate Governance and Corporate Ethics
1.4   The Investment Process
1.5   Markets Are Competitive
The Risk-Return Trade-Off
Efficient Markets
1.6   The Players
Financial Intermediaries
Investment Bankers
Venture Capital and Private Equity
1.7   The Financial Crisis of 2008
Antecedents of the Crisis
Changes in Housing Finance
Mortgage Derivatives
Credit Default Swaps
The Rise of Systemic Risk
The Shoe Drops
The Dodd-Frank Reform Act
1.8   Outline of the Text
End of Chapter Material
2   Asset Classes and Financial Instruments
2.1   The Money Market
Treasury Bills
Certificates of Deposit
Commercial Paper
Bankers' Acceptances
Eurodollars
Repos and Reverses
Brokers' Calls
Federal Funds
The LIBOR Market
Yields on Money Market Instruments
2.2   The Bond Market
Treasury Notes and Bonds
Inflation-Protected Treasury Bonds
Federal Agency Debt
International Bonds
Municipal Bonds
Corporate Bonds
Mortgages and Mortgage-Backed Securities
The Sharpe (Reward-to-Volatility) Ratio}
fto-tx-h1">2.3   Equity Securities
Common Stock as Ownership Shares
Characteristics of Common Stock
Stock Market Listings
Preferred Stock
Depository Receipts
2.4   Stock and Bond Market Indexes
Stock Market Indexes
Dow Jones Averages
Standard & Poor's Indexes
Other U.S. Market Value Indexes
Equally Weighted Indexes
Foreign and International Stock Market Indexes
Bond Market Indicators
2.5   Derivative Markets
Options
Futures Contracts
End of Chapter Material
3   Securities Markets
3.1   How Firms Issue Securities
Privately Held Firms
Publicly Traded Companies
Shelf Registration
Initial Public Offerings
3.2   How Securities Are Traded
Types of Markets
Types of Orders
Trading Mechanisms
3.3   The Rise of Electronic Trading
3.4   U.S. Markets
NASDAQ
The New York Stock Exchange
ECNs
3.5   New Trading Strategies
Algorithmic Trading
High-Frequency Trading
Dark Pools
Bond Trading
3.6   Globalization of Stock Markets
3.7   Trading Costs
3.8   Buying on Margin
3.9   Short Sales
3.10  Regulation of Securities Markets
Self-Regulation
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Insider Trading
End of Chapter Material
4   Mutual Funds and Other Investment Companies
4.1   Investment Companies
4.2   Types of Investment Companies
Unit Investment Trusts
Managed Investment Companies
Other Investment Organizations
4.3   Mutual Funds
Investment Policies
How Funds Are Sold
4.4   Costs of Investing in Mutual Funds
Fee Structure
Fees and Mutual Fund Returns
4.5   Taxation of Mutual Fund Income
4.6   Exchange-Traded Funds
4.7   Mutual Fund Investment Performance: A First Look
4.8   Information on Mutual Funds
End of Chapter Material
Part TWO
PORTFOLIO THEORY
5   Risk and Return: Past and Prologue
5.1   Rates of Return
Measuring Investment Returns over Multiple Periods
Conventions for Annualizing Rates of Return
5.2   Risk and Risk Premiums
Scenario Analysis and Probability Distributions
The Normal Distribution
Normality over Time
Deviation from Normality and Value at Risk
Using Time Series of Return
Risk Premiums and Risk Aversion
The Sharpe (Reward-to-Volatility) Ratio
5.3   The Historical Record
World and U.S. Risky Stock and Bond Portfolios
5.4    equals the initial futures priceayK0RInflation and Real Rates of Return
The Equilibrium Nominal Rate of Interest
U.S. History of Interest Rates, Inflation, and Real Interest Rates
5.5   Asset Allocation across Risky and Risk-Free Portfolios
The Risk-Free Asset
Portfolio Expected Return and Risk
The Capital Allocation Line
Risk Aversion and Capital Allocation
5.6   Passive Strategies and the Capital Market Line
Historical Evidence on the Capital Market Line
Costs and Benefits of Passive Investing
End of Chapter Material
6   Efficient Diversification
6.1   Diversification and Portfolio Risk
6.2   Asset Allocation with Two Risky Assets
Covariance and Correlation
Using Historical Data
The Three Rules of  Two-Risky-Assets Portfolios
The Risk-Return Trade-Off with Two-Risky-Assets Portfolios
The Mean-Variance Criterion
6.3   The Optimal Risky Portfolio with a Risk-Free Asset
6.4   Efficient Diversification with Many Risky Assets
The Efficient Frontier of Risky Assets
Choosing the Optimal Risky Portfolio
The Preferred Complete Portfolio and the Separation Property
Constructing the Optimal Risky Portfolio: An Illustra">15-17OPtion
6.5   A Single-Index Stock Market
Statistical and Graphical Representation of the Single-Index Model
Diversification in a Single-Index Security Market
Using Security Analysis with the Index Model
6.6   Risk of Long-Term Investments
Risk and Return with Alternative Long-Term Investments
Why the Unending Confusion?
End of Chapter Material
7   Capital Asset Pricing and Arbitrage Pricing Theory
7.1   The Capital Asset Pricing Model
The Model: Assumptions and Implications
Why All Investors Would Hold the Market Portfolio
The Passive Strategy Is Efficient
The Risk Premium of the Market Portfolio
Expected Returns on Individual Securities
The Security Market Line
Applications of the CAPM
7.2   The CAPM and Index Models
The Index Model, Realized Returns, and the Mean-Beta Equation
Estimating the Index Model
Predicting Betas
7.3   The CAPM and the Real World
7.4   Multifactor Models and the CAPM
The Fama-French Three-Factor Model
Multifactor Models and the Validity of the CAPM
">The Sharpe (Reward-to-Volatility) Ratio}
7.5   Arbitrage Pricing Theory
Well-Diversified Portfolios and Arbitrage Pricing Theory
The APT and the CAPM
Multifactor Generalization of the APT and CAPM
End of Chapter Material
8   The Efficient Market Hypothesis
8.1   Random Walks and the Efficient Market Hypothesis
Competition as the Source of Efficiency
Versions of the Efficient Market Hypothesis
8.2   Implications of the EMH
Technical Analysis
Fundamental Analysis
Active versus Passive Portfolio Management
The Role of Portfolio Management in an Efficient Market
Resource Allocation
8.3   Are Markets Efficient?
The Issues
Weak-Form Tests: Patterns in Stock Returns
Predictors of Broad Market Returns
Semistrong Tests: Market Anomalies
Strong-Form Tests: Inside Information
Interpreting the Anomalies
8.4   Mutual Fund and Analyst Performance
Stock Market Analysts
Mutual Fund Managers
So, Are Markets Efficient?
End of Chapter Material
9  equals the initial futures priceayK0R  Behavioral Finance and Technical Analysis
9.1   The Behavioral Critique
Information Processing
Behavioral Biases
Limits to Arbitrage
Limge and the Law of One Price
Bubbles and Behavioral Economics
Evaluating the Behavioral Critique
9.2   Technical Analysis and Behavioral Finance
Trends and Corrections
Sentiment Indicators
A Warning
End of Chapter Material
Part THREE
DEBT SECURITIES
10   Bond Prices and Yields
10.1   Bond Characteristics
Treasury Bonds and Notes
Corporate Bonds
Preferred Stock
Other Domestic Issuers
International Bonds
Innovation in the Bond Market
10.2   Bond Pricing
Bond Pricing between Coupon Dates
Bond Pricing in Excel
10.3   Bond Yields
Yield to Maturity
Yield to Call
of Tax Shelters
Realized Compound Return versus Yield to Maturity
10.4   Bond Prices Over Time
Yield to Maturity versus Holding-Period Return
Zero-Coupon Bonds and Treasury STRIPS
After-Tax Returns
10.5   Default Risk and Bond Pricing
Junk Bonds
Determinants of Bond Safety
Bond Indentures
Yield to Maturity and Default Risk
Credit Default Swaps
10.6   The Yield Curve
The Expectations Theory
The Liquidity Preference Theory
A Synthesis
End of Chapter Material
11   Managing Bond Portfolios
11.1   Interest Rate Risk
Interest Rate Sensitivity
Duration
What Determines Duration?
11.2   Passive Bond Management
Immunization
Cash Flow Matching and Dedication
11.3   Convexity
Why Do Investors Like Convexity?
11.4   Active Bond Management
Sources of Potential Profit
Horizon Analysis
An Example of a Fixed-Income Investment Strategy
End of Chapter Material
Part FOUR
SECURITY ANALYSIS
12   Macroeconomic and Industry Analysis
12.1   The Global Economy
12.2   The Domestic Macroeconomy
Gross Domestic Product
Employment
Inflation
Interest Rates
Budget Deficit
Sentiment
12.3   Interest Rates
12.4   Demand and Supply Shocks
12.5   Federal Government Policy
Fiscal Policy
Monetary Policy
Supply-Side Policies
12.6   Business Cycles
The Business Cycle
Economic Indicators
Other Indicators
12.7   Industry Analysis
Defining an Industry
Sensitivity to the Business Cycle
Sector Rotation
Industry Life Cycles
Industry Structure and Performance
End of Chapter Material
13   Equity Valuation
13.1   Valuation by Comparables
Limitations of Book Value
13.2   Intrinsic Value versus Market Price
13.3   Dividend Discount Models
The Constant-Growth DDM
Stock Prices and Investment Opportunities
Life Cycles and Multistage Growth Models
Multistage Growth Models
13.4   Price-Earnings Ratios
The Price-Earnings Ratio and Growth Opportunities
P/E Ratios and Stock Risk
Pitfalls in P/E Analysis
Combining P/E Analysis and the DDM
Other Comparative Valuation Ratios
13.5   Free Cash Flow Valuation Approaches
Comparing the Valuation Models
The Problem with DCF Models
13.6   The Aggregate Stock Market
End of Chapter Material
14   Financial Statement Analysis
14.1 of Tax Shelters
 
The Income Statement
The Balance Sheet
The Statement of Cash Flows
14.2   Measuring Firm Performance
14.3   Profitability Measures
Return on Assets
Return on Capital
Return on Equity
Financial Leverage and ROE
Economic Value Added
14.4   Ratio Analysis 
Decomposition of ROE
Turnover and Asset Utilization
Liquidity Ratios
Market Price Ratios
Choosing a Benchmark
14.5   An Illustration of Financial Statement Analysis
14.6   Comparability Problems
Inventory Valuation
Depreciation
Inflation and Interest Expense
Fair Value Accounting
Quality of Earnings and Accounting Practices
International Accounting Conventions
14.7   Value Investing: The Graham Technique
End of Chapter Material
Part FIVE
DERIVATIVE MARKETS
15   Options Markets
15.1   The Option Contract
Options Trading
American and European Options
The Option Clearing Corporation
Other Listed Options
15.2   Values of Options at Expiration
Call Options
Put Options
Options versus Stock Investments
Option Strategies
15.3   Optionlike Securities
Callable Bonds
Convertible Securities
Warrants
Collateralized Loans
Leveraged Equity and Risky Debt
15.4   Exotic Options
Asian Options
Currency-Translated Options
Digital Options
End of Chapter Material
16   Option Valuation
16.1   Option Valuation: Introduction
Intrinsic and Time Values
Determinants of Option Values
16.2   equals the initial futures priceayK0R Binomial Option Pricing
Two-State Option Pricing
Generalizing the Two-State Approach
Making the Valuation Model Practical
16.3   Black-Scholes Option Valuation
The Black-Scholes Formula
The Put-Call Parity Relationship
Put Option Valuation
16.4   Using the Black-Scholes Formula
Hedge Ratios and the Black-Scholes Formula
Portfolio Insurance
Option Pricing and the Crisis of 2008-2009
16.5   Empirical Evidence
End of Chapter Material
17   Futures Markets and Risk Management
17.1   The Futures Contract
The Basics of Futures Contracts
Existing Contracts
17.2   Trading Mechanics
The Clearinghouse and Open Interest
Marking to Market and the Margin Account
Cash versus Actual Delivery
Regulations
Taxation
17.3   Futures Market Strategies
Hedging and Speculation
Basis Risk and Hedging
 the prices of other securities.sprocess17.4   Futures Prices
Spot-Futures Parity
Spreads
17.5   Financial Futures
Stock-Index Futures
Creating Synthetic Stock Positions
Index Arbitrage
Foreign Exchange Futures
Interest Rate Futures
17.6   Swaps
Swaps and Balance Sheet Restructuring
The Swap Dealer
End of Chapter Material
Part SIX
ACTIVE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
18 Portfolio Performance Evaluation
18.1   Risk-Adjusted Returns
Investment Clients, Service Providers, and Objectives of Performance Evaluation
Comparison Groups
Basic Performance-Evaluation Statistics
Performance Evaluation of Entire-Wealth Portfolios Using the Sharpe Ratio and M-Square
Performance Evaluation of Fund of Funds Using the Treynor Measure
Performance Evaluation of a Portfolio Added to the Benchmark Using the Information Ratio
The Relation of Alpha to Performance Measures
Alpha Capture and Alpha Transport
Performance Evaluation with a Multi-Index Model
 of Tax Shelters
 Style Analysis
18.3   Morningstar's Risk-Adjusted Rating
18.4   Risk Adjustments with Changing Portfolio Composition
Performance Manipulation
18.5   Performance Attribution Procedures
Asset Allocation Decisions
Sector and Security Selection Decisions
Summing Up Component Contributions
18.6   Market Timing
Valuing Market Timing as an Option
The Value of Imperfect Forecasting
Measurement of Market-Timing Performance
End of Chapter Material
19   Globalization and International Investing
19.1   Global Markets for Equities
Developed Countries
Emerging Markets
Market Capitalization and GDP
Home-Country Bias
19.2   Risk Factors in International Investing
Exchange Rate Risk
Imperfect Exchange Rate Risk Hedging
Country-Specific Risk
19.3   International Investing: Risk, Return, and Benefits from Diversification
Risk and Return: Summary Statistics
Are Investments in Emerging Markets Riskier?
 
Are Average Returns Higher in Emerging Markets?
Is Exchange Rate Risk Important in International Portfolios?
Benefits from International Diversification
Misleading Representation of Diversification Benefits
Realistic Benefits from International Diversification
Are Benefits from International Diversification Preserved in Bear Markets?
Active Management and International Diversification
19.4   International Investing and Performance Attribution
Constructing a Benchmark Portfolio of Foreign Assets
Performance Attribution
End of Chapter Material
20   Hedge Funds
20.1   Hedge Funds versus Mutual Funds
20.2   Hedge Fund Strategies
Directional and Nondirectional Strategies
Statistical Arbitrage
20.3   Portable Alpha
An Example of a Pure Play
20.4   Style Analysis for Hedge Funds
20.5   Performance Measurement for Hedge Funds
Liquidity and Hedge Fund Performance
Hedge Fund Performance and Survivorship Bias
Hedge Fund Performance and Changing Factor Loadings
Tail Events and Hedge Fund Performance
 of Tax Shelters
20.6   Fee Structure in Hedge Funds
End of Chapter Material
21   Taxes, Inflation, and Investment Strategy
21.1   Saving for the Long Run
A Hypothetical Household
The Retirement Annuity
21.2   Accounting for Inflation
A Real Savings Plan
An Alternative Savings Plan
21.3   Accounting for Taxes
21.4   The Economics of Tax Shelters
A Benchmark Tax Shelter
The Effect of the Progressive Nature of the Tax Code
21.5   A Menu of Tax Shelters
Defined Benefit Plans
Employee Defined Contribution Plans
Individual Retirement Accounts
Roth Accounts with the Progressive Tax Code
Risky Investments and Capital Gains as Tax Shelters
Sheltered versus Unsheltered Savings
21.6   Social Security
The Indexing Factor Series
The Average Indexed Monthly Earnings (AIME)
The Primary Insurance Amount (PIA)
21.7   Children's Education and Large Purchases
21.8   Home Ownership: The Rent-Versus-Buy Decision
21.9   Uncertain Longevity and Other Contingencies
21.10  Matrimony, Bequest, and Intergenerational Transfers
End of Chapter Material
22   Investors and the Investment Process
22.1   The Investment Management Process
22.2   Investor Objectives
Individual Investors
Professional Investors
Life Insurance Companies
Non-Life-Insurance Companies
Banks
Endowment Funds
22.3   Investor Constraints
Liquidity
Investment Horizon
Regulations
Tax Considerations
Unique Needs
22.4   Investment Policies








A Note From the Authors . . .


 
The year 2012 capped three decades of rapid and profound change in the investment industry as well as a financial crisis of historic magnitude. The vast expansion of financial markets over recent decades was due in part to innovations in securitization and credit enhancement that gave birth to new trading strategies. These strategies were in turn made feasible by developments in communication and information technology, as well as by advancements in the theory of investments.
Yet the crisis was rooted in the cracks of these developments. Many of the innovations in security design facilitated high leverage and an exaggerated notion of the efficacy of risk transfer strategies. This engendered complacency about risk that was coupled with relaxation of regulation as well as reduced transparency that masked the precarious condition of many big players in the system.
Of necessity, our text has evolved along with financial markets. We devote increased attention in this edition to recent breathtaking changes in market structure and trading technology. At the same time, however, many basic principles of investments remain important. We continue to organize the book around one basic theme—that security markets are nearly efficient, meaning that you should expect to find few obvious bargains in these markets. Given what we know about securities, their prices usually appropriately reflect their risk and return attributes; free lunches are few and far apart in markets as competitive as these. This starting point remains a powerful approach to security valuation. While the degree of market efficiency is and will always be a matter of debate, this first principle of valuation, specifically that in the absence of private information prices are the best guide to value, is still valid. Greater emphasis on risk analysis is the lesson we have weaved into the text.
This text also continues to emphasize asset allocation more than most other books. We prefer this emphasis for two important reasons. First, it corresponds to the procedure that most individuals actually follow when building an investment portfolio. Typically, you start with all of your money in a bank account, only then considering how much to invest in something riskier that might offer a higher expected return. The logical step at this point is to consider other risky asset classes, such as stock, bonds, or real estate. This is an asset allocation decision. Second, in most cases the asset allocation choice is far more important than specific security-selection decisions in determining overall investment performance. Asset allocation is the primary determinant of the risk-return profile of the investment portfolio, and so it deserves primary attention in a study of equals the initial futures price19Ull10D investment policy.
Our book also focuses on investment analysis, which allows us to present the practical applications of investment theory and to convey insights of practical value. In this edition of the text, we have continued to expand a systematic collection of Excel spreadsheets that give you tools to explore concepts more deeply than was previously possible. These spreadsheets are available on the text's website (www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie) and provide a taste of tppendixes














Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition












Organization of the Ninth Edition

Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition, is intended as a textbook on investment analysis most applicable for a student's first course in investments. The chapters are written in a modular format to give instructors the flexibility to either omit certain chapters or rearrange their order. The highlights in the margins describe updates for this edition.









Pedagogical Features

 




Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition












Excel Integration








Excel Applications
Since many courses now require students to perform analyses in spreadsheet format, Excel has been integrated throughout the book. It is used in examples as well as in this chapter feature which shows students how to create and manipulate spreadsheets to solve specific problems. This feature starts with an example presented in the chapter, briefly discusses how a spreadsheet can be valuable for investigating the topic, shows a sample spreadsheet, and asks students to apply the data to answer questions. These applications also direct the student to the web to work with an interactive version of the spreadsheet. The student can obtain the actual spreadsheet from the book's website (www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie); available spreadsheets are denoted by an icon. As extra guidance, the spreadsheets include a comment feature that documents both inputs and outputs. Solutions for these exercises are located on the password-protected instructor site only, so instructors can assign these exercises either for homework or just for practice.
Excel application spreadsheets are available for the following: Chapter 3:   Buying on Margin; Short Sales Chapter 7:   Estimating the Index Model Chapter 11: Immunization; Convexity Chapter 15: Options, Stock, and Lending; Straddles and Spreads 







Chapter 18: Performance Measures; Performance Attribution
Chapter 19: International Portfolios
Spreadsheet exhibit templates are also available for the following:

Chapter 5:   Spreadsheet 5.1
Chap#x00A0;  Spreadsheets 6.1-6.6
Chapter 10: Spreadsheets 10.1 & 10.2
Chapter 11: Spreadsheets 11.1 & 11.2
Chapter ter 6:&







End-of-Chapter Features

 


Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition





Supplements








ONLINE SUPPORT
Online Learning Center
www.mcgrawhill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie
Find a wealth of information online! At this book's website instructors have access to teaching supports such as electronic files of the ancillary materials. Students have access to study materials created specifically for this text, and much more. All Excel spreadsheets, denoted by an icon in the text, are located at this site. Links to the following support material, as described below, are also  {
	color:#00ADEE;
	
	font-size:0.75rem;
	fonto included.







FOR THE INSTRUCTOR
Instructor's Manual
Revised by Catherine Teutsch, University of Denver, this instructional tool provides an integrated learning approach revised for this edition. Each chapter includes a Chapter Overview, Learning Objectives, and Presentation of Material that outlines and organizes the material around the PowerPoint Presentation.
Test Bank
Prepared by Maryellen Epplin, University of Central Oklahoma, the Test Bank contains more than 1,200 questions and includes over 300 new questions. Each question is ranked by level of difficulty (easy, medium, hard) and tagged with the learning objective, the topic, AACSB, and Bloom's Taxonomy, which allows greater flexibility in creating a test.
Computerized Test Bank
A comprehensive bank of test questions is provided within a computerized test bank powered by McGrawHill's flexible electronic testing program, EZ Test Online (www.eztestonline.com). You can select questions from multiple McGrawHill test banks or write your own and then either print the test for paper distribution or give it online. This user-friendly program allows you to sort questions by format, edit existing questions or add new ones, and scramble questions for multiple versions of the same test. You can export your tests for use in WebCT, Blackboard, PageOut, and Apple's iQuiz. Sharing tests with colleagues, adjuncts, and TAs is easy! Instant scoring and feedback are provided, and EZ Test's grade book is designed to easily export to your grade book.
PowerPoint Presentation
These presentation slides, developed by Catherine Teutsch, contain figures and tables from the text, key points, and summaries in a visually stimulating collection of slides. These slides follow the order of the chapters, but if you have PowerPoint software, you may customize the program to fit your lecture.
Solutions Manual
Fiona Chou, University of California-San Diego, prepared detailed solutions to the end-of-chapter problems. Instructors can access the global edition solutions manual online at www.mcgrawhill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie. Please contact your McGrawHill/Irwin representative for additional information and online access.







FOR THE STUDENT
Related Websites
A list of suggested websites is provided for each chapter. To keep them up to date, the suggested sites as well as their links are now provided online. Each chapter contains specific sites of particular use.
Excel Templates
There are templates for selected spreadsheets featured within the text, as well as the ones featured among the Excel Applications boxes. Select end-of-chapter problems have also been designated as Excel problems, in which there is a template available for students to solve the problem and gain experience using spreadsheets. Each template can also be found at the book's website and is denoted by an icon.
Wall Street Survivor
Students receive free access to this web-based portfolio simulation with a hypothetical $100,000 brokerage account to buy and sell stocks and mutual funds. Students can use the real data found at this site in conjunction with the chapters on investments. They can also compete against students around the United States. This site is powered by Stock-Trak, the leading">Dealbook on New York Times.com}
 provider of investment simulation services to the academic community.
McGRAWHILL CONNECT FINANCE
Less Managing. More Teaching. Greater Learning.
 McGrawHill Connect Finance is an online assignment and assessment solution that connects students with the tools and resources they'll need to achieve success.
 
McGrawHill Connect Finance helps prepare students for their future by enabling faster learning, more efficient studying, and higher retention of knowledge.
McGrawHill Connect Finance features
 Connect Finance offers a number of powerful tools and features to make managing assignments easier, so faculty can spend more time teaching. With Connect Finance, students can engage with their coursework anytime and anywhere, making the learning process more accessible and efficient. Connect Finance offers you the features described below.
Simple assignment management
With Connect Finance creating assignments is easier than ever, so you can spend more time teaching and less time managing. The assignment management function enables you to:
•   Create and deliver assignments easily with selectable end-of-chapter questions and test bank items.
•   Streamline lesson planning, student progress reporting, and assignment grading to make classroom management more efficient than ever.
•   Go paperless with the eBook and online submission and grading of student assignments.
Smart grading
When it comes to studying, time is precious. Connect Finance helps students learn more efficiently by providing feedback and practice material when they need it, where they need it. When it comes to teaching, your time also is precious. The grading function enables you to:
•   Have assignments scored automatically, giving students immediate feedback on their work and side-by-side comparisons with correct answers.
•   Access and review each response; manually change grades or leave comments for students to review.
•   Reinforce classroom concepts with practice tests and instant quizzes.
Instructor library
The Connect Finance Instructor Library is your repository for additional resources to improve student engagement in and out of class. You can select and use any asset that enhances your lecture.
Student study center
The Connect Finance Student Study Center is the place for students to access additional resources. The Student Study Center:
•   Offers students quick access to lectures,. Labor officials OP practice materials, eBooks, and more.
•   Provides instant practice material and study questions, easily accessible on the go.
•   Gives students access to the Self Quiz and Study described below.
Self Quiz and Study
The Self Quiz and Study (SQS) connects each student to the learning resources needed for success in the course. For each chapter, students:
•   Take a practice test to initiate the Self Quiz and Study.
•   Immediately upon completing the practice test, see how their performance compares to the learning objectives to be achieved within each section of the chapters.
•   Receive a Study Plan that recommends specific readings from the text, supplemental study material, and practice work that will improve their understanding and mastery of each learning objective.
Student progress tracking
 Connect Finance keeps instructors informed about how each student, section, and class is performing, allowing for more productive use of lecture and office hours. The progress-tracking function enables you to:
•   View scored work immediately and track individual or group performance with assignment and grade reports.
•   Access an instant view of student or class performance relative to learning objectives.
Lecture capture through Tegrity Campus
For an additional charge Lecture Capture offers new ways for students to focus on the in-class discussion, knowing they can revisit important topics later. This can be delivered through Connect or separately. See below for more details.
MCGRAWHILL CONNECT PLUS FINANCE
McGrawHill reinvents the textbook learning experience for the modern student with Connect Plus Finance. A seamless integration of an eBook and Connect Finance, Connect Plus Finance provides all of the Connect Finance features plus the following:
•   An integrated eBook, allowing for anytime, anywhere access to the textbook.
•   Dynamic links between the problems or questions you assign to your students and the location in the eBook where that problem or question is covered.
•   A powerful search function to pinpoint and connect key concepts in a snap.
In short, Connect Finance offers you and your students powerful tools and features that optimize your time and energies, enabling you to focus on course content, teaching, and student learning. Connect Finance also offers a wealth of content resources for both instructors and students. This state-of-the-art, thoroughly tested system supports you in preparing students for the world that awaits.
 
For more information about Connect, go to www.mcgrawhillconnect.com or contact your local McGraw-Hill sales representati">Dealbook on New York Times.com}
ve.
TEGRITY CAMPUS: LECTURES 24/7
 Tegrity Campus is a service that makes class time available 24/7 by automatically capturing every lecture in a searchable format for students to review when they study and complete assignments. With a simple one-click start-and-stop process, you capture all computer screens and corresponding audio. Students can replay any part of any class with easy-to-use browser-based viewing on a PC or Mac.
Educators know that the more students can see, hear, and experience class resources, the better they learn. In fact, studies prove it. With Tegrity Campus, students quickly recall key moments by using Tegrity Campus's unique search feature. This search helps students efficiently find what they need, when they need it, across an entire semester of class recordings. Help turn all your students' study time into learning moments immediately supported by your lecture.
To learn more about Tegrity, watch a 2-minute Flash demo at http://tegritycampus.mhhe.com.
Assurance of Learning Ready
Many educational institutions today are focused on the notion of assurance of learning, an important element of many accreditation standards. Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition, is designed specifically to support your assurance-of-learning ih a simple, yet powerful, solution.
Each chapter in the book begins with a list of numbered learning objectives, which also appear in the end-of-chapter problems. Every Test Bank question for Essentials of Investments maps to a specific chapter learning objective in the textbook. Each Test Bank question also identifies the topic area, level of difficulty, Bloom's Taxonomy level, and AACSB skill area. You can use our Test Bank software, EZ Test and EZ Test Online, or Connect Finance to easily search for learning objectives that directly relate to the learning objectives for your course. You can then use the reporting features of EZ Test to aggregate student results in similar fashion, making the collection and presentation of assurance-of-learning data simple and easy.
AACSB Statement
McGrawHill/Irwin is a proud corporate member of AACSB International. Understanding the importance and value of AACSB accreditation, Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition, recognizes the curricula guidelines detailed in the AACSB standards for business accreditation by connecting selected questions in the Test Bank to the general knowledge anitiatives wit







Acknowledgments

 
We received help from many people as we prepared this book. An insightful group of reviewers commented on this and previous editions of this text. Their comments and suggestions improved the exposition of the material considerably. These reviewers all deserve special thanks for their contributions.
Anna Agapova Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton Sandro C. Andrade University of Miami Bala Arshanapalli Indiana University Northwest Rasha Ashraf Georgia State University Anand Bhattacharya Arizona State University, Tempe Randall S. Billingsley Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Howard Bohnen St. Cloud State University Paul Bolster Northeastern University Lyle Bowlin University of Northern Iowa Brian Boyer Brigham Young University Nicole Boyson Northeastern University Ben Branch University of Massachussets, Amherst short-to intermediate-horizon 19Ull10DThor W. Bruce University of Miami Timothy Burch University of Miama, Coral Gables Alyce R. Campbell University of Oregon Mark Castelino Rutgers University Greg Chaudoin Loyola University Ji Chen University of Colorado, Denver Joseph Chen University of California, Davis Mustafa Chowdhury Louisiana State University Ron Christner Loyola University, New Orleans Shane Corwin University of Notre Dame Brent Dalrymple University of Central Florida Praveen Das University of Louisiana, Lafayette Diane Del Guercio University of Oregon David C. Distad University of California at Berkeley Gary R. Dokes University of San Diego James Dow California State University, Northridge Robert Dubil University of Utah, Salt Lake City John Earl University of Richmond Jeff Edwards Portland Community College Peter D. Ekman Kansas State University John Elder Colorado State University Richard Elliott University of Utah, Salt Lake City James Falter Franklin University Philip Fanara Howard University Joseph Farinella University of North Carolina, Wilmington Greg Feigel University of Texas, Arlington James F. Feller Middle Tennessee State University James Forjan York College Beverly Frickel University of Nebraska, Kearney Ken Froewiss New York University Phillip Ghazanfari California State University, Pomona Eric Girard Siena College Richard A. Grayson University of Georgia Richard D. Gritta University of Portland Deborah Gunthorpe University of Tennessee Weiyu Guo University of Nebraska, Omaha Pamela Hall Western Washington University Thomas Hamilton St. Mary's University Bing Han University of Texas, Austin Yvette Harman Miami University of Ohio Gay Hatfield University of Mississippi Larry C. Holland Oklahoma State University Harris Hordon New Jersey City University Stephen Huffman University of Wisconsin, Oshkosh Ron E. Hutchins Eastern Michigan University David Ikenberry University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign A. Can (John) Inci Florida State University Victoria Javine University of Southern Alabama Nancy Jay Mercer University Richard Johnson Colorado State University Douglas Kahl University of Akron Richard J. Kish Lehigh University Tom Krueger University of Wisconsin, La Crosse acquired the American Stock Exano Donald Kummer University of Missouri, St. Louis Merouane Lakehal-Ayat St. John Fisher College Reinhold P. Lamb University of North Florida Angeline Lavin University of South Dakota Hongbok Lee Western Illinois University Kartono Liano Mississippi State University Jim Locke Northern Virginia Community College John Loughlin St. Louis University David Louton Bryant College David Loy Illinois State University Christian Lundblad Indiana University Robert A. Lutz University of Utah Laurian Casson Lytle University of Wisconsin, Whitewater Leo Mahoney Bryant College Herman Manakyan Salisbury State University Steven V. Mann University of South Carolina Jeffrey A. Manzi Ohio University James Marchand Westminster College Robert J. Martel Bentley College Linda J. Martin Arizona State University Stanley A. Martin University of Colorado, Boulder Thomas Mertens New York University Edward Miller University of New Orleans Michael Milligan California State University, Fullerton Rosemary Minyard Pfeiffer University Walter Morales Louisiana State University Mbodja Mougoue Wayne acquired the American Stock Exano  State University Shabnam Mousavi Georgia State University Majed Muhtaseb California State Polytechnic University Deborah Murphy University of  Tennessee, Knoxville Mike Murray Winona State University C. R. Narayanaswamy Georgia Institute of  Technology Walt Nelson Missouri State University Karyn Neuhauser SUNY, Plattsburgh Mike Nugent SUNY Stonybrook Raj Padmaraj Bowling Green University Elisabeta Pana Illinois Wesleyan University John C. Park Frostburg State University Percy Poon University of Nevada, Las Vegas Robert B. Porter University of Florida Dev Prasad University of Massachusetts, Lowell Rose Prasad Central Michigan University Elias A. Raad Ithaca College Murli Rajan University of Scranton Kumoli Ramakrishnan University of South Dakota Rathin Rathinasamy Ball State University Craig Rennie University of Arkansas Cecilia Ricci Montclair University Craig Ruff Georgia State University Tom Sanders University of Miami Jeff Sandri University of Colorado, Boulder David Schirm John Carroll University Chi Sheh University of Houston Ravi Shukla 715-717







Syracuse University
Allen B. Snively, Jr. Indiana University Andrew Spieler Hofstra University Kim Staking Colorado State University Edwin Stuart Southeastern Oklahoma State University George S. Swales Southwest Missouri State University Paul Swanson University of Cincinnati Bruce Swensen Adelphi University Glenn Tanner University of Hawaii John L. Teall Pace University Anne Macy Terry West Texas A&M University Donald J. Thompson Georgia State University Steven Thorley Brigham Young University James Tipton Baylor University Steven Todd DePaul University Michael Toyne Northeastern State University William Trainor Western Kentucky University Andrey Ukhov Indiana University, Bloomington Cevdet Uruk University of Memphis Joseph Vu DePaul University Jessica Wachter New York University Joe Walker University of Alabama at Birmingham Richard Warr North Carolina State University William Welch Florida International University Russel Wermers University of Maryland Andrew L. Whitaker North Central College Howard Whitney Franklin University Alayna Williamson shocks usually are characterized utput movingayK0R University of Utah, Salt Lake City Michael E. Williams University of Texas at Austin Michael Willoughby University of California, San Diego Tony Wingler University of North Carolina Annie Wong Western Connecticut State University David Wright University of Wisconsin, Parkside Richard H. Yanow North Adams State College Tarek Zaher Indiana State University Allan Zebedee San Diego State University Zhong-guo Zhou California State University, Northridge Thomas J. Zwirlein University of Colorado, Colorado Springs For granting us permission to include many of their examination questions in the text, we are grateful to the CFA Institute.
Much credit is also due to the development and production team of McGraw-Hill/Irwin: Michele Janicek, Executive Brand Manager; Noelle Bathurst, Development Editor; Dana Pauley, Senior Project Manager; Melissa Caughlin, Senior Marketing Manager; Jennifer Jelinski, Marketing Specialist; Michael McCormick, Lead Production Supervisor; Laurie Entringer, Designer; and Daryl Horrocks, Lead Media Project Manager.
Finally, once again, our most important debts are to Judy, Hava, and Sheryl for their unflagging support.







Zvi Bodie







Alex Kane
Alan J. Marcus
The publishers would like to pay special thanks to the following contributors for the material they have provided for this global edition:









PART
1

Elements of Investments









Chapters in This Part:
1  Investments: Background and Issues 2  Asset Classes and Financial Instruments
3  Securities Markets
4  Mutual Funds and Other Investment Companies Even a cursory glance at The Wall Street Journal






































Show Results tab. If you get no funds that meet all of your criteria, choose the criterion that is least important to you and relax the constraint. Continue the process until you have several funds to compare.
1.  Randomly select three funds by clicking on them and compare their asset allocations. Which fund invests the most in non-US stocks?
2.  Examine all of the views available in the drop-down box menu (Snapshot, Performance, Portfolio, and Nuts and Bolts) to answer the following questions: •  Which fund has the best expense ratio?
•  Which funds have the lowest Morningstar risk rating?
•  Which fund has the best 3-year return? Which has the best 10-year return?
•  Which fund has the lowest turnover ratio? Which has the highest?
•  Which fund has the longest manager tenure? Which has the shortest?
•  Do you need to eliminate any of the funds from consideration due to a minimum initial investment that is higher than you are capable of making?
3.  Based on what you know about the funds, which fund would be the best one for your investment?
4.  Select up to five funds that are of interest to you. Click on the button that says Score These Results. Customize the criteria listed by indicating their importance to you. Examine the Score Results. Does the fund with the highest score match the choice you made in Part 3?
 
SOLUTIONS TOCONCEPTchecks
4.1  NAV = ($3,352 - $270.3)/110.2 = $27.96
4.2 The net investment in the Class A shares after the 4% commission is $9,600. If the fund earns a 10% return, the investment will grow after n years to $9,600 × (1.10)n. The Class B shares have no front-end load. However, the net return to the investor after 12b-1 fees will be only 9.5%. In addition, there is a back-end load that reduces the sales proceeds by a percentage equal to (5 - years until sale) until the fifth year, when the back-end load expires.

 For a very short horizon such as one year, the Class A shares are the better choice. The front-end and back-end loads are equal, but the Class A shares don't have to pay the 12b-1 fees. For moderate horizons such as four years, the Class B shares dominate because the front-end load of the Class A shares is more costly than the 12b-1 fees and the now-smaller exit fee. For long horizons of 10 years or more, Class A again dominates. In this case, the one-time front-end load is less expensive than the continuing 12b-1 fees.








PART
2

Portfolio Theory









Chapters in This Part:
5  Risk and Return: Past and Prologue
6  Efficient Diversification
7  Capital Asset Pricing and Arbitrage Pricing Theory
8  The Efficient Market Hypothesis
9  Behavioral Finance and Technical Analysis

The last 90 years witnessed the Great Depression, seven additional recessions of varying severity, and the deep recession that began in 2007. Yet even with these downturns, a dollar invested in a broad portfolio of stocks over this period still grew to a value about 120 times greater than a dollar invested (and reinvested) in safe assets. Why then would anyone invest in a safe asset? Because investors are risk averse, and risk is as important to them as the expected value of returns. Chapter 5, the first of five in Part Two, provides the tools needed to interpret the history of rates of return, and the lessons that history offers for how investors might go about constructing portfolios using both safe and r  Bond Prices and Yieldsconsumption469-471isky assets.
Deciding the proportion an investor desires to put at risk must be augmented by a decision of how to construct an efficient portfolio of risky assets. Chapter 6 lays out modern portfolio theory (MPT), which involves the construction of the risky portfolio. It aims to accomplish efficient diversification across asset classes like bonds and stocks and across individual securities within these asset classes.
This analysis quickly leads to other questions. For example, how should one measure the risk of an individual asset held as part of a diversified portfolio? You may be surprised at the answer. Once we have an acceptable measure of risk, what precisely should be the relation between risk and return? And what is the minimally acceptable rate of return for an investment to be considered attractive? These questions also are addressed in this part of the text. Chapter 7 introduces the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and Arbitrage Pricing Theory (APT), as well as index and multi-index models, all mainstays of applied financial economics. These models link risk with the return investors can reasonably expect on various securities.
Next, we come to one of the most controversial topics in investment management, the question of whether portfolio managers—amateur or professional—can outperform simple investment strategies such as "buy a market index fund." The evidence in Chapter 8 will at least make you pause before pursuing active strategies. You will come to appreciate how good active managers must be to outperform passive strategies. Finally, Chapter 9 on behavioral finance is concerned with lessons from psychology that have been proposed to explain irrational investor behavior that leads to observed anomalies in patterns of asset returns.

Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition












Chapter
5

Risk and Return: Past and Prologue

Learning Objectives:

LO5-1 Compute various measures of return on multi-year investments.
LO5-2 Use data on the past performance of stocks and bonds or scenario analysis to characterize the risk and return features of these investments.
LO5-3 Determine the expected return and risk of portfolios that are constructed by combining risky assets with risk-free investments in">Life Cycles and Multistage Growth Models}
normal distribution Treasury bills.
LO5-4 Use the Sharpe ratio to evaluate the investment performance of a portfolio and provide a guide for capital allocation.


What constitutes a satisfactory investment portfolio? Until the early 1970s, a reasonable answer would have been a federally insured bank savings account (a risk-free asset) plus a risky portfolio of U.S. stocks. Nowadays, investors have access to a vast array of assets and can easily construct portfolios that include foreign stocks and bonds, real estate, precious metals, and collectibles. Even more complex strategies may include futures, options, and other derivatives to insure portfolios against specified risks.
Clearly every individual security must be judged on its contributions to both the expected return and the risk of the entire portfolio. We begin with an examination of various conventions for measuring and reporting rates of return. Next, we turn to the historical performance of several broadly diversified investment portfolios. In doing so, we use a risk-free portfolio of Treasury bills as a benchmark to evaluate the historical performance of diversified stock and bond portfolios.
We then consider the trade-offs that arise when investors practice the simplest form of risk control, capital allocation: choosing the fraction of the portfolio invested in virtually risk-free securities versus risky securities. We show how to calculate the performance one may expect from various allocations between a risk-free asset and a risky portfolio and contemplate the mix that would best suit different investors. With this background, we can evaluate a passive strategy that will serve as a benchmark for the active strategies considered in the next chapter.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

×  5.1   RATES OF RETURN
A key measure of investors' success is the rate at which their funds have grown during the investment period. The total holding-period return (HPR) of a share of stock depends on the increase (or decrease) in the price of the share over the investment period as well as on any dividend income the share has provided. The rate of return is defined as dollars earned over the investment period (price appreciation as well as dividends) per dollar invested:

holding-period return (HPR)
Rate of return over a given investment period.


This definition of the HPR assumes that the dividend is paid at the end of the holding period. When dividends are received earlier, the definition ignores reinvestment income between the receipt of the dividend and the end of the holding period. The percentage return from dividends, cash abnormal returns.
dividend yield, and so the dividend yield plus the capital gains yield equals the HPR.
This definition of holding return is easy to modify for other types of investments. For example, the HPR on a bond would be calculated using the same formula, except that the bond's interest or coupon payments would take the place of the stock's dividend payments.


EXAMPLE 5.1


Holding-Period Return
Consider investing some of your money, now all invested in a bank account, in a London Stock Exchange index fund. The price of a share in the fund is currently £100, and your time horizon is one year. You expect the cash dividend during the year to be £4, so your expected dividend yield is 4%.
Your HPR will depend on the price one year from now. You estimate that this will be £110 per share. Then your capital gain will be £10, so your capital gains yield is £10/£100 = .10, or 10%. The total holding-period rate of return is the sum of the dividend yield plus the capital gain yield, 4% + 10% = 14%.



Measuring Investment Returns over Multiple Periods
The holding-period return is a simple and unambiguous measure of investment return over a single period. But often you will be interested in average returns over longer periods of time. For example, you might want to measure how well a mutual fund has performed over the preceding five-year period. In this case, return measurement is more ambiguous.
Consider a fund that starts with $1 million under management. It receives additional funds from new and existing shareholders and also redeems shares of existing shareholders so that net cash inflow can be positive or negative. The fund's quarterly results are as given in Table 5.1, with negative numbers in parentheses.
The numbers indicate that when the firm does well (i.e., achieves a high HPR), it attracts new funds; otherwise it may suffer a net outflow. For example, the 10% return in the first quarter by itself increased assets under management by .10 × $1 million = $100,000; it also elicited new investments of $100,000, thus bringing assets under management to $1.2 million by the end of the quarter. An even better HPR in the second quarter elicited a larger net inflow, and the second quarter ended with $2 million under management. However, HPR in the third quarter was negative, and net inflows were negative.


  TABLE 5.1 to attract the type of party who would make the  between ln" aid="10DJ   Quarterly cash flows and rates of return of a mutual fund



How would we characterize fund performance over the year, given that the fund experienced both cash inflows and outflows? There are several candidate measures of performance, each with its own advantages and shortcomings. These are the arithmetic average, the geometric average, and the dollar-weighted return. These measures may vary considerably, so it is important to understand their differences.
Arithmetic average The arithmetic average of the quarterly returns is just the sum of the quarterly returns divided by the number of quarters; in the above example: (10 + 25 - 20 + 20)/4 = 8.75%. Since this statistic ignores compounding, it does not represent an equivalent, single quarterly rate for the year. However, without information beyond the historical sample, the arithmetic average is the best forecast of performance for the next quarter.

arithmetic average
The sum of returns in each period divided by the number of periods.

Geometric average The geometric average of the quarterly returns is equal to the single per-period return that would give the same cumulative performance as the sequence of actual returns. We calculate the geometric average by compounding the actual period-by-period returns and then finding the per-period rate that will compound to the same final value. In our example, the geometric average quarterly return, rG, is defined by:

geometric average
The single per-period return that gives the same cumulative performance as the sequence of actual returns.


The left-hand side of this equation is the compounded year-end value of a $1 investment earning the four quarterly returns. The right-hand side is the compounded value of a $1 investment earning rG each quarter. We solve for rG:

The geometric return is also called a time-weighted average return because it ignores the quarter-to-quarter variation in funds under management. In fact, an investor will obtain a larger cumulative return when high returns are earned in periods when larger sums have been invested and low returns are earned when less money is at risk. In Table 5.1, the higher returns (25% and 20%) were achieved in quarters 2 and 4, when the fund managed $1,200,000 and $800,000, respectively. The lower returns (-20% and 10%) occurred when the fund managed $2,000,000 and $1,000,000, respectively. In this case, better returns were earned when less money was under management—an unfavorable combination.
Published data on past returns earned by mutual funds actually are required to be time-weighted returns. The rationale for this practice is that since the fund manager does not have full control over the amount of assets under management, we should not weight returns in one period more heavily than those in other periods when assessing "typical" past performance.
Dollar-weighted return To account for varying amounts under management, we treat the fund cash flows as we would a capital budgeting problem in corporate finance and compute the portfolio manager's internal rate of return (IRR). The initial value of $1 million and the net cash inflows are treated as the cash flows associated with an investment "project." The year-end "liquidation value" of the portfolio is the final cash flow of the project. In our example, the investor's net cash flows are as follows:

The entry for time 0 reflects the starting contribution of $1 million; the negative entries for times 1 and 2 are additional net inflows in those quarters, while the positive value for quarter 3 signifies a withdrawal of funds. Finally, the entry for time 4 represents the sum of the final (negative) cash inflow plus the value of the portfolio at the end of the fourth quarter. The latter is the value for which the portfolio could have been liquidated at year-end.
The dollar-weighted average return is the internal rate of return of the project, which is 3.38%. The IRR is the interest rate that sets the present value of the cash flows realized on the portfolio (including the $1.56 million for which the portfolio can be liquidated at the end of the year) equal to the initial cost of establishing the portfolio. It therefore is the interest rate that satisfies the following equation:

dollar-weighted average return
The internal rate of return on an investment.


The dollar-weighted return in this example is less than the time-weighted return of 7.19% because, as we noted, the portfolio returns were higher when less money was under management. The difference between the dollar-and time-weighted average return in this case is quite large.
 

CONCEPT   check5.1
 
A fund begins with $10 million and reports the following three-month results (with negative figures in parentheses):

Compute the arithmetic, time-weighted, and dollar-weighted average returns.

Conventions for Annualizing Rates of Return
We've seen that there are several ways to compute average rates of return. There also is some variation in how the mutual fund in our example might annualize its quarterly returns.
Returns on assets with regular cash flows, such as mortgages (with monthly payments) and bonds (with semiannual coupons), usually are quoted as annual percentage rates, or APRs, which annualize per-period rates using a simple interest approach, ignoring compound interest:

However, because it ignores compounding, the APR does not equal the rate at which your invested funds actually grow. This is called the effective annual rate, or EAR. When there are n compounding periods in the year, we first recover the rate per period as APR/n and then compound that rate for the number of periods in a year. (For example, n = 12 for monthly payment mortgages and n = 2 for bonds making payments semiannually.)

Since you can earn the APR each period, after one year (when n periods have passed), your cumulative return is (1 + APR/n)n. Note that one needs to know the holding period when given an APR in order to convert it to an effective rate.
Rearranging Equation 5.4, we can also find APR given EAR:

The EAR diverges by greater amounts from the APR as n becomes larger (we compound cash flows more frequently). In the limit, we can envision continuous compounding when n becomes extremely large in Equation 5.4. With continuous compounding, the relationship between the APR and EAR becomes

or, equivalently,

More generally, the EAR of any investment can be converted to an equivalent continuously compounded rate, rcc, using the relationship

We will return to continuous compounding later in the chapter.


EXAMPLE 5.2


Annualizing Treasury-Bill Returns
You buy Dutch Treasury Certificates (Netherlands equivalent of US Treasury bills) with €100,000 face value maturing in one month for €99,000. On the maturity date, you collect the face value. Since there are no other interest payments, the holding-period return for this one-month investment is:

The APR is therefore 1.01% × 12 = 12.12%. The effective annual rate is higher:

which implies that EAR = .1282 = 12.82%.


A warning: Terminology can be loose. Occasionally, annual percentage yield or APY and even APR are used interchangeably with effective annual rate, and this can lead to confusion. To avoid error, you must be alert to context.
The difficulties in interpreting rates of return over time do not end here. Two thorny issues remain: the uncertainty surrounding the investment in question and the effect of inflation.
5.2    to attract the type of party who would make the  between ln" aid="10DJ RISK AND RISK PREMIUMS
Any investment involves some degree of uncertainty about future holding-period returns, and in many cases that uncertainty is considerable. Sources of investment risk range from macroeconomic fluctuations, to the changing fortunes of various industries, to asset-specific unexpected developments. Analysis of these multiple sources of risk is presented in Part Four, "Security Analysis."
Scenario Analysis and Probability Distributions
When we attempt to quantify risk, we begin with the question: What HPRs are possible, and how likely are they? A good way to approach this question is to devise a list of possible economic outcomes, or scenarios, and specify both the likelihood (probability) of each scenario and the HPR the asset will realize in that scenario. Therefore, this approach is called scenario analysis. The list of possible HPRs with associated probabilities is the probability distribution of HPRs. Consider an investment in a broad portfolio of stocks, say, an index fund, which we will refer to as the "stock market." A very simple scenario analysis for the stock market (assuming only four possible scenarios) is illustrated in Spreadsheet 5.1.

scenario analysis
Process of devising a list of possible economic scenarios and specifying the likelihood of each one, as well as the HPR that will be realized in each case.


probability distribution
List of possible outcomes with associated probabilities.

The probability distribution lets us derive measurements for both the reward and the risk of the investment. The reward from the investment is its expected return, which you can think of as the average HPR you would earn if you were to repeat an investment in the asset many times. The expected return also is cstribution of HPRs and often is referred to as the mean return.

expected return
The mean value of the distribution of HPR.

To compute the expected return from the data provided, we label scenarios by s and denote the HPR in each scenario as r(s), with probability p(s). The expected return, denoted E(r), is then the weighted average of returns in all possible scenarios, s = 1, . . . , S, with weights equal to the probability of that particular scenario.

Each entry in column D of Spreadsheet 5.1 corresponds to one of the products in the summation in Equation 5.6. The value in cell D7, which is the sum of these products, is therefore the expected return. Therefore, E (r) = 10%.


SPREADSHEET 5.1
Scenario analysis for the stock market




Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie




Because there is risk to the investment, the actual return may be (a lot) more or less than 10%. If a "boom" materializes, the return will be better, 30%, but in a severe recession the return will be a disappointing -37%. How can we quantify this uncertainty?
The "surprise" return in any scenario is the difference between the actual return and the expected return. For example, in a boom (scenario 4) the surprise is r(4) - E(r) = 30% - 10% = 20%. In a severe recession (scenario 1), the surprise is r(1) - E(r) = -37% - 10% = -47%.
Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfgtaJL">Uncertainty surrounding the investment is a function of both the magnitudes and the probabilities of the possible surprises. To summarize risk with a single number, we define the variance as the expected value of the squared deviation from the mean (the expected squared "surprise" across scenarios).

variance
The expected value of the squared deviation from the mean.


We square the deviations because negative deviations would offset positive deviations otherwise, with the result that the expected deviation from the mean return would necessarily be zero. Squared deviations are necessarily positive. Squaring (a nonlinear -transformation) exaggerates large (positive or negative) deviations and deemphasizes small deviations.
Another result of squaring deviations is that the variance has a dimension of percent squared. To give the measure of risk the same dimension as expected return (%), we use the standard deviation, defined as the square root of the variance:

standard deviation
The square root of the variance.




EXAMPLE 5.3


Expected Return and Standard Deviation
Applying Equation 5.6 to the data in Spreadsheet 5.1, we find that the expected rate of return on the stock index fund is

We use Equation 5.7 to find the variance. First we take the difference between the holding-period return in each scenario and the mean return, then we square that difference, and finally we multiply by the probability of each scenario. The sum of the probability-weighted squared deviations is the variance.

and so the standard deviation is

Column F of Spreadsheet 5.1 replicates these calculations. Each entry in that column is the squared deviation from the mean multiplied by the probability of that scenario. The sum of the probability-weighted squared deviations that appears in cell F7 is the variance, and the square root of that value is the standard deviation (in cell F8).


">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfgtaThe Normal Distribution
mean of the di-first" aid="J2BL0">The normal distribution is central to the theory and practice of investments. Its familiar bell-shaped plot is symmetric, with identical values for all three standard measures of "typical" results: the mean (the expected value discussed earlier), the median (the value above and below which we expect 50% of the observations), and the mode (the most likely value).
Figure 5.1 illustrates a normal distribution with a mean of 10% and standard deviation (SD) of 20%. Notice that the probabilities are highest for outcomes near the mean and are significantly lower for outcomes far from the mean. But what do we mean by an outcome "far" from the mean? A return 15% below the mean would hardly be noteworthy if typical volatility were high, for example, if the standard deviation of returns were 20%, but that same outcome would be highly unusual if the standard deviation were only 5%. For this reason, it is often useful to think about deviations from the mean in terms of how many standard deviations they represent. If the standard deviation is 20%, that 15% negative surprise would be only three-fourths of a standard deviation, unfortunate perhaps but not uncommon. But if the standard deviation were only 5%, a 15% deviation would be a "three-sigma event," and quite rare.


FIGURE 5.1
The normal distribution with mean return 10% and standard deviation 20%



We can transform any normally distributed return, ri, into a "standard deviation score," by first subtracting the mean return (to obtain distance from the mean or return "surprise") and then dividing by the standard deviation (which enables us to measure distance from the mean in units of standard deviations).

This standardized return, which we have denoted sri, is normally distributed with a mean of zero and a standard deviation of 1. We therefore say that sri is a "standard normal" variable.
Conversely, we can start with a standard normal return, sri, and recover the original return by multiplying by the standard deviation and adding back the mean return:

In fact, this is how we drew Figure 5.1. Start with aJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumptiongta standard normal (mean = 0 and SD = 1); next, multiply the distance from the mean by the assumed standard deviation of 20%; finally, recenter the mean away from zero by adding 10%. This gives us a normal variable with mean 10% and standard deviation 20%.
Figure 5.1 shows that when returns are normally distributed, roughly two-thirds (more precisely, 68.26%) of the observations fall within one standard deviation of the mean, that is, the probability that any observation in a sample of returns would be no more than one standard deviation away from the mean is 68.26%. Deviations from the mean of more than two SDs are even rarer: 95.44% of the observations are expected to lie within this range. Finally, only 2.6 out of 1,000 observations are expected to deviate from the mean by three or more SDs.
Two special properties of the normal distribution lead to critical simplifications of investment management when returns are normally distributed:
1. The return on a portfolio comprising two or more assets whose returns are normally distributed also will be normally distributed.
2. The normal distribution is completely described by its mean and standard deviation. No other statistic is needed to learn about the behavior of normally distributed returns.
These two properties in turn imply this far-reaching conclusion:
3. The standard deviation is the appropriate measure of risk for a portfolio of assets with normally distributed returns. In this case, no other statistic can improve the risk assessment conveyed by the standard deviation of a portfolio.
Suppose you worry about large investment losses in worst-case scenarios for your portfolio. You might ask: "How much would I lose in a fairly extreme outcome, for example, if my return were in the fifth percentile of the distribution?" You can expect your investment experience to be worse than this value only 5% of the time and better than this value 95% of the time. In investments parlance, this cutoff is called the value at risk (denoted by VaR, to distinguish it from Var, the common notation for variance). A loss-averse investor might desire to limit portfolio VaR, that is, limit the loss corresponding to a probability of 5%.

value at risk (VaR)
Measure of downside risk. The worst loss that will be suffered with a given probability, often 5%.

For normally distributed returns, VaR can be derived from the mean and standard deviation of the distribution. We calculate it using Excel's standard normal function =NORMSINV(0.05). This function computes the fifth percentile of a normal distribution with a mean of zero and a variance of 1, which turns out to be &ther words, a value that is 1.64485s beyond a stipulated benchmarko  of the market standard deviations below the mean would correspond to a VaR of 5%, that is, to the fifth percentile of the distribution.

We can obtain this value directly from Excel's nonstandard normal function =NORMINV (.05, E(r), σ).
When faced with a sample of actual returns that may not be normally distributed, we must estimate the VaR directly. The 5% VaR is the fifth-percentile rate of return. For a sample of 100 returns this is straightforward: If the rates are ordered from high to low, count the fifth observation from the bottom.
Calculating the 5% VaR for samples where 5% of the observations don't make an integer requires interpolation. Suppose we have 72 monthly observations so that 5% of the sample is 3.6 observations. We approximate the VaR by going .6 of the distance from the third to the fourth rate from the bottom. Suppose these rates are -42% and -37%. The interpolated value for VaR is then -42 + .6 (42 - 37) = -39%.
In practice, analysts sometimes compare the historical sample VaR to the VaR implied by a normal distribution with the same mean and SD as the sample rates. The difference between these VaR values indicates the deviation of the observed rates from normality.
 

CONCEPT   check5.2
 


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

a. The current value of a stock portfolio is $23 million. A financial analyst summarizes the uncertainty about next year's holding-period return using the scenario analysis in the following spreadsheet. What are the annual holding-period returns of the portfolio in each scenario? Calculate the expected holding-period return, the standard deviation of returns, and the 5% VaR. What is the VaR of a portfolio with normally distributed returns with the same mean and standard deviation as this stock? The spreadsheet is available at the Online Learning Center (go to www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie, and link to the Chapter 5 material).

b. Suppose that the worst three rates of return in a sample of 36 monthly observations are 17%, -5%, and 2%. Estimate the 5% VaR.

Normality over Time
The fact that portfolios of normally distributed assets also are normally distributed greatly simplifies analysis of risk because standard deviation, a simple-to-calculate number, is the appropriate risk measure for normally distributed portfolios.
But even if returns are normal for any particular time period, will they also be normal for other holding periods? Suppose that monthly rates are normally distributed with a mean of 1%. The expected annual rate of return is then 1.0112 - 1. Can this annual rate, which is a nonlinear function of the monthly return, also be normally distributed? Unfortunately, the answer is no. Similarly, why would monthly rates be normally distributed when a monthly rate is (1 + daily rate)30 - 1? Indeed, they are not. So, do we really get to enjoy the simplifications offered by the normal distribution?
Despite these potential complications, when returns over very short time periods (e.g., an hour or even a day) are normally distributed, then HPRs up to holding periods as long as a month will be nearly normal, and we can treat them as if they are normal. Longer-term, for example, annual, HPRs will indeed deviate more substantially from normality, but even here, if we expressed those HPRs as continuously compounded rates, they will remain normally distributed. The practical implication is this: Use continuously compounded rates in all work where normality plays a crucial role, as in estimating VaR from actual returns.
To see why relatively short-term rates are still nearly normal, consider these calculations: Suppose that rates are normally distributed over an infinitesimally short period. Beyond that, compounding, strictly speaking, takes them adrift from normality. But those deviations will be very small. Suppose that on an annual basis the continuously compounded rate of return has a mean of .12 (i.e., 12%; we must work with decimals when using continuously compounded rates). Equivalently, the effective annual rate has an expected value of E(r) = e.12 -1 = 0.1275. So the difference between the effective annual rate and continuously compounded rate is meaningful, .75%, or 75 basis points. On a monthly basis, however, the equivalent continuously compounded expected holding-period return is 1%, implying an expected monthly effective rate of e.01 - 1 =1.64485. In od-style" aid="J2BPU"> .01005. The difference between effective annual and continuously compounded rates here is trivial, only one-half of a basis point. For shorter periods the difference will be smaller still. So, when continuously compounded rates are exactly normal, rates over periods up to a month are so close to those continuously compounded values that we can treat them as if they are effectively normal.
Another important aspect of (normal) continuously compounded rates over time is this: Just as the total continuously compounded rate and the risk premium grow in direct proportion to the length of the investment period, so does the variance (not the standard deviation) of the total continuously compounded return and the risk premium. Hence, for an asset with annual continuously compounded SD of .20 (20%), the variance is .04, and the quarterly variance will be .01, implying a quarterly standard deviation of .10, or 10%. (Verify that the monthly standard deviation is 5.77%.) Because variance grows in direct proportion to time, the standard deviation grows in proportion to the square root of time.
Deviation from Normality and Value at Risk
The scenario analysis laid out in Spreadsheet 5.1 offers insight about the issue of normality in practice. While a four-scenario analysis is quite simplistic, even this simple example can nevertheless shed light on how practical analysis might take shape.1
How can the returns specified in the scenario analysis in Spreadsheet 5.1 be judged against the normal distribution? (As prescribed above, we first convert the effective rates specified in each scenario to their equivalent continuously compounded rates using Equation 5.5.) Obviously, it is naive to believe that this simple analysis includes all possible rates. But while we cannot explicitly pin down probabilities of rates other than those given in the table, we can get a good sense of the entire spectrum of potential outcomes by examining the distribution of the assumed scenario rates, as well as their mean and standard deviation.
Figure 5.2 shows the known points from the cumulative distribution of the scenario analysis next to the corresponding points from a "likewise normal distribution" (a normal distribution with the same mean and standard deviation, SD). Below the graph, we see a table of the actual distributions. The mean in cell D34 is computed from the formula =SUMPRODUCT($B$30:$B$33, D30:D33), where the probability cells B30:B33 are fixed to allow copying to the right.2 Similarly, the SD in cell F35 is computed from =SUMPRODUCT(B30:B33, F30:F33)^0.5. The 5% VaR of the normal distribution in cell E38 is computed from =NORMINV(0.05, E34, F35).


FIGURE 5.2
Comparing scenario analysis (from Spreadsheet 5.1) to a normal distribution with the same mean and standard deviation



VaR values appear in cells D37 and D38. The VaR from the scenario analysis, -37%, is far worse than the VaR derived from the corresponding normal distribution, -20.58%. This immediately suggests that the scenario analysis entails a higher probability of extreme losses than would be consistent with a normal distribution. On the other hand, the normal distribution allows for the possibility of extremely large returns, beyond the maximum return of 30% envisioned in the scenario analysis. We conclude that the scenario analysis has a distribution that is skewed to the left compared to the normal. It has a longer left tail (larger losses) and a shorter right tail (smaller gains). It makes up for this negative attribute with a larger probability of positive, but not extremely large, gains (14% and 30%).
This example shows when and why the VaR is an important statistic. When returns are normal, knowing just the mean and standard deviation allows us to fully describe the entire distribution. In that case, we do not need to estimate VaR explicitly—we can calculate it exactly from the properties of the normal distribution. But when returns are not normal, the VaR conveys important additional information beyond mean and standard deviation. It gives us additional insight into the shape of the distribution, for example, skewness or risk of extreme negative outcomes.3
Because risk is largely driven by the likelihood of extreme negative returns, two additional statistics are used to indicate whether a portfolio's probability distribution differs significantly from normality with respect to potential extreme values. The first is kurtosis, which compares the frequency of extreme values to that of the normal distribution. The kurtosis of the normal distribution is zero, so positive values indicate higher frequency of extreme values than this benchmark. A negative value suggests that extreme values are less frequent than with the normal distribution. Kurtosis sometimes is called "fat tail risk," as plots of probability distributions with higher likelihood of extreme events will be higher than the normal distribution at both ends or "tails" of the distribution; in other words, the distributions exhibit "fat tails." Similarly, exposure to extreme events is often called tail risk, because these are outcomes in the far reaches or "tail" of the probability distribution.

kurtosis
Measure of the f is an introduction to lfgtaatness of the tails of a probability distribution relative to that of a normal distribution. Indicates likelihood of extreme outcomes.

The second statistic is the skew, which measures the asymmetry of the distribution. Skew takes on a value of zero if, like the normal, the distribution is symmetric. Negative skew suggests that extreme negative values are more frequent than extreme positive ones. Nonzero values for kurtosis and skew indicate that special attention should be paid to the VaR, in addition to the use of standard deviation as measure of portfolio risk.

skew
Measure of the asymmetry of a probability distribution.

Using Time Series of Return
Scenario analysis postulates a probability distribution of future returns. But where do the probabilities and rates of return come from? In large part, they come from observing a sample history of returns. Suppose we observe a 10-year time series of monthly returns on a diversified portfolio of stocks. We can interpret each of the 120 observations as one potential "scenario" offered to us by history. Adding judgment to this history, we can develop a scenario analysis of future returns.
As a first step, we estimate the expected return, standard deviation, and VaR for the sample history. We assume that each of the 120 returns represents one independent draw from the historical probability distribution. Hence, each return is assigned an equal probability of 1/120 = .0083. When you use a fixed probability in Equation 5.6, you obtain the simple average of the observations, often used to estimate the mean return.
As mentioned earlier, the same principle applies to the VaR. We sort the returns from high to low. The bottom six observations comprise the lower 5% of the distribution. The sixth observation from the bottom is just at the fifth percentile, and so would be the 5% VaR for the historical sample.
Estimating variance from Equation 5.7 requires a minor correction. Remember that variance is the expected value of squared deviations from the mean return. But the true mean is not observable; we estimate it using the sample average. If we compute variance as the average of squared deviations from the sample average, we will slightly underestimate it because this procedure ignores the fact that the average necessarily includes some estimation error. The necessary correction turns out to be simple: With a sample of n observations, we divide the sum of the squared deviations from the sample average by n - 1 instead of n. Thus, the estimates of variance and standard deviation from a time series of returns, rt, are



EXAMPLE 5.4


Historical Means and Standard Deviations
To illustrate how to calculate average returns and standard deviations from historical data, let's compute these statistics for the returns on the S&P 500 portfolio using five years of data from the following table. The average return over this period is 16.7%, computed by dividing the sum of column (1), below, by the number of observations. In column (2), we take the deviation of each year's return from the 16.7% average return. In column (3), we calculate the squared deviation. The variance is, from Equation 5.11, the sum of the five squared deviations divided by (5 - 1). The standard deviation is the square root of the variance. If you input the column of rates into a spreadsheet, the AVERAGE and STDEV functions will give you the statistics directly.



Risk Premiums and Risk Aversion
How much, if anything, would you invest in the index stock fund described in Spreadsheet 5.1? First, you must ask how much of an expected reward is offered to compensate for the risk involved in stocks.
We measure the "reward" as the difference between the expected HPR on the index fund and the risk-free rate, the rate you can earn on Treasury bills. We call this difference the risk premium. If the risk-free rate in the example is 4% per year, and the expected index fund return is 10%

risk-free rate
The rate of return that can be earned with certainty.


risk premium
An expected return in excess of that on risk-free securities.

The rate of return on Treasury bills also varies over time. However, we know the rate of return on T-bills at the beginning of the holding period, while we can't know the return we will earn on risky assets until the end of the holding period. Therefore, to study the risk premium on risky assets we compile a series of excess returns, that is, returns in excess of the T-bill rate in each period. A reasonable forecast of an asset's risk premium is the average of its historical excess returns.

excess return
Rate of return in excess of the risk-free rate.

The degree to which investors are willing to commit funds to stocks depends on risk aversion. It seems obvious that investors are risk averse in the sense that, without a positive risk premium, they would not be willing to invest in stocks. In theory then, there must always be a positive risk premium on all risky assets in order to induce risk-averse investors to hold the existing supply of these assets.

risk aversion
Reluctance to accept risk.

A positive risk premium distinguishes speculation from gambling. Investors taking on risk to earn a risk premium are speculating. Speculation is undertaken despite the risk because of a favorable risk-return trade-off. In contrast, gambling is the assumption of risk for no purpose beyond the enjoyment of the risk itself. Gamblers take on risk even without a risk premium.4
To determine an investor's optimal portfolio strategy, we need to quantify his degree of risk aversion. To do so, we look at how he is willing to trade off risk against expected return. An obvious benchmark is the risk-free asset, which has neither volatility nor risk premium: It pays a certain rate of return, rf . Risk-averse investors will not hold risky assets without the prospect of earning some premium above the risk-free rate. An individual's degree of risk aversion can be inferred by contrasting the risk premium on the investor's entire wealth (the complete portfolio, C), E(rC) - rf, against the variance of the portfolio return, . Notice that the risk premium and the level of risk that can be attributed to individual assets in the complete wealth portfolio are of no concern to the investor here. All that counts is the bottom line: complete portfolio risk premium versus complete portfolio risk.
A natural way to proceed is to measure risk aversion by the risk premium necessary to compensate an investor for investing his entire wealth in a portfolio, say Journal of Applied Corporate FinanceconsumptiongtaQ, with a variance, . This approach relies on the principle of revealed preference: We infer preferences from the choices individuals are willing to make. We will measure risk aversion by the risk premium offered by the complete portfolio per unit of variance. This ratio measures the compensation that an investor has apparently required (per unit of variance) to be induced to hold this portfolio. For example, if we were to observe that the entire wealth of an investor is held in a portfolio with annual risk premium of .10 (10%) and variance of .0256 (SD = 16%), we would infer this investor's degree of risk aversion as:

We call the ratio of a portfolio's risk premium to its variance the price of risk.5 Later in the section, we turn the question around and ask how an investor with a given degree of risk aversion, say, A = 3.91, should allocate wealth between the risky and risk-free assets.

price of risk
The ratio of portfolio risk premium to variance.

To get an idea of the level of the risk aversion exhibited by investors in U.S. capital markets, we can look at a representative portfolio held by these investors. Assume that all short-term borrowing offsets lending; that is, average borrowing/lending is zero. In that case, the average investor holds a complete portfolio represented by a stock-market index;6 call it M. A common proxy for the market index is the S&P 500 Index. Using a long-term series of historical returns on the S&P 500 to estimate investors' expectations about mean return and variance, we can recast Equation 5.12 with these stock market data to obtain an estimate of average risk aversion:

The price of risk of the market index portfolio, which reflects the risk aversion of the average investor, is sometimes called the market price of risk. Conventional wisdom holds that plausible estimates for the value of A lie in the range of 1.5-4. (Take a look at average excess returns and SD of the stock portfolios in Table 5.2, and compute the risk aversion implied by their histories to investors that invested in them their entire wealth.)


  TABLE 5.2   Annual rate-of-return statistics for diversified portfolios for 1926-2010 and three subperiods (%)









The Sharpe (Reward-to-Volatility) Ratio
Risk aversion implies that investors will accept a lower reward (as measured by their portfolio risk premium) in exchange for a sufficient reduction in the standard deviation. A statistic commonly used to rank portfolios in terms of this risk-return trade-off is the Sharpe (or reward-to-volatility) ratio, defined as

Sharpe (or reward-to-volatility) ratio
Ratio of portfolio risk premium to standard deviation.


A risk-free asset would have a risk premium of zero and a standard deviation of zero. Therefore, the reward-to-volatility ratio of a risky portfolio quantifies the incremental reward (the increase in risk premium) for each increase of 1% in the portfolio standard deviation. For example, the Sharpe ratio of a portfolio with an annual risk premium of 8% and standard deviation of 20% is 8/20 = 0.4. A higher Sharpe ratio indicates a better reward per unit of volatility, in other words, a more efficient portfolio. Portfolio analysis in terms of mean and standard deviation (or variance) of excess returns is called mean-variance analysis.

mean-variance analysis
Ranking portfolios by their Sharpe ratios.

A warning: We will see in the next chapter that while standard deviation and VaR of returns are useful risk measures for diversified portfolios, these are not useful ways to think about the risk of individual securities. Therefore, the Sharpe ratio is a valid statistic only for ranking portfolios; it is not valid for individual assets. For now, therefore, let's examine the historical reward-to-volatility ratios of broadly diversified portfolios that reflect the performance of some important asset classes.
 

CONCEPT   check5.3
 
 
a. A respected analyst forecasts that the return of the S&P 500 Index portfolio over the coming year will be 10%. The one-year T-bill rate is 5%. Examination of recent returns of the S&P 500 Index suggests that the standard deviation of returns will be 18%. What does this information suggest about the degree of risk aversion of the average investor, assuming that the average portfolio resembles the S&P 500?
b. What is the Sharpe ratio of the portfolio in (a)?

5.3   THE HISTORICAL RECORD
World and U.S. Risky Stock and Bond Portfolios
We begin our examination of risk with an analysis of a long sample of return history (85 years) for five risky asset classes. These include three well-diversified stock portfolios—world large stocks, U.S. large stocks, and U.S. small stocks—as well as two long-term bond portfolios—world and U.S. Treasury bonds. The 85 annual observations for each of the five time series of returns span the period 1926-2010.
Until 1969, the "World Portfolio" of stocks was constructed from a diversified sample of large capitalization stocks of 16 developed countries weighted in proportion to the relative size of gross domestic product. Since 1970 this portfolio has been diversified across 24 developed countries (almost 6,000 stocks) with weights determined by the relative capitalization of each market19;s market value-weighted portfolio of 500 U.S. common stocks selected from the largest market capitalization stocks. "Small U.S. Stocks" are the smallest 20% of all stocks trading on the NYSE, NASDAQ, and Amex (currently almost 1,000 stocks).
The World Portfolio of bonds was constructed from the same set of countries as the World Portfolio of stocks, using long-term bonds from each country. Until 1996, "Long-Term T-Bonds" were represented by U.S. government bonds with at least a 20-year maturity and approximately current-level coupon rate.7 Since 1996, this bond series has been measured by the Barclay's (formerly the Lehman Brothers) Long-Term Treasury Bond Index.
Look first at Figure 5.3, which shows histograms of total (continuously compounded) returns of the five risky portfolios and of Treasury bills. Notice the hierarchy of risk: Small stocks are the most risky, followed by large stocks and then long-term bonds. At the same time, the higher average return offered by riskier assets is evident, consistent with investor risk aversion. T-bill returns are by far the least volatile. In fact, despite the variability in their returns, bills are actually have as the basis for her decision making? .
 


FIGURE 5.3
Frequency distribution of annual, continuously compounded rates of return, 1926-2010
Source: Prepared from data used in Table 5.2.



Figure 5.4 provides another view of the hierarchy of risk. Here we plot the year-by-year returns on U.S. large stocks, long-term Treasury bonds, and T-bills. Risk is reflected by wider swings of returns from year to year.


FIGURE 5.4
Rates of return on stocks, bonds, and bills, 1926-2010
Source: Prepared from data used in Table 5.2.



Table 5.2 presents statistics of the return history of the five portfolios over the full 85-year period, 1926-2010, as well as for three subperiods.8 The first 30-year subperiod, 1926-1955, includes the Great Depression (1929-1939), World War II, the postwar boom, and a subsequent recession. The second subperiod (1956-1985) includes four recessions (1957-1958, 1960-1961, 1973-1975, and 1980-1982) and a period of "stagflation" (poor growth combined with high inflation (1974-1980). Finally, the most recent 25-year subperiod (1986-2010) included two recessions (1990-1991, 2001-2003) bracketing the so-called high-tech bubble of the 1990s, and a severe recession that started in December 2007 and is estimated to have ended in the second half of 2009. Let us compare capital asset returns in these three subperiods.
We start with the geometric averages of total returns in the top panel of the table. This is the equivalent, constant annual rate of return that an investor would have earned over the period. To appreciate these rates, you must consider the power of compounding. Think about an investor who might have chosen to invest in either large U.S. stocks or U.S. long-term T-bonds at the end of 1985. The geometric averages for 1986-2010 tell us that over the most recent 25-year period, the stock portfolio would have turned $1 into $1 × 1.097125 =$10.13, while the same investment in the T-bond portfolio would have brought in $1 × 1.077425 = $6.45. We will see later that T-bills would have provided only $2.74. Thus, while the differences in average returns in Table 5.2 may seem modest at first glance, they imply great differences in long-term results. Naturally, the reason all investors don't invest everything in stocks is the higher risk that strategy would entail.
The geometric average is always less than the arithmetic average. For a normal distribution, the difference is exactly half the variance of the return (with returns measured as decimals, not percentages). Here are the arithmetic averages (from Figure 5.3) and geometric averages (from Table 5.2) for the three stock portfolios over the period (1926-2010), the differences between the two averages, as well as half the variance computed from the respective standard deviations.

You can see that the differences between the geometric and arithmetic averages are consequential and generally close to one-half the variance of returns, suggesting that these distributions may be approximately normal, but there is a greater discrepancy for small stocks; therefore, VaR will still add important information about risk beyond standard deviation, at least for this asset class.
We have suggested that the geometric average is the correct measure for historical perspective. But investors are concerned about their real (inflation-adjusted) rates of return, not the paper profits indicated by the nominal (dollar) return. The real geometric averages suggest that the real cost of equity capital for large corporations has been about 6%. Notice from Table 5.2 that the average real rate on small stocks has been consistently declining, steadily approaching that of large stocks. One reason is that the average size of small, publicly traded firms has grown tremendously. Although they are still far smaller than the larger firms, their size apparently has reached the level where there is little remaining small-firm premium. The higher-than-historical-average returns recently provided by long-term bonds are due largely to capital gains earned as interest rates plunged in the recessions of the decade ending in 2010.
In the previous section we discussed the importance of risk and risk premiums. Let us now turn to the excess-return panel of Table 5.2. Notice first that excess returns do not need to be adjusted for inflation because they are returns over and above the nominal risk-free rate. Second, bond portfolios, albeit an important asset class, are not really candidates for an investor's sole-investment vehicle, because they are not sufficiently diversified. Third, the large differences in average returns across historical periods reflect the tremendous volatility of annual returns. One might wonder whether the differences across subperiods are statistically significant. Recalling that the standard deviation of the average return is the annual standard deviation divided by the square root of the number of observations, none of the differences between these subperiod averages and the 1926-2010 average exceeds one standard deviation for stocks and 1.8 standard deviations for bondss beyond a stipulated benchmarko  of the market. Thus, differences in these subperiod results might well reflect no more than statistical noise.
The minimum and maximum historical returns also reflect the large variability in annual returns. Notice the large worst-case annual losses (around 50%) and even larger best-case gains (50%-150%) on the stock portfolios, as well as the more moderate extreme returns on the bond portfolios. Interestingly, the small and large U.S. stock portfolios each experienced both their maximum and minimum returns during the Great Depression; indeed, that period is also associated with the largest standard deviations of stock portfolio returns.


EXAMPLE 5.5


The Risk Premium and Growth of  Wealth
The potential import of the risk premium can be illustrated with a simple example. Consider two investors with $1 million as of December 31, 2000. One invests in the small-stock portfolio, and the other in T-bills. Suppose both investors reinvest all income from their portfolios and liquidate their investments 10 years later, on December 31, 2010. We can find the annual rates of return for this period from the spreadsheet of returns at the Online Learning Center. (Go to www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie. Look for the link to Chapter 5 material.) We compute a "wealth index" for each investment by compounding wealth at the end of each year by the return earned in the following year. For example, we calculate the value of the wealth index for small stocks as of 2003 by multiplying the value as of 2002 (1.1404) by 1 plus the rate of return earned in 2003 (measured in decimals), that is, by 1 + .7475, to obtain 1.9928.

The final value of each portfolio as of December 31, 2010, equals its initial value ($1 million) multiplied by the wealth index at the end of the period:

The difference in total return is dramatic. Even with its devasting 2008 return, the value of the small-stock portfolio after 10 years is 118% more than that of the T-bill portfolio.
We can also calculate the geometric average return of each portfolio over this period. For T-bills, the geometric average over the 10-year period is computed from:

Similarly, the geometric average for small stocks is 10.46%. The difference in geometric average reflects the difference in cumulative wealth provided by the small-stock portfolio over this period.


Are these portfolios normally distributed? The next section of Table 5.2 shows the kurtosis and skew of the distributions. As discussed earlier in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="
{
        margin-top:8px;
        , testing for normality requires us to use continuously compounded rates. Accordingly, we use Equation 5.5 to compute continuously compounded rates of return. We calculate ln(1 + annual rate) for each asset and compute excess returns by subtracting the continuously compounded rate of return on T-bills. Because these measures derive from higher exponents of deviations from the mean (the cubed deviation for skew and the fourth power of the deviation for kurtosis), these measures are highly sensitive to rare but extreme outliers; therefore, we can rely on these measures only in very large samples that allow for sufficient observations to be taken as exhibiting a "representative" number of such events. You can see that these measures also vary considerably across subperiods. The picture is quite unambiguous with respect to stock portfolios. There is excess positive kurtosis and negative skew. These indicate extreme gains and, even more so, extreme losses that are significantly more likely than would be predicted by the normal distribution. We must conclude that VaR (and similar risk measures) to augment standard deviation is in order.
The last section in Table 5.2 presents performance statistics, Sharpe ratios, and value at risk. Sharpe ratios of stock portfolios are in the range of 0.37-0.39 for the overall history and range between 0.34-0.46 across all subperiods. We can estimate that the return-risk trade-off in stocks on an annual basis is about a .4% risk premium for each increment of 1% to standard deviation. In fact, just as with the average excess return, the differences between subperiods are not significant. The same can be said about the three stock portfolios: None showed significant superior performance. Bonds can outperform stocks in periods of falling interest rates, as we see from the Sharpe ratios in the most recent subperiod. But, as noted earlier, bond portfolios are not sufficiently diversified to allow for the use of the Sharpe ratio as a performance measure. (As we will discuss in later chapters, standard deviation as a risk measure makes sense for an investor's overall portfolio but not for one relatively narrow component of it.)
The VaR panel in Table 5.2 shows unambiguously for stocks, and almost so for bonds, that potential losses are larger than suggested by likewise normal distributions. To highlight this observation, the last panel of the table shows the difference of actual 5% VaR from likewise normal distributions; the evidence is quite clear and consistent with the kurtosis and skew statistics.
Finally, investing internationally is no longer considered exotic, and Table 5.2 also provides some information on the historical results from international investments. It appears that for passive investors who focus on investments in index funds, international diversification doesn't deliver impressive improvement over investments in the U.S. alone. However, international investments do hold large potential for active investors. We elaborate on these observations in Chapter 19, which is devoted to international investing.
 

CONCEPT   check5.4
 
  to attract the type of party who would make the  between ln" aid="10DJ
 
Compute the average excess return on large-company stocks (over the T-bill rate) and the standard deviation for the years 1926-1934. You will need to obtain data from the spreadsheet available at the Online Learning Center at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie. Look for Chapter 5 material.

5.4   INFLATION AND REAL RATES OF RETURN
A 10% annual rate of return means that your investment was worth 10% more at the end of the year than it was at the beginning of the year. This does not necessarily mean, however, that you could have bought 10% more goods and services with that money, for it is possible that in the course of the year prices of goods also increased. If prices have changed, the increase in your purchasing power will not match the increase in your dollar wealth.
At any time, the prices of some goods may rise while the prices of other goods may fall; the general trend in prices is measured by examining changes in the consumer price index, or CPI. The CPI measures the cost of purchasing a representative bundle of goods, the "consumption basket" of a typical urban family of four. The inflation rate is measured by the rate of increase of the CPI.

inflation rate
The rate at which prices are rising, measured as the rate of increase of the CPI.

Suppose the rate of inflation (the percentage change in the CPI, denoted by i) for the last year amounted to i = 6%. The purchasing power of money was thus reduced by 6%. Therefore, part of your investment earnings were offset by the reduction in the purchasing power of the dollars you received at the end of the year. With a 10% interest rate, for example, after you netted out the 6% reduction in the purchasing power of money, you were left with a net increase in purchasing power of about 4%. Thus, we need to distinguish between a nominal interest rate—the growth rate of money—and a real interest rate—the growth rate of purchasing power. If we call R the nominal rate, r the real rate, and i the inflation rate, then we conclude

nominal interest rate
">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfgtaThe interest rate in terms of nominal (not adjusted for purchasing power) dollars.


real interest rate
The excess of the interest rate over the inflation rate. The growth rate of purchasing power derived from an investment.


In words, the real rate of interest is the nominal rate reduced by the loss of purchasing power resulting from inflation.
In fact, the exact relationship between the real and nominal interest rates is given by

In words, the growth factor of your purchasing power, 1 + r, equals the growth factor of your money, 1 + R, divided by the new price level that is 1 + i times its value in the previous period. The exact relationship can be rearranged to

which shows that the approximate rule overstates the real rate by the factor 1 + i.9


EXAMPLE 5.6


Real versus Nominal Rates
If the interest rate on a one-year CD is 8%, and you expect inflation to be 5% over the coming year, then using the approximation given in Equation 5.15, you expect the real rate to be r = 8% - 5% = 3%. Using the exact formula given in Equation 5.17, the real rate is , or 2.86%. Therefore, the approximation rule overstates the expected real rate by only .14 percentage points. The approximation rule of Equation 5.16 is more accurate for small inflation rates and is perfectly exact for continuously compounded rates.


The Equilibrium Nominal Rate of Interest
We've seen that the real rate of return is approximately the nominal rate minus the inflation rate. Because investor have as the basis for her decision making? .
 
Irving Fisher (1930) argued that the nominal rate ought to increase one-for-one with increases in the expected inflation rate. Using E(i) to denote the current expected inflation over the coming period, then the so-called Fisher equation is

Suppose the real rate of interest is 2%, and the inflation rate is 4%, so that the nominal interest rate is about 6%. If the expected inflation rate rises to 5%, the nominal interest rate should climb to roughly 7%. The increase in the nominal rate offsets the increase in expected inflation, giving investors an unchanged growth of purchasing power at a 2% rate.
 

CONCEPT   check5.5
 
a. Suppose the real interest rate is 3% per year, and the expected inflation rate is 8%. What is the nominal interest rate?
b. Suppose the expected inflation rate rises to 10%, but the real rate is unchanged. What happens to the nominal interest rate?

U.S. History of Interest Rates, Inflation, and Real Interest Rates
Figure 5.5 plots nominal interest rates, inflation rates, and real rates in the U.S. between 1926 and 2010. Since the mid-1950s, nominal rates have increased roughly in tandem with inflation, broadly consistent with the Fisher equation. The 1930s and 1940s, however, show us that very volatile levels of unexpected inflation can play havoc with realized real rates of return.
Table 5.3 quantifies what we see in Figure 5.5. One interesting pattern that emerges is the steady increase in the average real interest rate across the three subperiods reported in the table. Perhaps this reflects the shrinking national savings rate (and therefore reduced availability of funds to borrowers) over this period. Another striking observation from Table 5.3 is the dramatic reduction in the variability of the inflation rate and the real interest rate. This is reflected in the decline in standard deviations as well as to attract the type of party who would make the  between ln" aid="10DJ in the steady attenuation of minimum and maximum values. This reduction in variability also is related to the patterns in correlation that we observe. According to the Fisher equation, an increase in expected inflation translates directly into an increase in nominal interest rates; therefore, the correlation between nominal rates and inflation rates should be positive and high. In contrast, the correlation between real rates and inflation should be zero, because expected inflation is fully factored into the nominal interest rate and does not affect the expected real rate of return. The table indicates that during the early period, 1926-1955, market rates did not accord to this logic, possibly due to the extraordinarily high and almost certainly unforeseen variability in inflation rates. Since 1955, however, the nominal T-bill rate and inflation rate have tracked each other far more closely (as is clear from Figure 5.5), and the correlations show greater consistency with Fisher's logic.


FIGURE 5.5
Interest rates, inflation, and real interest rates, 1926-2010
Source: T-bills: Prof. Kenneth French, http://mba.tuck.dart mouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html; Inflation: Bureau of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov; Real rate: authors' calculations.



Inflation-indexed bonds called Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) were introduced in the U.S. in 1997. These are bonds of 5-to 30-year original maturities with coupons and principal that increase at the rate of inflation. (We discuss these bonds in more detail in Chapter 10.) The difference between nominal rates on conventional T-bonds and the rates on equal-maturity TIPS provides a measure of expected inflation (often called break-even inflation) over that maturity.


  TABLE 5.3   Annual rates of return statistics for U.S. T-bills, inflation, and real interest rates, 1926&#b" aid="J2CBC">

5.5   ASSET ALLOCATION ACROSS RISKY AND RISK-FREE PORTFOLIOS
History shows us that long-term bonds have been riskier investments than investments in Treasury bills and that stock investments have been riskier still. On the other hand, the riskier investments have offered higher average returns. Investors, of course, do not make all-or-nothing choices from these investment classes. They can and do construct their portfolios using securities from all asset classes.
As beyond a stipulated benchmarko  of the market simple strategy to control portfolio risk is to specify the fraction of the portfolio invested in broad asset classes such as stocks, bonds, and safe assets such as Treasury bills. This aspect of portfolio management is called asset allocation and plays an important role in the determination of portfolio performance. Consider this statement by John Bogle, made when he was the chairman of the Vanguard Group of Investment Companies:

asset allocation
Portfolio choice among broad investment classes.


The most fundamental decision of investing is the allocation of your assets: How much should you own in stock? How much should you own in bonds? How much should you own in cash reserves? . . . That decision [has been shown to account] for an astonishing 94% of the differences in total returns achieved by institutionally managed pension funds. . . . There is no reason to believe that the same relationship does not also hold true for individual investors.10

The most basic form of asset allocation envisions the portfolio as dichotomized into risky versus risk-free assets. The fraction of the portfolio placed in risky assets is called the capital allocation to risky assets and speaks directly to investor risk aversion.

capital allocation
The choice between risky and risk-free assets.

To focus on the capital allocation decision, we think about an investor who allocates funds between T-bills and a portfolio of risky assets. We can envision the risky portfolio, P, as a mutual fund or ETF (exchange-traded fund) that includes a bundle of risky assets in desired, fixed proportions. Thus, when we shift wealth into and out of P, we do not change the relative proportion of the various securities within the risky portfolio. We put off until the next chapter the question of how to best construct the risky portfolio. We call the overall portfolio composed of the risk-free asset and the risky portfolio, P, the complete portfolio that includes the entire investor's wealth.

complete portfolio
The entire portfolio including risky and risk-free assets.

The Risk-Free Asset
The power to tax and to control the money supply lets the government, and only the government, issue default-free (Treasury) bonds. The default-free guarantee by itself is not sufficient to make the bonds risk-free in real terms, since  to attract the type of party who would make the  between ln" aid="10DJinflation affects the purchasing power of the proceeds from the bonds. The only risk-free asset in real terms would be a price-indexed government bond such as TIPS. Even then, a default-free, perfectly indexed bond offers a guaranteed real rate to an investor only if the maturity of the bond is identical to the investor's desired holding period. These qualifications notwithstanding, it is common to view Treasury bills as the risk-free asset. Any inflation uncertainty over the course of a few weeks, or even months, is negligible compared to the uncertainty of stock market returns.11
In practice, most investors treat a broader range of money market instruments as effectively risk-free assets. All the money market instruments are virtually immune to interest rate risk (unexpected fluctuations in the price of a bond due to changes in market interest rates) because of their short maturities, and all are fairly safe in terms of default or credit risk.
Money market mutual funds hold, for the most part, three types of securities: Treasury bills, bank certificates of deposit (CDs), and commercial paper. The instruments differ slightly in their default risk. The yields to maturity on CDs and commercial paper, for identical maturities, are always slightly higher than those of T-bills. A history of this yield spread for 90-day CDs is shown in Figure 2.2 in Chapter 2.
Money market funds have changed their relative holdings of these securities over time, but by and large, the risk of such blue-chip, short-term investments as CDs and commercial paper is minuscule compared to that of most other assets, such as long-term corporate bonds, common stocks, or real estate. Hence, we treat money market funds, as well as T-bills, as representing the most easily accessible risk-free asset for most investors.
Portfolio Expected Return and Risk
We can examine the risk-return combinations that result from various capital allocations in the complete portfolio to risky versus risk-free assets. Finding the available combinations of risk and return is the "technical" part of capital allocation; it deals only with the opportunities available to investors. In the next section, we address the "personal preference" part of the problem, the individual's choice of the preferred risk-return combination, given his degree of risk aversion.
Since we assume that the composition of the risky portfolio, P, already has been determined, the only concern here is with the proportion of the investment budget (y) to be allocated to it. The remaining proportion (1 - y) is to be invested in the risk-free asset, which has a rate of return denoted rf.
We denote the actual risky rate of return by s beyond a stipulated benchmarko  of the marketrP, the expected rate of return on P
by E(rP), and its standard deviation by σP. In the numerical example, E(rP) = 15%, σP = 22%, and rf = 7%. Thus, the risk premium on the risky asset is E(rP) - rf = 8%.
Let's start with two extreme cases. If you invest all of your funds in the risky asset, that is, if you choose y = 1, the expected return on your complete portfolio will be 15% and the standard deviation will be 22%. This combination of risk and return is plotted as point P in Figure 5.6. At the other extreme, you might put all of your funds into the risk-free asset, that is, you choose y = 0. In this case, you would earn a riskless return of 7%. (This choice is plotted as point F in Figure 5.6.)
Now consider more moderate choices. For example, if you allocate equal amounts of your complete portfolio, C, to the risky and risk-free assets, that is, you choose y = .5, the expected return on the complete portfolio will be the average of E(rP) and rf . Therefore, E in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="
{
        margin-top:8px;
        (rC) = .5 × 7% + .5 × 15% = 11%. The risk premium of the complete portfolio is therefore 11% - 7% = 4%, which is half of the risk premium of P. The standard deviation of the portfolio also is one-half of P 's, that is, 11%. When you reduce the fraction of the complete portfolio allocated to the risky asset by half, you reduce both the risk and risk premium by half.
To generalize, the risk premium of the complete portfolio, C, will equal the risk premium of the risky asset times the fraction of the portfolio invested in the risky asset.

The standard deviation of the complete portfolio will equal the standard deviation of the risky asset times the fraction of the portfolio invested in the risky asset.

In sum, both the risk premium and the standard deviation of the complete portfolio increase in proportion to the investment in the risky portfolio. Therefore, the points that describe the risk and return of the complete portfolio for various capital allocations of y all plot on the straight line connecting F and P, as shown in Figure 5.6, with an intercept of rf and slope (rise/run) equal to the familiar Sharpe ratio of P :

 

CONCEPT   check5.6
 
What are the expected return, risk premium, standard deviation, and ratio of risk premium to standard deviation for a complete portfolio with y = .75?

The Capital Allocation Line
The line plotted in Figure 5.6 depicts the risk-return combinations available by varying capitalspan class="ital" aid="J2CIA">y. For this reason it is called the capital allocation line, or CAL. The slope, S, of the CAL equals the increase in expected return that an investor can obtain per unit of additional standard deviation or extra return per extra risk. It is obvious why it is also called the reward-to-volatility ratio, or Sharpe ratio, after William Sharpe who first suggested its use.

capital allocation line (CAL)
Plot of risk-return combinations available by varying portfolio allocation between a risk-free asset and a risky portfolio.



FIGURE 5.6
The investment opportunity set with a risky asset and a risk-free asset



Notice that the Sharpe ratio is the same for risky portfolio P and the complete portfolio that mixes P and the risk-free asset in equal proportions.

In fact, the reward-to-volatility ratio is the same for all complete portfolios that plot on the capital allocation line. While the risk-return combinations differ according to the investor's choice of y, the ratio of reward to risk is constant.
What about points on the CAL to the right of portfolio P in the investment opportunity set? You can construct complete portfolios to the right of point P by borrowing, that is, by choosing y > 1. This means that you borrow a proportion of y - 1 and invest both the borrowed funds and your own wealth in the risky portfolio P. If you can borrow at the risk-free rate, rf to attract the type of party who would make the  between ln" aid="10DJ = 7%, then your rate of return will be rC = -(y - 1)rf + y rP = rf + y(rP - rf ). This complete portfolio has risk premium of y[E(rP) - rf] and SD = y σP. Verify that your Sharpe ratio equals that of any other portfolio on the same CAL.


EXAMPLE 5.7


Levered Complete Portfolios
Suppose the investment budget is $300,000, and an investor borrows an additional $120,000, investing the $420,000 in the risky asset. This is a levered position in the risky asset, which is financed in part by borrowing. In that case

and 1 - y = 1 - 1.4 = -.4, reflecting a short position in the risk-free asset, or a borrowing position. Rather than lending at a 7% interest rate, the investor borrows at 7%. The portfolio rate of return is
 is an introduction to lfgta
Another way to find this portfolio rate of return is as follows: You expect to earn $63,000 (15% of $420,000) and pay $8,400 (7% of $120,000) in interest on the loan. Simple subtraction yields an expected profit of $54,600, which is 18.2% of your investment budget of $300,000. Therefore, E(rC) = 18.2%.
Your portfolio still exhibits the same reward-to-volatility ratio:

As you might have expected, the levered portfolio has both a higher expected return and a higher standard deviation than an unlevered position in the risky asset.


Risk Aversion and Capital Allocation
We have developed the CAL, the graph of all feasible risk-return combinations available from allocating the complete portfolio between a risky portfolio and a risk-free asset. The investor confronting the CAL now must choose one optimal combination from the set of feasible choices. This choice entails a trade-off between risk and return. Individual investors with different levels of risk aversion, given an identical capital allocation line, will choose different positions in the risky asset. Specifically, the more risk-averse investors will choose to hold less of the risky asset and more of the risk-free asset.
How can we find the best allocation between the risky portfolio and risk-free asset? Recall that a particular investor's degree of risk aversion (A) measures the price of risk she demands from the complete portfolio in which her entire wealth is invested. The compensation for risk demanded by the investor must be compared to the price of risk offered by the risky portfolio, P. We can find the investor's preferred capital allocation, y, by dividing the risky portfolio's price of risk by the investor's risk aversion, her required price of risk:

Notice that when the price of risk of the available risky portfolio exactly matches the investor's degree of risk aversion, her entire wealth will be invested in it (y = 1).
What would the investor of Equation 5.12 (with A = 3.91) do when faced with the in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="
{
        margin-top:8px;
         market index portfolio of Equation 5.13 (with price of risk = 2)? Equation 5.22 tells us that this investor would invest y = 2/3.91 = 0.51 (51%) in the market index portfolio and a proportion 1 - y = 0.49 in the risk-free asset.
Graphically, more risk-averse investors will choose portfolios near point F on the capital allocation line plotted in Figure 5.6. More risk-tolerant investors will choose points closer to P, with higher expected return and higher risk. The most risk-tolerant investors will choose portfolios to the right of point P. These levered portfolios provide even higher expected returns, but even greater risk.
The investor's asset allocation choice also will depend on the trade-off between risk and return. When the reward-to-volatility ratio increases, investors might well decide to take on riskier positions. Suppose an investor reevaluates the probability distribution of the risky portfolio and now perceives a greater expected return without an accompanying increase in the standard deviation. This amounts to an increase in the reward-to-volatility ratio or, equivalently, an increase in the slope of the CAL. As a result, this investor will choose a higher y, that is, a greater position in the risky portfolio.
One role of a professional financial adviser is to present investment opportunity alternatives to clients, obtain an assessment of the client's risk tolerance, and help determine the appropriate complete portfolio.12
5.6   PASSIVE STRATEGIES AND THE CAPITAL MARKET LINE
A passive strategy is based on the premise that securities are fairly priced, and it avoids the costs involved in undertaking security analysis. Such a strategy might at first blush appear to be naive. However, we will see in Chapter 8 that intense competition among professional money managers might indeed force security prices to levels at which further security analysis is unlikely to turn up significant profit opportunities. Passive investment strategies may make sense for many investors.

passive strategy
Investment policy that avoids security analysis.

To avoid the costs of acquiring information on any individual stock or group of stocks, we may follow a "neutrals beyond a stipulated benchmarko  of the market" diversification approach. Select a diversified portfolio of common stocks that mirrors the corporate sector of the broad economy. This results in a value-weighted portfolio, which, for example, invests a proportion in GE stock that equals the ratio of GE's market value to the market value of all listed stocks.
Such strategies are called indexing. The investor chooses a portfolio of all the stocks in a broad market index such as the S&P 500. The rate of return on the portfolio then replicates the return on the index. Indexing has become a popular strategy for passive investors. We call the capital allocation line provided by one-month T-bills and a broad index of common stocks the capital market line (CML). That is, a passive strategy using the broad stock market index as the risky portfolio generates an investment opportunity set that is represented by the CML.

capital market line
The capital allocation line using the market index portfolio as the risky asset.

Historical Evidence on the Capital Market Line
Table 5.4 is a small cut-and-paste from Table 5.3, which concentrates on S&P 500 data, a popular choice for a broad stock-market index. As we discussed earlier, the large standard deviation of its rate of return implies that we cannot reject the hypothesis that the entire 85-year period is characterized by the same Sharpe ratio. Using this history as a guide, investors might reasonably forecast a risk premium of around 8% coupled with a standard deviation of approximately 20%, resulting in a Sharpe ratio of .4.


TABLE 5.4   Excess return statistics for the S&P 500



We also have seen that to hold a complete portfolio with these risk-return characteristics, the "average" investor (with y = 1) would need to have a coefficient of risk aversion of .08/.202 = 2. But that average investor would need some courage. As the VaR figures in Table 5.4 indicate, the market index has exhibited a probability of 5% of a 36.86% or worse loss in a year; surely this is no picnic. This substantial risk, together with differences in risk aversion across individuals, might explain the large differences we observe in portfolio positions across investors.
Finally, notice the instability of the excess returns on the S&P 500 across the 30-year subperiods in Table 5.4. The great variability in excess returns raises the question of whether the 8% historical average in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="
{
        margin-top:8px;
         really is a reasonable estimate of the risk premium looking into the future. It also suggests that different investors may come to different conclusions about future excess returns, another reason for capital allocations to vary.
In fact, there has been considerable recent debate among financial economists about the "true" equity risk premium, with an emerging consensus that the historical average may be an unrealistically high estimate of the future risk premium. This argument is based on several factors: the use of longer time periods in which equity returns are examined; a broad range of countries rather than just the U.S. in which excess returns are computed (Dimson, Marsh, and Staunton, 2001); direct surveys of financial executives about their expectations for stock market returns (Graham and Harvey, 2001); and inferences from stock market data about investor expectations (Jagannathan, McGrattan, and Scherbina, 2000; Fama and French, 2002). The  some of this evidence.

On the MARKET FRONT










MEASURING THE RISK PREMIUM
The equity risk premium, i.e. the excess returns on stocks, is a key input for every risk and return model in finance. While historical returns are often used to calculate the excess return, this may be misleading in practice, and this applies to both short and long-term historical averages. In the short term, one has to bear in mind that many countries in the world have experienced periods of unusual economic growth. This applies, for example, to Germany's so-called 'Wirtschaftswunder' (economic miracle) after World War II and to the catch-up of Central and Eastern European countries after the collapse of communism or the rise of the Asian tigers in the 1990s. The risk premiums during these periods were extraordinarily high but declined afterwards. An extrapolation had therefore been misleading. Furthermore, short-term fluctuations in the risk premium may be due to time-varying discount factors, changes in risk aversion or bubbles.
Owing to its high short-term fluctuations, the risk premium is usually estimated from long samples, but this may also cause problems: the 'true' risk premium may change over time if its determinants exhibit a trend. Risk aversion and the time preference for consumption may change if the population ages, which is typical for most European countries and Japan. Liquidity may change with the evolution of the financial sector, which is a typical situation for emerging markets.
A general problem is that the necessary long samples are available for only a few countries. Plenty of work has been done for the U.S., and some for the UK. One rare contribution covering 16 international markets is Dimson et al. (2003). As a result they find (geometric average) risk premia over bonds that range from 1.8 per cent (Denmark) to 6.3 per cent (Australia and Germany) with a huge time variation, while the U.S. is located in the middle range.
SOURCE: Dimson, Elroy, P. Marsh and M. Staunton, Global evidence on the equity risk premium, Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 15(4), (2003).

Costs and Benefits of Passive Investing is an introduction to lfgta
The fact that an individual's capital allocation decision is hard does not imply that its implementation needs to be complex. A passive strategy is simple and inexpensive to implement: Choose a broad index fund or ETF and divide your savings between it and a money market fund. To justify spending your own time and effort or paying a professional to pursue an active strategy requires some evidence that those activities are likely to be profitable. As we shall see later in the text, this is much harder to come by than you might expect!
To choose an active strategy, an investor must be convinced that the benefits outweigh the cost, and the cost can be quite large. As a benchmark, annual expense ratios for index funds are around 20 and 50 basis points for U.S. and international stocks, respectively. The cost of utilizing a money market fund is smaller still, and T-bills can be purchased at no cost.
Here is a very cursory idea of the cost of active strategies: The annual expense ratio of an active stock mutual fund averages around 1% of invested assets, and mutual funds that invest in more exotic assets such as real estate or precious metals can be more expensive still. A hedge fund will cost you 1% to 2% of invested assets plus 10% or more of any returns above the risk-free rate. If you are wealthy and seek more dedicated portfolio management, costs will be even higher.
Because of the power of compounding, an extra 1% of annual costs can have large consequences for the future value of your portfolio. With a risk-free rate of 2% and a risk premium of 8%, you might expect your wealth to grow by a factor of 1.1030 = 17.45 over a 30-year investment horizon. If fees are 1%, then your net return is reduced to 9%, and your wealth grows by a factor of only 1.0930 = 13.26 over that same horizon. That seemingly small management fee reduces your final wealth by about one-quarter.
The potential benefits of active strategies are discussed in detail in Chapter 8. The news is generally not that good for active investors. However, the factors that keep the active management industry going are (1) the large potential of enrichment from successful investments—the same power of compounding works in your favor if you can add even a few basis points to total return, (2) the difficulty in assessing performance (discussed in Chapter 18), and (3) uninformed investors who are willing to pay for professional money management. There is no question that some money managers can outperform passive strategies. The problem is (1) how do you identify them and (2) do their fees outstrip their potential. Whatever the choice one makes, one thing is clear: The CML using the passive market index is not an obviously inferior choice.







SUMMARY
• Investors face a trade-off between risk and expected return. Historical data confirm our intuition that assets with low degrees of risk should provide lower returns on average than do those of higher risk.
•   in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="
{
        margin-top:8px;
        Shifting funds from the risky portfolio to the risk-free asset is the simplest way to reduce risk. Another method involves diversification of the risky portfolio. We take up diversification in later chapters.
• U.S. T-bills provide a perfectly risk-free asset in nominal terms only. Nevertheless, the standard deviation of real rates on short-term T-bills is small compared to that of assets such as long-term bonds and common stocks, so for the purpose of our analysis, we consider T-bills the risk-free asset. Besides T-bills, money market funds hold short-term, safe obligations such as commercial paper and CDs. These entail some default risk but relatively little compared to most other risky assets. For convenience, we often refer to money market funds as risk-free assets.
• A risky investment portfolio (referred to here as the risky asset) can be characterized by its reward-to-volatility ratio. This ratio is the slope of the capital allocation line (CAL), the line connecting the risk-free asset to the risky asset. All combinations of the risky and risk-free asset lie on this line. Investors would prefer a steeper-sloping CAL, because that means higher expected returns for any level of risk.
• An investor's preferred choice among the portfolios on the capital allocation line will depend on risk aversion. Risk-averse investors will weight their complete portfolios more heavily toward Treasury bills. Risk-tolerant investors will hold higher proportions of their complete portfolios in the risky asset.
• The capital market line is the capital allocation line that results from using a passive investment strategy that treats a market index portfolio, such as the Standard & Poor's 500, as the risky asset. Passive strategies are low-cost ways of obtaining well-diversified portfolios with performance that will reflect that of the broad stock market.







KEY TERMS
arithmetic average
asset allocation
capital allocation
capital allocation line (CAL)
capital market line
complete portfolio
dollar-weighted average return
excess return
expected return
geometric average
holding-period return (HPR)
inflation rate
kurtosis
mean-variance analysis
nominal interest rate
passive strategy
price of risk
probability distribution
real interest rate
risk aversion
risk-free rate
risk premium
scenario analysis
Sharpe (or reward-to-volatility) ratio
skew
standard deviation
value at risk (VaR)
variance







KEY FORMULAS
Arithmetic average of n returns: (r1 + r2 + + rn)/n
Geometric average of n returns: [(1 + r1) (1 + r2)  (1 + rn)]1/n - 1
Continuously compounded rate of return, rcc: ln(1 + Effective annual rate)
Expected return: Σ [prob(Scenario) × Return in scenario]
Variance: Σ [prob(Scenario) × (Deviation from mean in scenario)2]
Standard deviation: 
Sharpe ratio: 
Real rate of return: 
Real rate of return (continuous compounding): rnominal - Inflation rate
Optimal capital allocation to the risky asset, 







PROBLEM SETS
 Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance. Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.
Basic
1. Suppose you've estimated that the fifth-percentile value at risk of a portfolio is -30%. Now you wish to estimate the portfolio's first-percentile VaR (the value below which lie 1% of the returns). Will the 1% VaR be greater or less than -30%? (LO 5-2)
2. To estimate the Sharpe ratio of a portfolio from a history of assetJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumptiongta returns, we use the difference between the simple (arithmetic) average rate of return and the T-bill rate. Why not use the geometric average? (LO 5-4)
3. When estimating a Sharpe ratio, would it make sense to use the average excess real return that accounts for inflation? (LO 5-4)
4. You've just decided upon your capital allocation for the next year, when you realize that you've underestimated both the expected return and the standard deviation of your risky portfolio by 4%. Will you increase, decrease, or leave unchanged your allocation to risk-free T-bills? (LO 5-4)
Intermediate
5. Suppose your expectations regarding the stock market are as follows:

Use Equations 5.6-5.8 to compute the mean and standard deviation of the HPR on stocks. (LO 5-4)
6. The stock of Business Adventures sells for $25 a share. Its likely dividend payout and end-of-year price depend on the state of the economy by the end of the year as follows: (LO 5-2)

a. Calculate the expected holding-period return and standard deviation of the holding-period return. All three scenarios are equally likely.
b. Calculate the expected return and standard deviation of a portfolio invested half in Business Adventures and half in Treasury bills. The return on bills is 3%.
7. XYZ stock price and dividend history are as follows:

An investor buys six shares of XYZ at the beginning of 2010, buys another two shares at the beginning of 2011, sells one share at the beginning of 2012, and sells all seven remaining shares at the beginning of 2013. (LO 5-1)
a. What are the arithmetic and geometric average time-weighted rates of return for the investor?
b. What is the dollar-weighted rate of return? (Hint: Carefully prepare a chart of cash flows for the seven dates corresponding to the turns of the year for January 1, 2010, to January 1, 2013. If your calculator cannot calculate internal rate of return, you will have to use a spreadsheet or trial and error.)
8. a. Suppose you forecast that the standard deviation of the market return will be 20% in the coming year. If the measure of risk aversion in Equation 5.13 is A = 4, what would be a reasonable guess for the expected market risk premium?
b. What value of A is consistent with a risk premium of 9%?
c. What will happen to the risk premium if investors become more risk tolerant? (LO 5-4)
9. Using the historical risk premiums as your guide, what is your estimate of the expected annual HPR on the S&P 500 stock portfolio if the current risk-free interest rate is 4%? (LO 5-3)
10. What has been the historical average real rate of return on stocks, Treasury bonds, and Treasury bills? (LO 5-2)
11. Consider a risky portfolio. The end-of-year cash flow derived from the portfolio will be either $70,000 or $195,000, with equal probabilities of .5. The alternative riskless investment in T-bills pays 4%. (LO 5-3)
a. If you require a risk premium of 8%, how much will you be willing to pay for the portfolio?
b. Suppose the portfolio can be purchased for the amount you found in (a). What will the expected rate of return on the portfolio be?
c. Now suppose you require a risk premium of 11%. What is the price you will be willing to pay now?
d. Comparing your answers to (a) and (c), what do you conclude about the relationship between the required risk premium on a portfolio and the price at which the portfolio will sell?
For Problems 12-16, assume that you manage a risky portfolio with an expected rate of return of 12% and a standard deviation of 28%. The T-bill rate is 4%.
12. Your client chooses to invest 80% of a portfolio in your fund and 20% in a T-bill money market fund. (LO 5-3)
a. What is the expected return and standard deviation of your client's portfolio?
b. Suppose your risky portfolio includes the following investments in the given proportions:

What are the investment proportions of your client's overall portfolio, including the position in T-bills?
c. What is the reward-to-volatility ratio (S) of your risky portfolio and your client's overall portfolio?
d. Draw the CAL of your portfolio on an expected return/standard deviation diagram. What is the slope of the CAL? Show the position of your client on your fund's CAL.
13. Suppose the same client in the previous problem decides to invest in your risky portfolio a proportion (y) of his total investment budget so that his overall portfolio will have an expected rate of return of 11%. (LO 5-3)
a. What is the proportion y?
b. What are your client's investment proportions in your three stocks and the T-bill fund?
c. What is the standard deviation of the rate of return on your client's portfolio?
14. Suppose the same client as in the previous problem prefers to invest in your portfolio a proportion (y) that maximizes the expected return on the overall portfolio subject to the constraint that the overall portfolio's standard deviation will not exceed 20%. (LO 5-3)
a. What is the investment proportion, y?
b. What is the expected rate of return on the overall portfolio?
15. You estimate that a passive portfolio invested to mimic the S&P 500 stock index yields an expected rate of return of 13% with a standard deviation of 25%. Draw the CML and your fund's CAL on an expected return/standard deviation diagram. (LO 5-4)
a. What is the slope of the CML?
b. Characterize in one short paragraph the advantage of your fund over the passive fund.
16. Your client (see previous problem) wonders whether to switch the 70% that is invested in your fund to the passive portfolio. (LO 5-4)
a. Explain to your client the disadvantage of the switch.
b. Show your client the maximum fee you could charge (as a percent of the investment in your fund deducted at the end of the year) that would still leave him at least as well off investing in your fund as in the passive one. (Hint: The fee will lower the slope of your client's CAL by reducing the expected return net of the fee.)
17. What do you think would happen to the expected return on stocks if investors perceived an increase in the volatility of stocks? (LO 5-4)
18. You manage an equity fund with an expected risk premium of 14% and a standard deviation of 54%. The rate on Treasury bills is 6.8%. Your client chooses to invest $120,000 of her portfolio in your equity fund and $30,000 in a T-bill money market fund. What is the expected return and standard deviation of return on your client's portfolio? (LO 5-3)
19. What is the reward-to-volatility ratio for the equity fund in the previous problem? (LO 5-4)
For Problems 20-22, download the spreadsheet containing the data for Table 5.2, "Rates of return, 1926-2010," from www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie.


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

20. Calculate the same subperiod means and is an introduction to lfgta standard deviations for small stocks as Table 5.4 of the text provides for large stocks. (LO 5-2)
a. Have small stocks provided better reward-to-volatility ratios than large stocks?
b. Do small stocks show a similar higher standard deviation in the earliest subperiod as Table 5.4 documents for large stocks?


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

21. Convert the nominal returns on both large and small stocks to real rates. Reproduce Table 5.4 using real rates instead of excess returns. Compare the results to those of Table 5.4. (LO 5-1)


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

22. Repeat the previous problem for small stocks and compare with the results for nominal rates. (LO 5-1)
Challenge


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

23. Download the annual returns on the combined NYSE/NASDAQ/AMEX markets as well as the S&P 500 from the Online Learning Center at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie. For both indexes, calculate: (LO 5-2)
a. Average return.
b. Standard deviation of return.
c. Skew of return.
d. Kurtosis of return.
e. The 5% value at risk.
f. Based on your answers to parts (b)-(e), compare the risk of the two indexes.
 
CFA Problems

1. A portfolio of nondividend-paying stocks earned a geometric mean return of 5% between January 1, 2005, and December 31, 2011. The arithmetic mean return for the same period was 6%. If the market value of the portfolio at the beginning of 2005 was $100,000, what was the market value of the portfolio at the end of 2011? (LO 5-1)
2. Which of the following statements about the standard deviation is/are true? A standard deviation: (LO 5-2)
a. Is the square root of the variance.
b. Is denominated in the same units as the original data.
c. Can be a positive or a negative number.
3. Which of the following statements reflects the importance of the asset allocation decision to the investment process? The asset allocation decision: (LO 5-3)
a. Helps the investor decide on realistic investment goals.
b. Identifies the specific securities to include in a portfolio.
c. Determines most of the portfolio's returns and volatility over time.
d. Creates a standard by which to establish an appropriate investment time horizon.
Use the following data in answering CFA Questions 4-6.

Investor "satisfaction" with portfolio increases with expected return and decreases with variance according to the">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfgta "utility" formula: ½ .
4. Based on the formula for investor satisfaction or "utility," which investment would you select if you were risk averse with A = 4? (LO 5-4)
5. Based on the formula above, which investment would you select if you were risk neutral? (LO 5-4)
6. The variable (A) in the utility formula represents the: (LO 5-4)
a. Investor's return requirement.
b. Investor's aversion to risk.
c. Certainty equivalent rate of the portfolio.
d. Preference for one unit of return per four units of risk.
Use the following scenario analysis for stocks X and Y to answer CFA Questions 7 through 9.

7. What are the expected returns for stocks X and Y ? (LO 5-2)
8. What are the standard deviations of returns on stocks X and Y ? (LO 5-2)
9. Assume that of your $10,000 portfolio, you invest $9,000 in stock X and $1,000 in stock Y. is an introduction to lfgta What is the expected return on your portfolio? (LO 5-3)
10. Probabilities for three states of the economy and probabilities for the returns on a particular stock in each state are shown in the table below.

What is the probability that the economy will be neutral and the stock will experience poor performance? (LO 5-2)
11. An analyst estimates that a stock has the following probabilities of return depending on the state of the economy. What is the expected return of the stock? (LO 5-2)

 
WEB master
 
1.  Use data from www.finance.yahoo.com to answer the following:
a. Select the Company tab and enter the ticker symbol PC.MI (Pirelli). Click on the Profile tab to see an overview of the company.
b. What is the latest price reported in the Summary section? What is the 12-month target price reported in the Analyst Opinion section? Calculate the expected holding-period return based on these prices.
c. Use the Historical Prices section to answer: "How much would I have today if I invested €10,000 in Pirelli five years ago?" and calculate the five-year holding-period return on Pirelli's stock.
 2. From the Historical Prices tab, download Pirelli's dividend-adjusted stock price for the last 24 months. Calculate the monthly rate of return for each month, the average return, and the standard deviation of returns over that period.
 3. Calculating the real rate of return is an important part of evaluating an investment's performance. To do this, you need the nominal yield on your investment and the rate of inflation during the corresponding period.
 have as the basis for her decision making? .
a.  Go to data.worldbank.org/indicator and find the most recent Lending interest rate (%) and the Inflation, GDP deflator (annual %) figures for your country. Use these figures to obtain the real interest rate. Finally, search for the Real interest rate (%) and verify the result you obtained.
Above you calculated the realized real rate of return based on past data. To estimate the expected real rate of return before you make an investment, you can use the promised yield and the expected inflation rate. The tasks below illustrate this for the UK market.
b. Visit www.google.co.uk/savingsaccounts and click on the 1-year fixed rate bonds (these will be nominal rates).
c. Visit www.bankofengland.co.uk, click the Publications and choose first the Inflation Report and then the Fan chart data to download the latest Excel file titled Probability Distribution Table for CPI Inflation. What is the mean value of the expected inflation rate for the same quarter next year?
d. On the basis of your answers to b and c, calculate the expected real rate of return on a 1-year investment.
e. What does the result tell you about






Chapter
6

Efficient Diversification

Learning Objectives:

LO6-1 Show how covariance and correlation affect the power of diversification to reduce portfolio risk.
LO6-2 Calculate mean, variance, and covariance using either historical data or scenario analysis.
LO6-3 Construct efficient portfolios and use the Sharpe ratio to evaluate portfolio efficiency.
LO6-4 Calculate the composition of the optimal risky portfolio.
LO6-5   have as the basis for her decision making? on bond short-termUse index models to analyze the risk and return characteristics of securities and portfolios.


In this chapter we describe how investors can construct the best possible risky portfolio. The key concept is efficient diversification.
The notion of diversification is age-old. The adage "Don't put all your eggs in one basket" obviously predates formal economic theory. However, a rigorous model showing how to make the most of the power of diversification was not devised until 1952, a feat for which Harry Markowitz eventually won the Nobel Prize in Economics. This chapter is largely developed from his work, as well as from later insights that built on his work.
We start with a bird's-eye view of how diversification reduces the variability of portfolio returns. We then turn to the construction of optimal risky portfolios. We follow a top-down approach, starting with asset allocation across a small set of broad asset classes, such as stocks,2DEB"> 2% per month.
 
The last section examines the common fallacy that long-term investment horizons mitigate the impact of asset risk. We argue that the common belief in "time diversification" is in fact an illusion and is not real diversification.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

6.1   DIVERSIFICATION AND PORTFOLIO RISK
Suppose you have in your risky portfolio only one stock, say, Dell Computers. What are the sources of risk affecting this "portfolio"?
We can identify two broad sources of uncertainty. The first is the risk from general economic conditions, such as business cycles, inflation, interest rates, exchange rates, and so forth. None of these macroeconomic factors can be predicted with certainty, and all affect Dell stock. Then you must add firm-specific influences, such as Dell's success in R&D, its management style and philosophy, and so on. Firm-specific factors are those that affect Dell without noticeably affecting other firms.
Now consider adding another security to the risky portfolio. If you invest half of your risky portfolio in ExxonMobil, leaving the other half in Dell, what happens to portfolio risk? Because the firm-specific influences on the two stocks differ (statistically speaking, the influences are independent), this strategy should reduce portfolio risk. For example, when oil prices fall, hurting ExxonMobil, computer prices might rise, helping Dell. The two effects are offsetting, which stabilizes have as the basis for her decision making? .
 
But why stop at only two stocks? Diversifying into many more securities continues to reduce exposure to firm-specific factors, so portfolio volatility should continue to fall. Ultimately, however, there is no way to avoid all risk. To the extent that virtually all securities are affected by common (risky) macroeconomic factors, we cannot eliminate exposure to general economic risk, no matter how many stocks we hold.
Figure 6.1 illustrates these concepts. When all risk is firm-specific, as in Figure 6.1A, diversification can reduce risk to low levels. With all risk sources independent, and with investment spread across many securities, exposure to any particular source of risk is negligible. This is an application of the law of large numbers. The reduction of risk to very low levels because of independent risk sources is called the insurance principle.


FIGURE 6.1
Portfolio risk as a function of the number of stocks in the portfolio



When a common source of risk affects all firms, however, even extensive diversification cannot eliminate all risk. In Figure 6.1B, portfolio standard deviation falls as the number of securities increases, but it is not reduced to zero. The risk that remains even after diversification is called market risk, risk that is attributable to marketwide risk sources. Other terms are systematic risk or nondiversifiable risk. The risk that can be eliminated by diversification is called unique risk, firm-specific risk, nonsystematic risk, or diversifiable risk.

market risk, systematic risk, nondiversifiable risk
Risk factors common to the whole economy.


unique risk, firm-specific risk, nonsystematic risk, diversifiable risk
Risk that can be eliminated by diversification.

This analysis is borne out by empirical studies. Figure 6.2 shows the effect of portfolio diversification, using data on NYSE stocks. The figure shows the average standard deviations of equally weighted portfolios constructed by selecting stocks at random as a function of the number of stocks in the portfolio. On average, portfolio risk does fall with diversification, but the power of diversification to reduce risk is limit have as the basis for her decision making? .
 

On the MARKET FRONT









CONCENTRATED PORTFOLIOS AND DIVERSIFICATION
Many individual investors make the mistake of holding very concentrated portfolios. They tend to focus on companies that they recognize or feel that they know well.
Suppose Mary is a 50-year-old senior executive in a UK listed company, who manages her own pension assets in a tax-qualifying Self Invested Pension Plan (SIPP). She has the bulk of the portfolio in a combination of major UK companies that she knows (Tesco, Next, AstraZeneca, Unilever and Marks & Spencer) and a sizeable position in shares in her employer's company. She also has 5% of the portfolio invested in an Emerging Markets Fund, since this has been the best performing asset class over recent years. We can instantly spot the three big problems with such a portfolio.
Firstly, it is important that the holding in the employing company's shares accounts for only around 10% of the SIPP asset base. The clear risk otherwise is that, in the event of the company getting into difficulties, both the executive's pension and employment prospects may well be put in jeopardy.
Secondly, even with the exposure to Emerging Markets, the portfolio has too high a reliance on UK-based companies which will tend to rise and fall together as the economic cycle evolves. A broader level of international diversification would clearly therefore be prudent.
Lastly, this is an equity-only portfolio, whereas a pension plan requires a wider spread of assets including bonds and possibly also extending to commodities and hedge funds to provide additional diversification.
Historically, such diversification was hard to achieve without incurring high transaction costs. Nowadays, the existence of a wide range of Exchange Traded Funds allows for the cost-effective implementation of a diversified investment strategy.
Later in this chapter, the Treynor-Black optimisation model is outlined which provides a powerful tool for understanding how to construct such a portfolio.



FIGURE 6.2
Portfolio risk decreases as diversification increases
Source: Meir Statman, "How Many Stocks Make a Diversified Portfolio?" Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 22, September 1987.



In light of this discussion, it is worth pointing out that general macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. do not move in lockstep with those in abnormal returns.
 
6.2   ASSET ALLOCATION WITH TWO RISKY ASSETS
In the last chapter we examined the capital allocation decision, how much of the portfolio to place in risk-free securities versus in a risky portfolio. Of course, investors need to choose the precise composition of the risky portfolio. In a top-down process, the first step would be an asset allocation decision. As the other nearby box, "The need for asset allocation," illustrates, most professionals need to recognize that strategic asset allocation must take precedence over the choice of particular stocks.
We turn first to asset allocation between only two risky assets, still assumed to be a bond fund and a stock fund. Once we understand the portfolios of two risky assets, we will reintroduce the choice of the risk-free asset. This will complete the asset allocation problem across the three key asset classes: stocks, bonds, and T-bills. Constructing efficient portfolios of many risky securities is a straightforward extension of this asset allocation exercise.

On the MARKET FRONT









THE NEED FOR ASSET ALLOCATION
Long-term portfolio performance for investors depends to a large extent on strategic asset allocation. Asset allocation is considered to be the most important feature in an investment portfolio. Research by JP Morgan Fleming showed that many investors do not have a clear understanding of the term. Martin Porter, global head of equities at JP Morgan Fleming, expressed concern that a high proportion of investors do not know what it means (Warwick-Ching, 2004).
The bear market in equities in the last few years has provided strong examples of the need to allocate a portfolio that diversifies risk and maximizes investment opportunity. Asset allocation will be different among individuals depending on their future capital needs, income and their degree of risk tolerance. For instance, to build a lump sum over 20 years will require higher allocation to long-term growth investments, like investment in stocks.
Strategic asset allocation concerns the proportion of different assets to be held in a portfolio to earn a specific level of risk and return. For example, a UK investor might carry out a long-term strategic asset allocation by investing 50 per cent in equities, 25 per cent in bonds, 15 per cent in cash and the rest in commodities and hedge funds. Some investors might even want to do tactical asset allocation to exploit temporary economic and market conditions and enhance profits.
A careful UK-based investor who is close to retirement may wish to invest a higher proportion of his investment in domestic bonds rather than in domestic and foreign equities. On the other hand a much younger UK-based investor might be more aggressive in investing and invest a higher amount in domestic and overseas equities and a small proportion in bonds.
Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfretabox-tx" aid="K0RUM">Traditional asset allocation is generally through balanced managed funds. Generally investors invest the bulk of their assets in a mainstream index tracker fund and allocate the rest to higher risk funds. The next step after asset allocation is to decide on the style of investment, passive or active, within each asset class.
SOURCES: Flood, C. Investors advised to focus on asset allocation, The Financial Times, (December 6, 2011).
Vincent, M. A step by step guide to asset allocation, The Financial Times, (July 10, 2009).
Warwick-Ching, L. The art of asset allocation, The Financial Times, (January 31, 2004).

Covariance and Correlation
To optimally construct a portfolio from risky assets, we need to understand how the uncertainties of asset returns interact. A key determinant of portfolio risk is the extent to which the returns on the two assets vary either in tandem or in opposition. Portfolio risk depends on the covariance between the returns of the assets in the portfolio. We can see why using a simple scenario analysis.
The scenario analysis in Spreadsheet 6.1 posits four possible scenarios for the economy: a severe recession, a mild recession, normal growth, and a boom. The performance of stocks follows the broad economy, returning, respectively, -37%, -11%, 14%, and 30% in the four scenarios. In contrast, bonds perform best in a mild recession, returning 15% (since falling interest rates create capital gains), and in the normal growth scenario, where their return is 8%. They suffer from defaults in severe recession, resulting in a negative return, -9%, and from inflation in the boom scenario, where their return is -5%. Notice that bonds outperform stocks in both the mild and severe recession scenarios. In both normal growth and boom scenarios, stocks outperform bonds.


SPREADSHEET 6.1
Capital market expectations for the stock and bond funds





The expected return on each fund equals the probability-weighted average of the outcomes in the four scenarios. The last row of Spreadsheet 6.1 shows that the expected return of the stock fund is 10% and that of the bond fund is 5%. The variance is the probability-weighted average of the squared deviation of actual return from the expected return; the standard deviation is the square root of the variance. These values are computed in Spreadsheet 6.2.


SPREADSHEET 6.2
abnormal returns.
Variance of returns





What about the risk and return characteristics of a portfolio made up from the stock and bond funds? The portfolio return is the weighted average of the returns on each fund with weights equal to the proportion of the portfolio invested in each fund. Suppose we form a portfolio with 40% invested in the stock fund and 60% in the bond fund. Then the portfolio return in each scenario is the weighted average of the returns on the two funds. For example

which appears in cell C6 of Spreadsheet 6.3.


SPREADSHEET 6.3
Performance of a portfolio invested in the stock and bound funds





Spreadsheet 6.3 shows the rate of return of the portfolio in each scenario. Notice that both funds suffer in a severe downturn and, therefore, the portfolio also experiences a substantial loss of 20.2%. This is a manifestation of systematic risk affecting a broad spectrum of securities. Declines of more than 25% in the S&P 500 Index have occurred five times in the past 86 years (1930, 1931, 1937, 1974, and 2008), roughly once every 17 years. Avoiding losses in these extreme outcomes would require one to devote a large allocation of the portfolio to risk-free (low return) investments or (expensive) portfolio insurance (which we will discuss in Chapter 16). Extreme events such as a severe recession make for the large standard deviation of stocks, 18.63%, and even of bonds, 8.27%. Still, the overall standard deviation of the diversified portfolio, 6.65%, is considerably smaller than that of stocks and even smaller than that of bonds.
The low risk of the portfolio is due to the inverse relationship between the performances of the stock and bond funds. In a mild recession, stocks fare poorly, but this is offset by the large positive return of the  but stocks do very well. Notice that while the portfolio's expected return is just the weighted average of the expected return of the two assets, the portfolio standard deviation is actually lower than that of either component fund.
Portfolio risk is reduced most when the returns of the two assets most reliably offset each other. The natural question investors should ask, therefore, is how one can measure the tendency of the returns on two assets to vary either in tandem or in opposition to each other. The statistics that provide this measure are the covariance and the correlation coefficient.
The covariance is calculated in a manner similar to the variance. Instead of multiplying the difference of an asset return from its expected value by itself (i.e., squaring it), we multiply it by the deviation of the other asset return from  have as the basis for her decision making? .
its expectation. The sign and magnitude of this product are determined by whether deviations from the mean move together (i.e., are both positive or negative in the same scenarios) and whether they are small or large at the same time.
We start in Spreadsheet 6.4 with the deviation of the return on each fund from its expected value. For each scenario, we multiply the deviation of the stock fund return from its mean by the deviation of the bond fund. The product will be positive if both asset returns exceed their respective means or if both fall short of their respective means. The product will be negative if one asset exceeds its mean return when the other falls short. Spreadsheet 6.4 shows that the stock fund return in a mild recession falls short of its expected value by 21%, while the bond fund return exceeds its mean by 10%. Therefore, the product of the two deviations is -21 × 10 = -210, as reported in column E. The product of deviations is negative if one asset performs well when the other is performing poorly. It is positive if both assets perform well or poorly in the same scenarios.


SPREADSHEET 6.4
Covariance between the returns of the stock and bond funds





The probability-weighted average of the products is called covariance and measures the average tendency of the asset returns to vary in tandem, that is, to co-vary. The formula for the covariance of the returns on the stock and bond funds is given in Equation 6.1. Each particular scenario in this equation is labeled or "indexed" by i. In general, i ranges from scenario 1 to S (the total number of scenarios; here, S = 4). The probability of each scenario is denoted p(i).

The covariance of the stock and bond funds is computed in the next-to-last line of Spreadsheet 6.4 using Equation 6.1. The negative value for the covariance indicates that the two assets, on average, vary inversely; when one performs well, the other tends to perform poorly.
Like variance, the unit of covariance is percent square, which is why it is difficult to interpret its magnitude. For instance, does the covariance of -74.8 in cell F7 indicate that the inverse relationship in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="  Equity Valuation between the returns on stock and bond funds is strong? It's hard to say. An easier statistic to interpret is the correlation coefficient, which is the covariance divided by the product of the standard deviations of the returns on each fund. We denote the correlation coefficient by the Greek letter rho, ρ.

Correlation is a pure number and can range from values of -1 to +1. A correlation of -1 indicates that one asset's return varies perfectly inversely with the other's. If you were to do a linear regression of one asset's return on the other, the slope coefficient would be negative and the R-square of the regression would be 100%, indicating a perfect fit. The R-square is the square of the correlation coefficient and tells you the fraction of the variance of one return explained by the other return. With a correlation of -1, you could predict 100% of the variability of one asset's return if you knew the return on the other asset. Conversely, a correlation of +1 would indicate perfect positive correlation and also would imply an R-square of 100%. A correlation of zero indicates that the returns on the two assets are unrelated. The correlation coefficient of ρSB = -.49 in Equation 6.2 confirms the tendency of the returns on the stock and bond funds to vary inversely. In fact, a fraction of (-.49)2 = .24 of the variance of stocks can be explained by the returns on bonds.
Equation 6.2 shows that whenever the covariance is called for in a calculation we can replace it with the following expression using the correlation coefficient:

We are now in a position to derive the risk and return features of portfolios of risky assets.
 

CONCEPT   check6.1
 
Suppose the rates of return of the bond portfolio in the four scenarios of Spreadsheet 6.1 are -10% in a severe recession, 10% in a mild recession, 7% in a normal period, and 2% in a boom. The stock returns in the four scenarios are -37%, -11%, 14%, and 30%. What are the covariance and correlation coefficient between the rates of return on the two portfolios?

to attract the type of party who would make the  between -the-money callUsing Historical Data
We've seen that portfolio risk and return depend on the means and variances of the component securities, as well as on the covariance between their returns. One way to obtain these inputs is a scenario analysis as in Spreadsheets 6.1-6.4. A common alternative approach to produce these inputs is to make use of historical data. The idea is that variability and covariability change slowly over time. Thus, if we estimate these statistics from recent data, our estimates will provide useful predictions for the near future—perhaps next month or next quarter.
In this approach, we use realized returns to estimate variances and covariances. Means cannot be as precisely estimated from past returns. We discuss mean returns in great detail later. The estimate of variance is the average value of the squared deviations around the sample average; the estimate of the covariance is the average value of the cross-product of deviations. Notice that, as in scenario analysis, the focus for risk is on deviations of returns from their average value. Instead of using mean returns based on the scenario analysis, we use average returns during the sample period. We can illustrate this approach with a simple example.
Two comments on Example 6.1 are in order. First, you may recall from a statistics class and from Chapter 5 that when variance is estimated from a sample of n observed returns, it is common to divide the squared deviations by n - 1 rather than by n. This is because we take deviations from an estimated average return rather than the true (but unknown) expected return; this procedure is said to adjust for a "lost degree of freedom." In Excel, the function STDEVP computes standard deviation dividing by n, while the function STDEV uses n - 1. Excel's covariance and correlation functions both use n. In Example 6.1, we ignored this fine point, and divided by n throughout. In any event, the correction for the lost degree of freedom is negligible when there are plentiful observations. For example with 60 returns (e.g., five years of monthly data), the difference between dividing by 60 or 59 will affect variance or covariance by a factor of only 1.017.


EXAMPLE 6.1


Using Historical Data to Estimate Means, Standard Deviations, Covariance, and Correlation
Consider the 10 years of returns for the two mutual funds presented in the following spreadsheet. While these are far less data than most analysts would use, for the sake of illustration we will pretend that they are adequate to estimate mean returns and relevant risk statistics. In practice, analysts would use higher-frequency data (e.g., monthly or even daily data) to estimate risk coefficients and wou is an introduction to lfretald, as well, supplement historical data with fundamental analysis to forecast future returns.
The spreadsheet starts with the raw return data in columns B and C. We use standard Excel functions to obtain average returns, standard deviation, covariance, and correlation (see rows 18-21). We also confirm (in cell F14) that covariance is the average value of the product of each asset's deviation from its mean return.
The average returns and standard deviations in this spreadsheet are similar to those of our previous scenario analysis. However, the correlation between stock and bond returns in this example is low but positive, which is more consistent with historical experience than the strongly negative correlation of -.49 implied by our scenario analysis.



Second, we repeat the warning about the statistical reliability of historical estimates. Estimates of variance and covariance from past data are generally reliable forecasts (at least for the short term). However, averages of past returns typically provide highly noisy (i.e., imprecise) forecasts of future expected returns. In this example, we use past averages from small samples because our objective is to demonstrate the methodology. In practice, professional investors spend most of their resources on macroeconomic and security analysis to improve their estimates of mean returns.
 

CONCEPT   check6.2
 
The following tables present returns on various pairs of stocks in several periods. In part A, we show you a scatter diagram of the returns on the first pair of stocks. Draw (or prepare in Excel) similar scatter diagrams for cases B through E. Match up your diagrams (A-E) to the following list of correlation coefficients by choosing the correlation that best describes the relationship between the returns on the two stocks: ρ = -1, 0, .2, .5, 1.0.


The Three Rules of Two-Risky-Assets Portfolios
Suppose a proportion denoted by wB is invested in the bond fund and the remainder 1 - wB, denoted by wS, is invested in the stock fund. The properties of the portfolio are determined by the following three rules governing combinations of random variables:
Rule 1: The rate of return on a portfolio is the weighted average of returns on the component securities, with the investment proportions as weights.

Rule 2: The expected rate of return on a portfolio is the weighted average of the expected returns on the component securities, with the portfolio proportions as weights.

Rules 1 and 2 say that a portfolio's actual return and its mean return are linear functions of the component security returns and portfolio weights. This is not so for portfolio variance, as the third rule shows.
Rule 3: The variance of the rate of return on a two-risky-asset portfolio is

where ρBS is the correlation coefficient between the returns on the stock and bond funds. Notice that using Equation 6.3, we may replace the last term in Equation 6.6 with 2wBwSCov(rB, rS).
The variance of a portfolio is the sum of the contributions of the component security variances plus a term that involves the correlation coefficient (and hence, covariance) between the returns on the component securities. We know from the last section why this last term arises. When the correlation between the component securities is small or negative, there will be a greater tendency for returns on the two assets to offset each other. This will reduce portfolio risk. Notice in Equation 6.6 that portfolio variance is lower when the correlation coefficient is lower.
The formula describing portfolio variance is more complicated than that describing portfolio return. This complication has a virtue, however: a tremendous potential for gains from diversification.
The Risk-Return Trade-Off with Two-Risky-Assets Portfolios
We can assess the benefit from diversification by using Rules 2 and 3 to compare the risk and expected return of a better-diversified portfolio to a less diversified benchmark. Suppose an investor abnormal returns.
 

Currently, all funds are invested in the bond fund, but the invester ponders a portfolio invested 40% in stock and 60% in bonds. Using Rule 2, the expected return of this portfolio is

which represents a gain of 2% compared to a bond-only investment. Using Rule 3, the portfolio standard deviation is

which is less than the weighted average of the component standard deviations: .4 × 19 + .6 × 8 = 12.40%. The difference of 2.64% reflects the benefits of diversification. This benefit is cost-free in the sense that diversification allows us to experience the full contribution of the stock's higher expected return, while keeping the portfolio standard deviation below the average of the component standard deviations.
We can find investment proportions that will reduce portfolio risk even further. The risk-minimizing proportions are 90.7% in bonds and 9.3% in stocks.1 With these proportions, the portfolio standard deviation will be 7.80%, and the portfolio's expected return will be 5.47%.
Is this portfolio preferable to the one considered in Example 6.2, with 15% in the stock fund? That depends on investor preferences, because the portfolio with the lower variance also has a lower expected return.


EXAMPLE 6.2


Benefits from Diversification
Suppose we invest 85% in bonds and only 15% in stocks. We can construct a portfolio with an expected return higher than bonds (.85 × 5) + (.15 × 10) = 5.75% and, at the same time, a standard deviation less than bonds. Using Equation 6.6 again, we find that the portfolio variance is

and, accordingly, the portfolio standard deviation is  which is less than the standard deviation of either bonds or stocks alone. Taking on a more volatile asset (stocks) actually reduces portfolio risk! Such is the power of diversification.


What the analyst can and must do is show investors the entire  have as the basis for her decision making? .
investment opportunity set. This is the set of all attainable combinations of risk and return offered by portfolios formed using the available assets in differing proportions. We find the investment opportunity set using Spreadsheet 6.5. Columns A and B set out several different proportions for investments in the stock and bond funds. The next columns present the portfolio expected return and standard deviation corresponding to each allocation. These risk-return combinations are plotted in Figure 6.3.

investment opportunity set
Set of available portfolio risk-return combinations.



SPREADSHEET 6.5
The investment opportunity set with the stock and bond funds







FIGURE 6.3
The investment opportunity set with the stock and bond funds



The Mean-Variance Criterion
Investors desire portfolios that lie to the "northwest" in Figure 6.3. These are portfolios with high expected returns (toward the "north" of the figure) and low volatility (to the "west"). These preferences mean that we can compare portfolios using a mean-variance criterion in the following way: Portfolio A is said to dominate portfolio B if all investors prefer A over B. This will be the case if it has higher mean return and lower variance or standard deviation:

Graphically, when we plot the expected return and standard deviation of each portfolio in Figure 6.3, portfolio A will lie to the northwest of B. Given a choice between portfolios A and B, all investors would choose A. For example, the stock fund in Figure 6.3 dominates portfolio Z; the stock fund has higher expected return and lower volatility.
Portfolios that lie below the minimum-variance portfolio in the figure can therefore be rejected out of hand as inefficient. Any portfolio on the downward-sloping portion of the curve (including the bond fund) is "dominated" by the portfolio that lies directly above it on the upward-sloping portion of the curve since that portfolio has higher expected return and equal standard deviation. The best choice among the portfolios on the upward-sloping portion of the curve is not as obvious, because in this region higher expected return is accompanied by greater risk. We will discuss the best choice when we introduce the risk-free asset to the portfolio decision.
So far we have assumed a correlation of .2 between stock and bond returns. We know that low correlations aid diversification and that a higher correlation coefficient results in a reduced effect of diversification. What are the implications of perfect positive correlation between bonds and stocks?
A correlation coefficient of 1 simplifies Equation 6.6 for portfolio variance. Looking at it again, you will see that substitution of ρBS = 1 allows us to "complete the square" of the quantities wBσB and wSσS to obtain

The portfolio standard deviation is a weighted average of the component security standard deviations only in the special case of perfect positive correlation. In this circumstance, there are no gains to be had from diversification. Both the portfolio mean and the standard deviation are simple weighted averages. Figure 6.4 shows the opportunity set with perfect positive correlation—a straight line through the component securities. No portfolio can be discarded as inefficient in this case, and the choice among portfolios depends only on risk aversion. Diversification in the case of perfect positive correlation is not effective.


FIGURE 6.4
Investment opportunity sets for bonds and stocks with various correlation coefficients



Perfect positive correlation is the only case in which there is no benefit from diversification. Whenever ρ < 1, the portfolio standard deviation is less than the weighted averages beyond a stipulated benchmarko  wide range of  of the standard deviations of the component securities. Therefore, there are benefits to diversification whenever asset returns are less than perfectly positively correlated.
Our analysis has ranged from very attractive diversification benefits (ρBS < 0) to no benefits at all (ρBS = 1). For ρBS within this range, the benefits will be somewhere in between.
A realistic correlation coefficient between stocks and bonds based on historical experience is actually around .20. The expected returns and standard deviations that we have so far assumed also reflect historical experience, which is why we include a graph for ρBS = .2 in Figure 6.4. Spreadsheet 6.6 enumerates some of the points on the various opportunity sets in Figure 6.4. As the figure illustrates, ρBS = .2 is a lot better for diversification than perfect positive correlation and a bit worse than zero correlation.


SPREADSHEET 6.6
Investment opportunity set for stocks and bonds with various correlation coefficients





Negative correlation between a pair of assets is also possible. When correlation is negative, there will be even greater diversification benefits. Again, let us start with the extreme. With perfect negative correlation, we substitute ρBS = -1 in Equation 6.6 and simplify it by completing the square:

and, therefore,

The right-hand side of Equation 6.7 denotes the absolute value of wB σB - wS σS. The solution involves the absolute value because standard deviation cannot be negative.
With perfect negative correlation, the benefits from abnormal returns.
2 With our data, this will happen when wB = 70.37%. While exposing us to zero risk, investing 29.63% in stocks (rather than placing all funds in bonds) will still increase the portfolio expected return from 5% to 6.48%. Of course, we can hardly expect results this attractive in reality.
 

CONCEPT   check6.3
 
Suppose that for some reason you are required to invest 50% of your portfolio in bonds and 50% in stocks. Use the data on mean returns and standard deviations in Spreadsheet 6.5 to answer the following questions.
a. If the standard deviation of your portfolio is 10%, what must be the correlation coefficient between stock and bond returns?
b. What is the expected rate of return on your portfolio?
c. Now suppose that the correlation between stock and bond returns is .22 instead of the value you found in part (a) but that you are free to choose whatever portfolio proportions you desire. Are you likely to be better or worse off than you were in part (a)?

6.3   THE OPTIMAL RISKY PORTFOLIO WITH A RISK-FREE ASSET
Now we can expand the asset allocation problem to include a risk-free asset. Let us continue to use the input data from Spreadsheet 6.5. Suppose then that we are still confined to the risky bond and stock funds but now can also invest in T-bills yielding 3%. When we add the risk-free asset to a stock-plus-bond risky portfolio, the resulting opportunity set is the straight line that we called the CAL (capital allocation line) in Chapter 5. We now consider various CALs constructed from risk-free bills and a variety of possible risky portfolios, each formed by combining the stock and bond funds in alternative proportions.
We start in Figure 6s beyond a stipulated benchmarko  wide range of .5 with the opportunity set of risky assets constructed only from the bond and stock funds. The lowest-variance risky portfolio is labeled MIN (denoting the minimum-variance portfolio). CALMIN is drawn through it and shows the risk-return trade-off with various positions in T-bills and portfolio MIN. It is immediately evident from the figure that we could do better (i.e., obtain a higher Sharpe ratio) by using portfolio A instead of MIN as the risky portfolio. CALA dominates CALMIN, offering a higher expected return for any level of volatility. Spreadsheet 6.6 (see bottom panel of column E) shows that portfolio MIN's expected return is 5.46% and its standard deviation (SD) is 7.80%. Portfolio A (row 10 in Spreadsheet 6.6) offers an expected return of 6% with an SD of 8.07%.


FIGURE 6.5
The opportunity set of stocks, bonds, and a risk-free asset with two capital allocation lines



The slope of the CAL is the Sharpe ratio of the risky portfolio, that is, the ratio of excess return to standard deviation:

This is the rate at which the investor can increase expected return by accepting higher portfolio standard deviation. With a T-bill rate of 3% we obtain the Sharpe ratio of the two portfolios:

The higher ratio for portfolio A compared to MIN measures the improvement it offers in the risk-return trade-off.
But why stop at portfolio A? We can continue to ratchet the CAL upward until it reaches the ultimate point of tangency with the investment opportunity set. This must yield the CAL with the highest feasible reward-to-volatility (Sharpe) ratio. Therefore, the tangency portfolio (O) in Figure 6.6 is the optimal risky portfolio to mix with T-bills, which may be defined as the risky portfolio resulting in the highest possible CAL.

optimal risky portfolio
The best combination of risky assets to be mixed with safe assets to form the complete portfolio.

Figure 6.6 clearly shows the improvement in the risk-return trade-off obtained with CALO. For any portfolio standard deviation, CALO offers a higher expected return than is attainable from the opportunity set constructed only from the risky bond and stock funds.


FIGURE 6.6
The optimal capital allocation line with bonds, stocks, and T-bills



To find the composition of the optimal risky portfolio, O, we search for weights in the stock and bond funds that maximize the portfolio's Sharpe ratio. With only two risky assets, we can solve for the optimal portfolio weights using the following formula:

Using the risk premiums (expected excess return over the risk-free rate) of the stock and bond funds, their standard deviations, and the correlation between their returns in Equation 6.10, we find that the weights of the optimal portfolio are wB(O) = .568 and wS(O) = .432. Using these weights, Equations 6.5, 6.6, and 6.8 imply that E(rO) = 7.16%, σO = 10.15%, and therefore the Sharpe ratio of the optimal portfolio (the slope of its CAL) is

This Sharpe ratio is significantly higher than those provided by either the bond or stock portfolios alone.
In the last chapter we saw that the preferred complete portfolio formed from a risky portfolio and a risk-free asset depends on the investor's risk aversion. More risk-averse investors prefer low-risk portfolios despite the lower expected return, while more risk-tolerant investors choose higher-risk, higher-return portfolios. Both investors, however, will choose portfolio O as their risky portfolio since it results in the highest return per unit of risk, that is, the steepest capital allocation line. Investors will  abnormal returns.
O and the risk-free asset.
Figure 6.7 shows one possible choice for the preferred complete portfolio, C. The investor places 55% of wealth in portfolio O and 45% in Treasury bills. The rate of return and volatility of the portfolio are


FIGURE 6.7
The complete portfolio




We found above that the optimal risky portfolio O is formed by mixing the bond fund and stock fund with weights of 56.8% and 43.2%. Therefore, the overall asset allocation of the complete portfolio is as follows:

Figure 6.8 depicts the overall asset allocation. The allocation reflects considerations of both efficient diversification (the construction of the optimal risky portfolio, O) and risk aversion (the allocation of funds between the risk-free asset and the risky portfolio O to form the complete portfolio, C).


FIGURE 6.8
The composition of the complete portfolio: The solution to the asset allocation problem



 

CONCEPT   check6.4
 
A universe of securities includes a risky stock (X), a stock-index fund (M), and T-bills. The data for the universe are:



< to attract the type of party who would make the  between -the-money callp id="sec041" class="h1">  6.4   EFFICIENT DIVERSIFICATION WITH MANY RISKY ASSETS
We extend the two-risky-assets portfolio methodology to the case of many risky assets and a risk-free asset in three steps. First, we extend the two-risky-assets opportunity set to many assets. Next we determine the optimal risky portfolio that supports the steepest CAL, that is, maximizes its Sharpe ratio. Finally, we choose a complete portfolio on CALO based on the investor's risk aversion by mixing the risk-free asset with the optimal risky portfolio.
The Efficient Frontier of Risky Assets
To get a sense of how additional risky assets can improve investment opportunities, look at Figure 6.9. Points A, B, and C represent the expected returns and standard deviations of three stocks. The curve passing through A and B shows the risk-return combinations of portfolios formed from those two stocks. Similarly, the curve passing through B and C shows portfolios formed from those two stocks. Now observe point E on the AB curve and point F on the BC curve. These points represent two portfolios chosen from the set of AB and BC combinations. The curve that passes through E and F in turn represents portfolios constructed from portfolios E and F. Since E and F are themselves constructed from A, B, and C, this curve shows some of the portfolios constructed from these three stocks. Notice that curve EF extends the investment opportunity set to the northwest, which is the desired direction is an introduction to lfreta.


FIGURE 6.9

0SM2">Portfolios constructed with three stocks (A, B, and C)



Now we can continue to take other points (each representing portfolios) from these three curves and further combine them into new portfolios, thus shifting the opportunity set even farther to the northwest. You can see that this process would work even better with more stocks. Moreover, the boundary or "envelope" of all the curves thus developed, will lie quite away from the individual stocks in the northwesterly direction, as shown in Figure 6.10.


FIGURE 6.10
The efficient frontier of risky assets and individual assets



The analytical technique to derive the efficient set of risky assets was developed by Harry Markowitz in 1951 and ultimately earned him the Nobel Prize in Economics. We sketch his approach here.
First, we determine the risk-return opportunity set. The aim is to construct the northwesternmost portfolios in terms of expected return and standard deviation from the universe of securities. The inputs are the expected returns and standard deviations of each asset in the universe, along with the correlation coefficients between each pair of assets. These data come from security analysis, to be discussed in Part Four. The graph that connects all the northwesternmost portfolios is called the efficient frontier of risky assets. It represents the set of portfolios that offers the highest possible expected rate of return for each level of portfolio standard deviation. These portfolios may be viewed as efficiently diversified. One such frontier is shown in Figure 6.10.

efficient frontier
Graph representing a set of portfolios that maximizes expected return at each level of portfolio risk.

There are three ways to produce the efficient frontier. We will sketch each in a way that allows you to participate and gain insight into the logic and mechanics of the efficient frontier: Please take a pencil and paper and draw the graph as you follow along with our discussion. For each method, first draw the horizontal axis for portfolio standard deviation and the vertical axis for risk premium. We focus on the risk premium (expected excess returns), R, rather than total returns, r, so that the risk-free asset will lie at the origin (with zero SD and zero risk premium). We begin with the minimum-variance portfolio—mark it as point G (for global minimum variance). Imagine that G 's coordinates are .10 (SD = 10%) and .03 (risk premium = 3%); this is your first point on the efficient frontier. Later, we add detail about how to find these coordinates.
The three ways to draw the efficient frontier are (1) maximize the risk premium for any level of SD; (2) minimize the SD for any level of risk premium; and (3) maximize the Sharpe ratio for any level of SD (or risk premium).
For the first method, maximizing the risk premium for any level of SD, draw a few vertical lines to the right of G (there can be no portfolio with SD less than G 's). Choose the vertical line drawn at SD = 12%; we therefore search for the portfolio with the highest possible expected return consistent with an SD of 12%. So we give the computer an assignment to maximize the risk premium subject to two constraints: (i) The portfolio weights sum to 1 (this is called the feasibility constraint, since any legitimate portfolio must have weights that sum to 1), and (ii) the portfolio SD must match the constraint value, σ = .12. The optimization software searches over all portfolios with σ = .12 and finds the highest feasible portfolio on the vertical line drawn at σ = .12; this is the portfolio with the highest risk premium. Assume that for this portfolio R = .04. You now have your second point on the efficient frontier. Do the same for other vertical lines to the right of .12, and when you "connect the dots," you will have drawn a frontier like that in Figure 6.10.
The second method is to minimize the SD for any level of risk premium. Here, you need to draw a few horizontal lines above G (portfolios lying below G are inefficient because they offer a lower risk premium and higher variance than G). Draw the first horizontal line at R = .04. Now the computer's assignment is to minimize the SD subject to the usual feasibility constraint. But in this method, we replace the constraint on SD by one on the portfolio's risk premium (R = .04). Now the computer seeks the portfolio that is farthest to the left along the to attract the type of party who would make the  between -the-money call horizontal line—this is the portfolio with the lowest SD consistent with a risk premium of 4%. You already know that this portfolio must be at σ = .12, since the first point on the efficient frontier that you found using method 1 was (σ, R) = (.12, .04). Repeat this approach using other risk premiums, and you will find other points along the efficient frontier. Again, connect the dots and you will have the frontier of Figure 6.10.
The third approach to forming the efficient frontier, maximizing the Sharpe ratio for any SD or risk premium, is easiest to visualize by revisiting Figure 6.5. Observe that each portfolio on the efficient frontier provides the highest Sharpe ratio, the slope of a ray from the risk-free rate, for any choice of SD or expected return. Let's start by specifying the SD constraint, achieved by using the vertical lines to the right of G. To each line, we draw rays from the origin at ever-increasing slopes, and we assign the computer to find the feasible portfolio with the highest slope. This is similar to sliding up the vertical line to find the highest risk premium. We must find the same frontier as that found with either of the first two methods. Similarly, we could instead specify a risk-premium constraint and construct rays from the origin to horizontal lines. We assign the computer to find the feasible portfolio with the highest slope to the given horizontal line. This is similar to sliding to the left on horizontal lines in method 2.
We started the efficient frontier from the minimum-variance portfolio, G. G is found with a program that minimizes SD subject only to the feasibility constraint. This portfolio has the lowest SD for any risk premium, which is why it is called the "global" minimum-variance portfolio. By the same principle, the optimal portfolio, O, will maximize the Sharpe ratio globally, subject only to the feasibility constraint. Any individual asset ends up inside the efficient frontier, because single-asset portfolios are inefficient—they are not efficiently diversified.
Various constraints may preclude a particular investor from choosing portfolios on the efficient frontier, however. If an institution is prohibited by law from taking short positions in any asset, for example, the portfolio manager must add constraints to the computer-optimization program that rule out negative (short) positions.
Short-sale restrictions are only one possible constraint. Some clients may want to ensure a minimum level of expected dividend yield. In this case,Journal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumptionreta input data must include a set of expected dividend yields. The optimization program is made to include a constraint to ensure that the expected portfolio dividend yield will equal or exceed the desired level. Another common constraint forbids investments in companies engaged in "undesirable social activity." This constraint implies that portfolio weights in these companies must equal zero.
In principle, portfolio managers can tailor an efficient frontier to meet any particular objective. Of course, satisfying constraints carries a price tag. An efficient frontier subject to additional constraints will offer a lower reward-to-volatility (Sharpe) ratio. Clients should be aware of this cost and may want to think twice about constraints that are not mandated by law.
Deriving the efficient frontier and graphing it with any number of assets and any set of constraints is quite straightforward. For a not-too-large number of assets, the efficient frontier can be computed and graphed even with a spreadsheet program.
The spreadsheet program, available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie, can easily incorporate restrictions against short sales imposed on some portfolio managers. To impose this restriction, the program simply requires that each weight in the optimal portfolio be greater than or equal to zero. One way to see whether the short-sale constraint actually matters is to find the efficient portfolio without it. If one or more of the weights in the optimal portfolio turn out negative, we know the short-sale restrictions will result in a different efficient frontier with a less attractive risk-return trade-off.
Choosing the Optimal Risky Portfolio
The second step of the optimization plan involves the risk-free asset. Using the current risk-free rate, we search for the capital allocation line with the highest Sharpe ratio (the steepest slope), as shown in Figures 6.5 and 6.6.
The CAL formed from the optimal risky portfolio (O) will be tangent to the efficient frontier of risky assets discussed above. This CAL dominates all feasible CALs. Portfolio O, therefore, is the optimal risky portfolio. Because we know that an investor will choose a point on the CAL that mixes the optimal risky portfolio with T-bills, there is actually no need to either provide access to or derive the entire efficient frontier. Therefore, as a practical matter, rather than solving for the entire efficient frontier, we can proceed directly to determining the optimal portfolio. This requires maximizing the Sharpe ratio subject only to the feasibility constraint. The "global" maximum-Sharpe-ratio portfolio is the optimal portfolio O. The ray from the origin to O "financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfretaand beyond is the optimal CAL.
The Preferred Complete Portfolio and the Separation Property
Finally, in the third step, the investor chooses the appropriate mix between the optimal risky portfolio (O) and T-bills, exactly as in Figure 6.7.
A portfolio manager will offer the same risky portfolio (O) to all clients, no matter what their degrees of risk aversion. Risk aversion comes into play only when clients select their desired point on the CAL. More risk-averse clients will invest more in the risk-free asset and less in the optimal risky portfolio O than less risk-averse clients, but both will use portfolio O as the optimal risky investment vehicle.
This result is called a separation property, introduced by James Tobin (1958), the 1983 Nobel Laureate for Economics: It implies that portfolio choice can be separated into two independent tasks. The first task, to determine the optimal risky portfolio (O), is purely technical. Given a particular set of input data, the best risky portfolio is the same for all clients regardless of risk aversion. The second task, construction of the complete portfolio from bills and portfolio O, is personal and depends on risk aversion. Here the client is the decision maker.

separation property
The property that implies portfolio choice can be separated into two independent tasks: (1) determination of the optimal risky portfolio, which is a purely technical problem, and (2) the personal choice of the best mix of the risky portfolio and the risk-free asset.

Optimal risky portfolios for different clients may vary because of constraints on short sales, dividend yield, tax considerations, or other client preferences. Our analysis, though, suggests that a few portfolios may be sufficient to serve the demands of a wide range of investors. We see here the theoretical basis of the mutual fund industry. If the optimal portfolio is the same for all clients, professional management is more efficient and less costly. One management firm can serve a number of clients with relatively small incremental administrative costs.
The (computerized) optimization technique is the easiest part of portfolio construction. When different managers use different input data, they will develop different efficient frontiers and offer different "optimal" portfolios. Therefore, the real arena of the competition among portfolio managers is in the sophisticated security analysis that produces the input estimates. The rule of GIGO (garbage in-garbage out) applies fully to portfolio selection. If the quality of the security analysis is  is an introduction to lfretapoor, a passive portfolio such as a market-index fund will yield better results than an active portfolio tilted toward seemingly favorable securities.
Constructing the Optimal Risky Portfolio: An Illustration
To illustrate how the optimal risky portfolio might be constructed, suppose an analyst wished to construct an efficiently diversified global portfolio using the stock market indices of six countries. The top panel of Table 6.1 shows the input list. The values for standard deviations and the correlation matrix are estimated from recent historical data, while forecasts of risk premiums are generated from fundamental analysis. Examination of the table shows the U.S. index portfolio has the highest Sharpe ratio. China and Japan have the lowest, and the correlation of France and Germany with the U.S. is high. Given these data, one might be tempted to conclude that, perhaps, U.S. investors may not benefit much from international diversification during this period. But even in this sample period, we will see that diversification is beneficial.


  TABLE 6.1   Efficient frontiers for international diversification with and without short sales and CAL with short sales



Panel B shows the efficient frontier developed as follows: First we generate the global minimum-variance portfolio G by minimizing the SD with just the feasibility constraint, and then we find portfolio O by maximizing the Sharpe ratio subject only to the same constraint. To fill out the curve, we choose more risk premiums; for each, we maximize the Sharpe ratio subject to the feasibility constraint as well as the appropriate risk-premium constraint. In all, we have 13 points to draw the graph in Figure 6.11, one of which is the global maximum-Sharpe-ratio portfolio, O.


FIGURE 6.11
Efficient frontiers and CAL from Table 6.1



The results are quite striking. Observe that the SD of the global minimum-variance portfolio of 10.94% is far lower than that of the lowest-variance country (the U.K.), which has an SD of 14.93%. G is formed by taking short positions in Germany and France, as well as a large position in the relatively low-risk U.K. Moreover, the Sharpe ratio of this portfolio is higher than that of all countries but the U.S! Still, even this portfolio will be rejected in favor of the highest  to attract the type of party who would make the  between -the-money callSharpe-ratio portfolio.
Portfolio O attains a Sharpe ratio of .4477, compared to the U.S. ratio of .4013, a significant improvement that can be verified from the CAL shown in Panel C. The points shown on the CAL have the same SD as those on the efficient frontier portfolios, so the risk premium for each equals the SD times the Sharpe ratio of portfolio O.3 Notice that portfolio (9) on the CAL has the same risk premium as the U.S., 6%, but an SD of 13.41%, fully 1.5% less than the 14.95% SD of the U.S. All this is achieved while still investing 76% of the portfolio in the U.S., although it does require a large short position in France (-29.99%).
Many institutional investors are prohibited from taking short positions, and individuals may be averse to large short positions because the unlimited upward potential of stock prices implies unlimited potential losses on short sales. Panel D shows the efficient frontier when an additional constraint is applied to each portfolio, namely, that all weights must be nonnegative.
Take a look at the two frontiers in Figure 6.11. The no-short-sale frontier is clearly inferior on both ends. This is because both very low-return and very high-return frontier portfolios will typically entail short positions. At the low-return/low-volatility end of the frontier, portfolios have short positions in stocks with a high correlation and low risk premium that reduce variance at low cost to expected return. At the other (high expected return) end of the frontier, we find short positions in low-risk-premium stocks in favor of larger positions in high-risk-premium stocks. At the same time, the no-short-sale frontier is restricted to begin with the lowest-risk-premium country (Japan) and end with the highest (Germany). Without short sales, we cannot achieve lower or higher risk premiums than are offered by these portfolios. Intermediate-return portfolios on each frontier, including the optimal portfolio, O, are not far apart. Thus, even under the no-short-sale constraint, the Sharpe ratio (.4439) is still higher than that of the U.S. portfolio. The no-short-sale CAL can match the U.S. risk premium of 6% with an SD of only 13.52%, still 1.4% less than the SD of the U.S.
 

CONCEPT   check6.5
 
Two portfolio managers work for competing investment management houses. Each employs security analysts to prepare input data for the construction of the optimal portfolio. When all is completed, the efficient frontier obtained by manager A dominates that of manager B in that A's optimal risky portfolio lies northwest of B's. Is the more attractive efficient frontier asserted by manager A evidence that she really employs better security analysts?

6.5   A SINGLE-INDEX STOCK MARKET
We started this chapter with the distinction between systematic and firm-specific risk. Systematic risk is macroeconomic, affecting all securities, while firm-specific risk factors affect only one particular firm or, at most, a cluster of firms. Index models are statistical models designed to estimate these two components of risk for a particular security or portfolio. The first to use an index model to explain the benefits of diversification was another Nobel Prize winner, William F. Sharpe (1963). We will introduce his major work (the capital asset pricing model) in the next chapter.

index model
Model that relates stock returns to returns on both a broad market index and firm-specific factors.

The popularity of index models is due to their practicality. To construct the efficient frontier from a universe of 100 securities, we would need to estimate 100 expected returns, 100 variances, and 100 × 99/2 = 4,950 covariances. And a universe of 100 securities is actually quite small. A universe of 1,000 securities would require estimates of 1,000 × 999/2 = 499,500 covariances, as well as 1,000 expected returns and variances. Assuming that one common factor is responsible for all the covariability of stock returns, with all other variability due to firm-specific factors, dramatically simplifies the analysis.
Let us use Ri to denote the excess return on a security, that is, the rate of return in excess of the risk-free rate: Ri = ri - rf . Then we can express the distinction between macroeconomic and firm-specific factors by decomposing this excess return in some holding period into three components:4

excess return
Rate of return in excess of the risk-free rate.


The first two terms on the right-hand side of Equation 6.11 reflect the impact of two sources of uncertainty. RM is the excess return on a broad market index (the S&P 500 is commonly used for this purpose), so vJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumptionretaariation in this term reflects the influence of economywide or macroeconomic events that generally affect all stocks to greater or lesser degrees. The security's beta, βi, is the typical response of that particular stock's excess return to changes in the market index's excess return. As such, beta measures a stock's comparative sensitivity to macroeconomic news. A value greater than 1 would indicate a stock with greater sensitivity to the economy than the average stock. These are known as cyclical stocks. Betas less than 1 indicate below-average sensitivity and therefore are known as defensive stocks. Recall that the risk attributable to the stock's exposure to uncertain market returns is called market or systematic risk, because it relates to the uncertainty that pervades the whole economic system.

beta
The sensitivity of a security's returns to the market factor.

The term ei in Equation 6.11 represents the impact of firm-specific or residual risk. The expected value of ei is zero, as the impact of unexpected events must average out to zero. Both residual risk and systematic risk contribute to the total volatility of returns.

firm-specific or residual risk
Component of return variance that is independent of the market factor.

The term αi in Equation 6.11 is not a risk measure. Instead, αi represents the expected return on the stock beyond any return induced by movements in the market index. This term is called the security alpha. A positive alpha is attractive to investors and suggests an underpriced security: Among securities with identical sensitivity (beta) to the market index, securities with higher alpha values will offer higher expected returns. Conversely, stocks with negative alphas are apparently overpriced; for any value of beta, they offer lower expected returns.

alpha
A stock's expected return beyond that induced by the market index; its expected excess return when the market's excess return is zero.

In sum, the index model separates the realized rate of return on a security into macro (systematic) and micro (firm-specific) components. The excess rate of return on each security is the sum of three components:

Because the firm-specific component of the stock return is uncorrelated with the market return, we can write the variance of the excess return of the stock as5

Therefore, the total variance of the rate of return of each security is a sum of two components:
1. The variance attributable to the uncertainty of the entire market. This variance depends on both the variance of and the beta of the stock on RM.
2. The variance of the firm-specific return, ei, which is independent of market performance.
This single-index model is convenient. It relates security returns to a market index that investors follow. Moreover, as we soon shall see, its usefulness goes beyond mere convenience.
Statistical and Graphical Representation of the Single-Index Model
Equation 6.11, Ri = αi + βi RM + ei, may be interpreted as a single-variable regression equation of Ri on the market excess return RM. The excess return on the security (Ri) is the dependent variable that is to be explained by the regression. On the right-hand side of the equation are the intercept αi ; the regression (slope) coefficient beta, βi is an introduction to lfreta, multiplying the independent (explanatory) variable RM ; and the residual (unexplained) return, ei. We plot this regression in Figure 6.12, which shows a scatter diagram for Dell's excess return against the excess return of the market index.


FIGURE 6.12
Scatter diagram for Dell



The horizontal axis of the scatter diagram measures the explanatory variable, here the market excess return, RM. The vertical axis measures the dependent variable, here Dell's excess return, RD. Each point on the scatter diagram represents a sample pair of returns (RM, RD) observed over a particular holding period. Point T, for instance, describes a holding period when the excess return was 17% for the market index and 27% for Dell.
Regression analysis uses a sample of historical returns to estimate the coefficients (alpha and beta) of the index model. The analysis finds the regression line, shown in Figure 6.12, that minimizes the sum of the squared deviations around it. Hence, we say the regression line "best fits" the data in the scatter diagram. The line is called the security characteristic line, or SCL.

security characteristic line
Plot of a security's predicted excess return from the excess return of the market.

The regression intercept (αD) is measured from the origin to the intersection of the regression line with the vertical axis. Any point on the vertical axis represents zero market excess return, so the intercept gives us the expected excess return on Dell when market return was "neutral," that is, equal to the T-bill return. The intercept in Figure 6.12 is 4.5%.
in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="  Equity ValuationThe slope of the regression line, the ratio of the rise to the run, is called the regression coefficient or simply the beta. In Figure 6.12, Dell's beta is 1.4. A stock beta measures systematic risk since it predicts the response of the security to each extra 1% return on the market index.
The regression line does not represent actual returns; points on the scatter diagram almost never lie exactly on the regression line. Rather, the line represents average tendencies; it shows the expectation of RD given the market excess return, RM. The algebraic representation of the regression line is

which reads: The expectation of RD given a value of RM equals the intercept plus the slope coefficient times the value of RM.
Because the regression line represents expectations and these expectations may not be realized (as the scatter diagram shows), the actual returns also include a residual, ei. This surprise (at point T, for example) is measured by the vertical distance between the point of the scatter diagram and the regression line. The expected return on Dell, given a market return of 17%, would have been 4.5% + 1.4 × 17% = 28.3%. The actual return was only 27%, so point T falls below the regression line by 1.3%.
Equation 6.12 shows that the greater the beta of a security, that is, the greater the slope of the regression, the greater the systematic risk and total variance. Because the market is composed of all securities, the typical response to a market movement must be one for one. An "aggressive" investment will have a beta higher than 1; that is, the security has above-average market risk.6 Conversely, securities with betas lower than 1 are called defensive.
A security may have a negative beta. Its regression line will then slope downward, in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="  Equity Valuation meaning that, for more favorable macro events (higher RM), we would expect a lower return, and vice versa. The latter means that when the macro economy goes bad (negative RM) and securities with positive beta are expected to have negative excess returns, the negative-beta security will shine. The result is that a negative-beta security provides a hedge against systematic risk.
The dispersion of the scatter of actual returns about the regression line is determined by the residual variance σ2(eD). The magnitude of firm-specific risk varies across securities. One way to measure the relative importance of systematic risk is to measure the ratio of systematic variance to total variance.

where ρ is the correlation coefficient between RD and RM. Its square measures the ratio of explained variance to total variance, that is, the proportion of total variance that can be attributed to market fluctuations. But if beta is negative, so is the correlation coefficient, an indication that the explanatory and dependent variables are expected to move in opposite directions.
At the extreme, when the correlation coefficient is either 1 or -1, the security return is fully explained by the market return and there are no firm-specific effects. All the points of the scatter diagram will lie exactly on the line. This is called perfect correlation (either positive or negative); the return on the security is perfectly predictable from the market return. A large correlation coefficient (in absolute value terms) means systematic variance dominates the total variance; that is, firm-specific variance is relatively unimportant. When the correlation coefficient is small (in absolute value terms), the market factor plays a relatively unimportant part in explaining the variance of the asset, and firm-specific factors dominate.
 

CONCEPT   check6.6
 
Interpret the eight scatter diagrams of Figure 6.13 in terms of systematic risk, diversifiable risk, and the intercepts beyond a stipulated benchmarko  wide range of .

Example 6.3 on the following page illustrates how you can use a spreadsheet to estimate the single-index model from historical data.


EXAMPLE 6.3


Estimating the Index Model Using Historical Data
The direct way to calculate the slope and intercept of the characteristic lines for ABC and XYZ is from the variances and covariances. Here, we use the Data Analysis menu of Excel to obtain the covariance matrix in the following spreadsheet.
The slope coefficient for ABC is given by the formula

This result also can be obtained by using the "Regression" command from Excel's Data Analysis menu, as we show at the bottom of the spreadsheet. The minor differences between the direct regression output and our calculations above are due to rounding error.



Diversification in a Single-Index Security Market
Imagine a portfolio that is divided equally among securities whose returns follow the single-index model of Equation 6.11. What are the systematic and nonsystematic variances of this portfolio?
The beta of the portfolio is a simple average of the individual security betas; hence, the systematic variance equals  This is the level of market risk in Figure 6.1B. The market variance  and the beta of the portfolio determine its market risk.


FIGURE 6.13
Various scatter diagrams



The systematic component of each security return, βi RM, is driven by the market factor and therefore is perfectly correlated with the systematic part of any other security's return. Hence, there are no diversification effects on systematic risk no matter how many securities are involved. As far as market risk goes, a single security has the same systematic riskJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumptionreta as a diversified portfolio with the same beta. The number of securities makes no difference.
It is quite different with firm-specific risk. Consider a portfolio of n securities with weights,  in securities with nonsystematic risk,  . The nonsystematic portion of the portfolio return is

Because the firm-specific terms, ei, are uncorrelated, the portfolio nonsystematic variance is the weighted sum of the individual firm-specific variances:7

Each individual nonsystematic variance is multiplied by the square of the portfolio weight. With diversified portfolios, the squared weights are very small. For example, if wi = .01 (think of a portfolio with 100 securities), then  = .0001. The sum in Equation 6.15 is far less than the average firm-specific variance of the stocks in the portfolio. We conclude that the impact of nonsystematic risk becomes negligible as the number of securities grows and the portfolio becomes ever-more diversified. This is why the number of securities counts more than the size of their nonsystematic variance.
In sum, when we control the systematic risk of the portfolio by manipulating the average beta of the component securities, the number of securities is of no consequence. But for nonsystematic risk the number of securities is more important than the firm-specific variance of the securities. Sufficient diversification can virtually eliminate firm-specific risk. Understanding this distinction is essential to understanding the role of diversification.
We have just seen that when forming highly diversified portfolios, firm-specific risk becomes irrelevant. Only systematic risk remains. This means that for diversified investors, the relevant risk measure for a security will be the security's beta, β, since firms with higher β have greater sensitivity to market risk. As Equation 6.12 makes clear, systematic risk will be determined by both market volatility,  abnormal returns.
 and the firm's β.
 

CONCEPT   check6.7
 
a. What is the characteristic line of XYZ in Example 6.3?
b. Does ABC or XYZ have greater systematic risk?
c. What proportion of the variance of XYZ is firm-specific risk?

Using Security Analysis with the Index Model
Imagine that you are a portfolio manager in charge of the endowment of a small charity. Without the resources to engage in security analysis, you would choose a passive portfolio comprising one or more index funds and T-bills. Denote this portfolio as M. You estimate its standard deviation as σM and acquire a forecast of its risk premium as RM. Now you find that you have sufficient resources to perform fundamental analysis on one stock, say Google. You forecast Google's risk premium as RG and estimate its beta (βG) and residual SD, σ(eG), against the benchmark portfolio M. How should you proceed?
Without access to other securities, all you can do is construct the optimal portfolio (with the highest Sharpe ratio) from M and Google using Equation 6.10. It turns out that the index model allows us to further simplify Equation 6.10.
Notice that your forecast of RG implies that Google's alpha is Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfreta">αG = RG - βGRM. We use two key statistics αG /σ2(eG) and  to find the position of Google in the optimal risky portfolio in two steps. In step 1, we compute

In step 2, we adjust the value from Equation 6.16 for the beta of Google:

The Sharpe ratio of this portfolio exceeds that of the passive portfolio M, SM, according to

We see that the improvement over the passive benchmark is determined by the ratio αG /σ(eG), which is called Google's information ratio. This application of the index model is called the Treynor-Black model, after Fischer Black and Jack Treynor who proposed it in 1973.

information ratio
Ratio of alpha to the standard deviation of the residual.

The value of the Treynor-Black model becomes dramatic when you analyze more than one stock. To compute the optimal portfolio comprising the benchmark portfolio and more than two stocks, you would need to use the involved Markowitz methodology of Section 6.4. But with the Treynor-Black model, the task is straightforward. You can view Google in the previous discussion as your active portfolio. If instead of Google alone you analyze several stocks, a portfolio of these stocks would make up your active portfolio, which then would be mixed with the passive index. You would use the alpha, beta, and residual SD of the active portfolio in Equations 6.16-6.18 to obtain the weights of the optimal portfolioJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumptionreta, O, and its Sharpe ratio. Thus, the only task left is to determine the exact composition of the active portfolio, as well as its alpha, beta, and residual standard deviation.

active portfolio
The portfolio formed by optimally combining analyzed stocks.

Suppose that in addition to analyzing Google, you analyze Dell's stock (D) and estimate its alpha, beta, and residual variance. You estimate the ratio for Google, αG /σ2(eG), the corresponding ratio for Dell, and the sum of these ratios for all stocks in the active portfolio. Using Google and Dell,

Treynor and Black showed that the optimal weight of each security in the active portfolio should be

Notice that the active portfolio entails two offsetting considerations. On the one hand, a stock with a higher alpha value calls for a high weight to take advantage of its attractive expectedr hand, a high residual variance leads us to temper our position in the stock to avoid bearing firm-specific risk.
The alpha and beta of the active portfolio are weighted averages of each component stock's alpha and beta, and the residual variance is the weighted sum of each stock's residual variance, using the squared portfolio weights:

Given these parameters, we can now use Equations 6.16-6.18 to determine the weight of the active portfolio in the optimal portfolio and the Sharpe ratio it achieves.


EXAMPLE 6.5


The Treynor-Black Model
Suppose your benchmark portfolio is the S&P 500 Index. The input list in Panel A of Table 6.2 includes the data for the passive index as well as the two stocks, Google and Dell. Both stocks have positive alpha values, so you would expect the optimal portfolio to be tilted toward these stocks. However, the tilt will be limited to avoid excessive exposure to otherwise-diversifiable firm-specific risk. The optimal trade-off maximizes the Sharpe ratio. We use the Treynor-Black model to accomplish this task.
We begin in Panel B assuming that the active portfolio comprises solely Google, which has an information ratio of .115. This "portfolio" is then combined with the passive index to form the optimal risky portfolio as in Equations 6.16-6.18. The calculations in Table 6.2 show that the optimal portfolio achieves a Sharpe ratio of .20, compared with .16 for the passive benchmark. This optimal portfolio is invested 43.64% in Google and 56.36% in the benchmark.
In Panel C, we add Dell to the list of actively analyzed stocks. The optimal weights of each stock in the active portfolio are 55.53% in Google and 44.47% in Dell. This gives the active portfolio an information ratio of .14, which improves the Sharpe ratio of the optimal portfolio to .24. The optimal portfolio invests 91.73% in the active portfolio and 8.27% in the index. This large tilt is acceptable because the residual standard deviation of the active portfolio (6.28%) is far less than that of either stock. Finally, the optimal portfolio weight in Google is 50.94% and in Dell, 40.79%. Notice that the weight in Google is now larger than its weight without Dell! This, too, is a result of diversification within the active position that allows a larger tilt toward Google's large alpha.




  TABLE 6.2   Construction of optimal portfolios using the index model



6.6   RISK OF LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS
So far we have envisioned portfolio investment for one period. We have not made any explicit assumptions about the duration of that period, so one might take it to be of any length, and thus our analysis would seem to apply as well to long-term investments. Yet investors are frequently advised that stock investments for the long run are not as risky as it might appear from the statistics presented in this chapter and the previous one. To understand this widespread misconception, we must first understand what the alternative long-term investment strategies are.
Risk and Return with Alternative Long-Term Investments
We have not yet had much to say about the investor's time horizon. From the standpoint of risk and return,8 does it matter whether an investor's horizon is long or short? A common misconception is that long-term investors should allocate a greater proportion of wealth into stocks simply because in some sense stocks are less risky over long-term horizons. This belief that stocks become less risky over longer horizons is based on a notion of "time diversification," that spreading your risky investments over many time periods offers a similar benefit in risk reduction as spreading an investment budget over many assets in a given period (the subject we have worked on throughout this chapter). That belief, however, is incorrect. in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="  Equity Valuation
We can gain insight into risk in the long run by comparing one-year ("short-term") and two-year ("longer-term") risky investments. Imagine an investment opportunity set that is identical in each of the two years. It includes a risky portfolio with a normally distributed, continuously compounded, annual risk premium of R and variance of σ2. The one-year Sharpe ratio is therefore S1 = R/σ, and the one-year price of risk is P1 = R/σ2. Investors can allocate their portfolios between that risky portfolio and a risk-free asset with zero risk premium and variance.9 As we learned from Table 5.2, we can safely assume that the stock portfolio returns are serially uncorrelated.
Of course, you cannot properly compare a one-year to a two-year investment without specifying what the one-year investor will do in the second year. To make the comparisons meaningful, we compare the strategies of three investment companies that advertise three alternative two-year investment strategies: Company 1 calls its strategy "Two-In": Invest everything in the risky portfolio for two years. Company 2 touts its "One-In" strategy: In one year invest fully in the risk-free asset, and in the other year invest fully in the risky portfolio. Finally, Company 3 advocates a "Half-in-Two" strategy: In both years, invest half the investment budget in the risk-free asset and the other half in the risky portfolio. We must decide which strategy is best.
Recall that both the mean and variance of continuously compounded, serially uncorrelated returns (or excess returns) grow in proportion to the length of the holding period. We show the rate-of-return statistics for the three strategies in Table 6.3. The risk premium is zero for bills and R for the risky portfolio, so the first row of the table shows the accumulation of the investor's risk premium over two years using each strategy. Similarly, the second row shows the accumulation of the variance of the investor's wealth.


  TABLE 6.3   Two-year risk premium, variance, Sharpe ratio, and price of risk for three strategies



We see immediately that risk is not lower for longer-term investors. A two-year investment in stocks (the Two-In strategy) has twice the variance as the One-In strategy. This observation already should settle the debate of whether total risk in the long run is smaller—it clearly is not. Rather, it grows proportionally over time: The two-year investment in the risky portfolio has double the variance of the one-year investment.
While the One-In investment is less risky than the Two-In strategy, an even safer investment strategy that still offers the same risk premium as One-In is the Half-in-Two strategy, which invests half the investor's wealth in stocks in each of the two years. This has only one-half the variance of One-In and only one-fourth the variance of Two-In. When less risk than Two-In is desired, spreading the risk evenly over time, rather than lumping all the risk into a concentrated period (as the One-In strategy does), is the best strategy. This is evident from the Sharpe ratios of each strategy (line 3 of the table): The Sharpe ratio of Half-in-Two exceeds that of One-In by a multiple of . Does this mean that Half-in-Two actually does offer a meaningful benefit of time diversification? Put differently, does Half-in-Two allow investors to prudently allocate greater portfolio shares to the risky portfolio? Surprisingly, the answer is no. Even this more limited notion of time diversification is faulty.
We will compare investors' optimal capital allocations under each of these strategies. However, we can dismiss the One-In strategy out of hand, as it clearly is dominated by the Half-in-Two strategy, which has equal risk premium with only half the variance. Therefore, we need only compare Two-In with Half-in-Two. We established earlier that an investor with a degree of risk aversion A will allocate a fraction of overall wealth to the risky portfolio equal to . For Two-In, that fraction is , while for Half-in-Two, it is . So the Half-in-Two strategy gets double the allocation as All-In; but remember that Half-in-Two is only half as heavily invested in the risky portfolio. These effects precisely cancel out: The higher risk and return of Two-In are precisely offset by the investor's reduced allocation to it. So the Half-in-Two strategy that seems to offer the benefit of time diversification does not in fact elicit a greater overall allocation to the risky portfolio.
Would it matter if we extended the horizon from two years to some greater value? With a horizon of T years, a "time diversification strategy" (we must now change our strategy from "Half in Two" to "1/T s beyond a stipulated benchmarko  wide range of in T ") puts at risk 1/T of the budget each year. The price of risk of the time-diversified strategy is TR/σ2, compared to only R/σ2 for the All-In strategy. Will this elicit greater investments in the risky portfolio as T increases? Once again, the telling point is that the time-diversified portfolio has no better Sharpe ratio than the fully invested All-In portfolio: The Sharpe ratio for both strategies is now  Any investor will invest with the time-diversified strategy T times the fraction he would with the All-In T-year strategy; the net effect is that these alternatives are for all practical purposes equivalent. The investor choosing between these two alternatives is simply sliding up or down the CAL. Despite its higher price of risk, the overall allocation to the risky portfolio is not higher for the time-diversified portfolio.
Why the Unending Confusion?
It is no secret that the vast majority of financial advisers believe that "stocks are less risky if held for the long run," and so advise their clients. Their reasoning is this: The risk premium grows at the rate of the horizon, T. The standard deviation grows at the slower rate of only . The fact that risk grows more slowly than the risk premium is evident from the Sharpe ratio, , which grows with the investment horizon.
This story sounds compelling, and in fact it contains no mathematical error. However, it is only half the story. Time diversification seems to offer a better risk-return trade-off (a higher Sharpe ratio) if you compare the All-In to the "One-In" strategy that invests all in one year and nothing later. But the relevant alternative to All-In is 1/T in T. The long-term 1/T in T investment strategy falls on the same "time CAL" as the All-In strategy, since it uses the same risky portfolio for the entire horizon. When this strategy is on the menu,  in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="  Equity Valuationcomplete portfolio allocations will not shift toward risky investments even as the investor's horizon extends.10







SUMMARY
• The expected rate of return of a portfolio is the weighted average of the component asset expected returns with the investment proportions as weights.
• The variance of a portfolio is a sum of the contributions of the component-security variances plus terms involving the covariance among assets.
• Even if correlations are positive, the portfolio standard deviation will be less than the weighted average of the component standard deviations, as long as the assets are not perfectly positively correlated. Thus, portfolio diversification is of value as long as assets are less than perfectly correlated.
• The contribution of an asset to portfolio variance depends on its correlation with the other assets in the portfolio, as well as on its own variance. An asset that is perfectly negatively correlated with a portfolio can be used to reduce the portfolio variance to zero. Thus, it can serve as a perfect hedge.
• The efficient frontier of risky assets is the graphical representation of the set of portfolios that maximizes portfolio expected return for a given level of portfolio standard deviation. Rational investors will choose a portfolio on the efficient frontier.
• A portfolio manager identifies the efficient frontier by first establishing estimates for the expected returns and standard deviations and determining the correlations among them. The input data are then fed into an optimization program that produces the investment proportions, expected returns, and standard deviations of the portfolios on the efficient frontier.
• In general, portfolio managers will identify different efficient portfolios because of differences in the methods and quality of security analysis. Managers compete on the quality of their security analysis relative to their management fees.
• If a risk-free asset is available and input data are identical, all investors will choose the same portfolio on the efficient frontier, the one that is tangent to the CAL. All abnormal returns.
 
• The single-index model expresses the excess return on a security as a function of the market excess return: Ri = αi + βiRM + ei. This equation also can be interpreted as a regression of the security excess return on the market-index excess return. The regression line has intercept αi and slope βi and is called the security characteristic line.
• In a single-index model, the variance of the rate of return on a security or portfolio can be decomposed into systematic and firm-specific risk. The systematic component of variance equals β2 times the variance of the market excess return. The firm-specific component is the variance of the residual term in the index-model equation.
• The beta of a portfolio is the weighted average of the betas of the component securities. A security with negative beta reduces the portfolio beta, thereby reducing exposure to market volatility. The unique risk of a portfolio approaches zero as the portfolio becomes more highly diversified.







KEY TERMS
active portfolio
alpha
beta
diversifiable risk
efficientJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumptionreta frontier
excess return
firm-specific risk
index model
information ratio
investment opportunity set
market risk
nondiversifiable risk
nonsystematic risk
optimal risky portfolio
residual risk
security characteristic line
separation property
systematic risk
unique risk







KEY FORMULAS
The expected rate of return on a portfolio: 
The variance of the return on a portfolio: 
The Sharpe ratio of a portfolio: 
Sharpe ratio maximizing portfolio weights with two risky assets (B and S) and a risk-free asset:

The index-model equation: ">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfreta
Decomposition of variance based on the index-model equation: 

Percent of security variance explained by the index return = the square of the correlation coefficient of the regression of the security on the market:

Optimal position in the active portfolio, A:

Optimal weight of a security, G, in the active portfolio: 
PROBLEM SETS
 Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance. Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.
 
Basic

1. In forming a portfolio of two risky assets, what must be true of the correlation coefficient between their returns if there are to be gains from diversification? Explain. (LO 6-1)
2. When adding a risky asset to a portfolio of many risky assets, which property of the asset is more important, its standard deviation or its covariance with the other assets? Explain. (LO 6-1)
3. A portfolio's expected return is 12%, its standard deviation is 20%, and the risk-free rate is 4%. Which of the following would make for the greatest increase in the portfolio's Sharpe ratio? (LO 6-3)
a. An increase of 1% in expected return.
b. A decrease of 1% in the risk-free rate.
c. A decrease of 1% in its standard deviation.
Journal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumptionreta4. An investor ponders various allocations to the optimal risky portfolio and risk-free T-bills to construct his complete portfolio. How would the Sharpe ratio of the complete portfolio be affected by this choice? (LO 6-3)
Intermediate
5. The standard deviation of the market-index portfolio is 15%. Stock A has a beta of 2.2 and a residual standard deviation of 25%. (LO 6-5)
a. What would make for a larger increase in the stock's variance: an increase of .2 in its beta or an increase of 3.84% (from 30% to 33%) in its residual standard deviation?
b. An investor who currently holds the market-index portfolio decides to reduce the portfolio allocation to the market index to 90% and to invest 10% in stock A. Which of the changes in (a) will have a greater impact on the portfolio's standard deviation?
6. Suppose that the returns on the stock fund presented in Spreadsheet 6.1 were -40%, -14%, 17%, and 33% in the four scenarios. (LO 6-2)
a. Would you expect the mean return and variance of the stock fund to be more than, less than, or equal to the values computed in Spreadsheet 6.2? Why?
b. Calculate the new values of mean return and variance for the stock fund using a format similar to Spreadsheet 6.2. Confirm your intuition from part (a).
c. Calculate the new value of the covariance between the stock and bond funds using a format similar to Spreadsheet 6.4. Explain intuitively the change in the covariance.
7. Use the rate-of-return data for the stock and bond funds presented in Spreadsheet 6.1, but now assume that the probability of each scenario is as follows: severe recession: .10; mild recession: .20; normal growth: .35; boom: .35. (LO 6-2)
a. Would you expect the mean return and variance of the stock fund to be more than, less than, or equal to the values computed in Spreadsheet 6.2? Why?
b. Calculate the new values of mean return and variance for the stock fund using a format similar to Spreadsheet 6.2. Confirm your intuition from part (a).
c. Calculate the new value of the covariance between the stock and bond funds using a format similar to Spreadsheet 6.4. Explain intuitively why the absolute have as the basis for her decision making? .

 
The following data apply to Problems 8-12.
A pension fund manager is considering three mutual funds. The first is a stock fund, the second is a long-term government and corporate bond fund, and the third is a T-bill money market fund that yields a sure rate of 4.8%. The probability distributions of the risky funds are:


The correlation between the fund returns is .13.
8. Tabulate and draw the investment opportunity set of the two risky funds. Use investment proportions for the stock fund of 0% to 100% in increments of 20%. What expected return and standard deviation does your graph show for the minimum-variance portfolio? (LO 6-2)
9. Draw a tangent from the risk-free rate to the opportunity set. What does your graph show for the expected return and standard deviation of the optimal risky portfolio? (LO 6-3)

10. What is the reward-to-volatility ratio of the best feasible CAL? (LO 6-3)
11. Suppose now that your portfolio must yield an expected return of 15% and be efficient, that is, on the best feasible CAL. (LO 6-4)
a. What is the standard deviation of your portfolio?
b. What is the proportion invested in the T-bill fund and each of the two risky funds?
12. If you were to use only the two risky funds and still require an expected return of 12%, what would be the investment proportions of your portfolio? Compare its standard deviation to that of the optimal portfolio in the previous problem. What do you conclude? (LO 6-4)
13. Stocks offer an expected rate of return of 10% with a standard deviation of 20%, and gold offers an expected return of 5% with a standard deviation of 25%. (LO 6-3)
a. In light of the apparent inferiority of gold to stocks with respect to both mean return and volatility, would anyone hold gold? If so, demonstrate graphically why one would do so.
b. How would you answer (a) if the correlation coefficient between gold and stocks were 1? Draw a graph illustrating why one would or would not hold gold. Could these s beyond a stipulated benchmarko  wide range of expected returns, standard deviations, and correlation represent an equilibrium for the security market?
14. Suppose that many stocks are traded in the market and that it is possible to borrow at the risk-free rate, rf. The characteristics of two of the stocks are as follows:

Could the equilibrium rf be greater than 12%? (Hint: Can a particular stock portfolio be substituted for the risk-free asset?) (LO 6-3)


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

15. You can find a spreadsheet containing the historic returns presented in Table 5.2 on the text's website at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie. (Look for the link to Chapter 5 material.) Copy the data for the last 20 years into a new spreadsheet. Analyze the risk-return trade-off that would have characterized portfolios constructed from large stocks and long-term Treasury bonds over the last 20 years. What was the average rate of return and standard deviation of each asset? What was the correlation coefficient of their annual returns? What would have been the average return and standard deviation of portfolios with differing weights in the two assets? For example, consider weights in stocks starting at zero and incrementing by .10 up to a weight of 1.
What was the average return and standard deviation of the minimum-variance combination of stocks and bonds? (LO 6-2)
16. Assume expected returns and standard deviations for all securities, as well as the risk-free rate for lending and borrowing, are known. Will investors arrive at the same optimal risky portfolio? Explain. (LO 6-4)
17. Your assistant gives you the following diagram as the efficient frontier of the group of stocks you asked him to analyze. The diagram looks a bit odd, but your assistant insists he double-checked his analysis. Would you trust him? Is it possible to get such a diagram? (LO 6-4)

18. What is the relationship of the portfolio standard deviation to the weighted average of the standard deviations of the component assets? (LO 6-1)
19. A project has a .62 chance of doubling your investment in a year and a .38 chance of halving your investment in a year. What is the standard deviation of the rate of return on this investment? (LO 6-2)
20. Investors expect the market rate of return this year to be 10.5%. The expected rate of return on a stock with a beta of 1.3 is currently 13.65%. If the market return this year turns out to be 9%, how would you revise your expectation of the rate of return on the stock? (LO 6-5)
21. The following figure shows plots of monthly rates of return and the stock market for two stocks. (LO 6-5)
a. Which stock is riskier to an investor currently holding her portfolio in a diversified portfolio of common stock?
b. Which stock is riskier to an undiversified investor who puts all of his funds in only one of these stocks?



Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

22. Go to www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie and link to the material for Chapter 6, where you will find a spreadsheet containing monthly rates of return for GM, the S&P 500, and T-bills over a recent five-year period. Set up a spreadsheet just like that of Example 6.3 and find the beta of GM. (LO 6-5)
23. Here are rates of return for six months for Generic Risk, Inc. What is Generic's beta? (Hint: Find the answer by plotting the scatter diagram.) (LO 6-5)

Challenge
24. Go to the Online Learning Center at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie, where you will find rate-of-return data over 60 months for Google, the T-bill rate, and the S&P 500, which we will use as the market-index portfolio. (LO 6-4)
a. Use these data and Excel's regression function to compute Google's excess return each period as well as its alpha, beta, and residual standard deviation, σ(e).
b. What was the Sharpe ratio of the S&P 500 over this period?
c. What was Google's information ratio over this period?
d. If someone whose risky portfolio is currently invested in an index portfolio such as the S&P 500 wishes to take a position in Google based on the estimates from parts (a)-(c), what would be the optimal fraction of the risky portfolio to invest in Google? Use Equations 6.16 and 6.17.
e. Based on Equation 6.18 and your answer to part (d ), by how much would the Sharpe ratio of the optimal risky portfolio increase given the incremental position in Google?
 
CFA Problems

1. A three-asset portfolio has the following characteristics:

What is the expected return on this three-asset portfolio? (LO 6-1)
2. George Stephenson's current portfolio of $2 million is invested as follows:

Stephenson soon expects to receive an additional $2 million and plans to invest the entire amount in an index fund that best complements the current portfolio. Stephanie Coppa, CFA, is evaluating the four index funds shown in the following table for their ability to produce a portfolio that will meet two criteria relative to the current portfolio: (1) maintain or enhance expected return and (2) maintain  have as the basis for her decision making? .
 

Each fund is invested in an asset class that is not substantially represented in the current portfolio.


State which fund Coppa should recommend to Stephenson. Justify your choice by describing how your chosen fund best meets both of Stephenson's criteria. No calculations are required. (LO 6-4)
3. Abigail Grace has a $900,000 fully diversified portfolio. She subsequently inherits ABC Company common stock worth $100,000. Her financial adviser provided her with the following estimates: (LO 6-5)

The correlation coefficient of ABC stock returns with the original portfolio returns is .40.
a. The inheritance changes Grace's overall portfolio and she is deciding whether to keep the ABC stock. Assuming Grace keeps the ABC stock, calculate the:
i. Expected return of her new portfolio which includes the ABC stock.
 ii. Covariance of ABC stock returns with the original portfolio returns.
iii. Standard deviation of her new portfolio which in.
b. If Grace sells the ABC stock, she will invest the proceeds in risk-free government securities yielding .42% monthly. Assuming Grace sells the ABC stock and replaces it with the government securities, calculate the:
i. Expected return of her new portfolio which includes the government securities.
 ii. Covariance of the government security returns with the original portfolio returns.
iii. Standard deviation of her new portfolio which includes the government securities.
c. Determine whether the beta of her new portfolio, which includes the government securities, will be higher or lower than the beta of her original portfolio.
d. Based on conversations with her husband, Grace is considering selling the $100,000 of ABC stock and acquiring $100,000 of XYZ Company common stock instead. XYZ stock has the same expected return and standard deviation as ABC stock. Her husband comments, "It doesn't matter whether you keep all of the ABC stock or replace it with $100,000 of XYZ stock." State whether her husband's comment is correct or incorrect. Justify your response.
e. In a recent discussion with her financial adviser, Grace commented, "If I just don't lose money in my portfolio, I will be satisfied." She went on to say, "I am more afraid of losing money than I am concerned about achieving high returns." Describe one weakness of using standard deviation of returns as a risk measure for Grace.
The following data apply to CFA Problems 4-6:

Hennessy & Associates manages a $30 million equity portfolio for the multimanager Wilstead Pension Fund. Jason Jones, financial vice president of Wilstead, noted that Hennessy had rather consistently achieved the best record among the Wilstead's six equity managers. Performance of the Hennessy portfolio had been clearly superior to that of the S&P 500 in four of the past five years. In the one less favorable year, the shortfall was trivial.
Hennessy is a "bottom-up" manager. The firm largely avoids any attempt to "time the market." It also focuses on selection of individual stocks, rather than the weighting of favored industries.
There is no apparent conformity of style among the six equity managers. The five managers, other than Hennessy, manage portfolios aggregating $250 million, made up of more than 150 individual issues.
Jones is convinced that Hennessy is able to apply superior skill to stock selection, but the favorable results are limited by the high degree of diversification in the portfolio. Over the years, the portfolio generally held 40-50 stocks, with about 2% to 3% of total funds committed to each issue. The reason Hennessy seemed to do well most years was that the firm was able to identify each year 10 or 12 issues that registered particularly large gains.
Based on this overview, Jones outlined the following plan to the Wilstead pension committee:
Let's tell Hennessy to limit the portfolio to no more than 20 stocks. Hennessy will double the commitments to the stocks that it really favors and eliminate the remainder. Except for this one new restriction, Hennessy should be free to manage the portfolio exactly as before.
All the members of the pension committee generally supported Jones's proposal, because all agreed that Hennessy had seemed to demonstrate superior skill in selecting stocks. Yet the proposal was a considerable departure from previous practice, and several committee members raised questions.

4. Answer the following: (LO 6-1)
a. Will the limitation of 20 stocks likely increase or decrease the risk of the portfolio? Explain.
b. Is there any way Hennessy could reduce the number of issues from 40 to 20 without significantly affecting risk? Explain.
5. One committee member was particularly enthusiastic concerning Jones's proposal. He suggested that Hennessy's performance might benefit further from reduction in the number of issues to 10. If the reduction to 20 could be expected to be advantageous, explain why reduction to 10 might be less likely to be advantageous. (Assume that Wilstead will evaluate the Hennessy portfolio independently of the other portfolios in the fund.) (LO 6-1)
6. Another committee member suggested that, rather than evaluate each managed portfolio independently of other portfolios, it might be better to consider the effects of a change in the Hennessy portfolio on the total fund. Explain how this broader point of view could affect the committee decision to limit the holdings in the Hennessy portfolio to either 10 or 20 issues. (LO 6-1)
7. Dudley Trudy, CFA, recently met with one of his clients. Trudy typically invests in a master list of 30 equities drawn from several industries. As the meeting concluded, the client made the following statement: "I trust your stock-picking ability and believe that you should invest my funds in your five best ideas. Why invest in 30 companies when you obviously have stronger opinions on a few of them?" Trudy plans to respond to his client within the context of Modern Portfolio Theory. (LO 6-1)
a. Contrast the concepts of systematic risk and firm-specific risk, and give an example of each type of risk.
b. Critique the client's suggestion. Discuss how both systematic and firm-specific risk change as the number of securities in a portfolio is increased.
 
WEB master
 
1.  Go to www.finance.yahoo.com and download five years of monthly closing prices for Siemens AG (ticker SIE.DE), Adidas AG (ADS.DE), and the DAX Index (^GDAXI). Download the data into an Excel file and use the Adjusted-Close prices, which adjust for dividend payments, to calculate the monthly rate of return for each price series. Use an XY Scatter Plot chart with no line joining the points to plot Siemens returns against the DAX. Now select one of the data points, and right-click to obtain a shortcut menu allowing you to enter a trend line. This is Siemens' characteristic line, and the slope is Siemens' beta. Repeat this process for Adidas. What conclusions can you draw from each company's characteristic line?
2.  Following the procedures in the previous question, find five years of monthly returns for Bayer AG. Using the first two years of data, what is Bayer's beta? What is the beta using the latest two years of data? How stable is the beta estimate?
3.  Following the procedures in the previous questions, find five years of monthly returns for the following firms: Air France-KLM (AF.PA), Lufthansa (LHA.DE), Ryanair (RYA.L), Qantas Airways (QAN.s beyond a stipulated benchmarko  wide range of AX), and Singapore Airlines (C6U.SI). Copy the returns from these five firms into a single Excel workbook, with the returns for each company properly aligned. Use the full range of available data. Then do the following:
a. Using the Excel functions for average (AVERAGE) and sample standard deviation (STDEV), calculate the average and the standard deviation of the returns for each of the firms.
b. Using Excel's correlation function (CORREL), construct the correlation matrix for the five stocks based on their monthly returns for the entire period. What are the lowest and the highest individual pairs of correlation coefficients? (Alternative: You may use Excel's Data Analysis Tool to generate the correlation matrix.)
4.  There are some free online tools that will calculate the optimal asset weights and draw the efficient frontier for the assets that you specify. One of the sites is investorcraft.com/portfoliotools/efficientfrontier.aspx.

Go to this site and expand the list titled ETF. Then, find ISHARES and under that Europe Stock. Select all the country-specific ETFs listed there, which include Austria, Belgium, etc. Click on the Next Step button and select 10 years of historical data. Specify an appropriate risk-free rate, a minimum allowable asset weight of 0, and a maximum allowable asset weight of 100. Click on Calculate to get your results.

1. What are the expected return and the standard deviation of the portfolio based on adjusted weights?
2. How do they compare to those for the optimal portfolio and the minimum variance portfolio?
3. Of the three portfolios shown, with which one would you feel most comfortable as an investor?
 
SOLUTIONS TOCONCEPTchecks
6.1 Recalculation of Spreadsheets 6.1 and 6.4 shows that the covariance is now -5.80 and the correlation coefficient is -.07.

6.2 The scatter diagrams for pairs B-E are shown below. Scatter diagram A (presented with the Concept Check) shows an exact mirror image between the pattern of points 1,2,3 versus 3,4,5. Therefore, the correlation coefficient is zero. Scatter diagram B shows perfect positive correlation (1). Similarly, C shows perfect negative correlation in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="  Equity Valuation (-1). Now compare the scatters of D and E. Both show a general positive correlation, but scatter D is tighter. Therefore, D is associated with a correlation of about .5 (use a spreadsheet to show that the exact correlation is .54), and E is associated with a correlation of about .2 (show that the exact correlation coefficient is .23).

6.3 a. Using Equation 6.6 with the data σB = 8; σS = 19; wB = .5; and wS = 1 - wB = .5, we obtain the equation


which yields ρ = .1728.

b. Using Equation 6.5 and the additional data E(rB) = 5%; E(rS) = 10%, we obtain

c. On the one hand, you should be happier with a correlation of .17 than with .22 since the lower correlation implies greater benefits from diversification and means that, for any level of expected return, there will be lower risk. On the other hand, the constraint that you must hold 50% of the portfolio in bonds represents a cost to you since it prevents you from choosing the risk-return trade-off most suited to your tastes. Unless you would choose to hold about 50% of the portfolio in bonds anyway, you are better off with the slightly higher correlation but with the ability to choose your own portfolio weights.
6.4Journal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumptionreta  a. Implementing Equations 6.5 and 6.6, we generate data for the graph. See Spreadsheet 6.7 and Figure 6.14 on the following pages.


SPREADSHEET 6.7
For Concept Check 4. Mean and standard deviation for various portfolio applications







FIGURE 6.14
For Concept Check 6.4. Plot of mean return versus standard deviation using data from spreadsheet.



b. Implementing the formulas indicated in Spreadsheet 6.6, we generate the optimal risky portfolio (O) and the minimum-variance portfolio.
c. 






Chapter
7

Capital Asset Pricing and Arbitrage Pricing Theory

Learning Objectives:

LO7-1 Use the implications of capital market theory to estimate security risk premiums.
LO7-2 Construct and use the security market line.
LO7-3 Specify and use a multifactor security market line.
LO7-4 Take advantage of an arbitrage opportunity with a portfolio that includes mispriced securities.
LO7-5 Use arbitrage pricing theory with more than one factor to identify mispriced securities.


The capital asset pricing model, almost always referred to as the CAPM, is a centerpiece of modern financial economics. It was first proposed by William F. Sharpe, who wa have as the basis for her decision making? on bond  goodss awarded the 1990 Nobel Prize in Economics.
The CAPM provides a precise prediction of the relationship we should observe between the risk of an asset and its expected return. This relationship serves two vital functions.
First, it provides a benchmark rate of return for evaluating possible investments. For example, a security analyst might want to know whether the expected return she forecasts for a stock is more or less than its "fair" return given its risk. Second, the model helps us make an educated guess as to the expected return on assets that have not yet been traded in the marketplace. For example, how do we price an initial public offering of stock? How will a major new investment project affect the return investors require on a company's stock? Although the CAPM does not fully withstand empirical tests, it is widely used because of the insight it offers and because its accuracy suffices for many important applications.
Once you understand the intuition behind the CAPM, it becomes clear that the model may be improved by generalizing it to allow for multiple sources of risk. Therefore, we turn next to multifactor models of risk and return, and we show how these result in richer descriptions of the risk-return relationship.
Finally, we consider an alternative derivation of the risk-return relationship known as arbitrage pricing theory, or APT. Arbitrage is the exploitation of security mispricing to earn risk-free economic profits. The most basic principle of capital market theory is that prices ought to be aligned to eliminate risk-free profit opportunities. If actual prices allowed for such arbitrage, the resulting opportunities for profitable trading would lead to strong pressure on security prices that would persist until equilibrium was restored and the opportunities were eliminated. We will see that this no-arbitrage principle leads to a risk-return relationship like that of the CAPM. Like the generalized version of the CAPM, the simple APT is easily extended to accommodate multiple sources of systematic risk.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

7.1   THE CAPITAL ASSET PRICING MODEL
Historically, the CAPM was developed prior to the index model introduced in the previous chapter (Equation 6.11). The index model was widely adopted as a natural description of the stock market immediately oor:black;" aid="K0U82">.7778 × 
The index model describes an empirical relationship between the excess return on an individual stock, Ri, and that of a broad market-index portfolio, RM : Ri = β">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf19U.i RM + αi + ei, where alpha is the expected firm-specific return and ei is zero-mean "noise," or firm-specific risk. Therefore, the expected excess return on a stock, given (conditional on) the market excess return, RM, is E (Ri | RM ) = βi RM + αi.
What does this mean to portfolio managers? Hunt for positive-alpha stocks, don't invest in negative-alpha stocks, and, better yet, sell short negative-alpha stocks if short sales are not prohibited. Investor demand for a positive-alpha stock will increase its price. As the price of a stock rises, other things being equal, the expected return falls, reducing and ultimately eliminating the very alpha that first created the excess demand. Conversely, the drop in demand for a negative-alpha stock will reduce its price, pushing its alpha back toward zero. In the end, such buying or selling pressure will leave most securities with zero alpha values most of the time. Put another way, unless and until your own analysis of a stock tells you otherwise, you should assume alpha is zero.
When alpha is zero, there is no reward from bearing firm-specific risk; the only way to earn a higher expected return than the T-bill rate is by bearing systematic risk. Recall the Treynor-Black model, in which the position in any active portfolio is zero if the alpha is zero. In that case, the best portfolio is the one that completely eliminates nonsystematic risk, and that portfolio is an indexed portfolio that mimics the broad market. This is the conclusion of the CAPM. But science demands more than a story like this. It requires a carefully set up model with explicit assumptions in which an outcome such as the one we describe will be the only possible result. Here goes.
The Model: Assumptions and Implications
The capital asset pricing model, or CAPM, was developed by Treynor, Sharpe, Lintner, and Mossin in the early 1960s, and further refined later. The model predicts the relationship between the risk and equilibrium expected returns on risky assets. It begins by laying down the necessary, albeit unrealistic, assumptions that are necessary for the validity of the model. Thinking about an admittedly un is an introduction to lf19U.realistic world allows a relatively easy leap to the solution. With this accomplished, we can add realism to the environment, one step at a time, and see how the theory must be amended. This process allows us to develop a reasonably realistic model.

capital asset pricing model (CAPM)
A model that relates the required rate of return on a security to its systematic risk as measured by beta.

The conditions that lead to the CAPM ensure competitive security markets and investors who choose from identical efficient portfolios using the mean-variance criterion: 1. Markets for securities are perfectly competitive and equally profitable to all investors.

1.A. No investor is sufficiently wealthy that his or her actions alone can affect market prices.
1.B. All information relevant to security analysis is publicly available at no cost.
1.C. All securities are publicly owned and traded, and investors may trade all of them. Thus, all risky assets are in the investment universe.
1.D. There are no taxes on investment returns. Thus, all investors realize identical returns from securities.
1.E. Investors confront no transaction costs that inhibit their trading.
1.F. Lending and borrowing at a common risk-free rate are unlimited.

2. Investors are alike in every way except for initial wealth and risk aversion; hence, they all choose investment portfolios in the same manner.

2.A. Investors plan for the same (single-period) horizon.
2.B. Investors are rational, mean-variance optimizers.
2.C. Investors are efficient users of analytical methods, and by assumption 1.B they have access to all relevant information. Hence, they use the same inputs and consider identical portfolio opportunity sets. This assumption is often called homogeneous expectations.

Obvights into the nature of equilibrium in security markets.
Given these assumptions, we summarize the equilibrium that will prevail in this hypothetical world of securities and investors. We elaborate on these implications in the following sections.
1. All investors will choose to hold the market portfolio (M), which includes all assets of the security universe. For simplicity, we shall refer to all assets as stocks. The proportion of each stock in the market portfolio equals the market value of the stock (price per share times the s beyond a stipulated benchmarko ">Immunizationnumber of shares outstanding) divided by the total market value of all stocks.
2. The market portfolio will be on the efficient frontier. Moreover, it will be the optimal risky portfolio, the tangency point of the capital allocation line (CAL) to the efficient frontier. As a result, the capital market line (CML), the line from the risk-free rate through the market portfolio, M, is also the best attainable capital allocation line. All investors hold M as their optimal risky portfolio, differing only in the amount invested in it as compared to investment in the risk-free asset.
3. The risk premium on the market portfolio will be proportional to the variance of the market portfolio and investors' typical degree of risk aversion. Mathematically, 

where σM is the standard deviation of the return on the market portfolio and  represents the degree of risk aversion of the average investor.

4. The risk premium on individual assets will be proportional to the risk premium on the market portfolio (M ) and to the beta coefficient of the security on the market portfolio. Beta measures the extent to which returns respond to the market portfolio. Formally, beta is the regression (slope) coefficient of the security return on the market return, representing sensitivity to fluctuations in the overall security market.

market portfolio (M ) The portfolio for which each security is held in proportion to its total market value.

Why All Investors Would Hold the Market Portfolio
Given all our assumptions, it is easy to see why all investors hold identical risky portfolios. If all investors use mean-variance analysis (assumptions 2.A and 2.B), apply it to the same universe of securities (assumptions 1.C and 1.F) with an identical time horizon (assumption 2.A), use the same security analysis (assumption 2.C), and experience identical net returns from the same securities (assumptions 1.A, 1.D, and 1.E), they all must arrive at the same determination of the optimal risky portfolio.
With everyone choosing to hold the same risky portfolio, stocks will be represented in the aggregate risky portfolio in the same proportion as they are in each investor's (common) risky portfolio. If Google represents 1% in each common risky portfolio, Google will be 1% of the aggregate risky portfolio. This in fact is the market portfolio since the market is no more than the  to attract the type of party who would make the  between Financial Managementaggregate of all individual portfolios. Because each investor uses the market portfolio for the optimal risky portfolio, the CAL in this case is called the capital market line, or CML, as in Figure 7.1.


FIGURE 7.1
The efficient frontier and the capital market line



Suppose the optimal portfolio of our investors does not include the stock of some company, say, Southwest Airlines. When no investor is willing to hold Southwest stock, the demand is zero, and the stock price will take a free fall. As Southwest stock gets progressively cheaper, it begins to look more attractive, while all other stocks look (relatively) less attractive. Ultimately, Southwest will reach a price at which it is desirable to include it in the optimal stock portfolio, and investors will buy.
This price adjustment process guarantees that all stocks will be included in the optimal portfolio. The only issue is the price. At a given price level, investors will be willing to buy a stock; at another price, they will not. The bottom line is this: If all investors hold an identical risky portfolio, this portfolio must be the market portfolio.
The Passive Strategy Is Efficient
The CAPM implies that a passive strategy, using the CML as the optimal CAL, is a powerful alternative to an active strategy. The market portfolio proportions are a result of profit-oriented "buy" and "sell" orders that cease only when there is no more profit to be made. And in the simple world of the CAPM, all investors use precious resources in security analysis. A passive investor who takes a free ride by simply investing in the market portfolio benefits from the efficiency of that portfolio. In fact, an active investor who chooses any other portfolio will end on a CAL that is inferior to the CML used by passive investors.
We sometimes call this result a mutual fund theorem because it implies that only one mutual fund of risky assets—the market index fund—is sufficient to satisfy the investment demands of all investors. The mutual fund theorem is another incarnation of the separation property discussed in Chapter 6. Assuming all investors choose to hold a market-index mutual fund, we can separate portfolio selection into two components: (1) a technical side, in which an efficient mutual fund is created by professional management; and (2) a personal side, in which an investor's risk aversion determines the allocation of the complete portfolio between the mutual fund and the risk-free asset. Here, all investors agree that the mutual fund they would like to hold is invested in the market portfolio.

mutual fund theorem
Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf19U.">States that all investors desire the same portfolio of risky assets and can be satisfied by a single mutual fund composed of that portfolio.

While investment managers in the real world generally construct risky portfolios that differ from the market index, we attribute this to the differences in their estimates of risk and expected return (in violation of assumption 2.C). Nevertheless, a passive investor may view the market index as a reasonable first approximation to an efficient risky portfolio.
The logical inconsistency of the CAPM is this: If a passive strategy is costless and efficient, why would anyone follow an active strategy? But if no one does any security analysis, what brings about the efficiency of the market portfolio?
We have acknowledged from the outset that the CAPM simplifies the real world in its search for a tractable solution. Its applicability to the real world depends on whether its predictions are accurate enough. The model's use is some indication that its predictions are reasonable. We discuss this issue in Section 7.3 and in greater depth in Chapter 8.
 

CONCEPT   check7.1
 
If only some investors perform security analysis while all others hold the market portfolio (M), would the CML still be the efficient CAL for investors who do not engage in security analysis? Explain.

The Risk Premium of the Market Portfolio
In Chapter 5 we showed how individual investors decide how much to invest in the risky portfolio when they can include a risk-free asset in the investment budget. Returning now to the decision of how much to invest in the market portfolio M and how much in the risk-free asset, what can we deduce about the equilibrium risk premium of portfolio M ?
We asserted earlier that the equilibrium risk premium of the market portfolio, E (rM ) - rf, will be proportional to the degree of risk aversion of the average investor and to the risk of the market portfolio,  Now we can explain this result.
When investors purchase stocks, their demand drives up prices, thereby lowering expected rates of return and risk premiums. But when risk premiums fall, investors will move some of their funds from the risky market portfolio into the risk-free asset. In equilibrium, the risk premium on the market portfolio must be just high enough to induce investors to hold the available supply of stocks. If the risk premium is too high, there will be excess demand for securities, and prices will rise; if it is too low, investors will not hold enough stock to absorb the supply, and prices will fall. The equilibrium risk premium of the market portfolio is therefore proportional both to the risk of the market, as measured by the variance of its returns, and to the degree of risk aversion of the average investor, denoted by  in Equation 7.1.


EXAMPLE 7.1


Market Risk, the Risk Premium, and Risk Aversion Suppose the risk-free rate is 5%, the average investor has a risk-aversion coefficient of  and the standard deviation of the market portfolio is 20%. Then, from Equation 7.1, we estimate the equilibrium value of the market risk premium1 as 2 × .202 = .08. So the expected rate of return on the market must be 
If investors were more risk averse, it would take a higher risk premium to induce them to hold shares. For example, if the average degree of risk aversion were 3, the market risk premium would be 3 × .202 = .12, or 12%, and the expected return would be 17%.


 

CONCEPT   check7.2
 
Historical data for the S&P 500 Index show an average excess return over Treasury bills of about 7.5% with standard deviation of about 20%. To the extent that these averages approximate investor expectations for the sample period, what must have been the coefficient of risk aversion of the average investor? If the coefficient of risk aversion were 3.5, what risk premium would have been consistent with the market's historical standard deviation?

">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf19U.Expected Returns on Individual Securities The CAPM is built on the insight that the appropriate risk premium on an asset will be determined by its contribution to the risk of investors' overall portfolios. Portfolio risk is what matters to investors, and portfolio risk is what governs the risk premiums they demand.
We know that nonsystematic risk can be reduced to an arbitrarily low level through diversification (Chapter 6); therefore, investors do not require a risk premium as compensation for bearing nonsystematic risk. They need to be compensated only for bearing systematic risk, which cannot be diversified. We know also that the contribution of a single security to the risk of a large diversified portfolio depends only on the systematic risk of the security as measured by its beta, as we saw in Section 6.5. Therefore, it should not be surprising that the risk premium of an asset is proportional to its beta; a security with double the systematic risk of another must pay twice the risk premium. Thus, the ratio of risk premium to beta should be the same for any two securities or portfolios.
If we equate the ratio of risk premium to systematic risk for the market portfolio, which has a beta of 1, to the corresponding ratio for a particular stock, for example, Dell, we find that 
Rearranging results in the CAPM's expected return-beta relationship: 

expected return (mean return)-beta relationship
Implication of the CAPM that security risk premiums (expected excess returns) will be proportional to beta.

In words, an asset's risk premium equals the asset's systematic risk measure (its beta) times the risk premium of the (benchmark) market portfolio. This expected return (or mean return)-beta relationship is the most familiar expression of the CAPM.
The mean-beta relationship of the CAPM makes a powerful economic statement. It implies, for example, that a security with a high variance but a relatively low beta of .5 will carry one-third the risk premium of a low-variance security with a beta of 1.5. Equation 7.2 quantifies the conclusion we reached in Chapter 6: Only systematic risk matters to investors who can diversify, and systematic risk is measured by beta.


EXAMPLE 7.2


Expected Returns and Risk Premiums
Suppose the risk premium of the market portfolio is 9%, and we estimate the beta of Dell as βD Immunization">= 1.3. The risk premium predicted for the stock is therefore 1.3 times the market risk premium, or 1.3 × 9% = 11.7%. The expected rate of return on Dell is the risk-free rate plus the risk premium. For example, if the T-bill rate were 5%, the expected rate of return would be 5% + 11.7% = 16.7% or, using Equation 7.2 directly, 
If the estimate of the beta of Dell were only 1.2, the required risk premium for Dell would fall to 10.8%. Similarly, if the market risk premium were only 8% and βD = 1.3, Dell's risk premium would be only 10.4%.


The fact that many investors hold active portfolios that differ from the market portfolio does not necessarily invalidate the CAPM. Recall that reasonably well-diversified portfolios shed almost all firm-specific risk and are subject to only systematic risk. Even if one does not hold the precise market portfolio, a well-diversified portfolio will be so highly correlated with the market that a stock's beta relative to the market still will be a useful risk measure.
In fact, several researchers have shown that modified versions of the CAPM will hold despite differences among individuals that may cause them to hold different portfolios. A study by Brennan (1970) examines the impact of differences in investors' personal tax rates on market equilibrium. Another study by Mayers (1972) looks at the impact of nontraded assets such as human capital (earning power). Both find that while the market portfolio is no longer each investor's optimal risky portfolio, a modified version of the mean-beta relationship still holds.
If the mean-beta relationship holds for any individual asset, it must hold for any combination of assets. The beta of a portfolio is simply the weighted average of the betas of the stocks in the portfolio, using as weights the portfolio proportions. Thus, beta also predicts a portfolio's risk premium in accordance with Equation 7.2.


EXAMPLE 7.3


Portfolio Beta and Risk Premium
Consider the following hypothetical portfolio:

If the market risk premium is 7.5%, the CAPM predicts that the risk premium on each stock is its beta times 7.5%, and the risk premium on the portfolio is .84 × 7.5% is the same result that 6.3%. This is the same result that is obtained by taking the weighted average of the risk premiums of the individual stocks. (Verify this for to attract the type of party who would make the  between Financial Management yourself.)


A word of caution: We often hear that a well-managed firm will provide a high rate of return. This is true when referring to the firm's accounting return on investments in plant and equipment. The CAPM, however, predicts returns on investments in the securities of the firm that trade in capital markets.
Say everyone knows a firm is well run. Its stock price will be bid up, and returns to stockholders at those high prices will not be extreme. Security prices reflect public information about a firm's prospects, but only the risk of the company (as measured by beta) should affect expected returns. In a rational market, investors receive high expected returns only if they bear systematic risk.
 

CONCEPT   check7.3
 
Suppose the risk premium on the market portfolio is estimated at 8% with a standard deviation of 22%. What is the risk premium on a portfolio invested 25% in GE with a beta of 1.15 and 75% in Dell with a beta of 1.25?

The Security Market Line
The expected return-beta relationship is a reward-risk equation. The beta of a security is the appropriate measure of its risk because beta is proportional to the variance the security contributes to the optimal risky portfolio.2
With approximately normal returns, we measure the risk of a portfolio by its standard deviation. Because the beta of a stock measures the stock's contribution to the standard deviation of the market portfolio, we expect the required risk premium to be a function of beta. The CAPM confirms this intuition, stating further that the security's risk premium is directly proportional to both the beta and the risk premium of the market portfolio; that is, the risk premium equals β[E (rM ) - rf ].
The mean-beta relationship is called the security market line (SML) in Figure 7.2. Its slope is the risk premium of the market portfolio. At the Journal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumption19U.point where β = 1 (the beta of the market portfolio), we can read off the vertical axis the expected return on the market portfolio.

security market line (SML)
Graphical representation of the expected return-beta relationship of the CAPM.



FIGURE 7.2
The security market line and a positive-alpha stock



It is useful to compare the SML to the capital market line. The CML graphs the risk premiums of efficient complete portfolios (made up of the market portfolio and the risk-free asset) as a function of portfolio standard deviation. This is appropriate because standard deviation is a valid measure of risk for portfolios that are candidates for an investor's complete portfolio.
The SML, in contrast, graphs individual-asset risk premiums as a function of asset risk. The relevant measure of risk for an individual asset (which is held as part of a well-diversified portfolio) is not the asset standard deviation but rather the asset beta. The SML is valid both for individual assets and portfolios.
The security market line provides a benchmark for evaluation of investment performance. The SML provides the required rate of return that will compensate investors for the beta risk of that investment, as well as for the time value of money.
Because the SML is the graphical representation of the mean-beta relationship, "fairly priced" assets plot exactly on the SML. The expected returns of such assets are commensurate with their risk. Whenever the CAPM holds, all securities must lie on the SML in equilibrium. Underpriced stocks plot above the SML: Given beta, their expected returns are greater than is indicated by the CAPM. Overpriced stocks plot below the SML. The difference between fair and actual expected rates of return on a stock is the alpha, denoted α. The expected return on a mispriced security is given by E(rs) = αs + rf + βs[E(rM) - rf].

alpha
The abnormal rate of return on a security in excess of what would be predicted by an equilibrium model such as the CAPM.



EXAMPLE 7.4


The Alpha of a Security
Suppose the return on the market is expected to be 14%, a stock has a beta of 1.2, and the T-bill rate is 6%. The SML would predict an expected return on the stock of 
If one believes the stock will provide instead a return of 17%, its implied alpha would be 1.4%, as shown in Figure 7.2. If instead the expected return were only 15%, the stock alpha would be negative, -.6%.


Applications of the CAPM
One place the CAPM may be used is in the investment management industry. Suppose the SML is taken as a benchmark to assess the fair expected return on a risky asset. Then an analyst calculates the return she actually expects. Notice that we depart here from the simple CAPM world in that active investors apply their own analysis to derive a private "input list." If a stock is perceived to be a good buy, or underpriced, it will provide a positive alpha, that is, an expected return in excess of the fair return stipulated by the SML.
The CAPM is also useful in capital budgeting decisions. When a firm is considering a new project, the SML provides the required return demanded of the project. This is the cutoff internal rate of return (IRR) or "hurdle rate" for the project.


EXAMPLE 7.5


The CAPM and Capital Budgeting
Suppose Shanghai Logistics Company Limited is considering a new freight forwarding warehouse. The business plan forecasts an internal rate of return of 14% on the investment. Research shows the beta of similar products is 1.3. Thus, if the risk-free rate is 4%, and the market risk premium is estimated at 8%, the hurdle rate for the project should be 4 + 1.3 × 8 = 14.4%. Because the IRR is less than the risk-adjusted discount or hurdle rate, the project has a negative net present value and ought to be rejected.


YJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumption19U.et another use of the CAPM is in utility rate-making cases. Here the issue is the rate of return a regulated utility should be allowed to earn on its investment in plant and equipment.


EXAMPLE 7.6


The CAPM and Regulation
Suppose shareholder equity invested in a utility is £100 million, and the equity beta is .6. If the UK Treasury bill rate is 2%, and the market risk premium is 8%, then a fair annual profit will be 2 + (.6 × 8) = 6.8% of £100 million, or £6.8 million. Since regulators accept the CAPM, they will incorporate this in setting price levels for regulated utilities.


 

CONCEPT   check7.4
 
a. Stock XYZ has an expected return of 12% and β = 1. Stock ABC is expected to return 13% with a beta of 1.5. The market's expected return is 11% and rf = 5%. According to the CAPM, which stock is a better buy? What is the alpha of each stock? Plot the SML and the two stocks. Show the alphas of each on the graph.
b. The risk-free rate is 8% and the expected return on the market portfolio is 16%. A firm considers a project with an estimated beta of 1.3. What is the required rate of return on the project? If the IRR of the project is 19%, what is the project alpha?

7.2   THE CAPM AND INDEX MODELS
The CAPM has two limitations: It relies on the theoretical market portfolio, which includes all assets (such as real estate, foreign stocks, etc.), and it applies to expected as opposed to actual returns. To implement the CAPM, we cast it in the form of an index model and use realized, not expected, returns.
An indexs beyond a stipulated benchmarko ">Immunization model replaces the theoretical all-inclusive portfolio with a market index such as the S&P 500. An important advantage of index models is that the composition and rate of return of evaluation.
In contrast to an index model, the CAPM revolves around the elusive "market portfolio." However, because many assets are not traded, investors would not have full access to the market portfolio even if they could exactly identify it. Thus, the theory behind the CAPM rests on a shaky real-world foundation. But, as in all science, a theory is legitimate if it predicts real-world outcomes with sufficient accuracy. In particular, the reliance on the market portfolio shouldn't faze us if the predictions are sufficiently accurate when the index portfolio is substituted for the CAPM market portfolio.
We can start with the central prediction of the CAPM: The market portfolio is mean-variance efficient. An index model can be used to test this hypothesis by verifying that an index chosen to be representative of the full market is mean-variance efficient.
To test mean-variance efficiency of an index portfolio, we must show that the Sharpe ratio of the index is not surpassed by any other portfolio. We will examine this question in the next chapter.
The CAPM predicts relationships among expected returns. However, all we can observe are realized (historical) holding-period returns, which in a particular holding period seldom, if ever, match initial expectations. For example, the S&P 500 returned -39% in 2008. Could this possibly have been expected when investors could have invested in risk-free Treasury bills? In fact, this logic implies that any stock-index return less than T-bills must entail a negative departure from expectations. Since expectations must be realized on average, this means that more often than not, positive excess returns exceeded expectations.
The Index Model, Realized Returns, and the Mean-Beta Equation
To move from a model cast in expectations to a realized-return framework, we start with the single-index regression equation in realized excess returns, Equation 6.11: 
where rit is the holding-period return (HPR) on asset i in period t and αi and βi are the intercept and slope of the security characteristic line that relates asset i's realized excess return to the realized excess return of the index. We have as the basis for her decision making? .
rM to emphasize that the index portfolio is proxying for the market. The eit measures firm-specific effects during holding period t; it is the deviation in that period of security i's realized HPR from the regression line, the forecast of return based on the index's actual HPR. We set the relationship in terms of excess returns (over rft ), consistent with the CAPM's logic of risk premiums.

On the MARKET FRONT


ALPHA EVIDENCE
Sometimes newspapers or magazines let real monkeys compete with professional fund managers and see who performs better. The origin of such practice has probably stemmed from Princeton professor Burton Malkiel, who stated that "a blindfolded monkey throwing darts at a newspaper's financial pages could select a portfolio that would do just as well as one carefully selected by experts."
You will find examples all over the world. For instance, in 2010 the British newspaper the Daily Mail reported that Lusha, a circus chimp in Russia, had topped 94 per cent of Russian fund managers, her initial capital of one million rubles being tripled. Lusha selected 8 out of 30 stocks which were represented by cubes. Russian and international media heaped more scorn on the investment experts saying, one has to ask the question whether there is any alpha manager among fund managers.
A first remark should be that the success of the chimp could be attributed to good luck. As one Russian fund manager stated: 'If the experiment had taken place a year earlier, the monkey would not have had enough money to pay for her bananas.' In fact Lusha mainly benefited from one hit, when she 'invested' in banks which later received a Kremlin bailout. These banks' stocks rose by 600%, a single, risky bet. Furthermore there is a publication bias, since it is much more difficult to publish the results of such an experiment (and earn worldwide attention) if the monkey fails to beat the fund managers.
However, there is a grain of truth in the story: A couple of studies have cast some doubt on the ability of mutual funds to beat the market. This is particularly true after fees and costs. Most of these studies, however, focus on the U.S. Only recently have international mutual funds been systematically analyzed.
It is even more difficult to find evidence on emerging markets: Most recently Eling and Faust (2010) analyzed 629 mutual funds and 243 hedge funds. They found that in contrast to mutual funds a substantial number of hedge funds seem to be able to earn a positive alpha after fees. The difference between mutual funds and  abnormal returns.
 
SOURCES: Eling, Martin and Roger Faust, The Performance of Hedge Funds and Mutual Funds in Emerging Markets, Journal of Banking and Finance (2010), 34(8), 1993-2009.
The Daily Mail Online, (accessed on 13 January 2010), http://www. dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1242575/Lusha-monkey-outperforms-94-Russia-bankers-investment-portfolio.html.

To compare the index model with the CAPM predictions about expected asset returns, we take expectations in Equation 7.3. Recall that the expectation of eit is zero, so in terms of expectations, Equation 7.3 becomes 
Comparing Equation 7.4 to Equation 7.2 reveals that the CAPM predicts αi = 0. Thus, we have converted the CAPM prediction about unobserved expectations of security returns relative to an unobserved market portfolio into a prediction about the intercept in a regression of observed variables: realized excess returns of a security relative to those of an observed index.
Operationalizing the CAPM in the form of an index model has a drawback, however. If intercepts of regressions of returns on an index differ substantially from zero, you will not be able to tell whether it is because you chose a bad index to proxy for the market or because the theory is not useful.
In actuality, some instances of persistent, positive significant alpha values have been identified; these will be discussed in Chapter 8. Among these are (1) small versus large stocks; (2) stocks of companies that have recently announced unexpectedly good earnings; (3) stocks with high ratios of book value to market value; and (4) stocks with "momentum" that have experienced recent advances in price. In general, however, future alphas are practically impossible to predict from past values. The result is that index models are widely used to operationalize capital asset pricing theory.
Estimating the Index Model
To illustrate how to estimate the index model, we will use actual data and apply the model to the stock of Google (G), in a manner similar to that followed by practitioners. Let us rewrite Equation 7.3 for Google, denoting Google's excess return as RG = rG - rf and denoting months using the subscript Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf19U." aid="KVD1T">t.
 
The dependent variable in this regression equation is Google's excess return in each month, explained by the excess return on the market index in that month, RMt. The regression coefficients are intercept αG and slope βG.
The alpha of Google is the average of the firm-specific factors during the sample period; the zero-average surprise in each month is captured by the last term in the equation, eGt. This residual is the difference between Google's actual excess return and the excess return that would be predicted from the regression line: 
We are interested in estimating the intercept αG and Google's beta as measured by the slope coefficient, βG. We estimate Google's firm-specific risk by residual standard deviation, which is just the standard deviation of eGt.
We conduct the analysis in three steps: Collect and process relevant data; feed the data into a statistical program (here we use Excel) to estimate the regression Equation 7.3; and use the results to answer these questions about Google's stock: (a) What have we learned about the behavior of Google's returns, (b) what required rate of return is appropriate for investments with the same risk as Google's equity, and (c) how might we assess the performance of a portfolio manager who invested heavily in Google stock during this period?
Collecting and processing data We start with the monthly series of Google stock prices and the S&P 500 Index, adjusted for stock splits and dividends over the period January 2006-December 2010.3 From these series we computed monthly holding-period returns on Google and the market index.
For the same period we compiled">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf19U. monthly rates of return on one-month T-bills.4 With these three series of returns we generate monthly excess return on Google's stock and the market index. Some statistics for these returns are shown in Table 7.1. Notice that the monthly variation in the T-bill return reported in Table 7.1 does not reflect risk, as investors knew the return on bills at the beginning of each month.


  TABLE 7.1   Monthly return statistics: T-bills, S&P 500, and Google, January 2006-December 2010



The period of January 2006-December 2010 includes the late stage of recovery from the mild 2001 recession, the severe recession that officially began in December 2007, as well as the first stage of the recovery that began in June 2009. Table 7.1 shows that the effect of the financial crisis was so severe that the monthly geometric average return of the market index, .107%, was less than that of T-bills, .180%. We noted in Chapter 5 that arithmetic averages exceed geometric averages, with the difference between them increasing with return volatility.5 In this period, the monthly SD of the market index, 5.11%, was large enough that despite the market return's lower geometric average, its monthly arithmetic average, .239%, was greater than that of T-bills, .185%, resulting in a positive average excess return of .054% per month.
Google had a cumulative five-year return of 43.17%, a lot better than T-bills (11.65%) or the S&P 500 (6.60%). Its monthly standard deviation of 10.40%, about double that of the market, raises the question of how much of that volatility is systematic.
Google's returns over subperiods within these five years illustrate a common illusion. Observe in Table 7.1 that Google's prerecession increase between January 2006 and October 2007 was 70.42%. The subsequent financial crisis decline (November 2007-May 2009) and recovery (June 2009-December 2010) were of similar magnitudes of -40.99% and 42.36%, respectively, and you might think they should have just about canceled out. Yet the total five-year return was "only" 43.17%, around 27% less than the prerecession gain of 70.42%. Where did that 27% go? It went in the crisis: The decline and subsequent increase had a total impact on cumulative return of (1 - .4099) × (1 + .4236) = .8401, resulting in a loss of about 16%. Apply that loss to the prerecession value of stock, and you obtain .8401 × (1 + .7042) Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf19U." aid="KVD4M">= 1.43, just equal to the five-year cumulative return.
Why didn't the 40.99% loss and 42.36% gain (roughly) cancel out? In general, a large gain following a large loss has a muted impact on cumulative return because it acts on a diminished investment base, while a large loss following a large gain has an amplified impact because it acts on a greater investment base. The greater the fluctuations, the greater the impact on final investment value, which is why the spread between the geometric average (which reflects cumulative return) and the arithmetic average grows with stock volatility.
Figure 7.3 Panel A shows the monthly return on the securities during the sample period. The significantly higher volatility of Google is evident, and the graph suggests that its beta is greater than 1: When the market moves, Google tends to move in the same direction, but by greater amounts.


FIGURE 7.3
Returns for T-bills, S&P 500 Index, and Google stock. Panel A: monthly returns; Panel B: cumula09U?mime=image/jpg" alt="bod34698_0703.eps"/>


Figure 7.3 Panel B shows the evolution of cumulative returns. It illustrates the positive index returns in the early years of the sample, the steep decline during the recession, and the significant partial recovery of losses at the end of the sample period. Whereas Google outperforms T-bills, T-bills outperform the market index over the period, highlighting the worse-than-expected realizations in the capital market.
Estimation results We regressed Google's excess returns against those of the index using the Regression command from the Data Analysis menu of Excel.6 The scatter diagram in Figure 7.4 shows the data points for each month as well as the regression line that best fits the data. As noted in the previous chapter, this is called the security characteristic line (SCL), because it describes the relevant characteristics of the stock. Figure 7.4 allows us to view the residuals, the deviation of Google's return each month from the prediction of the regression equation. By construction, these residuals average to zero, but in any particular month, the residual may be positive or negative.

security characteristic line (SCL)
A plot of a security's  have as the basis for her decision making? .

 


FIGURE 7.4
Scatter diagram and security characteristic line for Google against the S&P 500, Jan 2006-Dec 2010



The residuals for April 2008 (23.81%) and November 2008 (-10.97%) are labeled explicitly. The April 2008 point lies above the regression line, indicating that in this month, Google's return was better than predicted from the market return. The distance between the point and the regression line is Google's firm-specific return, which is the residual for April.
The standard deviation of the residuals indicates the accuracy of predictions from the regression line. If there is a lot of firm-specific risk, there will be a wide scatter of points around the line (a high residual standard deviation), indicating that the market return will not enable a precise forecast of Google's return.
Table 7.2 is the regression output from Excel. The first line shows that the correlation coefficient between the excess returns of Google and the index was .59. The more relevant statistic, however, is the adjusted R-square (.3497). It is the square of the correlation coefficient, adjusted downward for the number of coefficients or "degrees of freedom" used to estimate the regression line.7 The adjusted R-square tells us that 34.97% of the variance of Google's excess returns is explained by the variation in the excess returns of the index, and hence the remainder, or 65.03%, of the variance is firm specific, or unexplained by market movements. The dominant contribution of firm-specific factors to variation in Google's returns is typical of individual stocks, reminding us why diversification can greatly reduce risk.


  TABLE 7.2   Security characteristic line for Google (S&P 500 used as market index), January 2006-December 2010



The standard deviation of the residuals is referred to in the output (below the adjusted R-square) as the "standard error" of the regression (8.46%). In roughly two-thirds of the months, the firm-specific component of Google's excess return was between ±8.46%. This wide spread is more evidence of Google's considerable firm-specific volatility.
The middle panel of Table 7.2, labeled "ANOVA" (for "analysis of variance"), analyzes the sources of v abnormal returns.
SS, to find Google's variance over this period. Divide the total SS, or 6,381.15, by the degrees of freedom, df, or 59, to find that variance of excess returns was 108.16, implying a monthly standard deviation of 10.40%, as reported in Table 7.1.
Finally, the bottom panel of the table shows the estimates of the regression intercept and slope (alpha = .88% and beta = 1.20). The positive alpha means that, measured by realized returns, Google stock was above the security market line (SML) for this period. But the next column shows considerable imprecision in this estimate as measured by its standard error, 1.09, considerably larger than the estimate itself. The t-statistic (the ratio of the estimate of alpha to its standard error) is only .801, indicating low statistical significance. This is reflected in the large p-value in the next column, .426, which indicates the probability that an estimate of alpha this large could have resulted from pure chance even if the true alpha were zero. The last two columns give the upper and lower bounds of the 95% confidence interval around the coefficient estimate. This confidence interval tells us that, with a probability of .95, the true alpha lies in the wide interval from -1.74 to 3.49. Thus, we cannot conclude from this particular sample, with any degree of confidence, that Google's true alpha was not zero, which would be the prediction of the CAPM.
The second line in the panel gives the estimate of Google's beta, which is 1.20. The standard error of this estimate is .215, resulting in a t-statistic of 5.58, and a practically zero p-value for the hypothesis that the true beta is in fact zero. In other words, the probability of observing an estimate this large if the true beta were zero is negligible. Another important question is whether Google's beta is significantly different from the average stock beta of 1. This hypothesis can be tested by computing the t-statistic: 
This value is considerably below the conventional threshold for statistical significance; we cannot say with confidence that Google's beta differs from 1. The 95% confidence interval for beta ranges from .69 to 1.72.
What we learn from this regression  is an introduction to lf19U.The regression analysis reveals much about Google, but we must temper our conclusions by acknowledging that the tremendous volatility in stock market returns makes it difficult to derive strong statistical conclusions about the parameters of the index model, at least for individual stocks. With such noisy variables we must expect imprecise estimates; such is the reality of capital markets.
Despite these qualifications, we can safely say that Google is a cyclical stock, that is, its returns vary equally with or more than the overall market, as its beta is higher than the average value of 1, albeit not significantly so. Thus, we would expect Google's excess return to respond, on average, more than one-for-one with the market index. Without additional information, if we had to forecast the volatility of a portfolio that includes Google, we would use the beta estimate of 1.20 to compute the contribution of Google to portfolio variance.
Moreover, if we had to advise Google's management of the appropriate discount rate for a project that is similar in risk to its equity,8 we would use this beta estimate in conjunction with the prevailing risk-free rate and our forecast of the expected excess return on the market index. Suppose the current T-bill rate is 2.75%, and our forecast for the market excess return is 5.5%. Then the required rate of return for an investment with the same risk as Google's equity would be 
In light of the imprecision of both the market risk premium and Google's beta estimate, we would try to bring more information to bear on these estimates. For example, we would compute the betas of other firms in the industry, which ought to be similar to Google's, to sharpen our estimate of Google's systematic risk.
Finally, suppose we were asked to determine whether, given Google's positive alpha, a portfolio manager was correct in loading up a managed portfolio with Google stock over the period 2006-2010.
To answer this question, let's find the optimal position in Google that would have been prescribed by the Treynor-Black model of the previous chapter. Let us assume that the manager had an accurate estimate of Google's alpha and beta, as well as its residual standard deviation and correlation with the index (from Tables 7.1 and 7.2). We still need information about the manager's forecast for the index, since we know it was not the actual return. Suppose the manager assumed a market-index risk premium of .6%/month (near the historical average) and correctly estimated the index standard deviation of 5.11%/month. Thus, the manager's input list would have included: 
Using Equation 6.10 we calculate for the optimized portfolio (P ): Immunization"> 
Thus, it appears the manager would have been quite right to tilt the portfolio heavily toward Google during this period. This reflects its large positive alpha over the sample period.
We can also measure the improvement in portfolio performance. Using Equation 6.8, the Sharpe ratio of the index and the optimized portfolios based on expected returns are 
So the position in Google substantially increased the Sharpe ratio.
This exercise would not be complete without the next step, where we observe the performance of the proposed "optimal" portfolio. After all, analysts commonly use available data to construct portfolios for a future period. We put optimal in quotes because everyone in the profession knows that past alpha values do not predict future values. Hence, a portfolio formed solely, or even primarily, by extrapolating past alpha would never qualify as optimal. However, if we treat this alpha as though it came from security analysis, we can paint a picture of what might go on in the trenches of portfolio management.
At this writing, we have 10 additional months of returns (January 2011-October 2011) for the S&P 500, Google, and T-bills. We test the proposed portfolio for three future periods following the data collection and analysis period: the next quarter, next semiannual period, and next 10 months. For each of these periods we compare the performance of the proposed portfolio to the passive index portfolio and to T-bills. The results are as follows: 
We see that 2011 began as a good year for the market, with a half-year cumulative excess return of 5.01%. Up to this point, the proposed portfolio stumbled badly. Yet the next four months bring a complete reversal of fortune: The market stumbled badly, dragging its cumulative return into negative territory, while Google shined and returned the proposed "optimal" portfolio into positive territory. It is clear that evaluating performance is fraught with enormous potential estimation error. Even a nonsense portfolio can have its day when volatility is so high. This basic fact of investment life makes portfolio performance evaluation hazardous, as we discuss in Chapter 18.
Predicting Betas
A single-index model may not be fully consistent with the CAPM, which may not be a sufficiently accurate predictor of risk premiums. Still the concept of systematic versus diversifiable risk is useful. Systematic risk is approximated well by the regression equation beta and nonsystematic risk by the residual variance of the regression.
As an empirical rule, it appears that betas exhibit a statistical property called mean reversion. This suggests that high-β (that is, β > 1) securities tend to exhibit a lower β in the future, while low-β (that is, β < 1) securities exhibit a higher β in future periods. Researchers who desire predictions of future betas often adjust beta estimates from historical data to account for regression toward 1. For this reason, it is necessary to verify whether the estimates are already "adjusted betas."
A simple way to account for mean reversion is to forecast beta as a weighted average of the sample estimate with the value 1.


EXAMPLE 7.7


Forecast of Beta
Suppose that past data yield a beta estimate of .65. A common weighting scheme is 2/3 on the sample estimate and 1/3 on the value 1. Thus, the adjusted forecast of beta will be 
The final forecast of beta is in fact closer to 1 than the sample estimate.


A more sophisticated technique would base the weight of the sample beta on its statistical quality. A more precise estimate of beta will get a higher weight.
However, obtaining a precise statistical estimate of beta from past data on individual stocks is a formidable task, because the volatility of rates of return is so large. In particular, there is a lot of "noise" in the data due to firm-specific events. The problem is less severe with diversified portfolios because diversification reduces firm-specific variance.
One might hope that more precise estimates of beta could be obtained by using a long time series of returns. Unfortunately, this is not a solution because betas change over time9 and old data can provide a misleading guide to current betas.
Two methods can help improve forecasts of beta. The first is an application of a technique that goes by the name of ARCH models. ARCH models betters beyond a stipulated benchmarko ">Immunization predict variance and covariance using high-frequency (daily) historical data to identify persistent changes in variance and covariance. The second method involves an additional step where beta estimates from time series regressions are augmented by other information about the firm, for example, P/E ratios.
7.3   THE CAPM AND THE REAL WORLD
In limited ways, portfolio theory and the CAPM have become accepted tools in the practitioner community. Many investment professionals think about the distinction between firm-specific and systematic risk and are comfortable with the use of beta to measure systematic risk. Still, the nuances of the CAPM are not nearly as well established in the community. For instance, compensation of portfolio managers is not based on appropriate risk-adjusted performance (see Chapter 18). What can we make of this?
New ways of thinking about the world (that is, new models or theories) displace old ones when the old models become either intolerably inconsistent with data or when the new model is demonstrably more consistent with available data. When Copernicus overthrew the age-old belief that stars orbit about the sun in circular motions, it took many years before navigators replaced old astronomical tables with superior ones based on his theory. The old tools fit the data with sufficient precision. To some extent, the slowness with which modern portfolio theory has permeated daily practice in the money management industry also has to do with its precision in fitting data and explaining variation in rates of return across assets. Let's review some of the evidence on this score.
The CAPM was first published by Sharpe in the Journal of Finance (the journal of the American Finance Association) in 1964 and took the world of finance by storm. Early tests by Black, Jensen, and Scholes (1972) and Fama and MacBeth (1973) were only partially supportive of the CAPM: Average returns were higher for higher-beta portfolios, but the reward for beta risk was less than predicted by the simple version of the CAPM.
While this sort of evidence against the CAPM remained largely within the ivory towers of academia, Roll's (1977) paper "A Critique of Capital Asset Pricing Tests" shook the practitioner world as well. Roll argued that since the true market portfolio can never be observed, the CAPM is necessarily untestable.
The publicity given the now classic "Roll's critique" resulted in popular articles such as "Is Beta Dead?" that effectively slowed the permeation of portfolio theory through the world of finance.10 Although Roll is absolutely correct on theoretical grounds, some tests suggest that the error introduced by using a broad market index as proxy for the true, unobserved market portfolio is perhaps not the greatest problem involved in testing the CAPM.
Fama and French (1992) published a study that dealt the CAPM an even harsher blow. They claimed that in contradiction to the CAPM, certains beyond a stipulated benchmarko ">Immunization characteristics of the firm, namely, size and the ratio of market to book value, were far more useful in predicting future returns than beta.
Fama and French and several others have published many follow-up studies of this topic. We will review some of this literature later in the chapter, and the nearby box discusses how the risk-return profile of emerging markets depends on their riskiness and their contribution to a portfolio's risk. It seems clear from these studies that beta does not tell the whole story of risk. There seem to be risk factors that affect security returns beyond beta's one-dimensional measurement of market sensitivity. In the next section, we introduce a theory of risk premiums that explicitly allows for multiple risk factors.

On the MARKET FRONT


INVESTING IN EMERGING MARKETS
Investing in emerging markets has been widely discussed during recent years, with its main benefits being high average returns and low correlations with developed markets. The higher returns in emerging markets stem from higher growth rates due to low labor costs and therefore the attraction of production from developed countries, high flexibility and a low level of unionization and growth of domestic demand. Returns in emerging markets are also higher because of a higher volatility and vulnerability of the economy. Furthermore, the often low liquidity in emerging markets also drives up the returns. Finally, investors in emerging markets are usually exposed to currency risk, adding another dimension to investment risk. The latter is made worse by the fact that in emerging markets there is often a positive correlation between share prices and the value of the domestic currency, whereas the correlation is usually smaller or even negative in developed markets. This is caused by a stronger dependence on capital inflows.
While in the early 1990s it was mainly the high returns from investing in emerging markets that gained attention, since the mid-1990s investors have focused more on emerging markets' role in diversifying global portfolios. The discussion can be reduced to two different aspects: Firstly, it seems that correlations between markets in general have increased. For example, the correlation between the MSCI Emerging Markets index and the S&P 500 index has roughly increased from the 1990s to the present from about 0.6 to more than 0.8. However, there remains a diversification benefit since we know that any correlation below one creates a positive effect of diversification.
The second aspect is the apparent or real increase of correlations during crises, which is often attributed to the increased worldwide financial integration. Increased correlation in times of crises is harmful, since it means that correlation is high, and therefore the benefit of diversification is low when it is most needed. The increase in correlation during crises is particularly visible when contagion affects other emerging economies in the same region, although these crises usually affect developed markets to a lesser extent. A prominent example is the Asian financial crisis of 1997/1998 which affected all countries in South-East Asia.
Although the pure measurement of correlation may be misleading as it technically increases when volatility is high,">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf19U. there seems to be a consensus that correlations are asymmetric and have recently risen. It is not yet clear whether the recent increase in correlation is due to the current financial crisis and will therefore decline to the pre-crisis level or whether it will remain high.
While global diversification - as seen in the current crisis - does not guarantee positive returns every year, one should keep in mind that the returns are not static but will move around. There may always be relatively long periods during which correlations rise to much higher than the historical average. If you are invested for the long term, you should, however, not be concerned about these short-term fluctuations.
Another aspect of investing in emerging markets is political risk. Part of the high returns in emerging markets may be attributed to political risk in these countries. The focus on political risk has been renewed by the uprisings in a couple of countries in the course of the Arab Spring. Investors demand a higher risk premium on investments particularly in authoritarian emerging economies, owing to the potential political and succession risks in countries previously seen to be stable.
SOURCE: based on to follow

Liquidity, a different kind of risk factor, was ignored for a long time. Although first analyzed by Amihud and Mendelson as early as 1986, it is yet to be accurately measured and incorporated in portfolio management. Measuring liquidity and the premium commensurate with illiquidity is part of a larger field in financial economics, namely, market structure. We now know that trading mechanisms on stock exchanges can affect the liquidity of assets traded on these exchanges and thus significantly affect their market value.
Despite all these issues, beta is not dead. Research shows that when we use a more inclusive proxy for the market portfolio than the S&P 500 (specifically, an index that includes human capital) and allow for the fact that beta changes over time, the performance of beta in explaining security returns is considerably enhanced (Jagannathan and Wang, 1996). We know that the CAPM is not a perfect model and that ultimately it will be greatly refined. Still, the logic of the model is compelling, and more sophisticated models of security pricing all rely on the key distinction between systematic and diversifiable risk. The CAPM therefore provides a useful framework for thinking rigorously about the relationship between security risk and return. This is as much as Copernicus had when he was shown the prepublication version of his book just before he passed away.
7.4   MULTIFACTOR MODELS AND THE CAPM
The index model allows us to decompose stock variance into systematic risk and firm-specific risk that can be diversified in large portfolios. In the index model, the return on the market portfolio summarized the aggregate impact of macro factors. In reality, however, systematic risk is not due to one source but instead derives from uncertainty in many economywide factors such as business-cycle risk, interest or inflation rate risk, energy price risk, and so on. It stands to reason that a more explicit representation of systematic risk, allowing stocks to exhibit different sensitivities to its various facets, would constitute a useful refinement of the single-factor model. We can expect have as the basis for her decision making? .
multifactor models—can provide better descriptions of security returns.

multifactor models
Models of security returns that respond to several systematic factors.

Let's illustrate with a two-factor model. Suppose the two most important macroeconomic sources of risk are the state of the business cycle reflected in returns on a broad market index such as the S&P 500 and unanticipated changes in interest rates captured by returns on a Treasury-bond portfolio. The return on any stock will respond both to sources of macro risk and to its own firm-specific influences. Therefore, we can expand the single-index model, Equation 7.3, describing the excess rate of return on stock i in some time period t as follows: 
where βiTB is the sensitivity of the stock's excess return to that of the T-bond portfolio and R TBt is the excess return of the T-bond portfolio in month t.
How will the security market line of the CAPM generalize once we recognize the presence of multiple sources of systematic risk? Not surprisingly, a multifactor index model gives rise to a multifactor security market line in which the risk premium is determined by the exposure to each systematic risk factor and by a risk premium associated with each of those factors. Such a multifactor CAPM was first presented by Merton (1973).
In a two-factor economy of Equation 7.5, the expected rate of return on a security would be the sum of three terms: 1. The risk-free rate of return.
2. The sensitivity to the market index (i.e., the market beta, βiM) times the risk premium of the index, [E (rM ) - rf ].
3. The sensitivity to interest rate risk (i.e., the T-bond beta, βiTBJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumption19U.) times the risk premium of the T-bond portfolio, [E (r TB) - rf ].
This assertion is expressed mathematically as a two-factor security market line for security i: 
Equation 7.6 is an expansion of the simple security market line. Once we generalize the single-index SML to multiple risk sources, each with its own risk premium, the insights are similar.


EXAMPLE 7.8


A Two-Factor SML
Suppose KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, has a hypothetical market beta of 1.2 and a T-bond beta of .7. Suppose the market index risk premium is 6%, while that of the T-bond portfolio (comprising a basket of European government bonds) is 3%. Then the overall risk premium on KLM Airlines stock is the sum of the risk premiums required as compensation for each source of systematic risk.
The risk premium attributable to market risk is the stock's exposure to that risk, 1.2, multiplied by the corresponding risk premium, 6%, or 1.2 × 6% = 7.2%. Similarly, the risk premium attributable to interest rate risk is .7 × 3% = 2.1%. The total risk premium is 7.2 + 2.1 = 9.3%. Therefore, if the risk-free rate is 4%, the expected return on the portfolio should be 
More concisely,



 

CONCEPT   check7.5
 
Suppose the risk premiums in Example 7.8 were E(rM) - rf = 4% and Es beyond a stipulated benchmarko ">Immunization(r TB) - rf = 2%. What would be the equilibrium expected rate of return on KLM Royal Dutch Airlines?

The multifactor model clearly gives us a richer way to think about risk exposures and compensation for those exposures than the single-index model or the CAPM. But what are the relevant additional systematic factors?
Three methodologies have been deployed to identify systematic factors in security returns, based on theory, regression analysis, or other statistical tools. The theory-based approach specifies potential extra-market risk factors on the basis of their potential impact on lifetime consumption and bequests. Broadly speaking, these variables fall into two groups: (1) prices of items that make up a substantial part of the lifetime consumption basket of many consumers, such as health care or housing, and (2) variables that affect future investment opportunities, such as interest rates or prices of inputs to major manufacturing and service industries. Investors are expected to respond to these sources of risk to their future consumption and investment opportunities by exhibiting excess demand for securities that can hedge those risks. This demand will drive up prices and drive down expected rates of return. So correlation with these sources of risk can induce its own risk premium. Variables that are important enough to affect security prices through a risk premium in such models are called priced risk factors. The theory therefore predicts a multi-index model in which portfolios that track each priced risk factor augment the market index in a multifactor version of the SML.
Some factors might help to explain returns but still might not carry a risk premium. For example, securities of firms in the same industry may be highly correlated. If we were to run a regression of the returns on one such security on the returns of the market index and a portfolio of the other securities in the industry, we would expect to find a significant coefficient on the industry portfolio. However, if this industry is a small part of the broad market, the industry risk can be diversified away. Thus, although an industry coefficient measures sensitivity to the industry factor, it does not necessarily represent exposure to systematic risk and will not result in a risk premium. We say that such factors are not priced, that is, they do not carry a risk premium.
The empirical content of a model of this type depends on the actual aggregate demand for these portfolios. So far, these models have not produced a clearly superior multi-index equation, suggesting that investors are not willing to pay significant premiums to hedge against these extra-market risk factors.
The regression-based approach seeks economic variables, or portfolios tracking those variables, that can significantly improve the explanatory power of the single-index equation. So far, one of these, the Fama-French factor model, has been most successful and will be discussed next.
The statistics-based approach deploys principle components and factor analysis procedures to identify systematic factors from only the return history of a  to attract the type of party who would make the  between Financial Managementsecurity universe. This approach identifies a set of portfolios that explain returns well within a given sample. But in practice, the composition of these portfolios appears to change quickly over time and tends to perform poorly when applied to out-of-sample data. Consequently, this approach has largely been abandoned.
The Fama-French Three-Factor Model
Fama and French (1996) proposed a three-factor model that has become a standard tool for empirical studies of asset returns. They add to the market-index portfolios formed on the basis of firm size and book-to-market ratio to explain average returns. These additional factors are motivated by the observations that average returns on stocks of small firms and on stocks of firms with a high ratio of book value of equity to market value of equity have historically been higher than predicted by the security market line of the CAPM. This observation suggests that size or the book-to-market (B/M) ratio may be proxies for exposures to sources of systematic risk not captured by the CAPM beta, and thus result in return premiums. For example, Fama and French point out that firms with high ratios of book-to-market value are more likely to be in financial distress and that small stocks may be more sensitive to changes in business conditions. Thus, these variables may capture sensitivity to macroeconomic risk factors.
While the high book-to-market group includes many firms in financial distress, which depresses market value relative to book value, for the most part this group includes relatively mature firms. The latter derive a larger share of their market value from assets already in place, rather than growth opportunities. This group often is called value stocks. In contrast, low-B/M companies are viewed as growth firms whose market values derive from anticipated future cash flows, rather than from assets already in place. Considerable evidence (which we will review in the following chapter) suggests that value stocks trade at lower prices than growth stocks (or, equivalently, have offered a higher average rate of return); the differential is known as the value premium.
While a value premium may be appropriate compensation for risk for a firm whose high B/M ratio reflects potential financial distress, it would seem paradoxical for firms whose high B/M ratio reflects maturity and thus more predictable future cash flows. It implies that, other things equal, the required rate for growth stocks is lower than that of more mature value firms. This is a puzzle; one explanation is that mature firms with large amounts of installed capital confront higher adjustment costs in adapting to shocks in the product markets in which they operate.
How can we make the Fama-French (FF) model operational? To illustrate, we will follow the same general approach that we applied for Google earlier, but now using the more general model.
Collecting and processing data To create portfolios that track the size and B/M factors, one can sort industrial firms by size (market capitalization or market "cap") and by B/M ratio. The size premium is constructed as the difference is an introduction to lf19U. in returns between small and large firms and is denoted by SMB ("small minus big"). Similarly, the B/M premium is calculated as the difference in returns between firms with a high versus low B/M ratio and is denoted HML ("high minus low" ratio).
Taking the difference in returns between two portfolios has an economic interpretation. The SMB return, for example, equals the return from a long position in small stocks, financed with a short position in the large stocks. Note that this is a portfolio that entails no net investment.11
Summary statistics for these portfolios in our sample period are reported in Table 7.3. We use a broad market index, the value-weighted return on all stocks traded on U.S. national exchanges (NYSE, Amex, and NASDAQ) to compute the excess return on the market portfolio.

 
  TABLE 7.3   Statistics for monthly rates of return (%), January 2006-December 2010



The "returns" of the SMB and HML portfolios require careful interpretation. As noted above, these portfolios do not by themselves represent investment portfolios, as they entail zero net investment. Rather, they may be interpreted as side bets on whether one type of stock will beat another (e.g., large versus small ones for SMB).
To apply the FF three-factor portfolio to Google, we need to estimate Google's beta on each factor. To do so, we generalize the regression Equation 7.3 of the single-index model and fit a multivariate regression:12

To the extent that returns on the size (SMB) and book-to-market (HML) portfolios proxy for risk that is not fully captured by the market index, the beta coefficients on these portfolios represent exposure to systematic risks beyond the market-index beta.13
Estimation results Both the single-index model (alternatively employing the S&P 500 Index and the broad market index) and the FF three-factor model are summarized in Table 7.4. The broad market index includes more than 4,000 stocks, while the S&P 500 includes only 500 of the largest U.S. stocks, in which list Google ranked fourteenth in January 2012.14


  TABLE 7.4   Regression statistics for alternative specifications: abnormal returns.
 
 1.A Single index with S&P 500 as market proxy
 1.B Single index with broad market index (NYSE + NASDAQ + Amex) 2. Fama-French three-factor model (broad market + SMB + HML) 

In this sample, the broad market index tracks Google's returns better than the S&P 500, and the three-factor model is a better specification than the one-factor model. This is reflected in three aspects of a successful specification: a higher adjusted R-square, a lower residual SD, and a smaller value of alpha. This outcome turns out to be typical, which makes a broader market index the choice of researchers and the FF model the current first-line empirical model of security returns.15
Google's market beta estimate is very different in the three-factor model (1.51 versus 1.20 or 1.16 in one-factor models). Moreover, this coefficient value implies high cyclicality and is significantly greater than 1: It exceeds 1 by 2.43 standard errors. The SMB beta is negative (-.20), as you would expect for a firm as large as Google, yet it is not significantly different from zero (standard error = .44). Google still exhibits a negative and significant book-to-market beta (coefficient = 1.33, standard error = .37), however, indicating that it is still a growth stock.
What we learn from this regression While the FF three-factor model offers a richer and more accurate description of asset returns, applying this model requires two more forecasts of future returns, namely, for the SMB and HML portfolios. We have so far in this section been using a T-bill rate of 2.75% and a market risk premium of 5.5%. If we add to these values a forecast of 2.5% for the SMB premium and 4% for HML, the required rate for an investment with the same risk as Google's equity would be 
which is considerably lower than the rate derived from cyclical considerations alone (i.e., single-beta models). Notice from this example that to obtain expected rates of return, the FF model requires, in addition to a forecast of the market-index return, a forecast of the returns of the SMB and HML portfolios, making the model more difficult to apply. This can be a critical issue. If such forecasts are difficult to devise, the single-factor model may be preferred even if it is less successful in explaining past returns.16
Another reason a multi-index model is more difficult to implement is that currently it would be difficult to hold the prescribed optimal portfolio. As of yet, there are no vehicles (index funds or ETFs) to directly invest in SMB and HML.
Passive investors would have to invest in a suitable small-stock portfolio and short a large-stock portfolio to substitute for SMB. Similarly, they would have to buy value stocks and short growth stocks to substitute for HML. This is no small feat. Even for professional managers, investing in SMB and HML would be challenging. It is no wonder that while the FF model (and its variants with even additional factors) has largely superseded the single-index CAPM for the purpose of benchmarking investment performance, the single-index model still dominates the investments industry.
Multifactor Models and the Validity of the CAPM
The single-index CAPM fails empirical tests because its empirical representation, the single-index model, inadequately explains returns on too many securities. In short, too many statistically significant values of alpha (which should be zero) show up in single-index regressions. Despite this failure, it is still widely used in the industry.
Multifactor models such as the FF model may also be tested by the prevalence of significant alpha values. The three-factor model shows a material improvement over the single-index model in that regard. But the use of multi-index models comes at a price: They require forecasts of the additional factor returns. If forecasts of those additional factors are themselves subject to forecast error, these models will be less accurate than the theoretically inferior single-index model. Nevertheless, multifactor models have a definite appeal, since it is clear that real-world risk is multifaceted.
Merton (1973) first showed that the CAPM could be extended to allow for multiple sources of systematic risk. His model results in a multifactor security market line like that of Equation 7.8 but with risk factors that relate to the extra-market sources of risk that investors wish to hedge. In this light, a reasonable correct interpretation of multivariate index models such as FF is that they constitute an application of the multifactor CAPM, rather than a rejection of the underlying logic of the simple model.
7.5   ARBITRAGE PRICING THEORY
One reason for skepticism about the validity of the CAPM is the unrealistic nature of the assumptions needed to derive it. Most unappealing are assumptions 2.A-C, namely, that all investors are identical in every way but wealth and risk aversion. For this reason, as well as for its economic insights, the arbitrage pricing theory (APT) is of great interest. To understand this theory we begin with the concept of arbitrage.
Arbitrage is the act of exploiting mispricing of two or more securities to achieve risk-free profits. As a trivial example, consider a security that is priced differently in two markets. A long position in the cheaper market financed by a short position in the expensive market will lead to a sure profit. As investors avidly pursue this strategy, prices are forced back into alignment, so arbitrage">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf19U. opportunities vanish almost as quickly as they materialize.

arbitrage
Creation of riskless profits made possible by relative mispricing among securities.

The first to apply this concept to equilibrium security returns was Ross (1976), who developed the arbitrage pricing theory (APT). The APT depends on the observation that well-functioning capital markets preclude arbitrage opportunities. A violation of the APT's pricing relationships will cause extremely strong pressure to restore them even if only a limited number of investors become aware of the disequilibrium. Ross's accomplishment is to derive the equilibrium rates of return that would prevail in a market where prices are aligned to eliminate arbitrage opportunities. The APT thus avoids the most objectionable assumptions of the CAPM.

arbitrage pricing theory (APT)
A theory of risk-return relationships derived from no-arbitrage considerations in large capital markets.

Well-Diversified Portfolios and Arbitrage Pricing Theory
To illustrate how the APT works, we will begin with a single-index market; generalization to multifactor markets is straightforward. The excess rate of return on any security, S, is then RS = αS + βS RM + eS, using an observed benchmark M.
Suppose a portfolio, P, is believed to have a positive alpha. We can use the benchmark portfolio (with a beta of 1) to hedge away or "purge" the systematic risk of P and convert it to a zero-beta portfolio. We can go even further and turn the positive-alpha, zero-beta portfolio into a zero-net-investment position by adding an appropriate position in the risk-free asset. In all, we combine the positive-alpha P with both the benchmark and T-bills to create a costless, zero-beta portfolio, A, with a positive alpha. Table 7.5 shows how.


TABLE 7.5 abnormal returns.
Steps to convert a well-diversified portfolio into an arbitrage portfolio 

Table 7.5 shows that portfolio A with excess return αP + eP is still risky as long as the residual variance,  is positive. This shows that a zero-investment, zero-beta, positive-alpha portfolio is not necessarily an arbitrage opportunity; true arbitrage implies no risk. However, if P were highly diversified, its residual risk would be small. A portfolio with practically negligible residual risk is called a well-diversified portfolio. The difference in the scatter diagrams of any asset versus that of a well-diversified portfolio with the same beta is shown in Figure 7.5.

well-diversified portfolio
A portfolio sufficiently diversified that nonsystematic risk is negligible.



FIGURE 7.5
Security characteristic lines



Portfolio A, when constructed from a well-diversified portfolio, is an arbitrage portfolio. An arbitrage portfolio is a money machine: It can generate risk-free profits with zero net inves financing with as much leverage and/or as many short positions as available.

arbitrage portfolio
A zero-net-investment, risk-free portfolio with a positive return.



EXAMPLE 7.9


Constructing an Arbitrage Portfolio
Suppose the benchmark, M, is the observedJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumption19U., broad market index that includes over 4,000 stocks (NYSE + NASDAQ + Amex). Imagine that on December 31, 2005, a portfolio manager possessed the following five-year predictions based on security and macro analyses: 1. The cumulative risk-free rate from rolling over T-bills over the next five years is estimated at 11.5%, an annual rate of 2.2%.
2. The cumulative return on the benchmark is estimated at 20%, an annual rate of 3.71%.
3. The S&P 500, which we will treat as portfolio P, is composed of large-capitalization stocks and is believed to be overpriced. Its expected cumulative return is forecast at 12%, an annual rate of 2.29%.
4. The S&P 500 beta against the benchmark is estimated at .95, which leads to the following calculation for its alpha: 2.29% = 2.2% + α + .95(3.71 - 2.2); α = -1.34% per year.
Because alpha is negative, we reverse the weights in Table 7.5 and set wP = -1, wM = .95, wf =.05. The alpha on A is then positive: αA = 1.34%.


Example 7.9 shows how to construct an arbitrage portfolio from a mispriced well-diversified portfolio. But it leaves us with an important question: While the S&P 500 is highly diversified, is even this index sufficiently diversified to make A a risk-free arbitrage portfolio? Table 7.6 shows the weight of the 10 largest stocks in the S&P 500. While these firms are only 2% of the firms in the index, they account for almost 20% of the market capitalization, and their weights in the index are far from negligible.


TABLE 7.6   Ten largest capitalization stocks in the S&P 500 portfolio and their weight in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="Institute of Chartered Financial Analystss (Dec. 31, 2009) 

With hindsight, we can estimate the residual risk of the S&P 500 from a regression of its monthly returns against the benchmark over tment. Therefore, investors who succeed inthe prediction period (January 1, 2006, to December 31, 2010). The essential regression output is displayed in Table 7.7. Notice that both alpha (-.19% per month or -2.27% per year) and beta (.93) are close to the 2005 prediction of 2.33% and .95. Most important is the (annualized) standard deviation of the regression residuals, called the standard error of the regression, which was 2.07%. Is this residual SD small enough for us to deem the S&P 500 "well-diversified"?


  TABLE 7.7   Regression statistics of the S&P 500 portfolio on the benchmark portfolio, January 2006-December 2010



To answer the question, we recognize that investors who consider a zero-investment arbitrage portfolio must in any event invest their existing wealth somewhere. The risk of their alternative portfolio is therefore relevant to the discussion. Obviously, the lowest-risk investment would be to roll over T-bills. A measure of the risk of this strategy is the uncertainty of its real rate of return over the prediction period.17 Table 7.8 suggests that the annual SD of the real rate from rolling over bills is in the range of .5%-1.5% per year depending on the sample period.


TABLE 7.8   Annual standard deviation of the real, inflation, and nominal rates 

Our question then comes down to this: What would be the marginal increase in risk from adding an arbitrage portfolio with an SD of about 2% per year to a portfolio with an SD of .5%-1.5% per year? Since the two rates are uncorrelated, the variance of the portfolio will be the sum of the variances. The SD of this complete portfolio minus the SD of the T-bill portfolio is the marginal risk of the S&P 500 in its use as an arbitrage portfolio. The following table shows some examples of the marginal risk of the arbitrage portfolio, first treating T-bills as the initial portfolio to which the arbitrage portfolio is added (with three assumptions for the SD of its real return) and then treating the benchmark risky portfolio as the initial position, with an assumed SD = 20%.
Immunization" aid="KVDRS">
There is no widely accepted threshold for the acceptable marginal risk of an arbitrage portfolio in a practical application. Nevertheless, the marginal risk in the first three lines of the table, which is just about the same as the SD of the real rate on bills, may well be above the appropriate threshold. Moreover, an alpha of 2% per year in this example is not even decisively statistically significant. We learn from this exercise that well-diversified portfolios are not easy to construct, and arbitrage opportunities are likely few and far between. On the other hand, when the arbitrage portfolio is added to the risky benchmark portfolio, the marginal increase in overall standard deviation is minimal.
We are now ready to derive the APT. Our argument follows from Example 7.9. Investors, however few, will invest large amounts in any arbitrage portfolio they can identify. This will entail large-scale purchases of positive-alpha portfolios or large-scale shorting of negative-alpha portfolios. These actions will move the prices of component securities until alpha disappears. In the end, when alphas of all well-diversified portfolios are driven to zero, their return equations become 
Taking the expectations in Equation 7.8 results in the familiar CAPM mean-beta equation:

For portfolios such as the S&P 500 that shed most residual risk, we can still expect buying and selling pressure to drive their alpha close to zero. If alphas of portfolios with very small residual risk are near zero, then even less diversified portfolios will tend to have small alpha values. Thus, the APT implies a hierarchy of certainty about alphas of portfolios, based on the degree of diversification.
The APT and the CAPM
Why did we need so many restrictive assumptions to derive the CAPM when the APT seems to arrive at the expected return-beta relationship with seemingly fewer and less objectionable assumptions? The answer is simple: Strictly speaking, the APT applies only to well-diversified portfolios. Absence of riskless arbitrage alone cannot guarantee that, in equilibrium, the expected return-beta relationship will hold for any and all assets.
With additional effort, however, one can use the APT to show that the relationship must hold approximately even for individual assets. The essence of the proof is that if the expected return-beta relationship were violated by many individual securities, it would be virtually impossible for all well-diversified portfolios to satisfy the relationship. So the relationship must almost surely hold true for individual securities.
We say "almost" because, according to the APT, there is no guarantee that all individual assets will lie on the SML. If only a few securities violated the SML, their effect on well-diversified portfolios could conceivably be negligible. In this sense, it is possible that the SMLJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumption19U. relationship is violated for some securities. If many securities violate the expected return-beta relationship, however, the relationship will no longer hold for well-diversified portfolios comprising these securities, and arbitrage opportunities will be available.
The APT serves many of the same functions as the CAPM. It gives us a benchmark for fair rates of return that can be used for capital budgeting, security valuation, or performance evaluation of managed portfolios. Moreover, the APT highlights the crucial distinction between nondiversifiable risk (systematic or factor risk) that requires a reward in the form of a risk premium and diversifiable risk that does not.
The bottom line is that neither of these theories dominates the other. The APT is more general in that it gets us to the expected return-beta relationship without requiring many of the unrealistic assumptions of the CAPM, particularly the reliance on the market portfolio. The latter improves the prospects for testing the APT. But the CAPM is more general in that it applies to all assets without reservation. The good news is that both theories agree on the expected return-beta relationship.
It is worth noting that because past tests of the mean-beta relationship examined the rates of return on highly diversified portfolios, they actually came closer to testing the APT than the CAPM. Thus, it appears that econometric concerns, too, favor the APT.
Multifactor Generalization of the APT and CAPM
So far, we've examined the APT in a one-factor world. In reality, there are several sources of systematic risk such as uncertainty in the business cycle, interest rates, energy prices, and so on. Presumably, exposure to any of these factors will affect a stock's appropriate expected return. We can use a multifactor version of the APT to accommodate these multiple sources of risk.
Expanding the single-factor model of Equation 7.8 to a two-factor model:

where RM1 and RM2 are the excess returns on portfolios that represent the two systematic factors. Factor 1 might be, for example, unanticipated changes in industrial production, while factor 2 might represent unanticipated changes in short-term interest rates. We assume again that there are many securities available with any combination of betas. This implies that we can form well-diversified factor portfolios with a beta of 1 on one factor and zero on all others. Thus, a factor portfolio with a beta of 1 on the first factor will have a rate of return of RM1; a factor portfolio with a beta of 1 on the second factor will have a rate of return of RM2; have as the basis for her decision making? .
 

factor portfolio
A well-diversified portfolio constructed to have a beta of 1 on one factor and a beta of zero on any other factor.



EXAMPLE 7.10


Multifactor SML
Suppose the two-factor portfolios, here called portfolios 1 and 2, have expected returns E(r1) = 10% and E(r2) = 12%. Suppose further that the risk-free rate is 4%. The risk premium on the first factor portfolio is therefore 6%, while that on the second factor portfolio is 8%.
Now consider an arbitrary well-diversified portfolio (P), with beta on the first factor, βP1 = .5, and on the second factor, βP2 = .75. The multifactor APT states that the portfolio risk premium must equal the sum of the risk premiums required as compensation to investors for each source of systematic risk. The risk premium attributable to risk factor 1 is the portfolio's exposure to factor 1, βP1, times the risk premium earned on the first factor portfolio, E(r1) - rf. Therefore, the portion of portfolio P's risk premium that is compensation for its exposure to the first risk factor is βP1[E(r1) - is an introduction to lf19U. rf ] = .5(10% - 4%) = 3%, while the risk premium attributable to risk factor 2 is βP2[E(r2) - rf ] = .75(12% - 4%) = 6%. The total risk premium on the portfolio, therefore, should be 3 + 6 = 9%, and the total return on the portfolio should be 13%.
 



 Estimating the Index Model




Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

The spreadsheet below contains monthly returns for a small sample of stocks. A related workbook (also available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie) contains spreadsheets that show raw returns, risk premiums, and beta coefficients for the stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The security characteristic lines are estimated with five years of monthly returns.

Excel Questions
1. What were the betas of Ford, Toyota, and Honda?
 2. In light of each firm's exposure to the financial crisis in 2008-2009, does the value for Ford compared to Honda and Toyota make sense to you?

Suppose portfolio P of Example 7.10 actually has an  to attract the type of party who would make the  between Financial Managementexpected excess return of 11% and therefore a positive alpha of 2%. We can generalize the methodology of Table 7.5 to construct an arbitrage portfolio for this two-factor problem. Table 7.9 shows how. Because P is well diversified, eP must be small, and the excess return on the zero-investment, zero-beta portfolio A is just αP = 2%.


TABLE 7.9   Constructing an arbitrage portfolio with two systematic factors 

Here, too, extensive trade by arbitrageurs will eliminate completely alphas of well-diversified portfolios. We conclude that, in general, the APT hierarchy of possible alpha values, declining with the extent of portfolio diversification, applies to any multifactor market. In the absence of private information from security and macro analyses, investors and corporate officers must use the multifactor SML equation (with zero alpha) to determine the expected rates on securities and the required rates of return on the firm's projects.
 

CONCEPT   check7.6
 
Using the factor portfolios of Example 7.10, find the fair rate of return on a security with β1 = .2 and β2 = 1.4.

SUMMARY
• The CAPM assumes investors are rational, single-period planners who agree on a common input list from security analysis and seek mean-variance optimal portfolios.
• The CAPM assumes ideal security markets in the sense that (a) markets are large and investors are price takers, (b) there are no taxes or transaction costs, (c) all risky assets are publicly traded, and (d) any amount can be borrowed and lent at a fixed, risk-free rate. These assumptions mean that all investors will hold identical risky portfolios. The CAPM implies that, in equilibrium, the market portfolio is the unique mean-variance efficient tangency portfolio, which indicates that a passive strategy is efficient.
• The market portfolio is a value-weighted portfolio. Each security is held in a proportion equal to its market value divided by the total market value of all securities. The risk premium on the market portfolio is proportional to its variance,  and to the risk aversion of the average investor.
• The CAPM implies that the risk premium on any individual asset or portfolio is the product of the risk premium of the market portfolio and the asset's beta. The security market line shows the return demanded by investors as ed return is a benchmark for evaluating investment performance.
• In a single-index security market, once an index is specified, a security beta can be estimated from a regression of the security's excess return on the index's excess return. This regression line is called the security characteristic line (SCL). The intercept of the SCL, called alpha, represents the average excess return on the security when the index excess return is zero. The CAPM implies that alphas should be zero.
• The CAPM and the security market line can be used to establish benchmarks for evaluation of investment performance or to determine appropriate discount rates for capital budgeting applications. They are also used in regulatory proceedings concerning the "fair" rate of return for regulated industries.
• The CAPM is usually implemented as a single-factor model, with all systematic risk summarized by the return on a broad market index. However, multifactor generalizations of the basic model may be specified to accommodate multiple sources of systematic risk. In such multifactor extensions of the CAPM, the risk premium of any security is determined by its sensitivity to each systematic risk factor as well as the risk premium associated with that source of risk.
• There are two abnormal returns.
 
• An arbitrage opportunity arises when the disparity between two or more security prices enables investors to construct a zero net investment portfolio that will yield a sure profit. The presence of arbitrage opportunities and the resulting volume of trades will create pressure on security prices that will persist until prices reach levels that preclude arbitrage. Only a few investors need to become aware of arbitrage opportunities to trigger this process because of the large volume of trades in which they will engage.
• When securities are priced so that there are no arbitrage opportunities, the market satisfies the no-arbitrage condition. Price relationships that satisfy the no-arbitrage condition are important because we expect them to hold in real-world markets.
• Portfolios are called well diversified if they include a large number of securities in such proportions that the residual or diversifiable risk of the portfolio is negligible.
• In a single-factor security market, all well-diversified portfolios must satisfy the expected return-beta relationship of the SML in order to satisfy the no-arbitrage condition. If all well-diversified portfolios satisfy the expected return-beta relationship, then all but a small number of securities also must satisfy this relationship.
• The APT implies the same expected return-beta relationship as the CAPM yet does not require that all investors be mean-variance optimizers. The price of this generality is that the APT does not guarantee this relationship for all securities at all times.
• A multifactor APT generalizes the single-factor model to accommodate several sources of systematic risk.
KEY TERMS
alpha
arbitrage
arbitrage portfolio
arbitrage pricing theory (APT)
capital asset pricing model (CAPM) expected return-beta relationship
factor portfolio
market portfolio (M) multifactor models
mutual fund theorem
security characteristic line (SCL)
security market line (SML)
well-diversified portfolio
KEY FORMULAS
CAPM: Market portfolio risk premium is proportional to average risk aversion and market risk: 
SML: Expected return as a function of systematic risk:

The index model in realized returns:

The two-index model in realized excess returns:

The two-factor SML (where TB is the second factor):

The Fama-French three-factor model in realized returns:

Instructions to construct arbitrage portfolios for single-and two-factor markets are shown in Tables 7.5 and 7.9.
PROBLEM SETS
 Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance.  is an introduction to lf19U.Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.
Basic

1. Suppose investors believe that the standard deviation of the market-index portfolio has increased by 50%. What does the CAPM imply about the effect of this change on the required rate of return on Google's investment projects? (LO 7-1)
2. Consider the statement: "If we can identify a portfolio that beats the S&P 500 Index portfolio, then we should reject the single-index CAPM." Do you agree or disagree? Explain. (LO 7-1)
3. Are the following true or false? Explain. (LO 7-5)
a. Stocks with a beta of zero offer an expected rate of return of zero.
b. The CAPM implies that investors require a higher return to hold highly volatile securities.
c. You can construct a portfolio with beta of .75 by investing .75 of the investment budget in T-bills and the remainder in the market portfolio.

4. Here are data on two companies. The T-bill rate is 5% and the market risk premium is 9.5%.



What would be the fair return for each company, according to the capital asset pricing model (CAPM)? (LO 7-1)

5. Characterize each company in the previous problem as underpriced, overpriced, or properly priced. (LO 7-2)

6. What is the expected rate of return for a stock that has a beta of 1 if the expected return on the market is 12%? (LO 7-2)
a. 15%.
b. More than 15%.
c. Cannot bes beyond a stipulated benchmarko ">Immunization determined without the risk-free rate.

7. Kaskin, Inc., stock has a beta of 1.2 and Quinn, Inc., stock has a beta of .6. Which of the following statements is most accurate? (LO 7-1) a. The expected rate of return will be higher for the stock of Kaskin, Inc., than that of Quinn, Inc.
b. The stock of Kaskin, Inc., has more total risk than Quinn, Inc.
c. The stock of Quinn, Inc., has more systematic risk than that of Kaskin, Inc.
8. Which of the following statements is true? Explain. (LO 7-1)
a. It is possible that the APT is valid and the CAPM is not.
b. It is possible that the CAPM is valid and the APT is not.

Intermediate

9. What must be the beta of a portfolio with E (rP) = 12.7%, if rf = 5% and E (rM) = 12%? (LO 7-2)

10. The market price of a security is $30. Its expected rate of return is 10%. The risk-free rate is 4%, and the market risk premium is 8%. What will the market price of the security be if its beta doubles (ans beyond a stipulated benchmarko ">Immunizationd all other variables remain unchanged)? Assume the stock is expected to pay a constant dividend in perpetuity. (LO 7-2)
11. You are a consultant to a large manufacturing corporation considering a project with the following net after-tax cash flows (in millions of dollars): 

The project's beta is 1.5. Assuming rf = 4% and E (rM) = 12%, what is the net present value of the project? What is the highest possible beta estimate for the project before its NPV becomes negative? (LO 7-2)

12. Consider the following table, which gives a security analyst's expected return on two stocks for two particular market returns: (LO 7-2)

a. What are the betas of the two stocks?
b. What is the expected rate of return on each stock if the market return is equally likely to be 6% or 20%?
c. If the T-bill rate is 7%, and the market return is equally likely to be 6% or 20%, draw the SML for this economy.
d. Plot the two securities on the SML graph. What are the alphas of each?
e. What hurdle rate should be used by the management of the aggressive firm for a project with the risk characteristics of the defensive firm's stock?
If the simple CAPM is valid, which of the situations in Problems 13-19 below are possible? Explain. Consider each situation independently.







13.

(LO 7-1)







14.

s beyond a stipulated benchmarko ">Immunization(LO 7-1)







15.

(LO 7-1)







16.

(LO 7-1)







17.

(LO 7-1)







18.

(LO 7-1)







19.

(LO 7-1)


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

20. Go to www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie and link to Chapter 7 materials, where you will find a spreadsheet with monthly returns for GM, Ford, and Toyota, the S&P 500, and Treasury bills. (LO 7-1)
a. Estimate the index model for each firm over the full five-year period. Compare the betas of each firm.
b. Now estimate the betas for each firm using only the first two years of the sample and then using only the last two years. How stable are the beta estimates obtained from these shorter subperiods?
In Problems 21-23 below, assume the risk-free rate is 4% and the expected rate of return on the market is 15%.
21. A share of stock is now selling for $70. It will pay a dividend of $8 per share at the end of the year. Its beta is 1. What do investors expect the stock to sell for at the end of the year?  is an introduction to lf19U.(LO 7-2)
22. I am buying a firm with an expected perpetual cash flow of $600 but am unsure of its risk. If I think the beta of the firm is zero, when the beta is really 1, how much more will I offer for the firm than it is truly worth? (LO 7-2)
23. A stock has an expected return of 7%. What is its beta? (LO 7-2)
24. Two investment advisers are comparing performance. One averaged a 19% return and the other a 16% return. However, the beta of the first adviser was 1.5, while that of the second was 1. (LO 7-2)
a. Can you tell which adviser was a better selector of individual stocks (aside from the issue of general movements in the market)?
b. If the T-bill rate were 6% and the market return during the period were 14%, which adviser would be the superior stock selector?
c. What if the T-bill rate were 3% and the market return 15%?
25. Suppose the yield on short-term government securities (perceived to be risk-free) is about 4%. Suppose also that the expected return required by the market for a portfolio with a beta of 1 is 14%. According to the capital asset pricing model: (LO 7-2)
a. What is the expected return on the market portfolio?
b. What would be the expected return on a zero-beta stock?
c. Suppose you consider buying a share of stock at a price of $30. The stock is expected to pay a dividend of $4 next year and to sell then for $31. The stock risk has been evaluated at β = -.5. Is the stock overpriced or underpriced?
26. Based on current dividend yields and expected capital gains, the expected rates of return on portfolios A and B are 11% and 14%, respectively. The beta of A is .8 while that of B is 1.5. The T-bill rate is currently 6%, while the expected rate of return of the S&P 500 Index is 12%. The standard deviation of portfolio A is 10% annually, while that of B is 31%, and that of the index is 20%. (LO 7-2)
a. If you currently hold a market-index portfolio, would you choose to add either of these portfolios to your holdings? Explain.
b. If instead you could invest only in bills and one of these portfolios, which would you choose?
27. Consider the following data for a one-factor economy. All portfolios are well diversified.


Suppose another portfolio E is well diversified with a beta of 2/3 and expected return of 9%. Would an arbitrage opportunity exist? If so, what would the arbitrage strategy be? (LO 7-4)

28. Assume both portfolios A and B are well diversified, that E (rA) = 12% and E(rB) = 13.1%. If the economy has only one factor, and βA = 1 while β have as the basis for her decision making? .
B = 1.2, what must be the risk-free rate? (LO 7-4)
29. Assume a market index represents the common factor and all stocks in the economy have a beta of 1. Firm-specific returns all have a standard deviation of 45%.
Suppose an analyst studies 20 stocks and finds that one-half have an alpha of 3.5%, and one-half have an alpha of -3%. The analyst then buys $1 million of an equally weighted portfolio of the positive-alpha stocks and sells short $1.7 million of an equally weighted portfolio of the negative-alpha stocks. (LO 7-4)
a. What is the expected profit (in dollars), and what is the standard deviation of the analyst's profit?
b. How does your answer change if the analyst examines 50 stocks instead of 20? 100 stocks?
30. If the APT is to be a useful theory, the number of systematic factors in the economy must be small. Why? (LO 7-4)
31. The APT itself does not provide information on the factors that one might expect to determine risk premiums. How should researchers decide which factors to investigate? Is industrial production a reasonable factor to test for a risk premium? Why or why not? (LO 7-3)
32. Suppose two factors are identified for the Chinese economy: the growth rate of industrial production, IP, and the inflation rate, IR. IP is expected to be 6% and IR 6%. A stock with a beta of 1 on IP and .5 on IR currently is expected to provide a rate of return of 10%. If industrial production actually grows by 7%, while the inflation rate turns out to be 8%, what is your best guess for the rate of return on the stock? (LO 7-3)
33. Suppose there are two independent economic factors, M1 and M2. The risk-free rate is 5%, and all stocks have independent firm-specific components with a standard deviation of 40%. Portfolios A and B are both well diversified.


What is the expected return-beta relationship in this economy? (LO 7-5)

Challenge
34. As a finance intern at Pork Products, Jennifer Wainwright's assignment is to come up with fresh insights concerning the firm's cost of capital. She decides that this would be a good opportunity to try out the new material on the APT that she learned last semester. As such, she decides that three promising factors would be (i) the return on a broad-based index such as the S&P 500; (ii) the level of interest rates, as represented by the yield to maturity on 10-year Treasury bonds; and (iii) the price of hogs, which are particularly important to her firm. Her plan is to find the beta of Pork Products against each of these factors and to estimate the risk premium associated with exposure to each factor. Comment on Jennifer's choice of factors. Which are most promising with respect to the likely impact on her firm's cost of capital? Can you suggest improvements to her specification? (LO 7-3)
35. Suppose the market can be described by the following three sources of systematic risk. Each factor in the following table has a mean value of zero (so factor values represent realized surprises relative to prior expectations), and the risk premiums associated with each source of systematic risk are given in the last column.

The excess return, R, on a particular stock is described by the following equation that relates realized returns to surprises in the three systematic factors: 
Find the equilibrium expected excess return on this stock using the APT. Is the stock overpriced or underpriced? (LO 7-3)
 
CFA Problems


1. Which of the following statements about the security market line (SML) are true? (LO 7-2)
a. The SML provides a benchmark for evaluating expected investment performance.
b. The SML leads all investors to invest in the same portfolio of risky assets.
c. in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts The SML is a graphic representation of the relationship between expected return and beta.
d. Properly valued assets plot exactly on the SML.
2. Karen Kay, a portfolio manager at Collins Asset Management, is using the capital asset pricing model for making recommendations to her clients. Her research department has developed the information shown in the following exhibit. (LO 7-2)



a. Calculate expected return and alpha for each stock.
b. Identify and justify which stock would be more appropriate for an investor who wants to: i. Add this stock to a well-diversified equity portfolio.
ii. Hold this stock as a single-stock portfolio.
3. Joan McKay is a portfolio manager for a bank trust department. McKay meets with two clients, Kevin Murray and Lisa York, to review their investment objectives. Each client expresses an interest in changing his or her individual investment objectives. Both clients currently hold well-diversified portfolios of risky assets. (LO 7-1)
a. Murray wants to increase the expected return of his portfolio. State what action McKay should take to achieve Murray's objective. Justify your response in the context of the capital market line.
b. York wants to reduce the risk exposure of her portfolio but does not want to engage in borrowing or lending activities to do so. State what action McKay should take to achieve York's objective. Justify your response in the context of the security market line.
4. Jeffrey Bruner, CFA, uses the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) to help identify mispriced securities. A consultant suggests Bruner use arbitrage pricing theory (APT) instead. In comparing CAPM and APT, the consultant made the following arguments: a. Both the CAPM and APT require a mean-variance efficient market portfolio.
b. The CAPM assumes that one specific factor explains security returns but APT does not.
State whether each of the consultant's arguments is correct or incorrect. Indicate, for each incorrect argument, why the argument is incorrect. (LO 7-5)
5. The security market line depicts: (LO 7-2)
a.   to attract the type of party who would make the  between Financial ManagementA security's expected return as a function of its systematic risk.
b. The market portfolio as the optimal portfolio of risky securities.
c. The relationship between a security's return and the return on an index.
d. The complete portfolio as a combination of the market portfolio and the risk-free asset.
6. According to CAPM, the expected rate of return of a portfolio with a beta of 1 and an alpha of 0 is: (LO 7-2)
a. Between rM and rf .
b. The risk-free rate, rf .
c. β (rM - rf ).
d. The expected return on the market, rM .
The following table (for CFA Problems 7 and 8) shows risk and return measures for two portfolios.



7. When plotting portfolio R on the preceding table relative to the SML, portfolio R lies: (LO 7-2)
a. On the SML.
b. Below the SML.
c. Above the SML.
d. Insufficient data given.
8. When plotting portfolio  is an introduction to lf19U.R relative to the capital market line, portfolio R lies: (LO 7-2)
a. On the CML.
b. Below the CML.
c. Above the CML.
d. Insufficient data given.
9. Briefly explain whether investors should expect a higher return from holding portfolio A versus portfolio B under capital asset pricing theory (CAPM). Assume that both portfolios are fully diversified. (LO 7-2)


10. Assume that both X and Y are well-diversified portfolios and the risk-free rate is 8%.

In this situation you could conclude that portfolios X and Y: (LO 7-4)
a. Are in equilibrium.
b. Offer an arbitrage opportunity.
c. Are both underpriced.
d. Are both fairly priced.
11. According to the theory of arbitrage: (LO 7-4)
a. High-beta stocks are consistently overpriced.
b. Low-beta stocks are consistently overpriced.
c. Positive alpha investment opportunities will quickly disappear.
Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf19U.">d. Rational investors will pursue arbitrage consistent with their risk tolerance.
12. A zero-investment well-diversified portfolio with a positive alpha could arise if: (LO 7-5)
a. The expected return of the portfolio equals zero.
b. The capital market line is tangent to the opportunity set.
c. The law of one price remains unviolated.
d. A risk-free arbitrage opportunity exists.
13. An investor takes as large a position as possible when an equilibrium price relationship is violated. This is an example of: (LO 7-4)
a. A dominance argument.
b. The mean-variance efficient frontier.
c. Arbitrage activity.
d. The capital asset pricing model.
14. In contrast to the capital asset pricing model, arbitrage pricing theory: (LO 7-4)
a. Requires that markets be in equilibrium.
b. Uses risk premiums based on micro variables.
c. Specifies the number and identifies specific factors that determine expected returns.
d. Does not require the restrictive assumptions concerning the market portfolio.
WEB master
 
1.  A firm's beta can be estimated from the slope of the characteristic line. The first step is to plot the return on the firm's stock (y-axis) vs. the return on a broad market index (x-axis). Next, a regression line is estimated to find the slope.







Chapter
8

The Efficient Market Hypothesis

Learning Objectives:

LO8-1 Demonstrate why security price changes should be essentially unpredictable in an efficient market.
LO8-2 Cite evidence that supports and coa" aid="KVEQV">b. 
LO8-3 Provide interpretations of various stock market "anomalies."
LO8-4 Formulate investment strategies that make sense in informationally efficient markets.


One of the early applications of computers in economics in the 1950s was to analyze economic time series. Business-cycle theorists felt that tracing the evolution of several economic variables over time would clarify and predict the progress of the economy through boom and bust periods. A natural candidate for analysis was the behavior of stock market prices over time. On the assumption that stock prices reflect the prospects of the firm, recurrent patterns of peaks and troughs in economic performance ought to show up in those prices.
When Maurice Kendall (1953) examined this proposition, however, he found to his great surprise that he could identify no predictable patterns in stock prices. Prices seemed to evolve randomly. They were as likely to go up as they were to go down on any particular day, regardless of past performance. The data provided no way to predict price movements.
At first blush, Kendall's results were disturbing to some financial economists. They seemed to imply that the stock market is dominated by erratic market psychology, or "animal spirits"—that it follows no logical rules. In short, the results appeared to confirm the irrationality of the market. On further reflection, however, economists came to reverse their interpretation of Kendall's study.
It soon became apparent that random price movements indicated a well-functioning or efficient market, not an irrational one. In this chapter we explore the reasoning behind have as the basis for her decision making? on bond  recommend what may seem a surprising conclusion. We show how competition among analysts leads naturally to market efficiency, and we examine the implications of the efficient market hypothesis for investment policy. We also consider empirical evidence that supports and contradicts the notion of market efficiency.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

8.1   RANDOM WALKS AND THE EFFICIENT MARKET HYPOTHESIS
Suppose Kendall had discovered that changes in stock prices can be reliably predicted. What a gold mine this would have been. If they could use Kendall's equations to predict stock prices, investors would reap unending profits simply by purchasing stocks that the computer model implied were about to increase in price and by selling those stocks about to fall in price.
A moment's reflection should be enough to convince yourself that this situation could not persist for long. For example, suppose that the model predicts with great confidence that XYZ stock price, currently at $100 per share, will rise dramatically in three days to $110. What would all investors with access to the model's prediction do today? Obviously, they would place a great wave of immediate buy orders to cash in on the forthcoming increase in stock price. No one holding XYZ, however, would be willing to sell. The net effect would be an immediate jump in the stock price to $110. The forecast of a future price increase will lead instead to an immediate price increase. In other words, the stock price will immediately reflect the "good news" implicit in the model's forecast.
This simple example illustrates why Kendall's attempt to find recurrent patterns in stock price movements was likely to fail. A forecast about favorable future performance leads instead to favorable current performance, as market participants all try to get in on the action before the price increase.
More generally, one might say that any information that could be used to predict stock performance should already be reflected in stock prices. As soon as there is any information indicating that a stock is underpriced and therefore offers a profit opportunity, investors flock to buy the stock and immediately bid up its price to a fair level, where only ordinary rates of return can be expected. These "ordinary rates" are simply rates of return commensurate with the risk of the stock.
However, if prices are bid immediately to fair levels, given all available information, it must be that they increase or decrease only in response to new information. New information, by definition, must be unpredictable; if it could be predicted, then the prediction would be part of today's information. Thus stock prices that change in response to new (unpredictable) information also must move unpredictably.
This is the essence of the argument that stock prices should follow a Journal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumptions .random walk, that is, that price changes should be random and unpredictable. Far from a proof of market irrationality, randomly evolving stock prices would be the necessary consequence of intelligent investors competing to discover relevant information on which to buy or sell stocks before the rest of the market becomes aware of that information.

random walk
The notion that stock price changes are random and unpredictable.

Don't confuse randomness in price changes with irrationality in the level of prices. If prices are determined rationally, then only new information will cause them to change. Therefore, a random walk would be the natural result of prices that always reflect all current knowledge. Indeed, if stock price movements were predictable, that would be damning evidence of stock market inefficiency, because the ability to predict prices would indicate that all available information was not already reflected in stock prices. Therefore, the notion that stocks already reflect all available information is referrket hypothesis (EMH).1

efficient market hypothesis
The hypothesis that prices of securities fully reflect available information about securities.

Figure 8.1 illustrates the response of stock prices to new information in an efficient market. The graph plots the price response of a sample of 194 firms that were targets of takeover attempts. In most takeovers, the acquiring firm pays a substantial premium over current market prices. Therefore, announcement of a takeover attempt should cause the stock price to jump. The figure shows that stock prices jump dramatically on the day the news becomes public. However, there is no further drift in prices after the announcement date, suggesting that prices reflect the new information, including the likely magnitude of the takeover premium, by the end of the trading day.


FIGURE 8.1
Cumulative abnormal returns before takeover attempts: Target companies
Source: Arthur Keown and John Pinkerton, "Merger Announcements and Insider Trading Activity," Journal of Finance 36 (September 1981), pp. 855-869. Used with permission of John Wiley and Sons, via Copyright Clearance Center. Updates courtesy of Jinghua Yan.



s beyond a stipulated benchmarko growth rateEven more dramatic evidence of rapid response to new information may be found in intraday prices. For example, Patel and Wolfson (1984) show that most of the stock price response to corporate dividend or earnings announcements occurs within 10 minutes of the announcement. A nice illustration of such rapid adjustment is provided in a study by Busse and Green (2002), who track minute-by-minute stock prices of firms that are featured on CNBC's "Morning" or "Midday Call" segments.2 Minute 0 in Figure 8.2 is the time at which the stock is mentioned on the midday show. The top line is the average price movement of stocks that receive positive reports, while the bottom line reports returns on stocks with negative reports. Notice that the top line levels off, indicating that the market has fully digested the news, within 5 minutes of the report. The bottom line levels off within about 12 minutes.


FIGURE 8.2
Stock price reaction to CNBC reports. The figure shows the reaction of stock prices to on-air stock reports during the "Midday Call" segment on CNBC. The chart plots cumulative returns beginning 15 minutes before the stock report.
Source: Reprinted from J. A. Busse and T. C. Green, "Market Efficiency in Real Time," Journal of Financial Economics 65 (2002), p. 422. Copyright 2002 with permission from Elsevier Science.



Competition as the Source of Efficiency
Why should we expect stock prices to reflect "all available information"? After all, if you are willing to spend time and money on gathering information, it might seem reasonable that you could turn up something that has been overlooked by the rest of the investment community. When information is costly to uncover and analyze, one would expect investment analysis calling for such expenditures to result in an increased expected return.
This point has been stressed by Grossman and Stiglitz (1980). They argued that investors will have an incentive to spend time and resources to analyze and uncover new information only if such activity is likely to generate higher investment returns. Thus, in market equilibrium, efficient information-gathering activity should be fruitful. Moreover, it would not be surprising to find that the degree of efficiency differs across various markets. For example, emerging markets that are less intensively analyzed than U.S. markets or in which accounting disclosure requirements are less rigorous may be less efficient than U.S. markets. Small stocks which receive relatively little coverage by Wall Street analysts may be less efficiently priced than large ones. Therefore, while we would not go so far as to say that you absolutely cannot come up with new information, it makes sense to consider and respect your competition.


EXAMPLE 8.1


Rewards for Incremental Performance
Consider a Japanese investment fund currently managing a ¥500 billion portfolio. Suppose that the fund manager can devise a research program that could increase the portfolio rate of return by one-tenth of 1% per year, a seemingly modest amount. This program would increase the return to the portfolio by ¥500 billion × .001, or ¥500 million. Therefore, the fund would be willing to spend up to ¥500 million per year on research to increase stock returns by a mere tenth of 1% per year. With such large rewards for such small increases in investment performance, it should not be surprising that professional portfolio managers are willing to spend large sums on industry analysts, computer support, and research effort, and therefore that price changes are, generally speaking, difficult to predict. With so many well-backed analysts willing to spend considerable resources on research, easy pickings in the market will be rare. Moreover, the incremental rates of return on research activity may be so small that only managers of the largest portfolios will find them worth pursuing.


Although it may not literally be true that "all" relevant information will be uncovered, it is virtually certain that there are many investigators hot on the trail of most leads that seem likely to improve investment performance. Competition among these many well-backed, highly paid, aggressive analysts ensures that, as a general rule, stock prices ought to reflect available information regarding their proper levels.
It is often said that the most precious commodity on Wall Street is information, and the competition for it is intense. Sometimes the quest for a competitive advantage can tip over into a search for illegal inside information. In 2011, Raj Rajaratnam, the head of the Galleon Group hedge fund, which once managed $6.5 billion, was convicted on insider trading charges for soliciting tips from a network of corporate insiders and traders. Rajaratnam's case was only one of several major insider trading cases working their way through the courts in 2011. While Galleon's practices were egregious, it often can be difficult to draw a clear line separating legitimate and prohibited sources of information. For example, a large industry of expert-network firms has emerged in the last decade to connect (for a fee) investors to industry experts who can provide unique perspective on a company. As the nearby box discusses, this sort of arrangement can easily cross the line into insider trading.

On the MARKET FRONT









MATCHMAKERS FOR THE INFORMATION AGE
The most precious commodity on Wall Street is information, and informed players can charge handsomely for providing it. An industry of so-called expert-network providers has emerged to sell access to experts with unique insights about a wide variety of firms and industries to investors who need that information to make decisions. These firms have been dubbed is an introduction to lfs . "matchmakers for the information age." Experts can range from doctors who help predict the release of blockbuster drugs to meteorologists who forecast weather that can affect commodity prices to business executives who can provide specialized insight about companies and industries.
But it's turned out that some of those experts have peddled prohibited inside information. In 2011, Winifred Jiau, a consultant for Primary Global Research, was convicted of selling information about Nvidia and Marvell Technologies to the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors. Several other employees of Primary Global also have been charged with insider trading.
Expert firms are supposed to provide only public information, along with the expert's insights and perspective. But the temptation to hire experts with inside information and charge handsomely for access to them is obvious. The SEC has raised concerns about the boundary between legitimate and illegal services, and several hedge funds in 2011 shut down after raids searching for evidence of such illicit activity.
In the wake of increased scrutiny, compliance efforts of both buyers and sellers of expert information have mushroomed. The largest network firm is Gerson Lehrman Group, with a stable of 300,000 experts. It now maintains down-to-the-minute records of which of its experts talks to whom and the topics they have discussed.3 These records could be turned over to authorities in the event of an insider trading investigation. And for their part, some hedge funds have simply ceased working with expert-network firms or have promulgated clearer rules for when their employees may talk with consultants.
Even with these safeguards, however, there remains room for trouble. For example, an investor may meet an expert through a legitimate network, and then the two may establish a consulting relationship on their own. The legal matchmaking becomes the precursor to the illegal selling of insider tips. Where there is a will to cheat, there usually will be a way.

Versions of the Efficient Market Hypothesis
It is common to distinguish among three versions of the EMH: the weak, semistrong, and strong forms of the hypothesis. These versions differ by their notions of what is meant by the term "all available information."
The weak-form hypothesis asserts that stock prices already reflect all information that can be derived by examining market trading data such as the history of past prices, trading volume, or short interest. This version of the hypothesis implies that trend analysis is fruitless. Past stock price data are publicly available and virtually costless to obtain. The weak-form hypothesis holds that if such data ever conveyed reliable signals about future performance, all investors already would have learned to exploit the signals. Ultimately, the signals lose their value as they become widely known because a buy signal, for instance, would result in an immediate price increase.

weak-form EMH
The assertion that stock pricess beyond a stipulated benchmarko growth rate already reflect all information contained in the history of past trading.

The semistrong-form hypothesis states that all publicly available information regarding the prospects of a firm already must be reflected in the stock price. Such information includes, in addition to past prices, fundamental data on the firm's product line, quality of management, balance sheet composition, patents held, earning forecasts, and accounting practices. Again, if investors have access to such information from publicly available sources, one would expect it to be reflected in stock prices.

semistrong-form EMH
The assertion that stock prices already reflect all publicly available information.

Finally, the strong-form version of the efficient market hypothesis states that stock prices reflect all information relevant to the firm, even including information available only to company insiders. This version of the hypothesis is quite extreme. Few would argue with the proposition that corporate officers have access to pertinent information long enough before public release to enable them to profit from trading on that information. Indeed, much of the activity of the Securities and Exchange Commission is directed toward preventing insiders from profiting by exploiting their privileged situation. Rule 10b-5 of the Security Exchange Act of 1934 sets limits on trading by corporate officers, directors, and substantial owners, requiring them to report trades to the SEC. These insiders, their relatives, and any associates who trade on information supplied by insiders are considered in violation of the law.

strong-form EMH
The assertion that stock prices reflect all relevant information, including inside information.

Defining insider trading is not always easy, however. After all, stock analysts are in the business of uncovering information not already widely known to market participants. As we saw in Chapter 3 and in the nearby box, the distinction between private and inside information is sometimes murky.
Notice one thing that all versions of the EMH have in common: They all assert that prices should reflect available information. We do not expect traders to be superhuman or market prices to never turn out to be wrong. We will always like more information about a company's prospects than will be available. Sometimes market prices will turn out in retrospect to have been outrageously high; at other times, absurdly low. The EMH asserts only that at the given time, using current information, we cannot be sure if today's prices will ultimately prove themselves to have been too high or too low. If markets are rational, however, we can expect them to be correct on average.
 

CONCEPT   check8.1
 
 
a. Suppose you observed that high-level managers make superior returns on investments in their company's stock. Would this be a violation of weak-form market efficiency? Would it be a violation of strong-form market efficiency?
b. If the weak form of the efficient market hypothesis is valid, must the strong form also hold? Conversely, does strong-form efficiency imply weak-form efficiency?

8.2   IMPLICATIONS OF THE EMH
Technical Analysis
Technical analysis is essentially the search for recurrent and predictable patterns in stock prices. Although technicians recognize the value of information regarding future economic prospects of the firm, they believe that such information is not necessary for a successful trading strategy. This is because whatever the fundamental reason for a change in stock price, if the stock price responds slowly enough, the analyst will be able to identify a trend that can be exploited during the adjustment period. The key to successful technical analysis is a sluggish response of stock prices to fundamental supply-and-demand factors. This prerequisite, of course, is diametrically opposed to the notion of an efficient market.

technical analysis
Research on recurrent and predictable stock price patterns and on proxies for buy or sell pressure in the market.

Technical analysts are sometimes called chartists because they study records or charts of past stock prices, hoping to find patterns they can exploit to make a profit. As an example of technical analysis, consider the relative strength approach. The chartist compares stock performance over a recent period to performance of the market or other stocks in the same industry. A simple version of relative strength takes the ratio of the stock price to a market indicator such as the S&P 500 Index. If the ratio increases over time, the stock is said to exhibit relative strength because its price performance is better than that of the broad market. Such strength presumably may continue for a long enough period of time to offer profit opportunities.
One of the most commonly heard components of technical analysis is the notion of resistance levels or support levels. These values are said to be price levels above which it is difficult for stock prices to rise or below which it is unlikely for them to fall, and they are believed to be levels is an introduction to lfs . determined by market psychology.

resistance level
A price level above which it is supposedly unlikely for a stock or stock index to rise.


support level
A price level below which it is supposedly unlikely for a stock or stock index to fall.



EXAMPLE 8.2


Resistance Levels
Consider stock XYZ, which traded for several months at a price of $72 and then declined to $65. If the stock eventually begins to increase in price, $72 is considered a resistance level (according to this theory) because investors who bought originally at $72 will be eager to sell their shares as soon as they can break even on their investment. Therefore, at prices near $72 a wave of selling pressure would exist. Such activity imparts a type of "memory" to the market that allows past price history to influence current stock prospects.


The efficient market hypothesis implies that technical analysis is without merit. The past history of prices and trading volume is publicly available at minimal cost. Therefore, any information that was ever available from analyzing past prices has already been reflected in stock prices. As investors compete to exploit their common knowledge of a stock's price history, they necessarily drive stock prices to levels where expected rates of return are exactly commensurate with risk. At those levels one cannot expect abnormal returns.
As an example of how this process works, consider what would happen if the market believed that a level of $72 truly were a resistance level for stock XYZ in Example 8.2. No one would be willing to purchase the stock at a price of $71.50, because it would have almost no room to increase in price but ample room to fall. However, if no one would buy it at $71.50, then $71.50 would become a resistance level. But then, using a similar analysis, no one would buy it at $71, or $70, and so on. The notion of a resistance level is a logical conundrum. Its simple resolution is the recognition that if the stock is ever to sell at $71.50, investors must believe that the price can as easily increase as fall. The fact that investors are willing to purchase (or even hold) the stock at $71.50 is evidence of their belief that they can earn a fair expected rate of return at that price.
 

CONCEPT   check8.2
 
If everyone in the market believes in resistance levels, why do these beliefs not become self-fulfilling pro have as the basis for her decision making? .

 
efficient marTT6O">An interesting question is whether a technical rule that seems to work will continue to work in the future once it becomes widely recognized. A clever analyst may occasionally uncover a profitable trading rule, but the real test of efficient markets is whether the rule itself becomes reflected in stock prices once its value is discovered. Once a useful technical rule (or price pattern) is discovered, it ought to be invalidated when the mass of traders attempts to exploit it. In this sense, price patterns ought to be self-destructing.
Thus the market dynamic is one of a continual search for profitable trading rules, followed by destruction by overuse of those rules found to be successful, followed by more search for yet-undiscovered rules. We return to the rationale for technical analysis as well as some of its methods in the next chapter.
Fundamental Analysis
Fundamental analysis uses earnings and dividend prospects of the firm, expectations of future interest rates, and risk evaluation of the firm to determine proper stock prices. Ultimately, it represents an attempt to determine the present discounted value of all the payments a stockholder will receive from each share of stock. If that value exceeds the stock price, the fundamental analyst would recommend purchasing the stock.

fundamental analysis
Research on determinants of stock value, such as earnings and dividend prospects, expectations for future interest rates, and risk of the firm.

Fundamental analysts usually start with a study of past earnings and an examination of company financial statements. They supplement this analysis with further detailed economic analysis, ordinarily including an evaluation of the quality of the firm's management, the firm's standing within its industry, and the prospects for the industry as a whole. The hope is to attain insight into future performance of the firm that is not yet recognized by the rest of the market. Chapters 12 through 14 provide a detailed discussion of the types of analyses that underlie fundamental analysis.
Once again, the efficient market hypothesis predicts that most fundamental analysis also is doomed to failure. If the analyst relies on publicly available earnings and industry information, his or her evaluation of the firm's prospects is not likely to be significantly more accurate than those of rival analysts. There are many well-informed, well-financed firms conducting such market research, and in the face of such competition it will be difficult to uncover data not also available to other analysts. Only analysts with a unique insight will be rewarded.
Fundamental analysis is much more difficult than merely identifying well-run firms with good prospects. Discovery of good firms does an investor no good in and of itself if the rest of the market also knows those firms are good. If the knowledge is already public, the investor will be forced to pay a high price for those firms and will not realize a superior rate of return.
">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfs .The trick is not to identify firms that are good but to find firms that are better than everyone else's estimate. Similarly, poorly run firms can be great bargains if they are not quite as bad as their stock prices suggest.
This is why fundamental analysis is difficult. It is not enough to do a good analysis of a firm; you can make money only if your analysis is better than that of your competitors because the market price will already reflect all commonly available information.
Active versus Passive Portfolio Management
By now it is apparent that casual efforts to pick stocks are not likely to pay off. Competition among investors ensures that any easily implemented stock evaluation technique will be used widely enough so that any insights derived will be reflected in stock prices. Only serious analysis and uncommon techniques are likely to generate the differential insight necessary to yield trading profits.
Moreover, these techniques are economically feasible only for managers of large portfolios. If you have only $100,000 to invest, even a 1%-per-year improvement in performance generates only $1,000 per year, hardly enough to justify herculean efforts. The billion-dollar manager, however, reaps extra income of $10 million annually from the same 1% increment.
If small investors are not in a favored position to conduct active portfolio management, what are their choices? The small investor probably is better off investing in mutual funds. By pooling resources in this way, small investors can gain from economies of scale.
More difficult decisions remain, though. Can investors be sure that even large mutual funds have the ability or resources to uncover mispriced stocks? Furthermore, will any mispricing be sufficiently large to repay the costs entailed in active portfolio management?
Proponents of the efficient market hypothesis believe that active management is largely wasted effort and unlikely to justify the expenses incurred. Therefore, they advocate a passive investment strategy that makes no attempt to outsmart the market. A passive strategy aims only at establishing a well-diversified portfolio of securities without attempting to find under-or overvalued stocks. Passive management is usually characterized by a buy-and-hold strategy. Because the efficient market theory indicates that stock prices are at fair levels, given all available information, it makes no sense to buy and sell securities frequently, which generates large brokerage fees without increasing expected performance.

passive investment strategy
Buying a well-diversified portfolio without attempting to search out mispriced securities.

One common strategy for passive management is to create an index fund, which is a fund designed to replicate the performance of a broad">Kucerová S. 'The impacUSA and the Czech Republic', lfs .-based index of stocks. For example, Vanguard's 500 Index Fund holds stocks in direct proportion to their weight in the Standard & Poor's 500 stock price index. The performance of the 500 Index Fund therefore replicates the performance of the S&P 500. Investors in this fund obtain broad diversification with relatively low management fees. The fees can be kept to a minimum because Vanguard does not need to pay analysts to assess stock prospects and does not incur transaction costs from high portfolio turnover. Indeed, while the typical annual expense ratio for an actively managed equity fund is around 1% of assets, the expense ratio of the 500 Index Fund is only .17%. Today, Vanguard's 500 Index Fund is among the largest equity mutual funds with over $100 billion of assets in mid-2011. At the end of 2011, about 15% of assets in equity mutual funds were indexed.

index fund
A mutual fund holding shares in proportion to their representation in a market index such as the S&P 500.

Indexing need not be limited to the S&P 500, however. For example, some of the funds offered by the Vanguard Group track the Wilshire 5000 Index, the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, the MSCI index of small-capitalization U.S. companies, the European equity market, and the Pacific Basin equity market. Several other mutual fund complexes offer indexed portfolios, but Vanguard dominates the retail market for indexed products.
Exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, are a close (and usually lower-expense) alternative to indexed mutual funds. As noted in Chapter 4, these are shares in diversified portfolios that can be bought or sold just like shares of individual stock. ETFs matching several broad stock market indexes such as the S&P 500 or Wilshire 5000 indexes and dozens of international and industry stock indexes are available to investors who want to hold a diversified sector of a market without attempting active security selection.
 

CONCEPT   check8.3
 
What would happen to market efficiency if all investors attempted to follow a passive strategy?

The Role of Portfolio Management in an Efficient Market
If the market is efficient, why not throw darts at The Wall Street Journal instead of trying rationally to choose a stock portfolio? This is a tempting conclusion to draw from the notion that security prices are fairly set, but it is far too facile. There is a role for rational portfolio management, even in perfectly efficient markets.
You have learned that a basic principle in portfolio selection is diversification. Even if all stocks are priced fairly, each still poses ">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfs .firm-specific risk that can be eliminated through diversification. Therefore, rational security selection, even in an efficient market, calls for the selection of a well-diversified portfolio providing the systematic risk level that the investor wants.
Rational investment policy also requires that tax considerations be reflected in security choice. High-tax-bracket investors generally will not want the same securities that low-bracket investors find favorable. At an obvious level, high-bracket investors find it advantageous to buy tax-exempt municipal bonds despite their relatively low pretax yields, whereas those same bonds are unattractive to low-tax-bracket investors. At a more subtle level, high-bracket investors might want to tilt their portfolios in the direction of capital gains as opposed to interest income, because capital gains are taxed less heavily and because the option to defer the realization of capital gains income is more valuable the higher the current tax bracket. Hence these investors may prefer stocks that yield low dividends yet offer greater expected capital gains income. They also will be more attracted to investment opportunities for which returns are sensitive to tax benefits, such as real estate ventures.
A third argument for rational portfolio management relates to the particular risk profile of the investor. For example, a Toyota executive whose annual bonus depends on Toyota's profits generally should not invest additional amounts in auto stocks. To the extent that his or her compensation already depends on Toyota's well-being, the executive is already overinvested in Toyota and should not exacerbate the lack of diversification. This lesson was learned with considerable pain in September 2008 by Lehman Brothers employees who were famously invested in their own firm when the company failed. Roughly 30% of the shares in the firm were owned by its 24,000 employees, and their losses on those shares were around $10 billion.
Investors of varying ages also might warrant different portfolio policies with regard to risk bearing. For example, older investors who are essentially living off savings might choose to avoid long-term bonds whose market values fluctuate dramatically with changes in interest rates (discussed in Part Four). Because these investors are living off accumulated savings, they require conservation of principal. In contrast, younger investors might be more inclined toward long-term inflation-indexed bonds. The steady flow of real income over long periods of time that is locked in with these bonds can be more important than preservation of principal to those with long life expectancies.
In conclusion, there is a role for portfolio management even in an efficient market. Investors' optimal positions will vary according to factors such as age, tax bracket, risk aversion, and employment. The role of the portfolio manager in an efficient market is to tailor the portfolio to these needs, rather than to beat the market.
Resource Allocation
We've focused so far on the investments implications of the efficient market hypothesis. Deviations from efficiency may offer profit opportunities to better-informed traders at the expense of less informed traders.
However, deviations from informational efficiency would also result in a large cost that will be borne by all citizens, namely, inefficient resource allocation. Recall that in as beyond a stipulated benchmarko growth rate capitalist economy, investments in real assets such as plant, equipment, and know-how are guided in large part by the prices of financial assets. For example, if the value of telecommunication capacity reflected in stock market prices exceeds the cost of installing such capacity, managers might justifiably conclude that telecom investments seem to have positive net present value. In this manner, capital market prices guide allocation of real resources.
If markets were inefficient and securities commonly mispriced, then resources would be systematically misallocated. Corporations with overpriced securities will be able to obtain capital too cheaply, and corporations with undervalued securities might forgo investment opportunities because the cost of raising capital will be too high. Therefore, inefficient capital markets would diminish one of the most potent benefits of a market economy. As an example of what can go wrong, consider the dot-com bubble of the late 1990s, which sent a strong but, as it turned out, wildly overoptimistic signal about prospects in Internet and telecommunication firms and ultimately led to substantial overinvestment in those industries.
Before writing off markets as a means to guide resource allocation, however, one has to be reasonable about what can be expected from market forecasts. In particular, you shouldn't confuse an efficient market, where all available information is reflected in prices, with a perfect-foresight market. Even "all available information" is still far from complete information, and generally rational market forecasts will sometimes be wrong; sometimes, in fact, they will be very wrong.
8.3   ARE MARKETS EFFICIENT?
The Issues
Not surprisingly, the efficient market hypothesis does not exactly arouse enthusiasm in the community of professional portfolio managers. It implies that a great deal of the activity of portfolio managers—the search for undervalued securities—is at best wasted effort, and quite probably harmful to clients because it costs money and leads to imperfectly diversified portfolios. Consequently, the EMH has never been widely accepted on Wall Street, and debate continues today on the degree to which security analysis can improve investment performance. Before discussing empirical tests of the hypothesis, we want to note three factors that together imply that the debate probably never will be settled: the magnitude issue, the selection bias issue, and the lucky event issue.
The magnitude issue We noted that an investment manager overseeing a $5 billion portfolio who can improve performance by only .1% per year will increase investment earnings by .001 × $5 billion = $5 million annually. This manager clearly would be worth her salary! Yet can we, as observers, statistically measure her contribution? Probably not: A .1% contribution would be swamped by the yearly volatility of the market. Remember, the annual standard deviation of the well-diversified S&P 500 Index has been around 20% to attract the type of party who would make the  between  satisfied. Against these fluctuations a small increase in performance would be hard to detect.
All might agree that stock prices are very close to fair values and that only managers of large portfolios can earn enough trading profits to make the exploitation of minor mispricing worth the effort. According to this view, the actions of intelligent investment managers are the driving force behind the constant evolution of market prices to fair levels. Rather than ask the qualitative question, "Are markets efficient?" we should instead ask a more quantitative question: "How efficient are markets?"
The selection bias issue Suppose that you discover an investment scheme that could really make money. You have two choices: either publish your technique in The Wall Street Journal to win fleeting fame, or keep your technique secret and use it to earn millions of dollars. Most investors would choose the latter option, which presents us with a conundrum. Only investors who find that an investment scheme cannot generate abnormal returns will be willing to report their findings to the whole world. Hence opponents of the efficient markets view of the world always can use evidence that various techniques do not provide investment rewards as proof that the techniques that do work simply are not being reported to the public. This is a problem in selection bias; the outcomes we are able to observe have been preselected in favor of failed attempts. Therefore, we cannot fairly evaluate the true ability of portfolio managers to generate winning stock market strategies.

On the MARKET FRONT


HOW TO GUARANTEE A SUCCESSFUL MARKET NEWSLETTER
Suppose you want to make your fortune publishing a market newsletter. You need first to convince potential subscribers that you have talent worth paying for. But what if you have no talent? The solution is simple: Start eight newsletters.
In year 1, let four of your newsletters predict an up-market and four a down-market. In year 2, let half of the originally optimistic group of newsletters continue to predict an up-market and the other half a down-market. Do the same for the originally pessimistic group. Continue in this manner to obtain the pattern of predictions in the table that follows (U = prediction of an up-market, D = prediction of down-market).
After three years, no matter what has happened to the market, one of the newsletters would have had a prediction record. This is because after three years there are 23 = 8 outcomes for the market, and we have covered all eight possibilities with the eight newsletters. Now, we simply slough off the seven unsuccessful newsletters, and market the eighth newsletter based on its perfect track record. If we want to establish a newsletter with a perfect track record over a four-year period, we need 24 = 16 newsletters. A five-year period requires 32 newsletters, and so on.
After the fact, the one newsletter that was always right will attracts beyond a stipulated benchmarko growth rate attention for your uncanny foresight and investors will rush to pay large fees for its advice. Your fortune is made, and you have never even researched the market!
WARNING: This scheme is illegal! The point, however, is that with hundreds of market newsletters, you can find one that has stumbled onto an apparently remarkable string of successful predictions without any real degree of skill. After the fact, someone´s prediction history can seem to imply great forecasting skill. This person is the one we will read about in the Financial Times; the others will be forgotten.


The lucky event issue In virtually any month it seems we read an article about some investor or investment company with a fantastic investment performance over the recent past. Surely the superior records of such investors disprove the efficient market hypothesis.
Yet this conclusion is far from obvious. As an analogy to the investment game, consider a contest to flip the most number of heads out of 50 trials using a fair coin. The expected outcome for any person is, of course, 50% heads and 50% tails. If 10,000 people, however, compete in this contest, it would not be surprising if at least one or two contestants flipped more than 75% heads. In fact, elementary statistics tells us that the expected number of contestants flipping 75% or more heads would be two. It would be silly, though, to crown these people the "head-flipping champions of the world." Obviously, they are simply the contestants who happened to get lucky on the day of the event.
The analogy to efficient markets is clear. Under the hypothesis that any stock is fairly priced given all available information, any bet on a stock is simply a coin toss. There is equal likelihood of winning or losing the bet. However, if many investors using a variety of schemes make fair bets, statistically speaking, some of those investors will be lucky and win a great majority of the bets. For every big winner, there may be many big losers, but we never hear of these managers. The winners, though, turn up in the Financial Times as the latest stock market gurus; then they can make a fortune publishing market newsletters. (See the nearby box.)
Our point is that after the fact there will have been at least one successful investment scheme. A doubter will call the results luck; the successful investor will call it skill. The proper test would be to see whether the successful investors can repeat their performance in another period, yet this approach is rarely taken.
With these caveats in mind, we turn now to some of the empirical tests of the efficient market hypothesis.
 

CONCEPT   check8.4
to attract the type of party who would make the  between  satisfied 
 
Legg Mason's Value Trust, managed by Bill Miller, outperformed the S&P 500 in each of the 15 years ending in 2005. Is Miller's performance sufficient to dissuade you from a belief in efficient markets? If not, would any performance record be sufficient to dissuade you? Now consider that in the next 3 years, the fund dramatically underperformed the S&P 500; by the end of 2008, its cumulative 18-year performance was barely different from the index. Does this affect your opinion?

Weak-Form Tests: Patterns in Stock Returns
Returns over short horizons Early tests of efficient markets were tests of the weak form. Could speculators find trends in past prices that would enable them to earn abnormal profits? This is essentially a test of the efficacy of technical analysis.
One way of discerning trends in stock prices is by measuring the serial correlation of stock market returns. Serial correlation refers to the tendency for stock returns to be related to past returns. Positive serial correlation means that positive returns tend to follow positive returns (a momentum type of property). Negative serial correlation means that positive returns tend to be followed by negative returns (a reversal or "correction" property). Both Conrad and Kaul (1988) and Lo and MacKinlay (1988) examine weekly returns of NYSE stocks and find positive serial correlation over short horizons. However, the correlation coefficients of weekly returns tend to be fairly small, at least for large stocks for which price data are the most reliably up to date. Thus, while these studies demonstrate weak price trends over short periods,4 the evidence does not clearly suggest the existence of trading opportunities.
While broad market indexes demonstrate only weak serial correlation, there appears to be stronger momentum in performance across market sectors exhibiting the best and worst recent returns. In an investigation of intermediate-horizon stock price behavior (using 3-to 12-month holding periods), Jegadeesh and Titman (1993) found a momentum effect in which good or bad recent performance of particular stocks continues over time. They conclude that while the performance of individual stocks is highly unpredictable, portfolios of the best-performing stocks in the recent past appear to outperform other stocks with enough reliability to offer profit opportunities. Thus, it appears that there is evidence of short-to intermediate-horizon price momentum in both the aggregate market and cross-sectionally (i.e., across particular stocks).

momentum effect
The tendency of poorly performing stocks and well-performing stocks in one period to continue that abnormal performance in  have as the basis for her decision making? .

 
Returns over long horizons Although short-to intermediate-horizon returns suggest momentum in stock market prices, studies of long-horizon returns (i.e., returns over multiyear periods) by Fama and French (1988) and Poterba and Summers (1988) indicate pronounced negative long-term serial correlation in the performance of the aggregate market. The latter result has given rise to a "fads hypothesis," which asserts that the stock market might overreact to relevant news. Such overreaction leads to positive serial correlation (momentum) over short time horizons. Subsequent correction of the overreaction leads to poor performance following good performance and vice versa. The corrections mean that a run of positive returns eventually will tend to be followed by negative returns, leading to negative serial correlation over longer horizons. These episodes of apparent overshooting followed by correction give the stock market the appearance of fluctuating around its fair value.
These long-horizon results are dramatic, but the studies offer far from conclusive evidence regarding efficient markets. First, the study results need not be interpreted as evidence for stock market fads. An alternative interpretation of these results holds that they indicate only that the market risk premium varies over time. For example, when the risk premium and the required return on the market rises, stock prices will fall. When the market then rises (on average) at this higher rate of return, the data convey the impression of a stock price recovery. The apparent overshooting and correction is in fact no more than a rational response of market prices to changes in discount rates.
In addition to studies suggestive of overreaction in overall stock market returns over long horizons, many other studies suggest that over long horizons, extreme performance in particular securities also tends to reverse itself: The stocks that have performed best in the recent past seem to underperform the rest of the market in following periods, while the worst past performers tend to offer above-average future performance. De Bondt and Thaler (1985) and Chopra, Lakonishok, and Ritter (1992) find strong tendencies for poorly performing stocks in one period to experience sizable reversals over the subsequent period, while the best-performing stocks in a given period tend to follow with poor performance in the following period.
For example, the De Bondt and Thaler study found that if one were to rank-order the performance of stocks over a five-year period and then group stocks into portfolios based on investment performance, the base-period "loser" portfolio (defined as the 35 stocks with the worst investment performance) outperformed the "winner" portfolio (the top 35 stocks) by an average of 25% (cumulative return) in the following three-year period. This reversal effect, in which losers rebound and winners fade back, suggests that the stock market overreacts to relevant news. After the overreaction is recognized, extreme investment performance is reversed. This phenomenon would imply that a contrarian investment strategy—investing in recent losers and avoiding recent winners—should be profitable. Moreover, these returns seem pronounced enough to be exploited profitably.
 
reversal effect
The tendency of poorly performing stocks and well-performing stocks in one period to experience reversals in the following period.
Thus it appears that there may be short-run momentum but long-run reversal patterns in price behavior both for the market as a whole and across sectors of the market. One interpretation of this pattern is that short-run overreaction (which causes momentum in prices) may lead to long-term reversals (when the market recognizes its past error).
Predictors of Broad Market Returns
Several studies have documented the ability of easily observed variables to predict market returns. For example, Fama and French (1988) showed that the return on the aggregate stock market tends to be higher when the dividend/price ratio, the dividend yield, is high. Campbell and Shiller (1988) found that the earnings yield can predict market returns. Keim and Stambaugh (1986) showed that bond market data such as the spread between yields on high-and low-grade corporate bonds also help predict broad market returns.
Again, the interpretation of these results is difficult. On the one hand, they may imply that stock returns can be predicted, in violation of the efficient market hypothesis. More probably, however, these variables are proxying for variation in the market risk premium. For example, given a level of dividends or earnings, stock prices will be lower and dividend and earnings yields will be higher when the risk premium (and therefore the expected market return) is higher. Thus a high dividend or earnings yield will be associated with higher market returns. This does not indicate a violation of market efficiency. The predictability of market returns is due to predictability in the risk premium, not in risk-adjusted abnormal returns.
Fama and French (1989) showed that the yield spread between high-and low-grade bonds has greater predictive power for returns on low-grade bonds than for returns on high-grade bonds, and greater predictive power for stock returns than for bond returns, suggesting that the predictability in returns is in fact a risk premium rather than evidence of market inefficiency. Similarly, the fact that the dividend yield on stocks helps to predict bond market returns suggests that the yield captures a risk premium common to both markets rather than mispricing in the equity market.
Semistrong Tests: Market Anomalies
Fundamental analysis uses a much wider range of information to create portfolios than does technical analysis. Investigations of the efficacy of fundamental analysis ask whether publicly available information beyond the trading history of a security can be used to improve investment performance, and therefore they are tests of semistrong-form market efficiency. Surprisingly, several easily accessible statistics, for example a stock's price-earnings ratio or its market capitalization, seem to predict abnormal risk-adjusted returns. Findings such as these, which we will review in the following pages, are difficult to reconcile with the efficient market hypothesis and therefore are often referred to as efficient market anomalies.

is an introduction to lfs .anomalies
Patterns of returns that seem to contradict the efficient market hypothesis.

A difficulty in interpreting these tests is that we usually need to adjust for portfolio risk before evaluating the success of an investment strategy. Many tests, for example, have used the CAPM to adjust for risk. However, we know that even if beta is a relevant descriptor of stock risk, the empirically measured quantitative trade-off between risk as measured by beta and expected return differs from the predictions of the CAPM. If we use the CAPM to adjust portfolio returns for risk, inappropriate adjustments may lead to the conclusion that varioufact it simply is the risk adjustment procedure that has failed.
Another way to put this is to note that tests of risk-adjusted returns are joint tests of the efficient market hypothesis and the risk adjustment procedure. If it appears that a portfolio strategy can generate superior returns, we must then choose between rejecting the EMH and rejecting the risk adjustment technique. Usually, the risk adjustment technique is based on more-questionable assumptions than is the EMH; by opting to reject the procedure, we are left with no conclusion about market efficiency.
An example of this issue is the discovery by Basu (1977, 1983) that portfolios of low price-earnings (P/E) ratio stocks have higher returns than do high P/E portfolios. The P/E effect holds up even if returns are adjusted for portfolio beta. Is this a confirmation that the market systematically misprices stocks according to P/E ratio? This would be an extremely surprising and, to us, disturbing conclusion, because analysis of P/E ratios is such a simple procedure. Although it may be possible to earn superior returns by using hard work and much insight, it hardly seems plausible that such a simplistic technique is enough to generate abnormal returns.

P/E effect
Portfolios of low P/E stocks have exhibited higher average risk-adjusted returns than high P/E stocks.

Another interpretation of these results is that returns are not properly adjusted for risk. If two firms have the same expected earnings, the riskier stock will sell at a lower price and lower P/E ratio. Because of its higher risk, the low P/E stock also will have higher expected returns. Therefore, unless the CAPM beta fully adjusts for risk, P/E will act as a useful additional descriptor of risk and will be associated with abnormal returns if the CAPM is used to establish benchmark performance.
The small-firm-in-January effect The so-called size or small-firm effect, originally documented by Banz (1981), is illustrated in Figure 8.3. It shows the historical performance of portfolios formed by dividing the NYSE stocks into 10 portfolios each year according to firm size (i.e., the total value of outstanding have as the basis for her decision making? .
 

small-firm effect
Stocks of small firms have earned abnormal returns, primarily in the month of January.



FIGURE 8.3
Average annual return for 10 size-based portfolios, 1926-2010
Source: Authors' calculations using data obtained from Prof. Kenneth French's data library, http://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html.



Imagine earning a premium of this size on a billion-dollar portfolio. Yet it is remarkable that following a simple (even simplistic) rule such as "invest in low-capitalization stocks" should enable an investor to earn excess returns. After all, any investor can measure firm size at little cost. One would not expect such minimal effort to yield such large rewards.
Later studies (Keim, 1983; Reinganum, 1983; and Blume and Stambaugh, 1983) showed that the small-firm effect occurs virtually entirely in January, in fact, in the first two weeks of January. The size effect is in fact a "small-firm-in-January" effect.
The neglected-firm and liquidity effects Arbel and Strebel (1983) gave another interpretation of the small-firm-in-January effect. Because they tend to be neglected by large institutional traders, information about smaller firms is less available. This information deficiency makes smaller firms riskier investments that command higher returns. "Brand-name" firms, after all, are subject to considerable monitoring from institutional investors, which promises high-quality information, and presumably investors do not purchase "generic" stocks without the prospect of greater returns.
As evidence for the neglected-firm effect, Arbel (1985) divided firms into highly researched, moderately researched, and neglected groups based on the number of institutions holding the stock. The January effect was in fact largest for the neglected firms. An article by Merton (1987) shows that neglected firms might be expected to earn higher equilibrium returns as compensation for the risk associated with limited information. In this sense the neglected-firm premium is not strictly a market inefficiency but is a type of risk premium.

neglected-firm effect
have as the basis for her decision making? .

The tendency of investments in stock of less well-known firms to generate abnormal returns.
Work by Amihud and Mendelson (1986, 1991) on the effect of liquidity on stock returns might be related to both the small-firm and neglected-firm effects. They argue that investors will demand a rate-of-return premium to invest in less liquid stocks that entail higher trading costs. In accord with their hypothesis, Amihud and Mendelson showed that these stocks show a strong tendency to exhibit abnormally high risk-adjusted rates of return. Because small and less-analyzed stocks as a rule are less liquid, the liquidity effect might be a partial explanation of their abnormal returns. However, this theory does not explain why the abnormal returns of small firms should be concentrated in January. In any case, exploiting these effects can be more difficult than it would appear. The high trading costs on small stocks can easily wipe out any apparent abnormal profit opportunity.
Book-to-market ratios Fama and French (1992) showed that a powerful predictor of returns across securities is the ratio of the book value of the firm's equity to the market value of equity. Fama and French stratified firms into 10 groups according to book-to-market ratios and examined the average rate of return of each of the 10 groups. Figure 8.4 is an updated version of their results. The decile with the highest book-to-market ratio had an average annual return of 17.3%, while the lowest-ratio decile averaged only 11%. The dramatic dependence of returns on book-to-market ratio is independent of beta, suggesting either that high book-to-market ratio firms are relatively underpriced or that the book-to-market ratio is serving as a proxy for a risk factor that affects equilibrium expected returns.


FIGURE 8.4
Average annual return as a function of the book-to-market ratio, 1926-2010
Source: Website of Prof. Kenneth French, http://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html.



In fact, Fama and French found that after controlling for the size and book-to-market effects, beta seemed to have no power to explain average security returns.5 This finding is an important challenge to the notion of rational markets, since it seems to imply that a factor that should affect returns—systematic risk—seems not to matter, while a factor that should not matter—the book-to-market ratio—seems capable of predicting future returns. We will return to the interpretation of this anomaly.








book-to-market effect
The tendency for investments in shares of firms with highs beyond a stipulated benchmarko growth rate ratios of book value to market value to generate abnormal returns.

Post-earnings-announcement price drift A fundamental principle of efficient markets is that any new information ought to be reflected in stock prices very rapidly. When good news is made public, for example, the stock price should jump immediately. A puzzling anomaly, therefore, is the apparently sluggish response of stock prices to firms' earnings announcements, as uncovered by Ball and Brown (1968). Their results were later confirmed and extended in many other papers.6
The "news content" of an earnings announcement can be evaluated by comparing the announcement of actual earnings to the value previously expected by market participants. The difference is the "earnings surprise." (Market expectations of earnings can be roughly measured by averaging the published earnings forecasts of Wall Street analysts or by applying trend analysis to past earnings.) Rendleman, Jones, and Latané (1982) provide an influential study of sluggish price response to earnings announcements. They calculate earnings surprises for a large sample of firms, rank the magnitude of the surprise, divide firms into 10 deciles based on the size of the surprise, and calculate abnormal returns for each decile. The abnormal return of each portfolio is the return adjusting for both the market return in that period and the portfolio beta. It measures return over and above what would be expected given market conditions in that period. Figure 8.5 plots cumulative abnormal returns by decile.


FIGURE 8.5
Cumulative abnormal returns in response to earnings announcements
Source: Reprinted from R. J. Rendleman Jr., C. P. Jones, and H. A. Latané, "Empirical Anomalies Based on Unexpected Earnings and the Importance of Risk Adjustments," Journal of Financial Economics 10 (1982), pp. 269-287. Copyright 1982 with permission from Elsevier Science.



Their results are dramatic. The correlation between ranking by earnings surprise and abnormal returns across deciles is as predicted. There is a large abnormal return (a jump in cumulative abnormal return) on the earnings announcement day (time 0). The abnormal return is positive for positive-surprise firms and negative for negative-surprise firms.
The more remarkable, and interesting, result of the study concerns stock price movement after the announcement date. The cumulative abnormal returns of positive-surprise stocks continue to rise—in other words, exhibit momentum—even after the earnings information becomes public, while the negative-surprise firms continue to suffer negative abnormal returns. The market appears to adjust to the earnings information only gradually, resulting in a sustained period of abnormal returns.
Ev is an introduction to lfs .idently, one could have earned abnormal profits simply by waiting for earnings announcements and purchasing a stock portfolio of positive-earnings-surprise companies. These are precisely the types of predictable continuing trends that ought to be impossible in an efficient market.
Bubbles and market efficiency Every so often, it seems (at least in retrospect) that asset prices lose their grounding in reality. For example, in the tulip mania in seventeenth-century Holland, tulip prices peaked at several times the annual income of a skilled worker. This episode has become the symbol of a speculative "bubble" in which prices appear to depart from any semblance of intrinsic value. Less than a century later, the South Sea bubble in England became almost as famous. In this episode, the share price of the South Sea Company rose from £128 in January 1720 to £550 in May and peaked at around £1,000 in August—just before the bubble burst and the share price collapsed to £150 in September, leading to widespread bankruptcies among those who had borrowed to buy shares on credit. In fact, the company was a major lender of money to investors willing to buy (and thus bid up) its shares. This sequence may sound familiar to anyone who lived through the dot-com boom and bust of 1995-20027 or, more recently, the financial turmoil of 2008, with origins widely attributed to a collapsing housing price bubble (see Chapter 1).
It is hard to defend the position that security prices in these instances represented rational, unbiased assessments of intrinsic value. And, in fact, some economists, most notably Hyman Minsky, have suggested that bubbles arise naturally. During periods of stability and rising prices, investors extrapolate that stability into the future and become more willing to take on risk. Risk premiums shrink, leading to further increases in asset prices, and expectations become even more optimistic in a self-fulfilling cycle. But, in the end, pricing and risk taking become excessive and the bubble bursts. Ironically, the initial period of stability fosters behavior that ultimately results in instability.
But beware of jumping to the conclusion that asset prices may generally be thought of as arbitrary and obvious trading opportunities abundant. First, most bubbles become "obvious" only after they have burst. At the time, there is often a seemingly defensible rationale for the price run-up. In the dot-com boom, for example, many contemporary observers rationalized stock price gains as justified by the prospect of a new and more profitable economy, driven by technological advances. Even the irrationality of the tulip mania may have been overblown in its later retelling.8 In addition, security valuation is intrinsically difficult. Given the considerable imprecision of estimates of intrinsic value, large bets on perceived mispricing may entail hubris.
Moreover, even if you suspect that prices are in fact "wrong," it can be difficult to take advantage of them. We explore these issues in more detail in the following chapter. For now, we can simply point out some impediments to making aggressive bets against an asset: the cost">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfs .s of short-selling overpriced securities as well as potential problems obtaining the securities to sell short and the possibility that, even if you are ultimately correct, the market may disagree and prices still can move dramatically against you in the short term, thus wiping out your portfolio.
Strong-Form Tests: Inside Information
It would not be surprising if insiders were able to make superior profits trading in their firm's stock. In other words, we do not expect markets to be strong-form efficient; we regulate and limit trades based on inside information. The ability of insiders to trade profitably in their own stock has been documented in studies by Jaffe (1974), Seyhun (1986), Givoly and Palmon (1985), and others. Jaffe's was one of the earlier studies that documented the tendency for stock prices to rise after insiders intensively bought shares and to fall after intensive insider sales.
Can other investors benefit by following insiders' trades? The Securities and Exchange Commission requires all insiders to register their trading activity, and it publishes these trades in an Official Summary of Security Transactions and Holdings. Since 2002, insiders must report large trades to the SEC within two business days. Once the Official Summary is published, the trades become public information. At that point, if markets are efficient, fully and immediately processing the information released in the Official Summary of trading, an investor should no longer be able to profit from following the pattern of those trades. Several Internet sites contain information on insider trading.
The study by Seyhun, which carefully tracked the public release dates of the Official Summary, found that following insider transactions would be to no avail. Although there is some tendency for stock prices to increase even after the Official Summary reports insider buying, the abnormal returns are not of sufficient magnitude to overcome transaction costs.
Interpreting the Anomalies
How should we interpret the ever-growing anomalies literature? Does it imply that markets are grossly inefficient, allowing for simplistic trading rules to offer large profit opportunities? Or are there other, more-subtle interpretations?
Risk premiums or inefficiencies? The price-earnings, small-firm, market-to-book, momentum, and long-term reversal effects are currently among the most puzzling phenomena in empirical finance. There are several interpretations of these effects. First note that to some extent, some of s portfolio strategies can generate superithese phenomena may be related. The feature that small firms, low-market-to-book firms, and recent "losers" seem to have in common is a stock price that has fallen considerably in recent months or years. Indeed, a firm can become a small firm or a low-market-to-book firm by suffering a sharp drop in price. These groups therefore may contain a relatively high proportion of distressed firms that have suffered recent difficulties.s beyond a stipulated benchmarko growth rate
Fama and French (1993) argue that these effects can be explained as manifestations of risk premiums. Using their three-factor model, they show that stocks with higher "betas" (also known as factor loadings) on size or market-to-book factors have higher average returns; they interpret these returns as evidence of a risk premium associated with the factor. This model does a much better job than the one-factor CAPM in explaining security returns. While size or book-to-market ratios per se are obviously not risk factors, they perhaps might act as proxies for more fundamental determinants of risk. Fama and French argue that these patterns of returns may therefore be consistent with an efficient market in which expected returns are consistent with risk. In this regard, it is worth noting that returns to "style portfolios," for example, the return on portfolios constructed based on the ratio of book-to-market value (specifically, the Fama-French high minus low book-to-market portfolio) or firm size (the return on the small minus big firm portfolio) do indeed seem to predict business cycles in many countries. Figure 8.6 shows that returns on these portfolios tend to have positive returns in years prior to rapid growth in gross domestic product.


FIGURE 8.6
Return to style portfolio as a predictor of GDP growth. Average difference in the return on the style portfolio in years before good GDP growth versus in years before bad GDP growth. Positive value means the style portfolio does better in years prior to good macroeconomic performance. HML = high minus low portfolio, sorted on ratio of book-to-market value. SMB = small minus big portfolio, sorted on firm size.
Source: Reprinted from J. Liew and M. Vassalou, "Can Book-to-Market, Size, and Momentum Be Risk Factors That Predict Economic Growth?" Journal of Financial Economics 57 (2000), pp. 221-245. Copyright 2000 with permission from Elsevier Science.



The opposite interpretation is offered by Lakonishok, Shleifer, and Vishny (1995), who argue that these phenomena are evidence of inefficient markets, more specifically, of systematic errors in the forecasts of stock analysts. They believe that analysts extrapolate past performance too far into the future and therefore overprice firms with recent good performance and underprice firms with recent poor performance. Ultimately, when market participants recognize their errors, prices reverse. This explanation is consistent with the reversal effect and also, to a degree, is consistent with the small-firm and book-to-market effects because firms with sharp price drops may tend to be small or have high book-to-market ratios.
If Lakonishok, Shleifer, and Vishney are correct, we ought to find that analysts systematically err when forecasting returns of recent "winner" versus "loser" firms. A study by La Porta (1996) is consistent with this pattern. He finds that shares of firms for which analysts predict low growth rates of earnings actually perform better than those with high expected earnings growth. is an introduction to lfs . Analysts seem overly pessimistic about firms with low growth prospects and overly optimistic about firms with high growth prospects. When these too-extreme expectations are "corrected," the low-expected-growth firms outperform high-expected-growth firms.
Anomalies or data mining? We have covered many of the so-called anomalies cited in the literature, but our list could go on and on. Some wonder whether these anomalies are really unexplained puzzles in financial markets or whether they instead are an artifact of data mining. After all, if one reruns the computer database of past returns over and over and examines stock returns along enough dimensions, simple chance will cause some criteria to appear to predict returns.
In this regard, it is noteworthy that some anomalies have not shown much staying power after being reported in the academic literature. For example, after the small-firm effect was published in the early 1980s, it promptly disappeared for much of the rest of the decade. Similarly, the book-to-market strategy, which commanded considerable attention in the early 1990s, was ineffective for the rest of that decade.
Still, even acknowledging the potential for data mining, a common thread seems to run through many of the anomalies we have considered, lending support to the notion that there is a real puzzle to explain. Value stocks—defined by low P/E ratio, high book-to-market ratio, or depressed prices relative to historic levels—seem to have provided higher average returns than "glamour" or growth stocks.
One way to address the problem of data mining is to find a data set that has not already been researched and see whether the relationship in question shows up in the new data. Such studies have revealed size, momentum, and book-to-market effects in other security markets around the world. While these phenomena may be a manifestation of a systematic risk premium, the precise nature of that risk is not fully understood.
8.4   MUTUAL FUND AND ANALYST PERFORMANCE
We have documented some of the apparent chinks in the armor of efficient market proponents. For investors, the issue of market efficiency boils down to whether skilled investors can make consistent abnormal trading profits. The best test is to look at the performance of market professionals to see if they can generate performance superior to that of a passive index fund that buys and holds the market. We will look at two facets of professional performance: that of stock market analysts who recommend investment positions and that of mutual fund managers who actually manage portfolios.
Stock Market Analysts
Stock market analysts historically have worked for brokerage firms, which presents an immediate problem in interpreting the value of their advice: Analysts have tended to be overwhelmingly positive in their assessment of the prospects of firms.9 For example, Barber, Lehavy, McNichols, and Trueman (2001) find that on a scale of 1 (strong to attract the type of party who would make the  between  satisfied buy) to 5 (strong sell), the average recommendation for 5,628 covered firms in 1996 was 2.04. As a result, one cannot take positive recommendations (e.g., to buy) at face value. Instead, we must look at either the relative enthusiasm of analyst recommendations compared to those for other firms or at the change in consensus recommendations.
Womack (1996) focuses on changes in analysts' recommendations and finds that positive changes are associated with increased stock prices of about 5% and negative changes result in average price decreases of 11%. One might wonder whether these price changes reflect the market's recognition of analysts' superior information or insight about firms or, instead, simply result from new buy or sell pressure brought on by the recommendations themselves. Womack argues that price impact seems to be permanent and, therefore, consistent with the hypothesis that analysts do in fact reveal new information. Jegadeesh, Kim, Krische, and Lee (2004) also find that changes in consensus recommendations are associated with price changes, but that the level of consensus recommendations is an inconsistent predictor of future stock performance.
Barber, Lehavy, McNichols, and Trueman (2001) focus on the level of consensus recommendations and show that firms with the most favorable recommendations outperform those with the least favorable recommendations. While their results seem impressive, the authors note that portfolio strategies based on analyst consensus recommendations would result in extremely heavy trading activity with associated costs that probably would wipe out the potential profits from the strategy.
In sum, the literature suggests some value is added by analysts but some ambiguity remains. Are superior returns following analyst upgrades due to revelation of new information or due to changes in investor demand in response to the changed outlook? Also, are these results exploitable by investors who necessarily incur trading costs?
Mutual Fund Managers
As we pointed out in Chapter 4, casual evidence does not support the claim that professionally managed portfolios can consistently beat the market. Figure 4.4 in that chapter demonstrated that between 1972 and 2010 the returns of a passive portfolio indexed to the Wilshire 5000 typically would have been better than those of the average equity fund. On the other hand, there was some (admittedly inconsistent) evidence of persistence in performance, meaning that the better managers in one period tended to be better managers in following periods. Such a pattern would suggest that the better managers can with some consistency outperform their competitors, and it would be inconsistent with the notion that market prices already reflect all relevant information.
The analyses cited in Chapter 4 were based on total returns; they did not properly adjust returns for exposure to systematic risk factors. In this section we revisit the question of mutual fund performance, paying more attention to the benchmark against which performance ought to be evaluated.
As a first pass, we can examine the risk-adjusted returns (i.e., the alpha, or return in excess of required return based on beta and the market return in each period) of a large sample of mutual funds. But the in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="_un0004.eps"/>
 
The importance of the benchmark can be illustrated by examining the returns on small stocks in various subperiods.10 In the 20-year period between 1945 and 1964, for example, a small-stock index underperformed the S&P 500 by about 4% per year (i.e., the alpha of the small-stock index after adjusting for systematic risk was -4%). In the following 20-year period, between 1965 and 1984, small stocks outperformed the S&P 500 Index by 10%. Thus if one were to examine mutual fund returns in the earlier period, they would tend to look poor, not necessarily because fund managers were poor stock pickers but simply because mutual funds as a group tended to hold more small stocks than were represented in the S&P 500. In the later period, funds would look better on a risk-adjusted basis relative to the S&P 500 because small stocks performed better. The "style choice," that is, the exposure to small stocks (which is an asset allocation decision) would dominate the evaluation of performance even though it has little to do with managers' stock-picking ability.11
The conventional performance benchmark today is a four-factor model, which employs the three Fama-French factors (the return on the market index, and returns to portfolios based on size and book-to-market ratio) augmented by a momentum factor (a portfolio constructed based on prior-year stock return). Alphas constructed using an expanded index model using these four factors control for a wide range of mutual fund-style choices that may affect average returns, for example, an inclination to growth versus value or small-versus large-capitalization stocks. Figure 8.7 shows a frequency distribution of four-factor alphas for U.S. domestic equity funds.12 The results show that the distribution of alpha is roughly bell-shaped, with a slightly negative mean. On average, it does not appear that these funds outperform their style-adjusted benchmarks.


FIGURE 8.7
Mutual fund alphas computed using a four-factor model of expected return, 1993-2007. (The best and worst 2.5% of observations are excluded from this distribution.)
Source: Professor Richard Evans, University of Virginia, Darden School of Business. Used with permission.



Consistent with Figure 8.7 in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="_un0004.eps"/>
before fees, after the fees charged to their customers, alphas were negative. Likewise, Wermers (2000), who uses both style portfolios as well as the characteristics of the stocks held by mutual funds to control for performance, also finds positive gross alphas but negative net alphas after controlling for fees and risk.
Carhart (1997) reexamines the issue of consistency in mutual fund performance to see whether better performers in one period continue to outperform in later periods. He uses the four-factor extension described above and finds that after controlling for these factors, there is only minor persistence in relative performance across managers. Moreover, much of that persistence seems due to expenses and transactions costs rather than gross investment returns.
Even allowing for expenses and turnover, some amount of performance persistence seems to be due to differences in investment strategy. Carhart finds, however, that the evidence of persistence is concentrated at the two extremes. Figure 8.8, from his study, documents performance persistence. Equity funds are ranked into 1 of 10 groups by performance in the formation year, and the performance of each group in the following years is plotted. It is clear that except for the best-performing top-decile group and the worst-performing 10th-decile group, performance in future periods is almost independent of earlier-year returns. Carhart's results suggest that there may be a small group of exceptional managers who can with some consistency outperform a passive strategy, but that for the majority of managers over-or underperformance in any period is largely a matter of chance.


FIGURE 8.8
Persistence of mutual fundmance over time of mutual fund groups ranked by initial-year performance
Source: Mark M. Carhart, "On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance," Journal of Finance 52 (March 1997), pp. 57-82. Used with permission of John Wiley and Sons, via Copyright Clearance Center.



Bollen and Busse (2004) find more evidence of performance persistence, at least over short horizons. They rank mutual fund performance using the four-factor model over a base quarter, assign funds into one of 10 deciles according to base-period alpha, and then look at performance in the following quarter. Figure 8.9 illustrates their results. The solid line is the average alpha of funds within each of the deciles in the base period (expressed on a quarterly basis). The steepness of that line reflects the considerable dispersion in performance in the ranking period. The dashed line is the average performance of the funds in each decile in the following quarter. The shallowness of this line indicates that most of the original performance differential disappears. Nevertheless, the plot is still clearly downward-sloping, so it appears that at least over a short horizon such as one  in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="_un0004.eps"/>
 


FIGURE 8.9
Risk-adjusted performance in ranking quarter and following quarter
Source: Nicolas P. B. Bollen and Jeffrey A. Busse, "Short-Term Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance," Review of Financial Studies 19 (2004), pp. 569-597, by permission of Oxford University Press.



This pattern is actually consistent with the prediction of an influential paper by Berk and Green (2004). They argue that skilled mutual fund managers with abnormal performance will attract new funds until the additional costs and complexity of managing those extra funds drive alphas down to zero. Thus, skill will show up not in superior returns but rather in the amount of funds under management. Therefore, even if managers are skilled, alphas will be short-lived, as they seem to be in Figure 8.9.
In contrast to the extensive studies of equity fund managers, there have been few studies of the performance of bond fund managers. Blake, Elton, and Gruber (1993) examined the performance of fixed-income mutual funds. They found that, on average, bond funds underperform passive fixed-income indexes by an amount roughly equal to expenses and that there is no evidence that past performance can predict future performance. More recently, Chen, Ferson, and Peters (2010) find that, on average, bond mutual funds outperform passive bond indexes in terms of gross returns but underperform once the fees they charge their investors are subtracted, a result similar to those others have found for equity funds.
Thus the evidence on the risk-adjusted performance of professional managers is mixed at best. We conclude that the performance of professional managers is broadly consistent with market efficiency. The amounts by which professional managers as a group beat or are beaten by the market fall within the margin of statistical uncertainty. In any event, it is quite clear that performance superior to passive strategies is far from routine. Studies show either that most managers cannot outperform passive strategies or that if there is a margin of superiority, it is small.
On the other hand, a small number of investment superstars—Peter Lynch (formerly of Fidelity's Magellan Fund), Warren Buffett (of Berkshire Hathaway), John Templeton (of Templeton Funds), and Mario Gabelli (of GAMCO), among them—have compiled career records that show a consistency of superior performance hard to reconcile with absolutely efficient markets. In a careful statistical analysis of mutual fund "stars," Kosowski, Timmerman, Wermers, and White (2006) conclude that the stock-picking ability of a minority of managers is sufficient to cover their costs and that their superior performance tends to persist over time. However, Nobel Prize-winner Paul Samuelson (1989) points out that the records of the vast majority of professional money managers offer convincing evidence that there are no">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfs . easy strategies to guarantee success in the securities markets.
So, Are Markets Efficient?
There is a telling joke about two economists walking down the street. They spot a $20 bill on the sidewalk. One starts to pick it up, but the other one says, "Don't bother; if the bill were real someone would have picked it up already."
The lesson is clear. An overly doctrinaire belief in efficient markets can paralyze the investor and make it appear that no research effort can be justified. This extreme view is probably unwarranted. There are enough anomalies in the empirical evidence to justify the search for underpriced securities that clearly goes on.
The bulk of the evidence, however, suggests that any supposedly superior investment strategy should be taken with many grains of salt. The market is competitive enough that only differentially superior information or insight will earn money; the easy pickings have been picked. In the end it is likely that the margin of superiority that any professional manager can add is so slight that the statistician will not easily be able to detect it.
We conclude that markets are very efficient, but that rewards to the especially diligent, intelligent, or creative may in fact be waiting.







SUMMARY
• Statistical research has shown that to a close approximation stock prices seem to follow a random walk with no discernible predictable patterns that investors can exploit. Such findings are now taken to be evidence of market efficiency, that is, evidence that market prices reflect all currently available information. Only new information will move stock prices, and this information is equally likely to be good news or bad news.
• Market participants distinguish among three forms of the efficient market hypothesis. The weak form asserts that all information to be derived from past trading data already is reflected in stock prices. The semistrong form claims that all publicly available information is already reflected. The strong form, which generally is acknowledged to be extreme, asserts that all information, including insider information, is reflected in prices.
• Technical analysis focuses on stock price patterns and on proxies for buy or sell pressure in the market. Fundamental analysis focuses on the determinants of the underlying value of the firm, such as current profitability and growth prospects. Because both types of analysis are based on public information, neither should generate excess profits if markets are operating efficiently.
• Proponents of the efficient market hypothesis often advocate passive as opposed to active investment strategies. The policy of passive investors is to  in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid="_un0004.eps"/>
 
• Empirical studies of technical analysis do not generally support the hypothesis that such analysis can generate superior trading profits. One notable exception to this conclusion is the apparent success of momentum-based strategies over intermediate-term horizons.
• Several anomalies regarding fundamental analysis have been uncovered. These include the P/E effect, the small-firm-in-January effect, the neglected-firm effect, post-earnings-announcement price drift, and the book-to-market effect. Whether these anomalies represent market inefficiency or poorly understood risk premiums is still a matter of debate.
• By and large, the performance record of professionally managed funds lends little credence to claims that most professionals can consistently beat the market.







KEY TERMS
anomalies







book-to-market effect
efficient market hypothesis
fundamental analysis
index fund
momentum effect
neglected-firm effect
passive investment strategy
P/E effect
random walk
resistance level
reversal effect
semistrong-form EMH
small-firm effect
strong-form EMH
support level
Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfs ." style=";color:black;">technical analysis
weak-form EMH







PROBLEM SETS
 Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance. Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.
Basic

1. If markets are efficient, what should be the correlation coefficient between stock returns for two nonoverlapping time periods? (LO 8-1)
2. "If all securities are fairly priced, all must offer equal expected rates of return." Comment. (LO 8-1)
3. If prices are as likely to increase as decrease, why do investors earn positive returns from the market on average? (LO 8-1)
4. A successful firm like Microsoft has consistently generated large profits for years. Is this a violation of the EMH? (LO 8-2)
5. At a cocktail party, your co-worker tells you that he has beaten the market for each of the last three years. Suppose you believe him. Does this shake your belief in efficient markets? (LO 8-2)
6. Which of the following statements are true if the efficient market hypothesis holds? (LO 8-1)
a. It implies that future events can be forecast with perfect accuracy.
b. It implies that prices reflect all available information.
c. It implies that security prices change for no discernible reason.
d. It implies that prices do not fluctuate.
7. In an efficient market, professional portfolio management can offer all of the following benefits except which of the following? (LO 8-4)
a. Low-cost diversification.
b. A targeted risk level.
c.">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lfs . Low-cost record keeping.
d. A superior risk-return trade-off.
8. Which version of the efficient market hypothesis (weak, semistrong, or strong-form) focuses on the most inclusive set of information? (LO 8-1)
9. "Highly variable stock prices suggest that the market does not know how to price stocks." Respond. (LO 8-1)


10. Which of the following sources of market inefficiency would be most easily exploited? (LO 8-4)
a. A stock price drops suddenly due to a large block sale by an institution.
b. A stock is overpriced because traders are restricted from short sales.
c. Stocks are overvalued because investors are exuberant over increased productivity in the economy.
Intermediate
11. Which of the following most appears to contradict the proposition that the stock market is weakly efficient? Explain. (LO 8-3)
a. Over 25% of mutual funds outperform the market on average.
b. Insiders earn abnormal trading profits.
c. Every January, the stock market earns abnormal returns.
12. Suppose that, after conducting an analysis of past stock prices, you come up with the following observations. Which would appear to contradict the weak form of the efficient market hypothesis? Explain. (LO 8-3)
a. The average rate of return is significantly greater than zero.
b. The correlation between thes beyond a stipulated benchmarko growth rate return during a given week and the return during the following week is zero.
c. One could have made superior returns by buying stock after a 10% rise in price and selling after a 10% fall.
d. One could have made higher-than-average capital gains by holding stocks with low dividend yields.
13. Which of the following observations would provide evidence against the semistrong form of the efficient market theory? Explain. (LO 8-3)
a. Mutual fund managers do not on average make superior returns.
b. You cannot make superior profits by buying (or selling) stocks after the announcement of an abnormal rise in dividends.
c. Low P/E stocks tend to have positive abnormal returns.
d. In any year approximately 50% of pension funds outperform the market.
14. Steady Growth Industries has never missed a dividend payment in its 94-year history. Does this make it more attractive to you as a possible purchase for your stock portfolio? (LO 8-4)
15. Suppose you find that prices of stocks before large dividend increases show on average consistently positive abnormal returns. Is this a violation of the EMH? (LO 8-3)
16. "If the business cycle is predictable, and a stock has a positive beta, the stock's returns also must be predictable." Respond. (LO 8-1)
17. Which of the following phenomena would be either consistent with or a violation of the efficient market hypothesis? Explain briefly. (LO 8-3)
a. Nearly half of all professionally managed mutual funds are able to outperform the S&P 500 in a typical year.
b. Money managers that outperform the market (on a risk-adjusted basis) in one year are likely to outperform in the following year.
c. Stock prices tend to be predictablys beyond a stipulated benchmarko growth rate more volatile in January than in other months.
d. Stock prices of companies that announce increased earnings in January tend to outperform the market in February.
e. Stocks that perform well in one week perform poorly in the following week.
18. Why are the following "effects" considered efficient market anomalies? Are there rational explanations for these effects? (LO 8-2)
a. P/E effect
b. Book-to-market effect
c. Momentum effect
d. Small-firm effect
19. Dollar-cost averaging means that you buy equal dollar amounts of a stock every period, for example, $500 per month. The strategy is based on the idea that when the stock price is low, your fixed monthly purchase will buy more shares, and when the price is high, fewer shares. Averaging over time, you will end up buying more shares when the stock is cheaper and fewer when it is relatively expensive. Therefore, by design, you will exhibit good market timing. Evaluate this strategy. (LO 8-4)
20. We know that the market should respond positively to good news and that good-news events such as the coming end of a recession can be predicted with at least some accuracy. Why, then, can we not predict that the market will go up as the economy recovers? (LO 8-1)
21. You know that firm XYZ is very poorly run. On a scale of 1 (worst) to 10 (best), you would give it a score of 3. The market consensus evaluation is that the management score is only 2. Should you buy or sell the stock? (LO 8-4)
22. Good News, Inc., just announced an increase in its annual earnings, yet its stock price fell. Is there a rational explanation for this phenomenon? (LO 8-1)
23. Shares of small firms with thinly traded stocks tend to show positive CAPM alphas. Is this a violation of the efficient market hypothesis? (LO 8-3)
Challenge
24. Examine the accompanying figure, which presents cumulative abnormal returns both before and after dates on which insiders buy or sell shares  to attract the type of party who would make the  between  satisfiedin their firms. How do you interpret this figure? What are we to make of the pattern of CARs before and after the event date? (LO 8-3)


Source: Reprinted from Nejat H. Seyhun, "Insiders, Profits, Costs of Trading and Market Efficiency," Journal of Financial Economics 16 pp. 189-212, copyright June 1986, with permission from Elsevier.

25. Suppose that as the economy moves through a business cycle, risk premiums also change. For example, in a recession when people are concerned about their jobs, risk tolerance might be lower and risk premiums might be higher. In a booming economy, tolerance for risk might be higher and risk premiums lower. (LO 8-3)
a. Would a predictably shifting risk premium such as described here be a violation of the efficient market hypothesis?
b. How might a cycle of increasing and decreasing risk premiums create an appearance that stock prices "overreact," first falling excessively and then seeming to recover?
 
CFA Problems


1. The semistrong form of the efficient market hypothesis asserts that stock prices: (LO 8-1)
a. Fully reflect all historical price information.
b. Fully reflect all publicly available information.
c. Fully reflect all relevant information including insider information.
d. May be predictable.
2. Assume that a company announces an unexpectedly large cash dividend to its shareholders. In an efficient market without information leakage, one might expect: (LO 8-1)
a. An abnormal price change at the announcement.
b. An abnormal price increase before the announcement.
c. An abnormal price decrease a to attract the type of party who would make the  between  satisfiedfter the announcement.
d. No abnormal price change before or after the announcement.
3. Which one of the following would provide evidence against the semistrong form of the efficient market theory? (LO 8-3)
a. About 50% of pension funds outperform the market in any year.
b. You cannot make abnormal profits by buying stocks after an announcement of strong earnings.
c. Trend analysis is worthless in forecasting stock prices.
d. Low P/E stocks tend to have positive abnormal returns over the long run.
4. According to the efficient market hypothesis: (LO 8-3)
a. High-beta stocks are consistently overpriced.
b. Low-beta stocks are consistently overpriced.
c. Positive alphas on stocks will quickly disappear.
d. Negative-alpha stocks consistently yield low returns for arbitrageurs.
5. A "random walk" occurs when: (LO 8-1)
a. Stock price changes are random but predictable.
b. Stock prices respond slowly to both new and old information.
c. Future price changes are uncorrelated with past price changes.
d. Past information is useful in predicting future prices.
6. A market anomaly refers to: (LO 8-3)
a. An exogenous shock to the market that is sharp but not persistent.
b. A price or volume event that is inconsistent with historical price or volume trends.
is an introduction to lfs .c. A trading or pricing structure that interferes with efficient buying and selling of securities.
d. Price behavior that differs from the behavior predicted by the efficient market hypothesis.
7. Some scholars contend that professional managers are incapable of outperforming the market. Others come to an opposite conclusion. Compare and contrast the assumptions about the stock market that support (a






Chapter








Behavioral Finance and Technical Analysis

Learning Objectives:

LO9-1 Describe several behavioral biases, and explain how they could lead to anomalies in stock market prices and returns.
LO9-2 Explain why limits to arbitrage might allow anomalies due to behavioral biases to persist over time.
LO9-3 Identify reasons why technical analysis may be profitable.
LO9-4 Use indicators such as volume, put/call ratios, breadth, short interest, or confidence indexes to measure the "technical conditions" of the market.


The efficient market hypothesis makes  two important predictions. First, it  implies that security prices properly reflect whatever information is available to investors. A second implication follows immediately: Active traders will find it difficult to outperform passive strategies such as holding market indexes. To do so would require differential insight; this in a highly competitive market is very hard to come by.
Unfortunately, it is hard to devise measures of the "true" or intrinsic value of a security, and correspondingly difficult to test directly whether prices match those values. Therefore, most tests of market efficiency have focused on the performance of active trading strategies. These tests have been of two kinds. The anomalies literature has examined strategies that apparently would have provided superior risk-adjusted returns (e.g., investing in stocks with momentum or in value rather than glamour stocks). Other tests have looked at the results of actual investments by asking whether professional managers have been able to beat the market.
Neither class of tests has proven fully conclusive. The anomalies literature suggests that several strategies would have provided superior returns. But there are abnormal returns.
References to CFA Questions questions as to whether some of these apparent anomalies reflect risk premiums not captured by simple models of risk and return, or even if they merely reflect data mining. Moreover, the apparent inability of the typical money manager to turn these anomalies into superior returns on actual portfolios casts additional doubt on their "reality."
A relatively new school of thought dubbed behavioral finance argues that the sprawling literature on trading strategies has missed a larger and more important point by overlooking the first implication of efficient markets—the correctness of security prices. This may be the more important implication, since market economies rely on prices to allocate resources efficiently. The behavioral school argues that even if security prices are wrong, it still can be difficult to exploit them, and, therefore, that the failure to uncover obviously successful trading rules or traders cannot be taken as proof of market efficiency.
Whereas conventional theories presume that investors are rational, behavioral finance starts with the assumption that they are not. We will examine some of the information-processing and behavioral irrationalities uncovered by psychologists in other contexts and show how these tendencies applied to financial markets might result in some of the anomalies discussed in the previous chapter. We then consider the limitations of strategies designed to take advantage of behaviorally induced mispricing. If the limits to such arbitrage activity are severe, mispricing can survive even if some rational investors attempt to exploit it. We turn next to technical analysis and show how behavioral models give some support to techniques that clearly would be useless in efficient markets. We close the chapter with a brief survey of some of these technical strategies.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

9.1   THE BEHAVIORAL CRITIQUE
The premise of behavioral finance is that conventional financial theory ignores how real people make decisions and that people make a difference.1 A growing number of economists have come to interpret the anomalies literature as consistent with several "irrationalities" that seem to characterize individuals making complicated decisions. These irrationalities fall into two broad categories: first, that investors do not always process information correctly and therefore infer incorrect probability distributions about future rates of return; and second, that even given a probability distribution of returns, they often make inconsistent or systematically suboptimal decisions.








behavioral finance
Models of financial markets that emphasize potential implications of psychological factors affecting investor behavior.

Journal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumption" aid="4MOf course, the existence of irrational investors would not by itself be sufficient to render capital markets inefficient. If such irrationalities did affect prices, then sharp-eyed arbitrageurs taking advantage of profit opportunities might be expected to push prices back to their proper values. Thus, the second leg of the behavioral critique is that in practice the actions of such arbitrageurs are limited and therefore insufficient to force prices to match intrinsic value.
This leg of the argument is important. Virtually everyone agrees that if prices are right (i.e., price = intrinsic value), then there are no easy profit opportunities. But the converse is not necessarily true. If behaviorists are correct about limits to arbitrage activity, then the absence of profit opportunities does not necessarily imply that markets are efficient. We've noted that most tests of the efficient market hypothesis have focused on the existence of profit opportunities, often as reflected in the performance of money managers. But their failure to systematically outperform passive investment strategies need not imply that markets are in fact efficient.
We will start our summary of the behavioral critique with the first leg of the argument, surveying a sample of the informational processing errors uncovered by psychologists in other areas. We next examine a few of the behavioral irrationalities that seem to characterize decision makers. Finally, we look at limits to arbitrage activity and conclude with a tentative assessment of the import of the behavioral debate.







Information Processing
Errors in information processing can lead investors to misestimate the true probabilities of possible events or associated rates of return. Several such biases have been uncovered. Here are four of the more important ones.
Forecasting errors A series of experiments by Kahneman and Tversky (1972, 1973) indicates that people give too much weight to recent experience compared to prior beliefs when making forecasts (sometimes dubbed a memory bias) and tend to make forecasts that are too extreme given the uncertainty inherent in their information. De Bondt and Thaler (1990) argue that the P/E effect can be explained by earnings expectations that are too extreme. In this view, when forecasts of a firm's future earnings are high, perhaps due to favorable recent performance, they tend to be too high relative to the objective prospects of the firm. This results in a high initial P/E (due to the optimism built into the stock price) and poor subsequent performance when investors recognize their error. Thus, high P/E firms tend to be poor investments.
Overconfidence People tend to overestimate the precision of their beliefs or forecasts, and they tend to overestimate their abilities. In one famous survey, 90% of drivers in Sweden ranked themselves as better-than-average drivers. Such overconfidence may be responsible for the prevalence of active versus passive investment management—itself an anomaly to adherents of the efficient market hypothesis. Despite the growing popularity of indexing, only about 15% of the equity in the mutual fund industry is held in indexed accounts. The dominance of active management in the face is an introduction to lf" aid="4M of the typical underperformance of such strategies (consider the generally disappointing performance of actively managed mutual funds reviewed in Chapter 4 as well as in the previous chapter) is consistent with a tendency to overestimate ability.
An interesting example of overconfidence in financial markets is provided by Barber and Odean (2001), who compare trading activity and average returns in brokerage accounts of men and women. They find that men (in particular, single men) trade far more actively than women, consistent with the generally greater overconfidence among men well-documented in the psychology literature. They also find that trading activity is highly predictive of poor investment performance. The top 20% of accounts ranked by portfolio turnover had average returns seven percentage points lower than the 20% of the accounts with the lowest turnover rates. As they conclude, "Trading [and by implication, overconfidence] is hazardous to your wealth."
Overconfidence appears to be a widespread phenomenon, also showing up in many corporate finance contexts. For example, overconfident CEOs are more likely to overpay for target firms when making corporate acquisitions (Malmedier and Tate, 2008). Just as overconfidence can degrade portfolio investments, it also can lead such firms to make poor investments in real assets.
Conservatism A conservatism bias means that investors are too slow (too conservative) in updating their beliefs in response to new evidence. This means that they might initially underreact to news about a firm, so that prices will fully reflect new information only gradually. Such a bias would give rise to momentum in stock market returns.








conservatism bias
Investors are too slow (too conservative) in updating their beliefs in response to recent evidence.

Sample-size neglect and representativeness The notion of representativeness bias holds that people commonly do not take into account the size of a sample, acting as if a small sample is just as representative of a population as a large one. They may therefore infer a pattern too quickly based on a small sample and extrapolate apparent trends too far into the future. It is easy to see how such a pattern would be consistent with overreaction and correction anomalies. A short-lived run of good earnings reports or high stock returns would lead such investors to revise their assessments of likely future performance and thus generate buying pressure that exaggerates the price run-up. Eventually, the gap between price and intrinsic value becomes glaring and the market corrects its initial error. Interestingly, stocks with the best recent performance suffer reversals precisely in the few days surrounding earnings announcements, suggesting that the correction occurs just as investors learn that their initial beliefs were too extreme (Chopra, Lakonishok, and Ritter, 1992).








representativeness bias
People are too prone to believe to attract the type of party who would make the  between  is worth  that a small sample is representative of a broad population and infer patterns too quickly.

 

CONCEPT   check9.1
 
We saw in the previous chapter that stocks seem to exhibit a pattern of short- to middle-term momentum, along with long-term reversals. How might this pattern arise from an interplay between the conserv="rec137" class="h2" aid="MSDJR">Behavioral Biases
Even if information processing were perfect, many studies conclude that individuals would tend to make less-than-fully rational decisions using that information. These behavioral biases largely affect how investors frame questions of risk versus return, and therefore make risk-return trade-offs.
Framing Decisions seem to be affected by how choices are framed. For example, an individual may reject a bet when it is posed in terms of the risk surrounding possible gains but may accept that same bet when described in terms of the risk surrounding potential losses. In other words, individuals may act risk averse in terms of gains but risk seeking in terms of losses. But in many cases, the choice of how to frame a risky venture—as involving gains or losses—can be arbitrary.








framing
Decisions are affected by how choices are posed, for example, as gains relative to a low baseline level or losses relative to a higher baseline.



EXAMPLE 9.1


Framing
Consider a coin toss with a payoff of R500 (South African Rand) for tails. Now consider a gift of R500 that is bundled with a bet that imposes a loss of R500 if that coin toss comes up heads. In both cases, you end up with zero for heads and R500 for tails. But the former description frames the coin toss as posing a risky gain while the latter frames the coin toss in terms of risky losses. The difference in framing can lead to different attitudes toward the bet.


Mental accounting Mental accounting is a specific form of framing in which people segregate certain decisions. For example, an investor may take a lot of risk with one investment account but establish a very conservative position with another account that is dedicated to her child's education. Rationally, it might be better to view both accounts as part of the investor's overall portfolio with the risk-return is an introduction to lf" aid="4M profiles of each integrated into a unified framework. Statman (1997) argues that mental accounting is consistent with some investors' irrational preference for stocks with high cash dividends (they feel free to spend dividend income, but would not "dip into capital" by selling a few shares of another stock with the same total rate of return) and with a tendency to ride losing stock positions for too long (since "behavioral investors" are reluctant to realize losses). In fact, investors are more likely to sell stocks with gains than those with losses, precisely contrary to a tax-minimization strategy (Shefrin and Statman, 1985; Odean, 1998).








mental accounting
A specific form of framing in which people segregate certain decisions.

Mental accounting effects also can help explain momentum in stock prices. The house money effect refers to gamblers' greater willingness to accept new bets if they currently are ahead. They think of (i.e., frame) the bet as being made with their "winnings account," that is, with the casino's and not with their own money, and thus are more willing to accept risk. Analogously, after a stock market run-up, individuals may view investments as largely funded out of a "capital gains account," become more tolerant of risk, discount future cash flows at a lower rate, and thus further push up prices.
Regret avoidance Psychologists have found that individuals who make decisions that turn out badly have more regret (blame themselves more) when that decision was more unconventional. For example, buying a blue-chip portfolio that turns down is not as painful as experiencing the same losses on an unknown start-up firm. Any losses on the blue-chip stocks can be more easily attributed to bad luck rather than bad decision making and cause less regret. De Bondt and Thaler (1987) argue that such regret avoidance is consistent with both the size and book-to-market effect. Higher-book-to-market firms tend to have depressed stock prices. These firms are "out of favor" and more likely to be in a financially precarious position. Similarly, smaller, less well-known firms are also less conventional investments. Such firms require more "courage" on the part of the investor, which increases the required rate of return. Mental accounting can add to this effect. If investors focus on the gains or losses of individual stocks, rather than on broad portfolios, they can become more risk averse concerning stocks with recent poor performance, discount their cash flows at a higher rate, and thereby create a value-stock risk premium.








regret avoidance
People blame themselves more for unconventional choices that turn out badly so they avoid regret by making conventional decisions.

 

CONCEPT   check9.2
 
  is an introduction to lf" aid="4M
 
How might the P/E effect (discussed in the previous chapter) also be explained as a consequence of regret avoidance?

Prospect theory Prospect theory modifies the analytic description of rational risk-averse investors found in standard financial theory.2 Figure 9.1, Panel A, illustrates the conventional description of a risk-averse investor. Higher wealth provides higher satisfaction or "utility," but at a diminishing rate (the curve flattens as the individual becomes wealthier). This gives rise to risk aversion: A gain of $1,000 increases utility by less than a loss of $1,000 reduces it; therefore, investors will reject risky prospects that don't offer a risk premium.








prospect theory
Behavioral theory that investor utility depends on gains or losses from investors' starting position, rather than on their levels of wealth.

Figure 9.1, Panel B, shows a competing description of preferences characterized by "loss aversion." Utility depends not on the level of wealth, as in Panel A, but on changes in wealth from current levels. Moreover, to the left of zero (zero denotes no change from current wealth), the curve is convex rather than concave. This has several implications. Whereas many conventional utility functions imply that investors may become less risk averse as wealth increases, the function in Panel B always recenters on current wealth, thereby ruling out such decreases in risk aversion and possibly helping to explain high average historical equity risk premiums. Moreover, the convex curvature to the left of the origin in Panel B will induce investors to be risk seeking rather than risk averse when it comes to losses. Consistent with loss aversion, traders in the T-bond futures contract have been observed to assume significantly greater risk in afternoon sessions following morning sessions in which they have lost money (Coval and Shumway, 2005).
These are only a sample of many behavioral biases uncovered in the literature. Many have implications for investor behavior. Another reason (besides psychological biases) why the involvement of real people can lead to temporarily inefficient markets is human error. Although their impact is often short-lived, they occur frequently and can substantially impact prices. The nearby box offers some examples.







Limits to Arbitrage
Behavioral biases would not matter for stock pricing if rational arbitrageurs could fully exploit the mistakes of behavioral investors. Trades of profit-seeking investors would correct any misalignment of prices. However, behavioral advocates argue that in practice, several factors limit the ability toJournal of Applied Corporate Financeconsumption" aid="4M profit from mispricing.3
Fundamental risk Suppose that a share of IBM is underpriced. Buying it may present a profit opportunity, but it is hardly risk-free, since the presumed market underpricing can get worse. While price eventually should converge to intrinsic value, this may not happen until after the trader's investment horizon. For example, the investor may be a mutual fund manager who may lose clients (not to mention a job!) if short-term performance is poor or a trader who may run through her capital if the market turns against her, even temporarily. A comment often attributed to the famous economist John Maynard Keynes is that "markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent." The fundamental risk incurred in exploiting apparent profit opportunities presumably will limit the activity of traders.


FIGURE 9.1









Prospect theory
Panel A: A conventional utility function is defined in terms of wealth and is concave, resulting in risk aversion.
Panel B: Under loss aversion, the utility function is defined in terms of changes from current wealth. It is also convex to the left of the origin, giving rise to risk-seeking behavior in terms of losses.



EXAMPLE 9.2


Fundamental Risk
In the first part of 2011, the NASDAQ index fluctuated at a level around 2,700. From that perspective, the value the index had reached 10 years earlier, around 5,000, seemed obviously crazy. Surely some investors living through the Internet "bubble" of the late 1990s must have identified the index as grossly overvalued, suggesting a good selling opportunity. But this hardly would have been a riskless arbitrage opportunity. Consider that NASDAQ may also have been overvalued in 1999 when it first crossed above 3,500 (30% above its value in 2011). An investor in 1999 who believed (as it turns out, quite correctly) that NASDAQ was overvalued at 3,500 and decided to sell it short would have suffered enormous losses as the index increased by another 1,500 points before finally peaking at 5,000. While the investor might have derived considerable satisfaction at eventually being proven right about the overpricing, by entering a year before the market "corrected," he might also have gone broke.



On the MARKET FRONT


'FAT FINGERS' AND TRADING BUGS
While most people to attract the type of party who would make the  between  is worth  think of irrationality and psychological biases when talking about behavioral finance, the reason for non-fundamental price movements is sometimes far more trivial: errors and trading bugs. While the first may appear everywhere, the latter results from errors in automatic order execution or in automatic trading. Although banks and trading systems continually improve their safety features, they seem to be ineradicable and occur again and again.
In most cases the price movements caused by these non-fundamental causes are short-lived and corrected immediately, but are not necessarily harmless: First, other dealers may observe these trades and assume they are based on superior information. Second, in times of automatic trading being more and more important, sudden price movements could induce trading systems to react and therefore start a knock-on effect. Every erroneous trade is costly, but while some costs are confined to the originator, others may have a market-wide impact, since both effects mentioned above can amplify the initial impetus.
In many cases the execution of erroneous trades could be avoided, or the trade unwound, but in some cases they were executed and caused substantial price movements and losses. Here are some spectacular examples:
In September 1997 a trader at the London Stock Exchange (LSE) confused two input boxes in the brokerage system and ordered 989,529 shares of the British multinational pharmaceutical company Zeneca PLC (today after a merger, now part of AstraZeneca PLC). The order had a value of about 21 billion pounds sterling, which was about three times the firm's current market value, but was not executed.
In October 2002 a market maker confused euro and pound sterling when he wanted to trade Ryanair shares. As a result, the London quote jumped by 61 per cent from 404.5p to 653.7p.
The Japanese company J-Com has twice been involved in spectacular 'fat-finger' trades. In 2005 a trader working at the Japanese Mizuho Securities Company, intended to sell one single share of the recruitment company J-Com at a price of ¥610,000. What he placed was an order to sell 610,000 shares at a price of ¥1. Although the trader noticed the mistake and tried to cancel the order, trades were executed. Buyers took the opportunity to buy shares at an incredibly low price, but Mizuho was partly saved from losses by Japanese market rules, which prevent extreme price fluctuations. So shares were not sold for less than ¥572,000. The Nikkei fell by 2 per cent and Mizuho Securities confirmed a loss of ¥27-30bn.
In 2012, J-Com again seemed to be involved in a market inefficiency caused by a mistake: J-Com's shares rose dramatically by 8.6 per cent when 2,401 shares were traded, while the usual daily volume is about 100 shares. It is thought that a trader confused J-Com with Japan's largest cable television operator Jupiter Telecommunications, commonly known as Jcom. The trader not only built up an inventory of J-Com that is difficult to bring down again because of the low liquidity in J-Com, but probably also missed the subsequent rally in Jcom.
There are many other similar events documented, but as in many cases it is just rumor, they are apparently only the tip of the iceberg.
SOURCE: Ishmael, Stacy-Marie. "The curse of the fat-fingered trader", The Financial Times  have as the basis for her decision making? .

http://ftalphaville.ft.com/2007/03/16/3207/the-curse-of-the-fat-fingered-trader/.
Turner, David. "Mizuho forced to apologise over sale", The Financial Times (online edition), December 10 2005, available at http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/8ab736ca-6922- 11da-bd30-000779e2340.html#axzz2EI0T7VFE.
Whipp, Lindsay. "J-Com name causes trading mix up", The Financial Times (online edition), February 16 2010, available at http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/b98692fc-1ad5-11df-88fa-0144feab49a.html#axzz2EI0T7VFE.

Implementation costs Exploiting overpricing can be particularly difficult. Short-selling a security entails costs; short-sellers may have to return the borrowed security on little notice, rendering the horizon of the short sale uncertain; other investors such as many pension or mutual fund managers face strict limits on their discretion to short securities. This can limit the ability of arbitrage activity to force prices to fair value.
Model risk One always has to worry that an apparent profit opportunity is more apparent than real. Perhaps you are using a faulty model to value the security, and the price actually is right. Mispricing may make a position a good bet, but it is still a risky one, which limits the extent to which it will be pursued.
Limits to Arbitrage and the Law of One Price
While one can debate the implications of much of the anomalies literature, surely the Law of One Price (positing that effectively identical assets should have identical prices) should be satisfied in rational markets. Yet there are several instances where the law seems to have been violated. These instances are good case studies of the limits to arbitrage.


FIGURE 9.2
Pricing of Royal Dutch relative to Shell (deviation from parity)
Source: O. A. Lamont and R. H. Thaler, "Anomalies: The Law of One Price in Financial Markets," Journal of Economic Perspectives 17 (Fall 2003), pp. 191-202. Used with permission of American Economic Association.



"Siamese twin" companies4 In 1907, Royal Dutch Petroleum and Shell Transport merged their operations into one firm. The two original companies, which continued to trade separately, agreed to split all profits from the joint company on a 60/40 basis. Share have as the basis for her decision making? .
Doesn't this mispricing give rise to an arbitrage opportunity? If Royal Dutch sells for more than 1.5 times Shell, why not buy relatively underpriced Shell and short-sell overpriced Royal? This seems like a reasonable strategy, but if you had followed it in February 1993 when Royal sold for about 10% more than its parity value, Figure 9.2 shows that you would have lost a lot of money as the premium widened to about 17% before finally reversing after 1999. As in Example 9.2, this opportunity posed fundamental risk.
Equity carve-outs Several equity carve-outs also have violated the Law of One Price.5 To illustrate, consider the case of 3Com, which in 1999 decided to spin off its Palm division. It first sold 5% of its stake in Palm in an IPO, announcing that it would distribute the remaining 95% of its Palm shares to 3Com shareholders six months later in a spinoff. Each 3Com shareholder would receive 1.5 shares of Palm in the spinoff.
Once Palm shares began trading, but prior to the spinoff, the share price of 3Com should have been at least 1.5 times that of Palm. After all, each share of 3Com entitled its owner to 1.5 shares of Palm plus an ownership stake in a profitable company. Instead, Palm shares at the IPO actually sold for more than the 3Com shares. The stub value of 3Com (i.e., the value of each 3Com share net of the value of the claim to Palm represented by that share) could be computed as the price of 3Com minus 1.5 times the price of Palm. This calculation, however, implies that 3Com's stub value was negative, this despite the fact that it was a profitable company with cash assets alone of about $10 per share.
Again, an arbitrage strategy seems obvious. Why not buy 3Com and sell Palm? The limit to arbitrage in this case was the inability of investors to sell Palm short. Virtually all available shares in Palm were already borrowed and sold short, and the negative stub values persisted for more than two months.
Closed-end funds We noted in Chapter 4 that closed-end funds often sell for substantial discounts or premiums from net asset value. This is "nearly" a violation of the Law of One Price, since one would expect the value of the fund to equal the value of the shares it holds. We say nearly, because in practice, there are a few wedges between the value of the closed-end fund and its underlying assets. One is expenses. The fund incurs expenses that ultimately are paid for by investors, and these will reduce share price. On the other hand, if managers can invest fund assets to generate positive risk-adjusted">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf" aid="4M returns, share price might exceed net asset value.
Lee, Shleifer, and Thaler (1991) argue that the patterns of discounts and premiums on closed-end funds are driven by changes in investor sentiment. They note that discounts on various funds move together and are correlated with the return on small stocks, suggesting that all are affected by common variation in sentiment. One might consider buying funds selling at a discount from net asset value and selling those trading at a premium, but discounts and premiums can widen, subjecting this strategy too to fundamental risk. Pontiff (1996) demonstrates that deviations of price from net asset value in closed-end funds tend to be higher in funds that are more difficult to arbitrage, for example, those with more idiosyncratic volatility.
 

CONCEPT   check9.3
 
Fundamental risk may be limited by a "deadline" that forces a convergence between price and intrinsic value. What do you think would happen to a closed-end fund's discount if the fund announced that it plans to liquidate in six months, at which time it will distribute NAV to its shareholders?

Closed-end fund discounts are a good example of apparent anomalies that also may have rational explanations. Ross (2002) demonstrates that they can be reconciled with rational investors even if expenses or fund abnormal returns are modest. He shows that if a fund has a dividend yield of δ, an alpha (risk-adjusted abnormal return) of α, and expense ratio of ε
, then using the constant-growth dividend discount model (see Chapter 13), the premium of the fund over its net asset value will be

If the fund manager's performance more than compensates for expenses (i.e., if α > ε), the fund will sell at a premium to NAV; otherwise it will sell at a discount. For example, suppose α = .015, the expense ratio is ε = .0125, and the dividend yield is δ = .02. Then the premium will be .14, or 14%. But if the market turns sour on the manager and revises its estimate of α">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf" aid="4M downward to .005, that premium quickly turns into a discount of 43%.
This analysis might explain why the public is willing to purchase closed-end funds at a premium; if investors do not expect α to exceed ε, they won't purchase shares in the fund. But the fact that most premiums eventually turn into discounts indicates how difficult it is for management to fulfill these expectations.6







Bubbles and Behavioral Economics
In Example 9.2, we pointed out that the stock market run-up of the late 1990s, and even more spectacularly, the run-up of the technology-heavy NASDAQ market, seems in retrospect to have been an obvious bubble. In a six-year period beginning in 1995, the NASDAQ index increased by a factor of more than 6. Former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan famously characterized the dot-com boom as an example of "irrational exuberance," and his assessment turned out to be correct: By October 2002, the index fell to less than one-fourth the peak value it had reached only two and a half years earlier. This episode seems to be a case in point for advocates of the behavioral school, exemplifying a market moved by irrational investor sentiment. Moreover, in accord with behavioral patterns, as the dot-com boom developed, it seemed to feed on itself, with investors increasingly confident of their investment prowess (overconfidence bias) and apparently willing to extrapolate short-term patterns into the distant future (representativeness bias).
Only five years later, another bubble, this time in housing prices, was underway. As in the dot-com bubble, expectations of continued price increases fueled speculative demand by purchasers. Shortly thereafter, of course, housing prices stalled and then fell. The bursting bubble set off the worst financial crisis in 75 years.
On the other hand, bubbles are a lot easier to identify as such once they are over. While they are going on, it is not as clear that prices are irrationally exuberant, and, indeed, many financial commentators at the time justified the dot-com boom as consistent with glowing forecasts for the "new economy." A simple example shows how hard it can be to tie down the fair value of stock investments.7



EXAMPLE 9.3


A Stock Market Bubble?
In 2000, near the peak of the dot-com boom, the dividends paid by the firms included in the S&P 500 totaled $154.6 million. If the discount rate for the index was 9.2% and the expected dividend growth rate was 8%, the value of these shares according to the constant-growth dividend discount model (see Chapter 13 for more on this model) would be
 
This was quite close to the actual total value of those firms at the time. But the estimate is highly sensitive to the input values, and even a small reassessment of their prospects would result in a big revision of price. Suppose the expected dividend growth rate fell to 7.4%. This would reduce the value of the index to

which was about the value to which the S&P 500 firms had fallen by October 2002. In light of this example, the run-up and crash of the 1990s seems easier to reconcile with rational behavior.



Still, other evidence seems to tag the dot-com boom as at least partially irrational. Consider, for example, the results of a study by Rau, Dimitrov, and Cooper (2001) documenting that firms adding ".com" to the end of their names during this period enjoyed a meaningful stock price increase. That doesn't sound like rational valuation.







Evaluating the Behavioral Critique
As investors, we are concerned with the existence of profit opportunities. The behavioral explanations of efficient market anomalies do not give guidance as to how to exploit any irrationality. For investors, the question is still whether there is money to be made from mispricing, and the behavioral literature is largely silent on this point.
However, as we have emphasized above, one of the important implications of the efficient market hypothesis is that security prices serve as reliable guides to the allocation of real assets. If prices are distorted, then capital markets will give misleading signals (and incentives) as to where the economy may best allocate resources. In this crua>critique of the efficient market hypothesis is certainly important irrespective of any implication for investment strategies.
There is considerable debate among financial economists concerning the strength of the behavioral critique. Many believe that the behavioral approach is too unstructured, in effect allowing virtually any anomaly to be explained by some combination of irrationalities chosen from a laundry list of behavioral biases. While it is easy to "reverse engineer" a behavioral explanation for any particular anomaly, these critics would like to see a consistent or unified behavioral theory that can explain a range of anomalies.
More fundamentally, others are not convinced that the anomalies literature as a whole is a convincing indictment of the efficient market hypothesis. Fama (1998) reviews the anomalies literature and mounts a counterchallenge to the behavioral school. He notes that the anomalies are inconsistent in terms of their support for one type of irrationality versus another. For example, some papers document long-term corrections (consistent with overreaction), while others document long-term continuations of abnormal returns (consistent with underreaction). Moreover, the statistical significance of many of these results is hard to assess. Even small errors in choosing a benchmark against which to compare returns can cumulate to large apparent abnormalities in long-term returns. Therefore, many have as the basis for her decision making? .
 
The behavioral critique of full rationality in investor decision making is well taken, but the extent to which limited rationality affects asset pricing remains controversial. Whether or not investor irrationality affects asset prices, however, behavioral finance already makes important points about portfolio management. Investors who are aware of the potential pitfalls in information processing and decision making that seem to characterize their peers should be better able to avoid such errors. Ironically, the insights of behavioral finance may lead to some of the same policy conclusions embraced by efficient market advocates. For example, an easy way to avoid some behavioral minefields is to pursue passive, largely indexed portfolio strategies. It seems that only rare individuals can consistently beat passive strategies; this conclusion may hold true whether your fellow investors are behavioral or rational.
9.2   TECHNICAL ANALYSIS AND BEHAVIORAL FINANCE
Technical analysis attempts to exploit recurring and predictable patterns in stock prices to generate superior investment performance. Technicians do not deny the value of fundamental information but believe that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.
For example, one of the best-documented behavioral tendencies is the disposition effect, which refers to the tendency of investors to hold on to losing investments. Behavioral investors seem reluctant to realize losses. Grinblatt and Han (2005) show that the disposition effect can lead to momentum in stock prices even if fundamental values follow a random walk. The fact that the demand of "disposition investors" for a company's shares depends on the price history of those shares means that prices close in on fundamental values only over time, consistent with the central motivation of technical analysis.
Behavioral biases may also be consistent with technical analysts' use of volume data. An important behavioral trait noted above is overconfidence, a systematic tendency to overestimate one's abilities. As traders become overconfident, they may trade more, inducing an association between trading volume and market returns (Gervais and Odean, 2001). Technical analysis thus uses volume data as well as price history to direct trading strategy.
Finally, technicians believe that market fundamentals can be perturbed by irrational or behavioral factors, sometimes labeled "sentiment variables." More or less random price fluctuations will accompany any underlying price trend, creating opportunities to exploit corrections as these fluctuations dissipate.







Trends and Corrections
Much of technical analysis seeks to uncover trends in market prices. This is in effect a search for momentum. Momentum can be absolute, in which case one searches for upward price trends, or relative, in which case the analyst looks to invest have as the basis for her decision making? .

Momentum and moving averages While we all would like to buy shares in firms whose prices are trending upward, this begs the question of how to identify the underlying direction of prices, if in fact such trends actually exist. A primary tool for this purpose is the moving average.
The moving average of a stock price is the average price over a given interval, where that interval is updated as time passes. For example, a 50-day moving average traces the average price over the previous 50 days. The average is recomputed each day by dropping the oldest observation and adding the newest. Figure 9.3 is a moving-average chart for Intel. Notice that the moving average (the blue curve) is a "smoothed" version of the original data series (the jagged red curve).
After a period in which prices have been falling, the moving average will be above the current price (because the moving average continues to "average in" the older and higher prices until they leave the sample period). In contrast, when prices have been rising, the moving average will be below the current price.
Breaking through the moving average from below, as at point A in Figure 9.3, is taken as a bullish signal, because it signifies a shift from a falling trend (with prices below the moving average) to a rising trend (with prices above the moving average). Conversely, when prices drop below the moving average, as at point B, analysts might conclude that market momentum has become negative.
Other techniques also are used to uncover potential momentum in stock prices. Two of the more famous ones are Elliott wave theory and Kondratieff waves. Both posit the existence of long-term trends in stock market prices that may be disturbed by shorter-term trends as well as daily fluctuations of little importance. Elliott wave theory superimposes long-term and short-term wave cycles in an attempt to describe the complicated pattern of actual price movements. Once the longer-term waves are identified, investors presumably can buy when the long-term direction of the market is positive. While there is considerable noise in the actual evolution of stock prices, by properly interpreting the wave cycles, one can, according to the theory, predict broad movements. Similarly, Kondratieff waves are named after a Russian economist who asserted that the macroeconomy (and therefore the stock market) moves in broad waves lasting between 48 and 60 years. Kondratieff's assertion is hard to evaluate empirically, however, because cycles that last about 50 years provide only two independent data points per century, which is hardly enough data to test the predictive power of the theory.


FIGURE 9.3
Share price and 50-day moving average for Intel
Source: Yahoo! Finance,finance.yahoo.com, August 11, 2011.





EXAMPLE 9.4


Moving Averages
Consider the price data in the following table. Each observation represents the closing level of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) on the last trading day of the week. The five-week moving average for each week is the average of the DJIA over the previous five weeks. For example, the first entry, for week 5, is the average of the index value between weeks 1 and 5: 12,290, 12,380, 12,399, 12,379, and 12,450. The next entry is the average of the index values between weeks 2 and 6, and so on.
Figure 9.4 plots the level of the index and the five-week moving average. Notice that while the index itself moves up and down rather abruptly, the moving average is a relatively smooth series, since the impact of each week's price movement is averaged with that of the previous weeks. Week 16 is a bearish point according to the moving-average rule. The price series crosses from above the moving average to below it, signifying the beginning of a downward trend in stock prices.





FIGURE 9.4









Moving averages

Point and figure charts A variant on pure trend analysis is the point and figure chart depicted in Figure 9.5. This figure has no time dimension. It simply traces significant upward or downward movements in stock prices without regard to their timing. The data for Figure 9.5 come from Table 9.1.


FIGURE 9.5
Point and figure chart for Table 9.1





TABLE 9.1   Stock price history



Suppose, as in Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf" aid="4M:off:00000006AG" aid="MSE0E">Table 9.1, that a stock's price is currently $40. If the price rises by at least $2, you put an X in the first column at $42 in Figure 9.5. Another increase of at least $2 calls for placement of another X in the first column, this time at the $44 level. If the stock then falls by at least $2, you start a new column and put an O next to $42. Each subsequent $2 price fall results in another O in the second column. When prices reverse yet a, you begin the third column with an X denoting each consecutive $2 price increase.
The single asterisks in Table 9.1 mark an event resulting in the placement of a new X or O in the chart. The daggers denote price movements that result in the start of a new column of Xs or Os.
Sell signals are generated when the stock price penetrates previous lows, and buy signals occur when previous high prices are penetrated. A congestion area is a horizontal band of Xs and Os created by several price reversals. These regions correspond to support and resistance levels and are indicated in Figure 9.6, which is an actual chart for Atlantic Richfield.


FIGURE 9.6
Point and figure chart for Atlantic Richfield



One can devise point and figure charts using price increments other than $2, but it is customary in setting up a chart to require reasonably substantial price changes before marking pluses or minuses.
 

CONCEPT   check9.4
 
Draw a point and figure chart using the history in Table 9.1 with price increments of $3.

Breadth The breadth of the market is a measure of the extent to which movement in a market index is reflected widely in the price movements of all the stocks in the market. The most common measure of breadth is the spread between the number of stocks that advance and decline in price. If advances outnumber declines by a wide margin, then the market is viewed as being stronger because the rally is widespread. These numbers are reported daily in The Wall Street Journal (see Figure 9.7).







breadth
The extent to which movements in broad market indexes are reflected widely in movements of individual stock prices.



FIGURE 9.7









Market diary
Source: The Wall Street Journal Online, August 11, 2011. Reprinted by permission of The Wall Street Journal, Copyright © 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.



  TABLE 9.2   Breadth



Some analysts cumulate breadth data each day as in Table 9.2. The cumulative breadth for each day is obtained by adding that day's net advances (or declines) to the previous day's total. The direction of the cumulated series is then used to discern broad market trends. Analysts might use a moving average of cumulative breadth to gauge broad trends.
Relative strength Relative strength measures the extent to which a security has outperformed or underperformed either the market as a whole or its particular industry. Relative strength is computed by calculating the ratio of the price of the security to a price index for the industry. For example, the relative strength of Toyota versus the auto industry would be measured by movements in the ratio of the price of Toyota divided by the level of an auto industry index. A rising ratio implies Toyota has been outperforming the rest of the industry. If relative strength can be assumed to persist over time, then this would be a signal to buy Toyota.








relative strength
Recent performance of a given stock or industry compared to that of a broader market index.

Similarly, the relative strength of an industry relative to the whole market can be computed by tracking the ratio of the industry price index to the market price index.







Sentiment Indicators
Trin statistic Market volume is sometimes used to measure the strength of a market rise or fall. Increased investor participation in a market advance or retreat is viewed as a measure of the significance of the movement. Technicians consider market advances to be a more favorable omen of continued price increases when they are associated with increase">Kucerová S. 'The impact of financial crisis on financial supervision in the EU, the USA and the Czech Republic', lf" aid="4Md trading volume. Similarly, market reversals are considered more bearish when associated with higher volume. The trin statistic is defined as








trin statistic
The ratio of average volume in declining issues to average volume in advancing issues.


Therefore, trin is the ratio of average trading volume in declining issues to average volume in advancing issues. Ratios above 1 are considered bearish because the falling stocks would then have higher average volume than the advancing stocks, indicating net selling pressure.
The Wall Street Journal Online provides the data necessary to compute trin in its Markets Diary section. Using the data in Figure 9.7, trin for the NYSE on this day was:

Note, however, that for every buyer, there must be a seller of stock. Rising volume in a rising market should not necessarily indicate a larger imbalance of buyers versus sellers. For example, a trin statistic above 1, which is considered bearish, could equally well be interpreted as indicating that there is more buying activity in declining issues.
Confidence index Barron's computes a confidence index using data from the bond market. The presumption is that actions of bond traders reveal trends that will emerge soon in the stock market.
The confidence index is the ratio of the average yield on 10 top-rated corporate bonds divided by the average yield on 10 intermediate-grade corporate bonds. The ratio will always be below 100% because higher-rated bonds will offer lower promised yields to maturity. When bond traders are optimistic about the economy, however, they might require smaller default premiums on lower-rated debt. Hence, the yield spread will narrow, and the confidence index will approach 100%. Therefore, higher values of the confidence index are bullish signals.








confidence index
Ratio of the yield of top-rated corporate bonds to the yield on intermediate-grade bonds.

 

CONCEPT   check9.5
 
in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid=" sufficiently  
Yields on lower-rated debt typically rise along with fears of recession. This reduces the confidence index. When these yields increase, should the stock market be expected to fall, or will it already have fallen?

Short interest Short interest is the total number of shares of stock currently sold short in the market. Some technicians interpret high levels of short interest as bullish, some as bearish. The bullish perspective is that, because all short sales must be covered (i.e., short-sellers eventually must purchase shares to return the ones they have borrowed), short interest represents latent future demand for the stocks. As short sales are covered, the demand created by the share purchase will force prices up.








short interest
The total number of shares currently sold short in the market.

The bearish interpretation of short interest is based on the fact that short-sellers tend to be larger, more sophisticated investors. Accordingly, increased short interest reflects bearish sentiment by those investors "in the know," which would be a negative signal of the market's prospects.
Put/call ratio Call options give investors the right to buy a stock at a fixed "exercise" price and therefore are a way of betting on stock price increases. Put options give the right to sell a stock at a fixed price and therefore are a way of betting on stock price decreases.8 The ratio of outstanding put options to outstanding call options is called the put/call ratio. Because put options do well in falling markets while call options do well in rising markets, deviations of the ratio from historical norms are considered to be a signal of market sentiment and therefore predictive of market movements.

put/call ratio
Ratio of put options to call options outstanding on a stock.

Interestingly, however, a change in the ratio can be given a bullish or a bearish interpretation. Many technicians see an increase in the ratio as bearish, as it indicates growing interest in put options as a hedge against market declines. Thus, a rising ratio is taken as a sign of broad investor pessimism and a coming market decline. Contrarian investors, however, believe that a good time to buy is when the rest of the market is bearish because stock prices are then unduly depressed. Therefore, they would take an increase in the put/call ratio as a signal of a buy opportunity.







A Warning
The search for patterns in stock market prices is nearly irresistible, and the ability of the human eye to discern apparent patterns is remarkable. Unfortunately, it is possible to perceive patterns that really don't exist. Consider Figure 9.8, which presents simulated and actual values of the Dow Jones Industrial Average during 1956 taken from a famous study by Harry Roberts (1959). In Figure 9.8B, it appears as though the market presents a classic head-and-shoulders pattern where the middle hump (the head) is flanked by two shoulders. When the price index "pierces the right shoulder"—a technical trigger point—it is believed to be heading lower, and it is time to sell your stocks. Figure 9.8A also looks like a "typical" stock market pattern.
Can you tell which of the two graphs is constructed from the real value of the Dow and which from the simulated data? Figure 9.8A is based on the real data. The graph in Panel B was generated using "returns" created by a random-number generator. These returns by construction were patternless, but the simulated price path that is plotted appears to follow a pattern much like that of Panel A.
Figure 9.9 shows the weekly price changes behind the two panels in Figure 9.8. Here the randomness in both series—the stock price as well as the simulated sequence—is obvious.
A problem related to the tendency to perceive patterns where they don't exist is data mining. After the fact, you can always find patterns and trading rules that would have generated enormous profits. If you test enough rules, some will have worked in the past. Unfortunately, picking a theory that would have worked after the fact carries no guarantee of future success.
In evaluating trading rules, you should always ask whether the rule would have seemed reasonable before you looked at the data. If not, you might be buying into the one arbitrary rule among many that happened to have worked in the recent past. The hard but crucial question is whether there is reason to believe that what worked in the past should continue to work in the future.


FIGURE 9.8
Actual and simulated levels for stock market prices of 52 weeks
Note: Friday closing levels, December 30, 1955-December 28, 1956, Dow Jones Industrial Average.
Source: Harry Roberts, "Stock Market 'Patterns' and Financial Analysis: Methodological Suggestions," Journal of Finance 14 (March 1959), pp. 1-10. Used with permission of John Wiley and Sons, via Copyright Clearance Center.





FIGURE 9.9
Actual and simulated changes in weekly stock prices for 52 weeks
Note: Changes from Friday to Friday (closing) January 6, 1956-December 28, 1956, Dow Jones Industrial Average.
Source: Harry Roberts, "Stock Market 'Patterns' and Financial Analysis: Methodological Suggestions," Journal of Finance 14 (March 1959), pp. 1-10. Used with permission of John Wiley and Sons, via Copyright Clearance Center.










SUMMARY
• Behavioral finance focuses on systematic irrationalities that characterize investor decision making. These "behavioral shortcomings" may be consistent with several efficient market anomalies.
• Among the information processing errors uncovered in the psychology literature are memory bias, overconfidence, conservatism, and representativeness. Behavioral tendencies include framing, mental accounting, regret avoidance, and loss aversion.
• Limits to arbitrage activity impede the ability of rational investors to exploit pricing errors induced by behavioral investors. For example, fundamental risk means that even if a security is mispriced, it still can be risky to attempt to exploit the mispricing. This limits the actions of arbitrageurs who take positions in mispriced securities. Other limits to arbitrage are implementation costs, model risk, and costs to short-selling. Occasional failures of the Law of One Price suggest that limits to arbitrage are sometimes severe.
• The various limits to arbitrage mean that even if prices do not equal intrinsic value, it still may be difficult to exploit the mispricing. As a result, the failure of traders to beat the market may not be proof that markets are in fact efficient, with prices equal to intrinsic value.
• Technical analysis also uses volume data and sentiment indicators. These are broadly consistent with several behavioral models of investor activity. Technical analysis is the search for recurring and predictable patterns in stock prices. It is based on the premise that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.
• Technical analysts try to uncover trends in stock prices and anticipate reversals of those trends. Moving averages, relative strength, and breadth are used in various trend-based strategies. have as the basis for her decision making? .
 
• Some sentiment indicators are the trin statistic, the confidence inl ratio.
KEY TERMS
behavioral finance
breadth
confidence index
conservatism bias
framing
mental accounting
prospect theory
put/call ratio
regret avoidance
relative strength
representativeness bias
short interest
trin statistic







PROBLEM SETS
Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance. Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.







Basic

1. Match each example to one of the following behavioral characteristics. (LO 9-1)



2. After reading about three successful investors in The Wall Street Journal you decide that active investing will also provide you with superior trading results. What sort of behavioral tendency are you exhibiting? (LO 9-1)
3. What do we mean by fundamental risk, and why may such risk allow behavioral biases to persist for long periods of time? (LO 9-2)
4. What are the strong points of the behavioral critique of the efficient market hypothesis? What are some problems with the critique? (LO 9-2)
5. What are some possible investment implications of the behavioral critique? (LO 9-1)

6. Jill Davis tells her broker that she does not want to sell her stocks that are below the price she paid for them. She believes that if she just holds on to them a little longer, they will recover, at which time she will sell them. What behavioral characteristic does Davis have as the basis for her decision making? (LO 9-1)
a. Loss aversion
b. Conservatism
c. Representativeness



7. After Polly Shrum sells a stock, she avoids following it in the media. She is afraid that it may subsequently increase in price. What behavioral characteristic does Shrum have as the basis for her decision making? (LO 9-1)
a. Fear of regret
b. Representativeness
c. Mental accounting



8. All of the following actions are consistent with feelings of regret except: (LO 9-1)
a. Selling losers quickly.
b. Hiring a full-service broker.
c. Holding on to losers too long.


9. Which one of the following would be a bullish signal to a technical analyst using moving average rules? (LO 9-4)
a. A stock price crosses above abnormal returns.
 
b. A stock price crosses below its 52-week moving average.
c. The stock's moving average is increasing.
d. The stock's moving average is decreasing.








Intermediate
10. What is meant by data mining, and why must technical analysts be careful not to engage in it? (LO 9-3)
11. Even if prices follow a random walk, they still may not be informationally efficient. Explain why this may be true, and why it matters for the efficient allocation of capital in our economy. (LO 9-2)
12.dex, a What is meant by "limits to arbitrage"? Give some examples of such limits. (LO 9-2)
13. Following a shock to a firm's intrinsic value, the share price will slowly but surely approach that new intrinsic value. Is this view characteristic of a technical analyst or a believer in efficient markets? Explain. (LO 9-3)
14. Use the data from The Wall Street Journal in Figure 9.7 to verify the trin ratio for the NYSE. Is the trin ratio bullish or bearish? (LO 9-4)
15. Calculate breadth for the NYSE using the data in Figure 9.7. Is the signal bullish or bearish? (LO 9-4)
16. Collect data on the DJIA for a period covering a few months. Try to identify primary trends. Can you tell whether the market currently is in an upward or downward trend? (LO 9-4)
17. Suppose Baa-rated bonds currently yield 9%, while Aa-rated bonds yield 7%. Now suppose that due to an increase in the expected inflation rate, the yields on both bonds increase by 1.5%. What would happen to the confidence index? Would this be interpreted as bullish or bearish by a technical analyst? Does this make sense to you? (LO 9-4)
18. Table 9.3 presents price data in upwardly biased hedge fund index aid=" sufficiently  for Computers, Inc., and a computer industry index. Does Computers, Inc., show relative strength over this period? (LO 9-4)
19. Use the data in Table 9.3 to compute a five-day moving average for Computers, Inc. Can you identify any buy or sell signals? (LO 9-4)
20. Construct a point and figure chart for Computers, Inc., using again the data in Table 9.3. Use $2 increments for your chart. Do the buy or sell signals derived from your chart correspond to those derived from the moving-average rule (see the previous problem)? (LO 9-4)
21. Yesterday, the Dow Jones industrials gaind the put/cal






(LO 9-4)
22. Table 9.4 contains data on market advances and declines. Calculate cumulative breadth and decide whether this technical signal is bullish or bearish. (LO 9-4)
23. If the trading volume in advancing shares on day 1 in the previous problem was 1.1 billion shares, while the volume in declining issues was .9 billion shares, what was the trin statistic for that day? Was trin bullish or bearish? (LO 9-4)
24. Given the following data on bond yields, is the confidence index rising or falling? What might explain the pattern of yield changes? (LO 9-4)



  TABLE 9.3   Computers, Inc., stock price history 



TABLE 9.4   Market advances and declines 



Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

25. Go to www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie and link to the material for Chapter 9, where you will find five years of weekly returns for the S&P 500. (LO 9-4)
a. Set up a spreadsheet to calculate the 26-week moving average of the index. Set the value of the index at the beginning of the sample period equal to 100. The index value in each week is then updated by multiplying the previous week's level by (1 + rate of return over previous week).








PART
3

Debt Securities

consumption" aid="">Risky Investments and Capital Gains as Tax Shelters class="bun-ha" aid="NQU2A">Chapters in This Part:
10  Bond Prices and Yields
11  Managing Bond Portfolios

Bond markets used to be a sedate arena for risk-averse investors who wanted worry-free investments with modest but stable returns. They are no longer so quiet. The fixed-income market was at the center of the financial crisis of 2008-2009, and the downgrade of U.S. Treasury debt by Standard & Poor's in 2011 triggered a massive one-day stock market decline of more than 6% when markets opened.
These markets are no longer free of risk. Interest rates in the last three decades have become more volatile than anyone in 1965 would have dreamed possible. Volatility means that investors have great opportunities for gain, but also for losses, and we have seen dramatic examples of both in recent years.
Long-Term Capital Management, at the time the world's most successful hedge fund, shocked Wall Street when it was felled by investment reversals in 1998, among them losses of more than $1 billion on its interest rate positions. But those losses seem almost quaint when compared to the devastation suffered in the market meltdown of 2008-2009. The beginning of that period was signaled by revelation of losses of $1 billion on mortgage bonds held by two Bear Stearns hedge funds in 2007. Over the course of the next two years, hundreds of billions were lost by investors in other mortgage-backed bonds and those who sold insurance on those securities. Of course, in many of these instances, there were traders on the other side of the transaction who did quite well. The bearish bets made by hedge fund manager John Paulson in 2007 made his funds more than $15 billion.
The chapters in Part Three provide an introduction to debt markets and securities. We will show you how to value such securities and why their values change with interest rates. We will see what features determine the sensitivity of bond prices to interest rates and how investors measure and manage interest rate risk.


Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition












Chapter
10

Bond Prices and Yields

Learning Objectives:

LO10-1 Explain the general terms of a bond contract and how bond prices are quoted in the financial press.
LO10-2 Compute a bond's price given its yield to maturity, and compute its yield to maturity given its price.
LO10-3 Calculate how bond prices will change over time for a given interest rate projection.
LO10-4 Describe call, convertibility, and sinking fund provisions, and analyze how these provisions affect a bond's price and yield to maturity.
LO10-5 Identify the determinants of bond safety and rating and how credit risk is reflected in bond yields and the prices of credit default swaps.
LO10-6 Calculate several measures of bond return, and demonstrate how these measures may be affected by taxes.
LO10-7 Analyze the factors likely to affect the shape of the yield curve at any time, and impute forward rates from the yield curve.


In the previous chapters on risk and return relationships, we have treated securities at a high level of abstraction. We have assumed implicitly that a prior, detailed analysis of each security already has been performed and that its risk and return features have been assessed.
We turn now to specific analyses of particular security markets. We examine valuation principles, determinants of risk and return, and portfolio strategies commonly used within and across the various markets.
We begin by analyzing debt securities. A debt security is a claim on a specified periodic stream of income. Debt securities are often called fixed-income securities, because they promise either a fixed stream of income or one determined according to a specified formula. These securities have the advantage of being relatively easy to understand because the payment formulas are specified in advance. Uncertainty about their cash flows is minimal as long as the issuer of the security is sufficiently creditworthy. That makes these securities a convenient starting point for our analysis of the universe of potential investment vehicles.
The bond is the basic debt security, and this chapter starts with an overview of bond markets, including Treasury, corporate, and international bonds. We turn next to bond pricing, showing how bond prices are set in accordance with market interest rates and why bond prices change with those rates. Given this background, we can compare the myriad measures of bond returns such as yield to maturity, yield to call, holding-period return, and realized compound rate of return. We show how bond prices evolve over time, discuss certain tax rules that apply to debt securities, and show how to calculate after-tax returns. Next, we consider the impact of default or credit risk on bond pricing and look at the s. Is this a violation of the EMH? o  analyzingdeterminants of credit risk and the default premium built into bond yields. Finally, we turn to the term structure of interest rates, the relationship between yield to maturity and time to maturity.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

10.1   BOND CHARACTERISTICS
A bond is a security that is issued in connection with a borrowing arrangement. The borrower issues (i.e., sells) a bond to the lender for some amount of cash; the bond is in essence the "IOU" of the borrower. The arrangement obligates the issuer to make specified payments to the bondholder on specified dates. A typical coupon bond obligates the issuer to make semiannual payments of interest, called coupon payments, to the bondholder for the life of the bond. These are called coupon payments because, in precomputer days, most bonds had coupons that investors would clip off and present to the issuer of the bond to claim the interest payment. When the bond matures, the issuer repays the debt by paying the bond's par value (or equivalently, its face value). The coupon rate of the bond determines the interest payment: The annual payment equals the coupon rate times the bond's par value. The coupon rate, maturity date, and par value of the bond are part of the bond indenture, which is the contract between the issuer and the bondholder.

bond
A security that obligates the issuer to make specified payments to the holder over a period of time.


face value, par value
The payment to the bondholder at the maturity of the bond.


coupon rate
A bond's annual interest payment per dollar of par value.

To illustrate, a bond with a par value of $1,000 and a coupon rate of 8% might be sold to a buyer for $1,000. The issuer then pays the bondholder 8% of $1,000, or $80 per year, for the stated life of the bond, say, 30 years. The $80 payment typically comes in two semiannual installments of $40 each. At the end of the 30-year life of the bond, the issuer also pays the $1,000 par value to the bondholder.
Bonds usually are issued with coupon rates set just high enough to induce investors to pay par value to buy the bond. Sometimes, however, zero-coupon bonds are issued that make  emphasizing or including only  lower analyzingno coupon payments. In this case, investors receive par value at the maturity date but receive no interest payments until then: The bond has a coupon rate of zero. These bonds are issued at prices considerably below par value, and the investor's return comes solely from the difference between issue price and the payment of par value at maturity. We will return to these bonds below.

zero-coupon bond
A bond paying no coupons that sells at a discount and provides only a payment of par value at maturity.

Treasury Bonds and Notes
How well does the moving-av000001SI" aid="OPEN0">Figure 10.1 is an excerpt from the listing of Treasury issues from the The Wall Street Journal Online. Treasury notes are issued with original maturities between 1 and 10 years, while Treasury bonds are issued with maturities ranging from 10 to 30 years. Both bonds and notes may be purchased directly from the Treasury in denominations of only $100, but denominations of $1,000 are far more common. Both make semiannual coupon payments.


FIGURE 10.1
Prices and yields of U.S. Treasury bonds on August 15, 2011
Source: The Wall Street Journal Online, August 16, 2011. Reprinted by permission of The Wall Street Journal. Copyright © 2011 Dow Jones & Company. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.



The highlighted issue in Figure 10.1 matures in August 2023. Its coupon rate is 6.25%. Par value is $1,000; thus, the bond pays interest of $62.50 per year in two semiannual payments of $31.25. Payments are made in February and August of each year. Although bonds are typically sold in denominations of $1,000 par value, the bid and ask prices1 are quoted as a percentage of par value. Therefore, the ask price is 137.438% of par, or $1,374.38.
The last column, labeled "Ask Yld," is the bond's yield to maturity based on the ask price. The yield to maturity is often interpreted as a measure of the average rate of return to an investor who purchases the bond for the ask price and holds it until its maturity date. We will have much to say about yield to maturity below.
Accrued interest and quoted bond prices The bond prices that you see quoted in the financial pages are not actually the prices that investors pay for the bond. This is because the quoted price does not include the interest that accrues between coupon payment dates.
If a bond is instances in which relative strength aid=" sufficiently  purchased between coupon payments, the buyer must pay the seller for accrued interest, the prorated share of the upcoming semiannual coupon. For example, if 30 days have passed since the last coupon payment, and there are 182 days in the semiannual coupon period, the seller is entitled to a payment of accrued interest of 30⁄182 of the semiannual coupon. The sale, or invoice price of the bond, which is the amount the buyer actually pays, would equal the stated price plus the accrued interest.
In general, the formula for the amount of accrued interest between two dates is



EXAMPLE 10.1


Accrued Interest
Suppose that the coupon rate is 8%. Then the semiannual coupon payment is $40. Because 30 days have passed since the last coupon payment, the accrued interest on the bond is . If the quoted price of the bond is $990, then the invoice price will be $990 + $6.59 = $996.59.


The practice of quoting bond prices net of accrued interest explains why the price of a maturing bond is listed at $1,000 rather than $1,000 plus one coupon payment. A purchaser of an 8% coupon bond one day before the bond's maturity would receive $1,040 on the following day and so should be willing to pay a total price of $1,040 for the bond. In fact, $40 of that total payment constitutes the accrued interest for the preceding half-year period. The bond price is quoted net of accrued interest in the financial pages and thus appears as $1,000.2
Corporate Bonds
Like the government, corporations borrow money by issuing bonds. Figure 10.2 is a sample of corporate bond listings from The Wall Street Journal Online, which reports only the most actively traded corporate bonds. Although some bonds trade electronically on the NYSE Bonds platform, most bonds are traded over the counter in a network of bond dealers linked by a computer quotation system. In practice, the bond market can be quite "thin," in that there are few investors interested in trading a particular issue at any particular time.


FIGURE 10.2
Listing of corporate bonds
Source: The Wall Street Journal Online, August 11, 2011. for the face value of the loan.

The Wall Street Journal. Copyright © 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.


The bond listings in Figure 10.2 include the coupon, maturity, price, and yield to maturity of each bond. The "Rating" column is the estimation of bond safety given by the three major bond rating agencies, Moody's, Standard & Poor's, and Fitch. Bonds with A ratings are safer than those rated B or below. Notice that as a general rule, safer bonds with the higher ratings promise lower yields to maturity. We will return to this topic toward the end of the chapter.
Call provisions on corporate bonds Some corporate bonds are issued with call provisions, allowing the issuer to repurchase the bond at a specified call price before the maturity date. For example, if a company issues a bond with a high coupon rate when market interest rates are high, and interest rates later fall, the firm might like to retire the high-coupon debt and issue new bonds at a lower coupon rate to reduce interest payments. The proceeds from the new bond issue are used to pay for the repurchase of the existing higher-coupon bonds at the call price. This is called refunding. Callable bonds typically come with a period of call protection, an initial time during which the bonds are not callable. Such bonds are referred to as deferred callable bonds.

callable bonds
Bonds that may be repurchased by the issuer at a specified call price during the call period.

The option to call the bond is valuable to the firm, allowing it to buy back the bonds and refinance at lower interest rates when market rates fall. Of course, the firm's benefit is the bondholder's burden. Holders of called bonds forfeit their bonds for the call price, thereby giving up the prospect of an attractive rate of interest on their original investment. To compensate investors for this risk, callable bonds are issued with higher coupons and promised yields to maturity than noncallable bonds.
 

CONCEPT   check10.1
 
Suppose that Verizon issues two bonds with identical coupon rates and maturity dates. One bond is callable, however, while the other is not. Which bond will sell at a higher price?

Convertible bonds  emphasizing or including only  lower analyzingConvertible bonds give bondholders an option to exchange each bond for a specified number of shares of common stock of the firm. The conversion ratio gives the number of shares for which each bond may be exchanged. Suppose a convertible bond is issued at par value of $1,000 and is convertible into 40 shares of a firm's stock. The current stock price is $20 per share, so the option to convert is not profitable now. Should the stock price later rise to $30, however, each bond may be converted profitably into $1,200 worth of stock. The market conversion value is the current value of the shares for which the bonds may be exchanged. At the $20 stock price, for example, the bond's conversion value is $800. The conversion premium is the excess of the bond price over its conversion value. If the bond were selling currently for $950, its premium would be $150.

convertible bond
A bond with an option allowing the bondholder to exchange the bond for a specified number of shares of common stock in the firm.

Convertible bondholders benefit from price appreciation of the company's stock. Not surprisingly, this benefit comes at a price; convertible bonds offer lower coupon rates and stated or promised yields to maturity than nonconvertible bonds. At the same time, the actual return on the convertible bond may exceed the stated yield to maturity if the option to convert becomes profitable.
We discuss convertible and callable bonds further in Chapter 15.
Puttable bonds While the callable bond gives the issuer the option to extend or retire the bond at the call date, the extendable or put bond gives this option to the bondholder. If the bond's coupon rate exceeds current market yields, for instance, the bondholder will choose to extend the bond's life. If the bond's coupon rate is too low, it will be optimal not to extend; the bondholder instead reclaims principal, which can be invested at current yields.

put bond
A bond that the holder may choose either to exchange for par value at some date or to extend for a given number of years.

Floating-rate bonds Floating-rate bonds make interest payments that are tied to some measure of current market rates. For example, the rate might be adjyear T-bill rate at the adjustment date is 4%, the bond's coupon rate over the next year would then be 6%. This arrangement means that the bond always pays approximately current market rates.

floating-rate bonds
as a going concernconsumption" aid="4MBonds with coupon rates periodically reset according to a specified market rate.

The major risk involved in floaters has to do with changing credit conditions. The yield spread is fixed over the life of the security, which may be many years. If the financial health of the firm deteriorates, then investors will demand a greater yield premium than is offered by the security. In this case, the price of the bond will fall. While the coupon rate on floaters adjusts to changes in the general level of market interest rates, it does not adjust to changes in the financial condition of the firm.
Preferred Stock
Although preferred stock strictly speaking is considered to be equity, it often is included in the fixed-income universe. This is because, like bonds, preferred stock promises to pay a specified stream of dividends. However, unlike bonds, the failure to pay the promised dividend does not result in corporate bankruptcy. Instead, the dividends owed simply cumulate, and the common stockholders may not receive any dividends until the preferred stockholders have been paid in full. In the event of bankruptcy, the claim of preferred stockholders to the firm's assets has lower priority than that of bondholders but higher priority than that of common stockholders.
Preferred stock commonly pays a fixed dividend. Therefore, it is in effect a perpetuity, providing a level cash flow indefinitely. More recently, however, adjustable or floating-rate preferred stock has become popular, in some years accounting for about half of new issues. Floating-rate preferred stock is much like floating-rate bonds. The dividend rate is linked to a measure of current market interest rates and is adjusted at regular intervals.
Unlike interest payments on bonds, dividends on preferred stock are not considered tax-deductible expenses to the firm. This reduces their attractiveness as a source of capital to issuing firms. On the other hand, there is an offsetting tax advantage to preferred stock. When one corporation buys the preferred stock of another corporation, it pays taxes on only 30% of the dividends received. For example, if the firm's tax bracket is 35%, and it receives $10,000 in preferred-dividend payments, it will pay taxes on only $3,000 of that income: Total taxes owed on the income will be .35 × $3,000 = $1,050. The firm's effective tax rate on preferred dividends is therefore only .30 × 35% = 10.5%. Given this tax rule, it is not surprising that most preferred stock is held by corporations.
Preferred stock rarely gives its holders full voting privileges in the firm. However, if the preferred dividend is skipped, the preferred stockholders will then be provided some voting power.
Other Domestic Issuers
There are, of course, several issuers of bonds in addition to the Treasury and private corporations. For example, state and local governments issue municipal bonds. The outstanding feature of these is that interest payments are tax-free. We examined municipal bonds, the value of the tax exemption, and the equivalent taxable yield of these  to exploit your conviction about the stock price's future movement between  is worth bonds in Chapter 2.
Government agencies, such as the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the Farm Credit agencies, and the mortgage pass-through agencies Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac also issue considerable amounts of bonds. These too were reviewed in Chapter 2.
International Bonds
International bonds are commonly divided into two categories: foreign bonds and Eurobonds. Foreign bonds are issued by a borrower from a country other than the one in which the bond is sold. The bond is denominated in the currency of the country in which it is marketed. For example, if a German firm sells a dollar-denominated bond in the U.S., the bond is considered a foreign bond. These bonds are given colorful names based on the countries in which they are marketed. For example, foreign bonds sold in the U.S. are called Yankee bonds. Like other bonds sold in the U.S., they are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Yen-denominated bonds sold in Japan by non-Japanese issuers are called Samurai bonds. British-pound-denominated foreign bonds sold in the U.K. are called bulldog bonds.
In contrast to foreign bonds, Eurobonds are denominated in one currency, usually that of the issuer, but sold in other national markets. For example, the Eurodollar market refers to dollar-denominated bonds sold outside the U.S. (not just in Europe), although London is the largest market for Eurodollar bonds. Because the Eurodollar market falls outside U.S. jurisdiction, these bonds are not regulated by U.S. federal agencies. Similarly, Euroyen bonds are yen-denominated bonds selling outside Japan, Eurosterling bonds are pound-denominated Eurobonds selling outside the U.K., and so on.
Innovation in the Bond Market
Issuers constantly develop innovative bonds with unusual features; these issues illustrate that bond design can be extremely flexible. Here are examples of some novel bonds. They should give you a sense of the potential variety in security design.
Inverse floaters These are similar to the floating-rate bonds we described earlier, except that the coupon rate on these bonds falls when the general level of interest rates rises. Investors in these bonds suffer doubly when rates rise. Not only does the present value of each dollar of cash flow from the bond fall as the discount rate rises but the level of those cash flows falls as well. (Of course investors in these bonds benefit doubly when rates fall.)
Asset-backed bonds Walt Disney has issued bonds with coupon rates tied to the financial performance of several of its films. Similarly, "David Bowie bonds" have been issued with payments tied to royalties on some of his albums. These are examples of asset-backed securities. The income from a specified group of assets is used to service the debt. More conventional asset-backed securities are mortgages. Is this a violation of the EMH? o  analyzing-backed securities or securities backed by auto or credit card loans, as we discussed in Chapter 2.
Pay-in-kind bonds Issuers of pay-in-kind bonds may choose to pay interest either in cash or in additional bonds. If the issuer is short on cash, it will likely choose to pay with new bonds rather than scarce cash.
Catastrophe bonds Oriental Land Co., which manages Tokyo Disneyland, has issued bonds with a final payment that depends on whether there has been an earthquake near the park. The Swiss firm Winterthur once issued a bond whose payments will be cut if a severe hailstorm in Switzerland results in extensive payouts on Winterthur policies. These bonds are a way to transfer "catastrophe risk" from insurance companies to the capital markets. Investors in these bonds receive compensation in the form of higher coupon rates for taking on the risk. But in the event of a catastrophe, the bondholders will lose all or part of their investments. "Disaster" can be defined either by total insured losses or by criteria such as wind speed in a hurricane or Richter level in an earthquake. Issuance of catastrophe bonds has surged in recent years as insurers have sought ways to spread their risks across a wider spectrum of the capital market.
Indexed bonds Indexed bonds make payments that are tied to a general price index or the price of a particular commodity. For example, Mexico has issued bonds with payments that depend on the price of oil. Some bonds are indexed to the general price level. The United States Treasury started issuing such inflation-indexed bonds in January 1997. They are called Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS). By tying the par value of the bond to the general level of prices, coupon payments, as well as the final repayment of par value, on these bonds increase in direct proportion to the consumer price index. Therefore, the interest rate on these bonds is a risk-free real rate.
To illustrate how TIPS work, consider a newly issued bond with a three-year maturity, par value of $1,000, and a coupon rate of 4%. For simplicity, we will assume the bond makes annual coupon payments. Assume that inflation turns out to be 2%, 3%, and 1% in the next three years. Table 10.1 shows how the bond cash flows will be calculated. The first payment comes at the end of the first year, at t = 1. Because inflation over the year was 2%, the par value of the bond increases from $1,000 to $1,020; since the coupon rate is 4%, the coupon payment is 4% of this amount, or $40.80. Notice that principal value increases by the inflation rate, and because the coupon payments are 4% of principal, they too increase in proportion to the general price level. Therefore, the cash flows paid by the bond are fixed in real terms. When the bond matures, the investor receives a final coupon payment of $42.44 plus the (price-level-indexed) repayment of principal, $1,061.11.3


  TABLE 10.1   Principal and interest payments for a  as a going concernconsumption" aid="4MTreasury Inflation Protected Security



The nominal rate of return on the bond in the first year is

The real rate of return is precisely the 4% real yield on the bond:

One can show in a similar manner (see Problem 19 among the end-of-chapter questions) that the rate of return in each of the three years is 4% as long as the real yield on the bond remains constant. If real yields do change, then there will be capital gains or losses on the bond. In mid-2011, the real yield on TIPS bonds with 10-year maturity was about .8%.
10.2   BOND PRICING
Because a bond's coupon and principal repayments all occur months or years in the future, the price an investor would be willing to pay for a claim to those payments depends on the value of dollars to be received in the future compared to dollars in hand today. This "present value" calculation depends in turn on market interest rates. As we saw in Chapter 5, the nominal risk-free interest rate equals the sum of (1) a real risk-free rate of return and (2) a premium above the real rate to compensate for expected inflation. In addition, because most bonds are not riskless, the discount rate will embody an additional premium that reflects bond-specific characteristics such as default risk, liquidity, tax attributes, call risk, and so on.
We simplify for now by assuming there is one interest rate that is appropriate for discounting cash flows of any maturity, but we can relax this assumption easily. In practice, there may be different discount rates for cash flows accruing in different periods. For the time being, however, we ignore this refinement.
To value a security, we discount its expected cash flows by the appropriate discount rate. The cash flows from a bond consist of coupon payments until the maturity date plus the final payment of par value. Therefore

If we call the maturity date T and call the discount rate r, the bond value can be written as

The summation sign in Equation 10.1 directs us to add the present value of each coupon payment; each coupon is discounted based on the time until it will be paid. The first term on the right-hand side of Equation 10.1 is the present value of an annuity. The second term is the present value of a single amount, the final payment of the bond's par value.
You may recall from an introductory finance class that the present value of a $1 annuity that lasts for T periods when the interest rate equals r is . We call this expression the T-period annuity factor for an interest rate of r.4 Similarly, we call  the PV factor, that is, the present value of a single payment of $1 to be received in T periods. Therefore, we can write the price of the bond as



EXAMPLE 10.2


Bond Pricing
We discussed earlier an 8% coupon, 30-year maturity bond with par value of $1,000 paying 60 semiannual coupon payments of $40 each. Suppose that the interest rate is 8% annually, or r = 4% per six-month period. Then the value of the bond can be written as

It is easy to confirm that the present value of the bond's 60 semiannual coupon payments of $40 each is $904.94 and that the $1,000 final payment of par value has a present value of $95.06, for a total bond value of $1,000. You can calculate the value directly from Equation 10.2, perform these calculations on any financial calculator (see Example 10.3), use a spreadsheet (see Spreadsheet 10.1 below), or a set of present value tables.
In this example, the coupon rate equals the market interest rate, and the bond price equals par value. If the interest rate were not equal to the bond's coupon rate, the bond would not sell at par value. For example, if the interest rate were to rise to 10% (5% per six months), the bond's price would fall by $189.29, to $810.71, as follows:

At a higher interest rate, the present value of the payments to be received by the bondholder is lower. Therefore, bond prices fall as market interest rates rise. This illustrates a crucial general rule in bond valuation.5


 illustrates thelf" aid="4M
Financial calculators designed with present value and future value formulas already programmed can greatly simplify calculations of the sort we just encountered in Example 10.2. The basic financial calculator uses five keys that correspond to the inputs for time-value-of-money problems such as bond pricing:

•  n is the number of time periods. In the case of a bond, n equals the number of periods until the bond matures. If the bond makes semiannual payments, n is the number of half-year periods or, equivalently, the number of semiannual coupon payments. For example, if the bond has 10 years until maturity, you would enter 20 for n, since each payment period is one-half year.
•  i is the interest rate per period, expressed as a percentage (not as a decimal, which is required by spreadsheet programs). For example, if the interest rate is 6%, you would enter 6, not .06.
•  PV is the present value. Many calculators require that PV be entered as a negative number, in recognition of the fact that purchase of the bond is a cash outflow, while the receipt of coupon payments and face value are cash inflows.
•  FV is the future value or face value of the bond. In general, FV is interpreted as a one-time future payment of a cash flow, which, for bonds, is the face (i.e., par) value.
•  PMT is the amount of any recurring payment. For coupon bonds, PMT is the coupon payment; for zero-coupon bonds, PMT will be zero.
Given any four of these inputs, the calculator will solve for the fifth.


EXAMPLE 10.3


Bond Pricing on a Financial Calculator
We can illustrate how to use a financial calculator with the bond in Example 10.2. To find its price when the annual market interest rate is 8%, you would enter these inputs (in any order):

On most calculators, you now as a going concernconsumption" aid="4M punch the "compute" key (labeled "COMP" or "CPT") and then enter PV to obtain the bond price, that is, the present value today of the bond's cash flows. If you do this, you should find a value of -904.94. The negative sign signifies that while the investor receives cash flows from the bond, the price paid to buy the bond is a cash outflow, or a negative cash flow.
If you want to find the value of the bond when the interest rate is 10% (the second part of Example 10.2), just enter 5% for the semiannual interest rate (type "5" and then "i"), and then when you compute PV, you will find that it is -810.71.


Figure 10.3 shows the price of the 30-year, 8% coupon bond for a range of interest rates including 8%, at which the bond sells at par, and 10%, at which it sells for $810.71. The negative slope illustrates the inverse relationship between prices and yields. Note also from the figure (and from Table 10.2) that the shape of the curve implies that an increase in the interest rate results in a price decline that is smaller than the price gain resulting from a decrease of equal magnitude in the interest rate. This property of bond prices is called convexity because of the convex shape of the bond price curve. This curvature reflects the fact that progressive increases in the interest rate result in progressively smaller reductions in the bond price.6 Therefore, the price curve becomes flatter at higher interest rates. We will return to convexity in the next chapter.
 

CONCEPT   check10.2
 
Calculate the price of the bond for a market interest rate of 3% per half-year. Compare the capital gains for the interest rate decline to the losses incurred when the rate increases to 5%.



FIGURE 10.3
The inverse relationship between bond prices and yields: Price of an 8% coupon bond with 30-year maturity making semiannual coupon payments





TABLE 10.2   Bond prices at different interest rates (8% coupon bond, coupons paid semiannually)



Corporate bonds typically are issued at par value. This means the underwriters of the bond issue (the firms that market the bonds to the public for the issuing corporation) must choose a coupon rate that very closely approximates market yields. In a primary issue of bonds, the underwriters attempt to sell the newly issued bonds directly to their customers. If the coupon rate is inadequate, investors will not pay par value for the bonds.
After the bonds are issued, bondholders may buy or sell bonds in secondary markets. In these markets, bond prices fluctuate inversely with the market interest rate.
The inverse relationship between price and yield is a central feature of fixed-income securities. Interest rate fluctuations represent the main source of risk in the bond market, and we devote considerable attention in the next chapter to assessing the sensitivity of bond prices to market yields. For now, however, we simply highlight one key factor that determines that sensitivity, namely, the maturity of the bond.
As a general rule, keeping all other factors the same, the longer the maturity of the bond, the greater the sensitivity of its price to fluctuations in the interest rate. For example, consider Table 10.2, which presents the price of an 8% coupon bond at different market yields and times to maturity. For any departure of the interest rate from 8% (the rate at which the bond sells at par value), the change in the bond price is greater for longer times to maturity.
This makes sense. If you buy the bond at par with an 8% coupon rate, and market rates subsequently rise, then you suffer a loss: You have tied up your money earning 8% when alternative investments offer higher returns. This is reflected in a capital loss on the bond—a fall in its market price. The longer the period for which your money is tied up, the greater the loss and, correspondingly, the greater the drop in the bond price. In Table 10.2, the row for one-year maturity bonds shows little price sensitivity—that is, with only one year's earnings at stake, changes in interest rates are not too threatening. But for 30-year maturity bonds, interest rate swings have a large impact on bond prices. The force of discounting is greatest for the longest-term bonds.
This is why short-term Treasury securities such as T-bills are but also largely of price risk attributable to interest rate volatility.
Bond Pricing between Coupon Dates
Equation 10.2 for bond prices assumes that the next coupon payment is in precisely one payment period, either a year for an annual payment bond or six months for a semiannual payment bond. But you probably want to be able to price bonds all 365 days of the year, not just on the one or two dates each year that it makes a coupon payment!s. Is this a violation of the EMH? o  analyzing
In principle, the fact that the bond is between coupon dates does not affect the pricing problem. The procedure is always the same: Compute the present value of each remaining payment and sum up. But if you are between coupon dates, there will be fractional periods remaining until each payment, and this does complicate the arithmetic computations.
Fortunately, bond pricing functions are included in many financial calculators and most spreadsheet programs such as Excel. The spreadsheets allow you to enter today's date as well as the maturity date of the bond and so can provide prices for bonds at any date.
As we pointed out earlier, bond prices are typically quoted net of accrued interest. These prices, which appear in the financial press, are called flat prices. The actual invoice price that a buyer pays for the bond includes accrued interest. Thus,

When a bond pays its coupon, flat price equals invoice price, since at that moment accrued interest reverts to zero. However, this will be the exceptional case, not the rule.
Excel pricing functions provide the flat price of the bond. To find the invoice price, we need to add accrued interest. Excel also provides functions that count the days since the last coupon payment and thus can be used to compute accrued interest. Spreadsheet 10.1 illustrates how to use these functions. The spreadsheet provides examples using bonds that have just paid a coupon and so have zero accrued interest, as well as a bond that is between coupon dates.
Bond Pricing in Excel
Excel asks you to input both the date you buy the bond (called the settlement date) and the maturity date of the bond.
The Excel function for bond price is

For the 6.25% coupon January 2012 maturity bond highlighted in Figure 10.1, we would enter the values in Spreadsheet 10.1. Alternatively, we could simply enter the following function in Excel:

The DATE function in Excel, which we use for both the settlement and maturity dates, uses the format DATE(year,month,day). The first date is August 15, 2011, when the bond may be purchased, and the second is August 15, 2023, when it matures. See Spreadsheet 10.1.
Notice that the coupon rate and yield to maturity in Excel must be expressed as decimals, not percentages. In most cases, redemption value is 100 (i.e., 100% of par value), and the resulting price similarly is expressed as a percent of par value. O to exploit your conviction about the stock price's future movement between  is worth ccasionally, however, you may encounter bonds that pay off at a premium or discount to par value. One example would be callable bonds, discussed shortly.


SPREADSHEET 10.1
Valuing bonds using a spreadsheet





The value of the bond returned by the pricing function is 137.444 (cell B12), which nearly matches the price reported in The Wall Street Journal. (The yield to maturity is reported to only three decimal places, which induces some rounding error.) This bond has just paid a coupon. In other words, the settlement date is precisely at the beginning of the coupon period, so no adjustment for accrued interest is necessary.
To illustrate the procedure for bonds between coupon payments, let's apply the spreadsheet to the 4.375% coupon November 2039 bond which also appears in Figure 10.1. Using the entries in column D of the spreadsheet, we find in cell D12 that the (flat) price of the bond is 111.819, which, except for minor rounding error, matches the price given in The Wall Street Journal.
What about the bond's invoice price? Rows 12 through 16 make the necessary adjustments. The function described in cell C13 counts the days since the last coupon. This day count is based on the bond's settlement date, maturity date, coupon period (1 = annual; 2 = semiannual), and day count convention (choice 1 uses actual days). The function described in cell C14 counts the total days in each coupon payment period. Therefore, the entries for accrued interest in row 15 are the semiannual coupon multiplied by the fraction of a coupon period that has elapsed since the last payment. Finally, the invoice prices in row 16 are the sum of flat price (which matches the reported price in The Wall Street Journal) plus accrued interest.
As a final example, suppose you wish to find the price of the bond in Example 10.2. It is a 30-year maturity bond with a coupon rate of 8% (paid semiannually). The market interest rate given in the latter part of the example is 10%. However, you are not given a specific settlement or maturity date. You can still use the PRICE function to value the bond. Simply choose an arbitrary settlement date (January 1, 2000, is convenient) and let the maturity date be 30 years hence. The appropriate inputs appear in column F of the spreadsheet, with the resulting price, 81.071% of face value, appearing in cell F16.
10.3   BOND YIELDS
We have noted that the current yield of a bond measures only the cash income provided by the bond as a percentage of bond price and ignores any prospective capital gains or losses. We would like a illustrates thelf" aid="4M measure of rate of return that accounts for current income as well as the price increase or decrease over the bond's life. The yield to maturity is the standard measure of the total rate of return. However, it is far from perfect, and we will explore several variations of this measure.
Yield to Maturity
In practice, an investor considering the purchase of a bond is not quoted a promised rate of return. Instead, the investor must use the bond price, maturity date, and coupon payments to infer the return offered by the bond over its life. The yield to maturity (YTM) is defined as the discount rate that makes the present value of a bond's payments equal to its price. This rate is often viewed as a measure of the average rate of return that will be earned on a bond if it is bought now and held until maturity. To calculate the yield to maturity, we solve the bond price equation for the interest rate given the bond's price.

yield to maturity (YTM)
The discount rate that makes the present value of a bond's payments equal to its price.

For example, suppose an 8% coupon, 30-year bond is selling at $1,276.76. What average rate of return would be earned by an investor purchasing the bond at this price? We find the interest rate at which the present value of the remaining 60 semiannual payments equals the bond price. This is the rate consistent with the observed price of the bond. Therefore, we solve for r in the following equation:

or, equivalently,

These equations have only one unknown variable, the interest rate, r. You can use a financial calculator or spreadsheet to confirm that the solution is r = .03, or 3% per half-year.7 This is the bond's yield to maturity.
The financial press reports yields on an annualized basis and annualizes the bond's semiannual yield using simple interest techniques, resulting in an annual percentage rate or APR. Yields annualized using simple interest are also called bond equivalent yields. Therefore, the semiannual yield would be doubled and reported in the newspaper as a bond equivalent yield of 6%. The effective annual yield of the bond, however, accounts for compound interest. If one earns 3% interest every six months, then after one year, each dollar invested grows with interest to $1 × (1.03)s. Is this a violation of the EMH? o  analyzing2 = 1.0609, and the effective annual interest rate on the bond is 6.09%.
The bond's yield to maturity is the internal rate of return on an investment in the bond. The yield to maturity can be interpreted as the compound rate of return over the life of the bond under the assumption that all bond coupons can be reinvested at that yield.8 Yield to maturity therefore is widely accepted as a proxy for average return.
Yield to maturity can be difficult to calculate without a financial calculator or spreadsheet, but it is easy using either of these tools. We illustrate how in the next two examples.


EXAMPLE 10.4


Finding Yield to Maturity Using a Financial Calculator
Consider the yield to maturity problem that we just solved. On a financial calculator, we would enter the following inputs (in any order):

Given these inputs, you now use the calculator to find the interest rate at which $1,276.76 actually equals the present value of the 60 payments of $40 each plus the one-time payment of $1,000 at maturity. On some calculators, you first punch the "compute" key (labeled "COMP" or "CPT") and then enter i to have the interest rate computed. If you do so, you will find that i = 3, or 3% semiannually, as we claimed. (Notice that just as the cash flows are paid semiannually, the computed interest rate is a rate per semiannual time period.)




EXAMPLE 10.5


Finding Yield to Maturity Using Excel
Excel also provides a function for yield to maturity. It is

The bond price used in the function should be the reported, or "flat," price, without accrued interest. For example, to find the yield to maturity of the bond in Example 10.4, we would use column E of Spreadsheet 10.2. If the coupons were paid only annually, we would change the entry for payments per year to 1 (see cell G9), and the yield would fall slightly to 5.99%.


Yield to maturity differs from the current yield of a bond, which is the bond's annual coupon payment divided by the bond price. For example, for the 8%, 30-year bond currently selling at $1,276.76, the current yield would be $80/$1,276.76 = .0627, or 6.27% per year. In contrast, recall that the effective annual yield to maturity is 6.09%. For this bond, which is selling at a premium over par value ($1,276 rather than $1,000), the coupon rate (8%) exceeds the current yield (6.27%), which exceeds the yield to maturity (6.09%). The coupon rate exceeds current yield because the coupon rate divides the coupon payments by par value ($1,000) rather than by the bond price ($1,276). In turn, the current yield exceeds yield to maturity because the yield to maturity accounts for the built-in capital loss on the bond; the bond bought today for $1,276 will eventually fall in value to $1,000 at maturity.

current yield
Annual coupon divided by bond price.



SPREADSHEET 10.2
Finding yield to maturity using a spreadsheet (30-year maturity bond, coupon rate = 8%, price = 127.676% of par)





This example illustrates a general rule: For premium bonds (bonds selling above par value), coupon rate is greater than current yield, which in turn is greater than yield to maturity. For discount bonds (bonds selling below par value), these relationships are reversed (see Concept Check 10.3).

premium bonds
Bonds selling above par value.


discount bonds
Bonds selling below par value.

It is common to hear people talking loosely about the yield on a bond. In these cases, they almost always are referring to the yield to maturity.
 

CONCEPT   check10.3
 
What will be the relationship among coupon rate, current yield, and yield to maturity for bonds selling at discounts from par? Illustrate using the 8% ( instances in which relative strength aid=" sufficiently semiannual payment) coupon bond assuming it is selling at a yield to maturity of 10%.

Yield to Call
Yield to maturity is calculated on the assumption that the bond will be held until maturity. What if the bond is callable, however, and may be retired prior to the maturity date? How should we measure average rate of return for bonds subject to a call provision?
Figure 10.4 illustrates the risk of call to the bondholder. The colored line is the value of a "straight" (that is, noncallable) bond with par value of $1,000, an 8% coupon rate, and a 30-year time to maturity as a function of the market interest rate. If interest rates fall, the bond price, which equals the present value of the promised payments, can rise substantially. Now consider a bond that has the same coupon rate and maturity date but is callable at 110% of par value, or $1,100. When interest rates fall, the present value of the bond's scheduled payments rises, but the call provision allows the issuer to repurchase the bond at the call price. If the call price is less than the present value of the scheduled payments, the issuer can call the bond at the expense of the bondholder.


FIGURE 10.4
Bond prices: Callable and straight debt. Coupon = 8%; maturity = 30 years; semiannual payments



The dark line in Figure 10.4 is the value of the callable bond. At high market interest rates, the risk of call is negligible because the present value of scheduled payments is substantially less than the call price; therefore, the values of the straight and callable bonds converge. At lower rates, however, the values of the bonds begin to diverge, with the difference reflecting the value of the firm's option to reclaim the callable bond at the call price. At very low market rates the present value of schedule payments significantly exceeds the call price, so the bond is called. Its value at this point is simply the call price, $1,100.
This analysis suggests that bond market analysts might be more interested in a bond's yield to call rather than its yield to maturity, especially if the bond is likely to be called. The yield to call is calculated just like the yield to maturity, except that the time until call replaces time until maturity and the call price replaces the par value. This computation is sometimes called "yield to first call," as it assumes the issuer will call the bond as soon as it may do so.


EXAMPLE 10.6


Yield to Call
Suppose the 8% coupon, 30-year maturity bond sells for $1,150 and is callable in">Regulations
 

Yield to call is then 6.64%. To confirm this on your calculator, input n = 20; PV = (-)1150; FV = 1100; PMT = 40; compute i as 3.32%, or 6.64% bond equivalent yield. In contrast, yield to maturity is 6.82%. To confirm, input n = 60; PV = (-)1150; FV = 1000; PMT = 40; compute i as 3.41%, or 6.82% bond equivalent yield. In Excel, you can calculate yield to call as =YIELD(DATE(2000,01,01), DATE(2010,01,01), .08, 115, 110, 2). Notice that redemption value is 110, that is, 110% of par value.


We have noted that most callable bonds are issued with an initial period of call protection. In addition, an implicit form of call protection operates for bonds selling at deep discounts from their call prices. Even if interest rates fall a bit, deep-discount bonds still will sell below the call price and thus will not be subject to a call.
Premium bonds that might be selling near their call prices, however, are especially apt to be called if rates fall further. If interest rates fall, a callable premium bond is likely to provide a lower return than could be earned on a discount bond whose potential price appreciation is not limited by the likelihood of a call. Investors in premium bonds therefore may be more interested in the bond's yield to call than its yield to maturity, because it may appear to them that the bond will be retired at the call date.
 

CONCEPT   check10.4
 
A 20-year maturity 9% coupon bond paying coupons semiannually is callable in five years at a call price of $1,050. The bond currently sells at a yield to maturity of 8% (bond equivalent yield). What is the yield to call?

Realized Compound Return versus Yield to Maturity
We have noted that yield to maturity will equal the rate of return realized over the life of the bond if all coupons are reinvested at an interest rate equal to the bond's yield to illustrates thelf" aid="4M maturity. Consider for example, a two-year bond selling at par value paying a 10% coupon once a year. The yield to maturity is 10%. If the $100 coupon payment can be reinvested at an interest rate of 10%, the $1,000 investment in the bond will grow after two years to $1,210, as illustrated in Figure 10.5, Panel A. The coupon paid in the first year is reinvested and grows with interest to a second-year value of $110, which, together with the second coupon payment and payment of par value in the second year, results in a total value of $1,210. To summarize, the initial value of the investment is V0 = $1,000. The final value in two years is V2 = $1,210. The compound rate of return, therefore, is calculated as follows.

With a reinvestment rate equal to the 10% yield to maturity, the realized compound return equals yield to maturity.

realized compound return
Compound rate of return on a bond with all coupons reinvested until maturity.



FIGURE 10.5
Growth of invested funds. In Panel A, interest payments are reinvested at 10%, the bond's yield to maturity. In Panel B, the reinvestment rate is only 8%.



But what if the reinvestment rate is not 10%? If the coupon can be invested at more than 10%, funds will grow to more than $1,210, and the realized compound return will exceed 10%. If the reinvestment rate is less than 10%, so will be the realized compound return. Consider the following example.


EXAMPLE 10.7


Realized Compound Return
If the interest rate earned on the first coupon is less than 10%, the final value of the investment will be less than $1,210, and the realized compound yield will be less than 10%. Suppose the interest rate at which the coupon can be invested is only 8%. The following calculations are illustrated in Panel B of Figure 10.5.

The realized compound return is the compound rate of growth of invested funds, assuming that all coupon payments are reinvested. The investor purchased the bond for par at $1,000, and this investment grew to $1,208.
Regulations



Example 10.7 highlights the problem with conventional yield to maturity when reinvestment rates can change over time. However, in an economy with future interest rate uncertainty, the rates at which interim coupons will be reinvested are not yet known. Therefore, while realized compound return can be computed after the investment period ends, it cannot be computed in advance without a forecast of future reinvestment rates. This reduces much of the attraction of the realized return measure.
We also can calculate realized compound yield over holding periods greater than one period. This is called horizon analysis and is similar to the procedure in Example 10.7. The forecast of total return will depend on your forecasts of both the yield to maturity of the bond when you sell it and the rate at which you are able to reinvest coupon income. With a longer investment horizon, however, reinvested coupons will be a larger component of your final proceeds.

horizon analysis
Analysis of bond returns over a multiyear horizon, based on forecasts of the bond's yield to maturity and the reinvestment rate of coupons.



EXAMPLE 10.8


Horizon Analysis
Suppose you buy a 30-year, 7.5% (annual payment) coupon bond for £980 (when its yield to maturity is 7.67%) and you plan to hold it for 20 years. Your forecast is that the bond's yield to maturity will be 8% when it is sold and that the reinvestment rate on the coupons will be 6%. At the end of your investment horizon, the bond will have 10 years remaining until expiration, so the forecast sales price (using a yield to maturity of 8%) will be £966.45. The 20 coupon payments will grow with compound interest to £2,758.92. (This is the future value of a 20-year £75 annuity with an interest rate of 6%.)
Based on these forecasts, your £980 investment will grow in 20 years to £966.45 + £2,758.92 = £3,725.37. This corresponds to an annualized compound return of 6.90%:



Examples 10.7 and 10.8 demonstrate that as interest rates change, bond investors are actually subject to two sources of offsetting risk. On the one hand, when rates rise, bond prices fall, which reduces the value of the portfolio. On the other hand, reinvested coupon income will compound more rapidly at those higher rates. This reinvestment rate risk to exploit your conviction about the stock price's future movement between  is worth  will offset the impact of price risk. In the next chapter, we will explore this trade-off in more detail and will discover that by carefully tailoring their bond portfolios, investors can precisely balance these two effects for any given investment horizon.

reinvestment rate risk
Uncertainty surrounding the cumulative future value of reinvested bond coupon payments.

10.4   BOND PRICES OVER TIME
As we noted earlier, a bond will sell at par value when its coupon rate equals the market interest rate. In these circumstances, the investor receives fair compensation for the time value of money in the form of the recurring coupon payments. No further capital gain is necessary to provide fair compensation.
When the coupon rate is lower than the market interest rate, the coupon payments alone will not provide investors as high a return as they could earn elsewhere in the market. To receive a competitive return on such an investment, investors also need to earn price appreciation on their bonds. The bonds, therefore, would have to sell below par value to provide a "built-in" capital gain on the investment.


EXAMPLE 10.9


Fair Holding-Period Return
To illustrate built-in capital gains or losses, suppose a bond was issued several years ago when the interest rate was 7%. The bond's annual coupon rate was thus set at 7%. (We will suppose for simplicity that the bond pays its coupon annually.) Now, with three years left in the bond's life, the interest rate is 8% per year. The bond's fair market price is the present value of the remaining annual coupons plus payment of par value. That present value is9

which is less than par value.
In another year, after the next coupon is paid and remaining maturity falls to two years, the bond would sell at

thereby yielding a capital gain over the year of $7.94. If an investor had purchased the bond at $974.23, the total return over the year would equal the coupon payment plus capital gain, or $70 + $7.94 = $77.94. This represents a rate of return of $77.94/$974.23, or 8%, exactly the current rate of return available elsewhere in the market.


 

CONCEPT   check10.5
 
What will be the price of the bond in Example 10.9 in yet another year, when only one year remains until maturity? What is the rate of return to an investor who purchases the bond at $982.17 and sells it one year later?

When bond prices are set according to the present value formula, any discount from par value provides an anticipated capital gain that will augment a below-market coupon rate just enough to provide a fair total rate of return. Conversely, if the coupon rate exceeds the market interest rate, the interest income by itself is greater than that available elsewhere in the market. Investors will bid up the price of these bonds above their par values. As the bonds approach maturity, they will fall in value because fewer of these above-market coupon payments remain. The resulting capital losses offset the large coupon payments so that the bondholder again receives only a competitive rate of return.
Problem 16 at the end of the chapter asks you to work through the case of the high-coupon bond. Figure 10.6 traces out the price paths of high-and low-coupon bonds (net of accrued interest) as time to maturity approaches, at least for the case in which the market interest rate is constant. The low-coupon bond enjoys capital gains, while the high-coupon bond suffers capital losses.10


FIGURE 10.6
Price paths of coupon bonds in the case of constant market interest rates



We use these examples to show that each bond offers investors the same total rate of return. Although the capital gains versus income components differ, the price of each bond is set to provide competitive rates, as we should expect in well-functioning capital markets. Security returns all should be comparable on an after-tax risk-adjusted basis. If they are not, investors will try to sell low-return securities, thereby driving down their prices until the total return at the now-lower price is competitive with other securities. Prices should continue to adjust until all securities are fairly priced in that expected returns are comparable (given appropriate risk and tax adjustments).
Yield to Maturity versus Holding-Period Return
In Example 10.9, the holding-period return and the yield to maturity were equal. The bond yield started and ended the year at 8%, and the bond's holding-period return also equaled 8%. This turns out to be a general result. When the yield to maturity is unchanged over the period, the rate of return on the bond will equal that yield. As we noted, this should not be surprising: The bond must offer a rate of return competitive with those available on other securities.
However, when yields fluctuate, so will a bond's rate of return. Unanticipated changes in market rates will result in unanticipated changes in bond returns, and, after the fact, a bond's holding-period return can be better or worse than the yield at which it initially sells. An increase in the bond's yield to maturity acts to reduce its price, which means that the holding-period return will be less than the initial yield. Conversely, a decline in yield to maturity results in a holding-period return greater than the initial yield.


EXAMPLE 10.10


Yield to Maturity versus Holding-Period Return
Consider a 30-year bond paying an annual coupon of $80 and selling at par value of $1,000. The bond's initial yield to maturity is 8%. If the yield remains at 8% over the year, the bond price will remain at par, so the holding-period return also will be 8%. But if the yield falls below 8%, the bond price will increase. Suppose the yield falls and the price increases to $1,050. Then the holding-period return is greater than 8%:



 

CONCEPT   check10.6
 
Show that if the yield to maturity increases, then holding-period return is less than that initial yield. For example, suppose in Example 10.10 that by the end of the first year, the bond's yield to maturity is 8.5%. Find the one-year holding-period return and compare it to the bond's initial 8% yield to maturity.

Here is another way to think about the difference between yield to maturity and holding-period return. Yield to maturity depends only on the bond's coupon, current price, and par value at maturity. All of these values are observable today, so yield to maturity can be easily calculated. Yield to maturity can be interpreted as a measure of the average rate of return if the investment in the bond is held until the bond matures. In contrast, holding-period return is the rate of return over a particular investment period and depends on the market price of the bond at the end of that holding period; of course this price is not known today. Since bond prices over the holding period will respond to unanticipated changes in interest rates, holding-period return can at most be forecast.
Zero-Coupon Bonds and Treasury STRIPS
Original-issue discount bond emphasizing or including only  lower analyzingonds that are issued intentionally with low coupon rates that cause the bond to sell at a discount from par value. An extreme example of this type of bond is the zero-coupon bond, which carries no coupons and provides all its return in the form of price appreciation. Zeros provide only one cash flow to their owners, on the maturity date of the bond.
U.S. Treasury bills are examples of short-term zero-coupon instruments. If the bill has face value of $10,000, the Treasury issues or sells it for some amount less than $10,000, agreeing to repay $10,000 at maturity. All of the investor's return comes in the form of price appreciation.
Longer term zero-coupon bonds are commonly created from coupon-bearing notes and bonds. A broker that purchases a Treasury coupon bond may ask the Treasury to break down the cash flows into a series of independent securities, where each security is a claim to one of the payments of the original bond. For example, a 10-year coupon bond would be "stripped" of its 20 semiannual coupons and each coupon payment would be treated as a stand-alone zero-coupon bond. The maturities of these bonds would thus range from six months to 10 years. The final payment of principal would be treated as another stand-alone zero-coupon security. Each of the payments would then be treated as an independent security and assigned its own CUSIP number, the security identifier that allows for electronic trading over the Fedwire system. The payments are still considered obligations of the U.S. Treasury. The Treasury program under which coupon stripping is performed is called STRIPS (Separate Trading of Registered Interest and Principal of Securities), and these zero-coupon securities are called Treasury strips.
What should happen to prices of zeros as time passes? On their maturity dates, zeros must sell for par value. Before maturity, however, they should sell at discounts from par, because of the time value of money. As time passes, price should approach par value. In fact, if the interest rate is constant, a zero's price will increase at exactly the rate of interest.
To illustrate, consider a zero with 30 years until maturity, and suppose the market interest rate is 10% per year. The price of the bond today is $1,000/(1.10)30 = $57.31. Next year, with only 29 years until maturity, if the yield to maturity is still 10%, the price will be $1,000/(1.10)29 = $63.04, a 10% increase over its previous-year value. Because the par value of the bond is now discounted for one less year, its price has increased by the one-year discount factor.
Figure 10.7 presents the price path of a 30-year zero-coupon bond for an annual market interest rate of 10%. The bond's price rises exponentially, not linearly, until its maturity.


FIGURE 10.7
The price of a 30-year zero-coupon bond over time at a yield to maturity of 10%. Price equals 1,000/(1.10) as a going concernconsumption" aid="4MT, where T is time until maturity.



After-Tax Returns
The tax authorities recognize that the "built-in" price appreciation on original-issue discount (OID) bonds such as zero-coupon bonds represents an implicit interest payment to the holder of the security. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS), therefore, calculates a price appreciation schedule to impute taxable interest income for the built-in appreciation during a tax year, even if the asset is not sold or does not mature until a future year. Any additional gains or losses that arise from changes in market interest rates are treated as capital gains or losses if the OID bond is sold during the tax year.


EXAMPLE 10.11


Taxation of Original-Issue Discount Bonds
If the interest rate originally is 10%, the 30-year zero would be issued at a price of $1,000/(1.10)30 = $57.31. The following year, the IRS calculates what the bond price would be if its yield were still 10%. This is $1,000/(1.10)29 = $63.04. Therefore, the IRS imputes interest income of $63.04 - $57.31 = $5.73. This amount is subject to tax. Notice that the imputed interest income is based on a "constant yield method" that ignores any changes in market interest rates.
If interest rates actually fall, let's say to 9.9%, the bond price will be $1,000/(1.099)29 = $64.72. If the bond is sold, then the difference between $64.72 and $63.04 will be treated as capital gains income and taxed at the capital gains tax rate. If the bond is not sold, then the price difference is an unrealized capital gain and does not result in taxes in that year. In either case, the investor must pay taxes on the $5.73 of imputed interest at the ordinary income tax rate.


The procedure illustrated in Example 10.11 applies as well to the taxation of other original-issue discount bonds, even if they are not zero-coupon bonds. Consider, as another example, a 30-year maturity bond that is issued with a coupon rate of 4% and a yield to maturity of 8%. For simplicity, we will assume that the bond pays coupons once annually. Because of the low coupon rate, the bond will be issued at a price far below par value, specifically at a price of $549.69. (Confirm this for yourself.) If the bond's yield to maturity is still 8%, then its price in one year will rise to $553.66. (Confirm this also.) This would provide a pretax holding-period return of exactly 8%:

The increase in the bond price based on a constant yield, however, is treated as interest income, so the investor is required to pay taxes on imputed interest income of $553.66 - $549.69 = $3.97, as well as on the explicit coupon income of $40. If the bond's yield actually changes during the year, the difference between the bond's price and the "constant yield value" of $553.66 would be treated as capital gains income if the bond were sold at year-end.
 

CONCEPT   check10.7
 
Suppose that the yield to maturity of the 4% coupon, 30-year maturity bond falls to 7% by the end of the first year and that the investor sells the bond after the first year. If the investor's federal plus state tax rate on interest income is 38% and the combined tax rate on capital gains is 20%, what is the investor's after-tax rate of return?

10.5   DEFAULT RISK AND BOND PRICING
Although bonds generally promise a fixed flow of income, that income stream is not riskless unless the investor can be sure the issuer will not default on the obligation. While U.S. government bonds may be treated as free of default risk, this is not true of corporate bonds. If the company goes bankrupt, the bondholders will not receive all the payments they have been promised. Therefore, the actual payments on these bonds are uncertain, for they depend to some degree on the ultimate financial status of the firm.
Bond default risk is measured by Moody's Investor Services, Standard & Poor's Corporation, and Fitch Investors Service, all of which provide financial information on firms as well as the credit risk of large corporate and municipal bond issues. International sovereign bonds, which also entail default risk, especially in emerging markets, also are commonly rated for default risk. Each rating firm assigns letter grades to reflect its assessment of bond safety. The top rating is AAA or Aaa. Moody's modifies each rating class with a 1, 2, or 3 suffix (e.g., Aaa1, Aaa2, Aaa3) to provide a finer gradation of ratings. The other agencies use a + or - modification.
Those rated BBB or above (S&P, Fitch) or Baa and above (Moody's) are considered investment grade bonds, while lower-rated bonds are classified as speculative grade or junk bonds. Certain regulated institutional investors such as insurance companies have not instances in which relative strength aid=" sufficiently  always been allowed to invest in speculative grade bonds.

investment grade bond
A bond rated BBB and above by Standard & Poor's or Baa and above by Moody's.


speculative grade or junk bond
A bond rated BB or lower by Standard & Poor's, or Ba or lower by Moody's, or an unrated bond.

Figure 10.8 provides definitions of each bond rating classification.


FIGURE 10.8
Definitions of each bond rating class
Sources: From Stephen A. Ross, Randolph W. Westerfield, and Jeffrey F. Jaffe, Corporate Finance, 9th ed. © 2010, McGraw-Hill Publishing. Data from various editions of Standard & Poor's Bond Guide and Moody's Bond Guide.



Junk Bonds
Junk bonds, also known as high-yield bonds, are nothing more than speculative grade (low-rated or unrated) bonds. Before 1977, almost all junk bonds were "fallen angels," that is, bonds issued by firms that originally had investment grade ratings but that had since been downgraded. In 1977, however, firms began to issue "original-issue junk."
Much of the credit for this innovation is given to Drexel Burnham Lambert, and especially its trader, Michael Milken. Drexel had long enjoyed a niche as a junk bond trader and had established a network of potential investors in junk bonds. Firms not able to muster an investment grade rating were happy to have Drexel (and other investment bankers) market their bonds directly to the public, as this opened up a new source of financing. Junk issues were a lower-cost financing alternative than borrowing from banks.
High-yield bonds gained considerable notoriety in the 1980s when they were used as financing vehicles in leveraged buyouts and hostile takeover attempts. Shortly thereafter, however, the legal difficulties of Drexel and Michael Milken in connection with Wall Street's insider trading scandals of the late 1980s tainted the junk bond market.
At the height of Drexel's difficulties, the high-yield bond market nearly dried up but eventually rebounded dramatically. However, it is worth noting that the average credit quality of newly issued high-yield debt today is higher than the average quality in the boom years of the 1980s.
as a going concernconsumption" aid="4MOf course, in periods of economic stress, junk bonds are more vulnerable than investment grade bonds. During the financial crisis of 2008-2009, prices on these bonds fell dramatically, and their yields to maturity rose equally dramatically. The spread between yields on Treasury bonds and B-rated bonds widened from around 3% in early 2007 to an astonishing 19% by the start of 2009.
Determinants of Bond Safety
Bond rating agencies base their quality ratings largely on an analysis of the level and trend of some of the issuer's financial ratios. The key ratios used to evaluate safety are:
1. Coverage ratios. Ratios of company earnings to fixed costs. For example, the times-interest-earned ratio is the ratio of earnings before interest payments and taxes to interest obligations. The fixed-charge coverage ratio includes lease payments and sinking fund payments with interest obligations to arrive at the ratio of earnings to all fixed cash obligations. Low or falling coverage ratios signal possible cash flow difficulties.
2. Leverage ratio. Debt-to-equity ratio. A too-high leverage ratio indicates excessive indebtedness, signaling the possibility the firm will be unable to earn enough to satisfy the obligations on its bonds.
3. Liquidity ratios. The two common liquidity ratios are the current ratio (current assets/current liabilities) and the quick ratio (current assets excluding inventories/current liabilities). These ratios measure the firm's ability to pay bills coming due with its most liquid assets.
4. Profitability ratios. Measures of rates of return on assets or equity. Profitability ratios are indicators of a firm's overall performance. The return on assets (earnings before interest and taxes divided by total assets) or return on equity (net income/equity) are the most popular of these measures. Firms with higher return on assets or equity should be better able to raise money in security markets because they offer prospects for better returns on the firm's investments.
5. Cash flow-to-debt ratio. This is the ratio of total cash flow to outstanding debt.
Standard & Poor's periodically computes median values of selected ratios for firms in several rating classes, which we present in Table 10.3. Of course, ratios must be evaluated in the context of industry standards, and analysts differ in the weights they place on illustrates thelf" aid="4M particular ratios. Nevertheless, Table 10.3 demonstrates the tendency of ratios to improve along with the firm's rating class. And default rates vary dramatically with bond rating. Historically, only about 1% of industrial bonds originally rated AA or better at issuance had defaulted after 15 years. That ratio is around 7.5% for BBB-rated bonds and 40% for B-rated bonds. Credit risk clearly varies dramatically across rating classes.


TABLE 10.3   Financial ratios and default risk by rating class, long-term debt



Bond Indentures
In addition to specifying a payment schedule, the bond indenture, which is the contract between the issuer and the bondholder, also specifies a set of restrictions that protect the rights of the bondholders. Such restrictions include provisions relating to collateral, sinking funds, dividend policy, and further borrowing. The issuing firm agrees to these so-called protective covenants in order to market its bonds to investors concerned about the safety of the bond issue.

indenture
The document defining the contract between the bond issuer and the bondholder.

Sinking funds Bonds call for the payment of par value at the end of the bond's life. This payment constitutes a large cash commitment for the issuer. To help ensure that the commitment does not create a cash flow crisis, the firm may agree to establish a sinking fund to spread the payment burden over several years. The fund may operate in one of two ways:

sinking fund
A bond indenture that calls for the issuer to periodically repurchase some proportion of the outstanding bonds prior to maturity.

1. The firm may repurchase a fraction of the outstanding bonds in the open market each year.
2. The firm may purchase a fraction of outstanding bonds at a special call price associated with the sinking fund provision. The firm has an option to purchase the bonds at either the market price or the sinking fund price, whichever is lower. To allocate the burden of the sinking fund call fairly among bondholders, the bonds chosen for the call are selected at random based on serial number.11
The sinking fund call differs from a conventional call provision in two important ways. First, the firm can repurchase only a limited fraction of the bond issue at the sinking fund call price. At best, some indentures allow firms to use a doubling option, for the face value of the loan.
which allows repurchase of double the required number of bonds at the sinking fund call price. Second, while callable bonds generally have call prices above par value, the sinking fund call price usually is set at the bond's par value.
Although sinking funds ostensibly protect bondholders by making principal repayment more likely, they can hurt the investor. The firm will choose to buy back discount bonds (selling below par) at their market price, while exercising its option to buy back premium bonds (selling above par) at par. Therefore, if interest rates fall and bond prices rise, a firm will benefit from the sinking fund provision that enables it to repurchase its bonds at below-market prices. In these circumstances, the firm's gain is the bondholder's loss.
One bond issue that does not require a sinking fund is a serial bond issue in which the firm sells bonds with staggered maturity dates. As bonds mature sequentially, the principal repayment burden for the firm is spread over time just as it is with a sinking fund. Serial bonds do not include call provisions. Unlike sinking fund bonds, serial bonds do not confront security holders with the risk that a particular bond may be called for the sinking fund. The disadvantage of serial bonds, however, is that the bonds of each maturity date are different bonds, which reduces the liquidity of the issue. Trading these bonds, therefore, is more expensive.
Subordination of further debt One of the factors determining bond safety is the total outstanding debt of the issuer. If you bought a bond today, you would be understandably distressed to see the firm tripling its outstanding debt tomorrow. Your bond would be riskier than it appeared when you bought it. To prevent firms from harming bondholders in this manner, subordination clauses restrict the amount of their additional borrowing. Additional debt might be required to be subordinated in priority to existing debt; that is, in the event of bankruptcy, subordinated or junior debtholders will not be paid unless and until the prior senior debt is fully paid off.

subordination clauses
Restrictions on additional borrowing that stipulate that senior bondholders will be paid first in the event of bankruptcy.

Dividend restrictions Covenants also limit the dividends firms may pay. These limitations protect the bondholders because they force the firm to retain assets rather than pay them out to stockholders. A typical restriction disallows payments of dividends if cumulative dividends paid since the firm's inception exceed cumulative retained earnings plus proceeds from sales of stock.
Collateral Some bonds are issued with specific collateral behind them. Collateral is a particular asset that the bondholders receive if the firm defaults. If the collateral is property, the bond as a going concernconsumption" aid="4M is called a mortgage bond. If the collateral takes the form of other securities held by the firm, the bond is a collateral trust bond. In the case of equipment, the bond is known as an equipment obligation bond. This last form of collateral is used most commonly by firms such as railroads, where the equipment is fairly standard and can be easily sold to another firm should the firm default.

collateral
A specific asset pledged against possible default on a bond.

Collateralized bonds generally are considered safer than general debenture bonds, which are unsecured, meaning they do not provide for specific collateral; credit risk of unsecured bonds depends on the general earning power of the firm. If the firm defaults, debenture owners become general creditors of the firm. Because they are safer, collateralized bonds generally offer lower yields than general debentures.

debenture
A bond not backed by specific collateral.

Figure 10.9 shows the terms of a bond issued by Mobil as described in Moody's Industrial Manual. The terms of the bond are typical and illustrate many of the indenture provisions we have mentioned. The bond is registered and listed on the NYSE. It was issued in 1991, but it was not callable until 2002. Although the call price started at 105.007% of par value, it falls gradually until it reaches par after 2020.


FIGURE 10.9
Callable bond issued by Mobil
Source: Moody's Industrial Manual, Moody's Investor Services, 1997.



Yield to Maturity and Default Risk
Because corporate bonds are subject to default risk, we must distinguish between the bond's promised yield to maturity and its expected yield. The promised or stated yield will be realized only if the firm meets the obligations of the bond issue. Therefore, the stated yield is the maximum possible yield to maturity of the bond. The expected yield to maturity must take into account the possibility of a default.
For example, at the height of the financial crisis in October 2008, as Ford Motor Company struggled, its 6.625% coupon bonds due for the face value of the loan.
expected cash flows was far less than the yield based on promised cash flows. As it turned out, of course, Ford weathered the stofit: The bonds sell today for about 95% of par value.


EXAMPLE 10.12


Expected versus Promised Yield
Suppose a firm issued a 9% coupon bond 20 years ago. The bond now has 10 years left until its maturity date, but the firm is having financial difficulties. Investors believe that the firm will be able to make good on the remaining interest payments but that at the maturity date, the firm will be forced into bankruptcy and bondholders will receive only 70% of par value. The bond is selling at $750.
Yield to maturity (YTM) would then be calculated using the following inputs:

The yield to maturity based on promised payments is 13.7%. Based on the expected payment of $700 at maturity, however, the yield would be only 11.6%. The stated yield to maturity is greater than the yield to maturity investors actually expect to receive.


Example 10.12 suggests that when a bond becomes more subject to default risk, its price will fall, and therefore its promised yield to maturity will rise. Therefore, the default premium, the spread between the stated yield to maturity and that on otherwise comparable Treasury bonds, will rise. However, its expected yield to maturity, which ultimately is tied to the systematic risk of the bond, will be far less affected. Let's continue the example.


EXAMPLE 10.13


Default Risk and the Default Premium
Suppose that the condition of the firm in Example 10.12 deteriorates further, and investors now believe that the bond will pay off only 55% of face value at maturity. Investors now demand an expected yield to maturity of 12% ( i.e., 6% semiannually), which is .4% higher than in Example 10.12. But the price of the bond will fall from $750 to $688 [ n = 20; i = 6; FV = 550; PMT = $45 ]. At this price, the stated">Regulations
 


To compensate for the possibility of default, corporate bonds must offer a default premium. The default premium is the difference between the promised yield on a corporate bond and the yield of an otherwise identical government bond that is riskless in terms of default. If the firm remains solvent and actually pays the investor all of the promised cash flows, the investor will realize a higher yield to maturity than would be realized from the government bond. If, however, the firm goes bankrupt, the corporate bond is likely to provide a lower return than the government bond. The corporate bond has the potential for both better and worse performance than the default-free Treasury bond. In other words, it is riskier.

default premium
The increment to promised yield that compensates the investor for default risk.

The pattern of default premiums offered on risky bonds is sometimes called the risk structure of interest rates. The greater the default risk, the higher the default premium. Figure 10.10 shows spreads between yields to maturity of bonds of different risk classes since 1997. You can see here clear evidence of default-risk premiums on promised yields. Note for example, the incredible run-up of credit spreads during the crisis of 2008-2009.


FIGURE 10.10
Yield spreads between corporate and 10-year Treasury bonds
Source: Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, http://research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/categories/32348.



Credit Default Swaps
A credit default swap (CDS) is in effect an insurance policy on the default risk of a corporate bond or loan. To illustrate, the annual premium in July 2011 on a five-year Citigroup CDS was about 1.3%, meaning that the CDS buyer would pay the seller an annual premium of $1.30 for each $100 of bond principal. The seller collects these annual payments for the term of the contract, but must compensate the buyer for loss of bond value in the event of a default.12

credit default swap
An insurance policy on the default risk of a corporate bond or loan.

 to exploit your conviction about the stock price's future movement between  is worth As originally envisioned, credit default swaps were designed to allow lenders to buy protection against losses on sizable loans. The natural buyers of CDSs would then be large bondholders or banks that had made large loans and wished to enhance the creditworthiness of those loans. Even if the borrowing firm had shaky credit standing, the "insured" debt would be as safe as the issuer of the CDS. An investor holding a bond with a BB rating could, in principle, raise the effective quality of the debt to AAA by buying a CDS on the issuer.

On the MARKET FRONT


CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS, SYSTEMIC RISK AND THE FINANCIAL CRISIS OF 2008-2009
The credit crisis of 2008-2009 led to a lack of confidence in the financial system among the counterparties to carry on trade. The doubt about the credit exposure of customers and trading partners dried the market for loans. European politicians criticized the credit default swaps (CDS), alleging that they contributed to the debt crisis. There is €2.8bn worth of net notional CDS written on Greek bonds. Banks are asked by European authorities to take 50 percent losses on their holdings. This caused turmoil among buyers of CDS, particularly banks who used these CDS to hedge their portfolio of Greek government bonds or banking exposures to Greece.
In October 2011, European authorities permanently banned the use of "naked" sovereign CDS, implying that investors are not able to buy CDS protection without holding the underlying bonds. This is to prevent "speculative attacks" as it might lead to an increase in countries' borrowing costs according to some European leaders. The UK, the Netherlands and Italy were opposed to these restrictions as they feared it would reduce the liquidity in the CDS market.
These two events led CDS into one of the biggest controversies since the 2008 crisis and many started to doubt the effectiveness of CDS as a hedging and investment product. However, since CDS are a significant hedging tool for the world's banks, it's unlikely the CDS market will cease totally, but its form is likely to be altered.
This isn't the first time that CDS are called for change. The CDS market has been subject to change in the past as new challenges were posed by various corporate and sovereign "credit" events.
The majority of CDS contracts are now governed by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association's13 (ISDA) standardized credit definitions but some market participants contend that if CDS buyers are not happy with the ISDA rules they might shift away from standardized contracts and banks and funds might agree on their own terms. This would avoid the situation that happened in Greece.
Some analysts argue that the CDS market may shift in more fundamental ways when it comes to polirm, and investors who purchased its bonds tically sensitive sovereign swaps. Some authorities may clamp down on private CDS and propose a public version of insurance.
The biggest turning point for CDS was an investigation by the European Commission which stated there is no evidence that CDS had caused bond yields of economies such as Greece to rise. Even the most sceptical politicians were won in favour of CDS by this investigation.
The debt crisis in the Eurozone has shifted the debate on derivatives. They are now viewed as necessary tools for hedging risk and the stability of the financial system rather than devices for "evil" speculators.
SOURCES:
Baker, A. Reasons not to ban naked sovereign CDS - Talking head, The Financial Times, October 10 2011.
Oakley, D. Greek bond protection payout to hit $2.5 bn, The Financial Times, March 15 2012.
Voldstad, C. The deeper dangers of Europe's CDS limits, The Financial Times, March 9 2011.

This insight suggests how CDS contracts should be priced. If a BB-rated bond bundled with insurance via a CDS is effectively equivalent to a AAA-rated bond, then the fair price of the swap ought to approximate the yield spread between AAA-rated and BB-rated bonds.14 The risk structure of interest rates and CDS prices ought to be tightly aligned.
Figure 10.11, Panel A, shows the average prices of five-year CDSs on U.S. banks between mid-2007 and 2011. Notice the sharp run-up in prices in September 2008 as Lehman Brothers entered bankruptcy and the financial crisis peaked. CDS prices fell back, but then they increased again in 2009 in the depths of the recession. As perceived credit risk increased, so did the price of insuring that debt.


FIGURE 10.11
Prices of credit default swaps




CDS contracts also trade on the sovereign debt of a wide range of countries. Panel B of Figure 10.11 shows the prices of five-year CDS contracts on German debt. Even with Germany being the strongest economy in the euro zone, German CDS prices nevertheless reflect financial strain, first in the great recession of 2009 and then again in 2011 as the prospects of default (and a German-led bailout) of Greece and other euro zone countries worsened. Still, even in late 2011, German CDS prices were only about one-third of those on U.S. banks.
While CDSs were conceived as a form of bond insurance, it wasn't long before investors realized that they could be used to speculate on the financial health of particular companies. As Figure 10.11 makes clear, someone in August 2008 wishing to bet against the financial sector might have purchases. Is this a violation of the EMH? o  analyzingd CDS contracts on those firms and would have profited as CDS prices spiked in September. In fact, hedge fund manager John Paulson famously did just this. His bearish bets in 2007-2008 on commercial banks and Wall Street firms as well as on some riskier mortgage-backed securities made his funds more than $15 billion, bringing him a personal payoff of more than $3.7 billion.
The nearby box shows how this lack of transparency has led to reform in the CDS market.
10.6   THE YIELD CURVE
Return to Figure 10.1 again, and you will see that while yields to maturity on bonds of various maturities are reasonably similar, yields do differ. Bonds with shorter maturities generally offer lower yields to maturity than longer-term bonds. The graphical relationship between the yield to maturity and the term to maturity is called the yield curve. The relationship also is called the term structure of interest rates because it relates yields to maturity to the term (maturity) of each bond. The yield curve is published regularly and may be found in The Wall Street Journal or on the web at sites such as Yahoo! Finance. Four such sets of curves are reproduced in Figure 10.12. Figure 10.12 illustrates that a wide range of yield curves may be observed in practice. Panel A is an essentially flat yield curve. Panel B is an upward-sloping curve, and Panel C is a downward-sloping, or "inverted," yield curve. Finally the yield curve in Panel D is hump-shaped, first rising and then falling. Rising yield curves are most commonly observed. We will see why momentarily.

yield curve
A graph of yield to maturity as a function of term to maturity.


term structure of interest rates
The relationship between yields to maturity and terms to maturity across bonds.



FIGURE 10.12
Treasury yield curves
Source: Various editions of The Wall Street Journal. Reprinted by permission of The Wall Street Journal, Copyright © 1989, 2000, 2006, 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.



Why should bonds of differing maturity offer different yields? The two most plausible possibilities have to do">Regulations
 
The Expectations Theory
Suppose everyone in the market believes firmly that while the current one-year interest rate is 8%, the interest rate on one-year bonds next year will rise to 10%. What would this belief imply about the proper yield to maturity on two-year bonds issued today?
It is easy to see that an investor who buys the one-year bond and rolls the proceeds into another one-year bond in the following year will earn, on average, about 9% per year. This value is just the average of the 8% earned this year and the 10% expected for next year. More precisely, the investment will grow by a factor of 1.08 in the first year and 1.10 in the second year, for a total two-year growth factor of 1.08 × 1.10 = 1.188. This corresponds to an annual growth rate of 8.995% (because 1.089952 = 1.188).
For investments in two-year bonds to be competitive with the strategy of rolling over one-year bonds, these two-year bonds also must offer an average annual return of 8.995% over the two-year holding period. This is illustrated in Figure 10.13. The current short-term rate of 8% and the expected value of next year's short-term rate are depicted above the time line. The two-year rate that provides the same expected two-year total return is below the time line. In this example, therefore, the yield curve will be upward-sloping; while one-year bonds offer an 8% yield to maturity, two-year bonds offer an 8.995% yield.


FIGURE 10.13
Returns to two two-year investment strategies



This notion is the essence of the expectations hypothesis of the yield curve, which asserts that the slope of the yield curve is attributable to expectations of changes in short-term rates. Relatively high yields on long-term bonds reflect expectations of future increases in rates, while relatively low yields on long-term bonds (a downward-sloping or inverted yield curve) reflect expectations of falling short-term rates.

expectations hypothesis
The theory that yields to maturity are determined solely by expectations of future short-term interest rates.

One of the implications of the expectations hypothesis is that expected holding-period returns on bonds of all maturities ought to be about equal. Even if the yield curve is upward-sloping (so that two-year bonds offer higher yields to maturity than one-year bonds), this does not necessarily mean investors expect higher rates of return on the two-year bonds. As we've seen, the higher initial yield to maturity on the two-ye">Regulations
 


EXAMPLE 10.14


Holding-Period Returns
Suppose we buy the one-year zero-coupon bond with a current yield to maturity of 8%. If its face value is $1,000, its price will be $925.93, providing an 8% rate of return over the coming year. Suppose instead that we buy the two-year zero-coupon bond at its yield of 8.995%. Its price today is $1,000/(1.08995)2 = $841.76. After a year passes, the zero will have a remaining maturity of only one year; based on the forecast that the one-year yield next year will be 10%, it then will sell for $1,000/1.10 = $909.09. The expected rate of return over the year is thus ($909.09 - $841.76)/$841.76 = .08, or 8%, precisely the same return provided by the one-year bond. This makes sense: If risk considerations are ignored when pricing the two bonds, they ought to provide equal expected rates of return.


In fact, advocates of the expectations hypothesis commonly invert this analysis to infer the market's expectation of future short-term rates. They note that we do not directly observe the expectation of next year's rate, but we can observe yields on bonds of different maturities. Suppose, as in this example, we see that one-year bonds offer yields of 8% and two-year bonds offer yields of 8.995%. Each dollar invested in the two-year zero would grow after two years to $1 × 1.089952 = $1.188. A dollar invested in the one-year zero would grow by a factor of 1.08 in the first year and, then, if reinvested or "rolled over" into another one-year zero in the second year, would grow by an additional factor of 1 + r2. Final proceeds would be $1 × 1.08 × (1 + r2 ).
The final proceeds of the rollover strategy depend on the interest rate that actually transpires in year 2. However, we can solve for the second-year interest rate that makes the expected payoff of these two strategies equal. This "break-even" value is called the forward rate for the second year, f2, and i illustrates thelf" aid="4Ms derived as follows:

which implies that f2 = .10, or 10%. Notice that the forward rate equals the market's expectation of the year-2 short rate. Hence, we conclude that when the expected total return of a long-term bond equals that of rolling over a short-term bond, the forward rate equals the expected short-term interest rate. This is why the theory is called the expectations hypothesis.

forward rate
The inferred short-term rate of interest for a future period that makes the expected total return of a long-term bond equal to that of rolling over short-term bonds. 

More generally, we obtain the forward rate by equating the return on an n-period zero-coupon bond with that of an (n - 1)-period zero-coupon bond rolled over into a one-year bond in year n:

The actual total returns on the two n-year strategies will be equal if the short-term interest rate in year n turns out to equal fn .


EXAMPLE 10.15


Forward Rates
Suppose that two-year maturity bonds offer yields to maturity of 6% and three-year bonds have yields of 7%. What is the forward rate for the third year? We could compare these two strategies as follows:
 1. Buy a three-year bond. Total proceeds per dollar invested will be

 2. Buy a two-year bond. Reinvest all proceeds in a one-year bond in the third year, which will provide a return in that year of r3. Total proceeds per dollar invested will be the result of two years' growth of invested funds at 6% plus the final year's growth at rate r3 :

for the face value of the loan.

The forward rate is the rate in year 3 that makes the total return on these strategies equal:

We conclude that the forward rate for the third year satisfies (1 + f3 ) = 1.0902, so that f3 is 9.02%.

While the expectations hypothesis gives us a tool to infer expectations of future market interest rates from the yield curve, it tells us nothing of what underlying considerations generated those expectations. Ultimately, interest rates reflect investors' expectations of the state of the macroeconomy. Not surprisingly, then, forward rates and the yield curve have proven themselves to be useful inputs for economic forecasts. The slope of the yield curve is one of the more important components of the index of leading economic indicators used to predict the course of economic activity. Inverted yield curves in particular, which imply falling interest rates, turn out to be among the best indicators of a coming recession.
The Liquidity Preference Theory
The expectations hypothesis starts from the assertion that bonds are priced so that "buy and hold" investments in long-term bonds provide the same returns as rolling over a series of short-term bonds. However, the risks of long-and short-term bonds are not equivalent.
We have seen that longer-term bonds are subject to greater interest rate risk than short-term bonds. As a result, investors in long-term bonds might require a risk premium to compensate them for this risk. In this case, the yield curve will be upward-sloping even in the absence of any expectations of future increases in rates. The source of the upward slope in the yield curve is investor demand for higher expected returns on assets that are perceived as riskier.
This viewpoint is called the liquidity preference theory of the term structure. Its name derives from the fact that shorter-term bonds have more "liquidity" than longer-term bonds, in the sense that they offer greater price certainty and trade in more active markets with lower bid-ask spreads. The preference of investors for greater liquidity makes them willing to hold these shorter-term bonds even if they do not offer expected returns as high as those of longer-term bonds.

liquidity preference theory
The theory that investors demand a risk premium on long-term bonds.

We can think of a liquidity premium as resulting from the extra compensation investors demand for holding longer-term bonds with greater price risk. We measure it as the spread between the forward rate of interest and the ">Regulations
 

liquidity premium
The extra expected return demanded by investors as compensation for the greater risk of longer-term bonds.


In the absence of a liquidity premium, the forward rate would equal the expectation of the future short rate. But, generally, we expect the forward rate to be higher to compensate investors for the lower liquidity of longer-term bonds.
Advocates of the liquidity preference theory also note that borrowers seem to prefer to issue long-term bonds. This allows them to lock in an interest rate on their borrowing for long periods, and thus they may be willing to pay higher yields on these issues. In sum, bond buyers demand higher rates on longer-term bonds, and bond issuers are willing to pay higher rates on those bonds. As a result, the yield curve generally slopes upward.
According to the liquidity preference theory, forward rates of interest will exceed the market's expectations of future interest rates. Even if rates are expected to remain unchanged, the yield curve will slope upward because of the liquidity premium. That upward slope would be mistakenly attributed to expectations of rising rates if one were to use the pure expectations hypothesis to interpret the yield curve.


EXAMPLE 10.16


Liquidity Premiums and the Yield Curve
Suppose that the short-term rate of interest is currently 8% and that investors expect it to remain at 8% next year. In the absence of a liquidity premium, with no expectation of a change in yields, the yield to maturity on two-year bonds also would be 8%, the yield curve would be flat, and the forward rate would be 8%. But what if investors demand a risk premium to invest in two-year rather than one-year bonds? If the liquidity premium is 1%, then the forward rate would be 8% + 1% = 9%, and the yield to maturity on the two-year bond would be determined by

implying that y2 = .085 = 8.5%. Here, the yield curve is upward-sloping due solely to the liquidity premium embedded in the price of the longer-term bond.


 

CONCEPT   check10.8
 
 ">Regulations
Suppose that the expected value of the interest rate for year 3 remains at 8% but that the liquidity premium for that year is also 1%. What would be the yield to maturity on three-year zeros? What would this imply about the slope of the yield curve?

A Synthesis
Of course, we do not need to make an either/or choice between expectations and risk premiums. Both influence the yield curve, and both should be considered in interpreting it.
Figure 10.14 shows two possible yield curves. In Figure 10.14A, rates are expected to rise over time. This fact, together with a liquidity premium, makes the yield curve steeply upward-sloping. In Figure 10.14B, rates are expected to fall, which by itself would make the yield curve slope downward. However, the liquidity premium lends something of an upward slope. The net effect of these two opposing factors is a "hump-shaped" curve.


FIGURE 10.14
Illustrative yield curves



These two examples make it clear that the combination of varying expectations and liquidity premiums can result in a wide array of yield-curve profiles. For example, an upward-sloping curve does not in and of itself imply expectations of higher future interest rates, because the slope can result either from expectations or from risk premiums. A curve that is more steeply sloped than usual might signal expectations of higher rates, but even this inference is perilous.
Figure 10.15 presents yield spreads between 90-day T-bills and 10-year T-bonds since 1970. The figure shows that the yield curve is generally upward-sloping in that the longer-term bonds usually offer higher yields to maturity, despite the fact that rates could not have been expected to increase throughout the entire period. This tendency is the empirical basis for the liquidity premium doctrine that at least part of the upward slope in the yield curve must be due to a risk premium.


FIGURE 10.15
Term spread: Yields on 10-year versus 90-day Treasury securities



Because the yield curve normally has an upward slope due to risk premiumg yield curve is taken as a strong indication that yields are more likely than not to fall. The prediction of declining interest rates is in turn often interpreted as a signal of a coming recession. Short-term rates exceeded long-term ones in each of the seven recessions since 1970. For this reason, it is not surprising that the slope of the yield curve is one of the key components instances in which relative strength aid=" sufficiently  of the index of leading economic indicators.







SUMMARY
• Debt securities are distinguished by their promise to pay a fixed or specified stream of income to their holders. The coupon bond is a typical debt security.
• Treasury notes and bonds have original maturities greater than one year. They are issued at or near par value, with their prices quoted net of accrued interest.
• Callable bonds should offer higher promised yields to maturity to compensate investors for the fact that they will not realize full capital gains should the interest rate fall and the bonds be called away from them at the stipulated call price. Bonds often are issued with a period of call protection. In addition, discount bonds selling significantly below their call price offer implicit call protection.
• Put bonds give the bondholder rather than the issuer the choice to terminate or extend the life of the bond.
• Convertible bonds may be exchanged, at the bondholder's discretion, for a specified number of shares of stock. Convertible bondholders "pay" for this option by accepting a lower coupon rate on the security.
• Floating-rate bonds pay a fixed premium over a referenced short-term interest rate. Risk is limited because the rate paid is tied to current market conditions.
• The yield to maturity is the single discount rate that equates the present value of a security's cash flows to its price. Bond prices and yields are inversely related. For premium bonds, the coupon rate is greater than the current yield, which is greater than the yield to maturity. These inequalities are reversed for discount bonds.
• The yield to maturity often is interpreted as an estimate of the average rate of return to an investor who purchases a bond and holds it until maturity. This interpretation is subject to error, however. Related measures are yield to call, realized compound yield, and expected (versus promised) yield to maturity.
• Treasury bills are U.S. government-issued zero-coupon bonds with original maturities of up to one year. Treasury STRIPS are longer-term default-free zero-coupon bonds. Prices of zero-coupon bonds rise exponentially over time, providing a rate of appreciation equal to the interest rate. The IRS treats this price appreciation as imputed taxable interest income to the investor.
• When bonds are subject to potential default, the stated yield to maturity is the maximum possible yield to maturity that can be realized by the bondholder. In the event of default, however, that promised yield will not be realized. To compensate bond investors for default risk, bonds must offer default premiums, that is, promised yields in excess of those offered by default-free government securities. If the firm remains healthy, its bonds will provide higher returns than government bonds. Otherwise, the returns may be lower.
• Bond safety often is measured using financial ratio analysis. Bond indentures offer safeguards to protect the claims of bondholders. Common indentures specify sinking fund requirements, collateralization, dividend restrictions, and subordination of future debt.
• Credit default swaps provide insurance against the default of a bond or loan. The swap buyer pays an annual premium to the swap seller but collects a payment equal to lost value if the loan later goes into default.
• The term structure of interest rates is the relationship between time to maturity and term to maturity. The yield curve is a graphical depiction of the term structure. The forward rate is the break-even interest rate that would equate the total return on a rollover strategy to that of a longer-term zero-coupon bond.
• The expectations hypothesis holds that forward interest rates are unbiased forecasts of future interest rates. The liquidity preference theory, however, argues that long-term bonds will carry a risk premium known as a liquidity premium. A positive liquidity premium can cause the yield curve to slope upward even if no increase in short rates is anticipated.







KEY TERMS
bond
callable bonds
collateral
convertible bonds
coupon rate
credit default swap
current yield
debenture
default premium
">Regulations
discount bonds
expectations hypothesis
face value
floating-rate bonds
forward rate
horizon analysis
indenture
investment grade bonds
liquidity preference theory
liquidity premium
par value
premium bonds
put bond
realized compound return
reinvestment rate risk
sinking fund
speculative grade or junk bonds
subordination clauses
term structure of interest rates
yield curve
yield to maturity (YTM)
zero-coupon bond







KEY FORMULAS
Price of a coupon bond:








PROBLEM SETS
Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance.  for the face value of the loan.
 
Basic

1. Define the following types of bonds: (LO 10-1)
a. Catastrophe bond.
b. Eurobond.
c. Zero-coupon bond.
d. Samurai bond.
e. Junk bond.
f. Convertible bond.
g. Serial bond.
h. Equipment obligation bond.
i. Original-issue discount bond.
j. Indexed bond.
2. What is the option embedded in a callable bond? A puttable bond? (LO 10-1)
3. What would be the likely effect on the yield to maturity of a bond resulting from: (LO 10-5)
a. An increase in the issuing firm's times-interest-earned ratio?
b. An increase in the issuing firm's debt-equity ratio?
c. An increase in the issuing firm's quick ratio?
4. A coupon bond paying semiannual interestng an ask price of 108% of its $1,000 par value. If the last interest payment was made one month ago and the coupon rate is 7%, what is the invoice price of the bond? (LO 10-1)
5. A zero-coupon bond with face value $1,000 and maturity of four years sells for $737.22. What is its yield to maturity? What will happen to its yield to maturity if its price falls immediately to $721? (LO 10-2)
6. Why do bond prices go down when interest rates go up? Don't investors like high interest rates? (LO 10-2)
7. Two bonds have  illustrates thelf" aid="4Midentical times to maturity and coupon rates. One is callable at 111, the other at 106. Which should have the higher yield to maturity? Why? (LO 10-4)
8. Consider a bond with a 10% coupon and with yield to maturity = 8%. If the bond's YTM remains constant, then in one year will the bond price be higher, lower, or unchanged? Why? (LO 10-2)
9. A bond with an annual coupon rate of 4.0% sells for $955. What is the bond's current yield? (LO 10-2)


10. An investor believes that a bond may temporarily increase in credit risk. Which of the following would be the most liquid method of exploiting this? (LO 10-5)
a. The purchase of a credit default swap.
b. The sale of a credit default swap.
c. The short sale of the bond.

11. Which of the following most accurately describes the behavior of credit default swaps? (LO 10-5)
a. When credit risk increases, swap premiums increase.
b. When credit and interest rate risk increases, swap premiums increase.
c. When credit risk increases, swap premiums increase, but when interest rate risk increases, swap premiums decrease.
Intermediate
12. You buy a nine year bond that has a 8.50% current yield and a 8.50% coupon (paid annually). In one year, promised yields to maturity have risen to 9.50%. What is your holding-period return? (LO 10-3)
13. The stated yield to maturity and realized compound yield to maturity of a (default-free) zero-coupon bond will always be equal. Why? (LO 10-6)
14. Which security has a higher effective annual interest rate? (LO 10-6)
a. A three-month T-bill with face value of $100,000 currently selling at $97,645.
b. A coupon bond selling at par and paying a 10% coupon semiannually.
15. Treasury bonds paying an 6.5% coupon rate with semiannual payments currently sell at par value. What coupon rate would they have to pay in order to sell at par if they paid their coupons annually? (LO 10-2)
16. Consider a bond paying a coupon rate of 9.75% per year semiannually when the market interest rate is only 3.9% per half-year. The bond has four years until maturity. (LO 10-6)
a. Find the bond's price today and six months from now after the next coupon is paid.
b. What is the total rate of return on the bond?
17. A 10-year maturity bond with par value $1,000 makes semiannual coupon payments at a coupon rate of 7%. Find the bond equivalent and effective annual yield to maturity of the bond if the bond price is: (LO 10-2)
a. $960
b. $1,000
c. $1,050
18. Redo the previous problem using the same data, but now assume that the bond makes its coupon payments annually. Why are the yields you compute lower in this case? (LO 10-2)
19. Return to Table 10.1 and calculate both the real and nominal rates of return on the TIPS bond in the second and third years. (LO 10-6)
20. Fill in the table below for the following zero-coupon bonds, all of which have par values of $1,000. (LO 10-2)

21. A bond has a par value of $1,000, a time to maturity of 15 years, and a coupon rate of 7.70% with interest paid annually. If the current market price is $770, what will be the approximate capital gain yield of this bond over the next year if its yield to maturity remains unchanged? (LO 10-3)
22. A bond with a coupon rate of 6% makes semiannual coupon payments on January 15 and July 15 of each year. The Financial Times reports the ask price for the bond on January 30 at 100:07. What is the invoice price of the bond? The coupon period has 182 days. (LO 10-1)


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

23. A bond has a current yield of 9% and a yield to maturity of 10%. Is the bond selling above or below par value? Explain. (LO 10-2)
24. Is the coupon rate of the bond in the previous problem more or less than 9%? (LO 10-2)


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

25. Consider a bond with a settlement date of February 22, 2012, and a maturity date of March 15, 2020. The coupon rate is 5.5%. If the yield to maturity of the bond is 5.34% (bond equivalent yield, semiannual compounding), what is the list price of the bond on the settlement date? What is the accrued interest on the bond? What is the invoice price of the bond? (LO 10-1)
26. Now suppose the bond in the previous question is selling for 102. What is the bond's yield to maturity? What would the yield to maturity be at a price of 102 if the bond paid its coupons only once per year? (LO 10-2)
27. A 8-year bond of a firm in severe financial distress has a coupon rate of 12% and sells for $950. The firm is currently renegotiating the debt, and it appears that the lenders will allow the firm to reduce coupon payments on the bond to one-half the originally contracted amount. The firm can handle these lower payments. What are the stated and expected yields to maturity of the bonds? The bond makes its coupon payments annually. (LO 10-5)
28. A two-year bond with par value $1,000 making annual coupon payments of $110 is priced at $1,000. What is the yield to maturity of the bond? What will be the realized compound yield to maturity if the one-year interest rate next year turns out to be (a) 9%, (b) 11%, (c) 13%? (LO 10-6)
29. Suppose that today's date is April 15. A bond with a 8% coupon paid semiannually every January 15 and July 15 is listed in The Financial Times as selling at an ask price of 101:07. If you buy the bond from a dealer today, what price will you pay for it? (LO 10-1)
30. Assume that two firms issue bonds with the following characteristics. Both bonds are issued at par.


Ignoring credit quality, identify four features of these issues that might account for the lower coupon on the ABC debt. Explain. (LO 10-4)

31. A large corporation issued both fixed-and floating-rate notes five years ago, with terms given in the following table: (LO 10-4)

a. Why is the price range greater for the 9% coupon bond than the floating-rate note?
b. What factors could explain why the floating-rate note is not always sold at par value?
c. Why is the call price for the floating-rate note not of great importance
d. Is the probability of call for the fixed-rate note high or low?
e. If the firm were to issue a fixed-rate note with a 15-year maturity, callable after five years at 106, what coupon rate would it need to offer to issue the bond at par value?
f. Why is an entry for yield to maturity for the floating-rate note not appropriate?
32. A 25 for the face value of the loan.
(LO 10-4)
a. What is the yield to call?
b. What is the yield to call if the call price is only $1,130?
c. What is the yield to call if the call price is $1,100 but the bond can be calleto invd in three years instead of five years?
33. A newly issued 20-year maturity, zero-coupon bond is issued with a yield to maturity of 7.2% and face value $1,000. Find the imputed interest income in the first, second, and last year of the bond's life. (LO 10-3)
34. A newly issued 10-year maturity, 6% coupon bond making annual coupon payments is sold to the public at a price of $730. What will be an investor's taxable income from the bond over the coming year? The bond will not be sold at the end of the year. The bond is treated as an original-issue discount bond. (LO 10-3)
35. Masters Corp. issues two bonds with 20-year maturities. Both bonds are callable at $1,120. The first bond is issued at a deep discount with a coupon rate of 7% and a price of $570 to yield 14.4%. The second bond is issued at par value with a coupon rate of 8.75%. (LO 10-2)
a. What is the yield to maturity of the par bond? Why is it higher than the yield of the discount bond?
b. If you expect rates to fall substantially in the next two years, which bond would you prefer to hold?
c. In what sense does the discount bond offer "implicit call protection"?
36. Under the expectations hypothesis, if the yield curve is upward-sloping, the market must expect an increase in short-term interest rates. True/false/uncertain? Why? (LO 10-7)
37. The yield curve is upward-sloping. Can you conclude that investors expect short-term interest rates to rise? Why or why not? (LO 10-7)
38. Assume you have a one-year investment horizon and are trying to choose among three bonds. All have the same degree of default risk and mature in 8 years for the face value of the loan.
(LO 10-3)
a. If all three bonds are now priced to yield 8% to maturity, what are their prices?
b. If you expect their yields to maturity to be 8% at the beginning of next year, what will their prices be then? What is your rate of return on each bond during the one-year holding period?
39. Under the liquidity preference theory, if inflation is expected to be falling over the next few years, long-term interest rates will be higher than short-term rates. True/false/uncertain? Why? (LO 10-7)
40. The current yield curve for default-free zero-coupon bonds is as follows:

a. What are the implied one-year forward rates? (LO 10-7)
b. Assume that the pure expectations hypothesis of the term structure is correct. If market expectations are accurate, what will the pure yield curve (that is, the yields to maturity on one-and two-year zero-coupon bonds) be next year? (LO 10-7)
c. If you purchase a two-year zero-coupon bond now, what is the expected total rate of return over the next year? What if you purchase a three-year zero-coupon bond? (Hint: Compute the current and expected future prices.) Ignore taxes. (LO 10-6)
41. The yield to maturity on one-year zero-coupon bonds is 7.5%. The yield to maturity on two-year zero-coupon bonds is 8.5%. (LO 10-7)
a. What is the forward rate of interest for the second year?
b. If you believe in the expectations hypothesis, what is your best guess as to the expected value of the short-term interest rate next year?
c. If you believe in the liquidity preference theory, is your best guess as to next year's short-term interest rate higher or lower than in (b)?
42. The following table contains spot rates and forward rates for three years">Regulations
(LO 10-7)

43. Consider the following $1,000 par value zero-coupon bonds:







Chapter
11

Managing Bond Portfolios

Learning Objectives:

LO11-1 Analyze the features of a bond that affect the sensitivity of its price to interest rates.
LO11-2 Compute the duration of bonds, and use duration to measure interest rate sensitivity.
LO11-3 Show how convexity affects the response of bond prices to changes in interest rates.
LO11-4 Formulate fixed-income immunization strategies for various investment horizons.
LO11-5 Analyze the choices to be made in an actively managed bond portfolio.


In this chapter, we turn to various strategies that bond managers can pursue, making a distinction between passive and active strategies. A passive investment strategy takes market prices of securities as set fairly. Rather than attempting to beat the market by exploiting superior information or insight, passive managers act to maintain an appropriate risk-return balance given market opportunities. One special case of passive management is an immunization strategy that attempts to insulate the portfolio from interest rate risk.
An active investment strategy attempts to achieve returns that are more than commensurate with the risk borne. In the context of bond portfolios, this style of management can take two forms. Active managers use interest rate forecasts to predict movements in the entire bond market, or they employ some form of intramarket analysis to identify particular sectors of the market (or particular securities) that are relatively mispriced.
Because interest rate risk is crucial to formulating both active and passive strategies, we begin our discussion with an analysis of the sensitivity of bond prices to interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is measured by the duration of the bond, and we devote considerable attention to what determines bond duration. We discuss several passive investment strategies, and show how duration-matching techniques can be used to immunize the holding-period return of a portfolio from interest rate risk. After examining the broad range of applications of the duration measure, we consider refinements in the way that interest rate sensitivity is measured, focusing on the concept of bond convexity. Duration is important in formulating active investment strategies as well, and we next explore several of these strategies. We conclude the chapter with a discussion of active fixed-income strategies. These include policies based on interest rate forecasting as well as intramarket analysis that seeks to identify relatively attractive sectors or securities within the fixed-income market.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.
R">(LO 10-6)

11.1   INTEREST RATE RISK
You know already that there is an inverse relationship between bond prices and yields and that interest rates can fluctuate substantially. As interest rates rise and fall, bondholders experience capital losses and gains. These gains or losses make fixed-income investments risky, even if the coupon and principal payments are guaranteed, as in the case of Treasury obligations.
Why do bond prices respond to interest rate fluctuations? In a competitive market, all securities must offer investors fair expected rates of return. If a bond is issued with an 8% coupon when competitive yields are 8%, then it will sell at par value. If the as a going concern1M18 market rate rises to 9%, however, who would purchase an 8% coupon bond at par value? The bond price must fall until its expected return increases to the competitive level of 9%. Conversely, if the market rate falls to 7%, the 8% coupon on the bond is attractive compared to yields on alternative investments. Investors eager for that return will respond by bidding up the bond price until the total rate of return for investors who purchase at that higher price is no better than the market rate.
Interest Rate Sensitivity
The sensitivity of bond prices to changes in market interest rates is obviously of great concern to investors. To gain some insight into the determinants of interest rate risk, turn to Figure 11.1, which presents the percentage changes in price corresponding to changes in yield to maturity for four bonds that differ according to coupon rate, initial yield to maturity, and time to maturity. All four bonds illustrate that bond prices decrease when yields rise and that the price curve is convex, meaning that decreases in yields have bigger impacts on price than increases in yields of equal magnitude. We summarize these observations in the following two propositions:
1. Bond prices and yields are inversely related: As yields increase, bond prices fall; as yields fall, bond prices rise.
2. An increase in a bond's yield to maturity results in a smaller price change than a decrease in yield of equal magnitude.
Now compare the interest rate sensitivity of bonds A and B, which are identical except for maturity. Figure 11.1 shows that bond B, which has a longer maturity than bond A, exhibits greater sensitivity to interest rate changes. This illustrates another general property:
3. Prices of long-term bonds tend to be more sensitive to interest rate changes than prices of short-term bonds.
This is not surprising. If rates increase, for example, the bond is less valuable as its cash flows are discounted at a now-higher rate. The impact of the higher discount rate will be greater as that rate is applied to more-distant cash flows.


FIGURE 11.1
Change in bond price as a function of change in yield to maturity



Notice that while bond B has six times the maturity of bond A, it has less than six times the interest rate sensitivity. Although interest rate sensitivity seems to increase with maturity, it does so less than proportionally as bond maturity increases. Therefore, our fourth property is that:
4. The sensitivity of bond prices to changes in yields increases at a decreasing rate as maturity increases. In other words, interest rate risk is less than proportional to exploit your conviction about the stock price's future movement between . Calculate  to bond maturity.
Bonds B and C, which are alike in all respects except for coupon rate, illustrate another point. The lower-coupon bond exhibits greater sensitivity to changes in interest rates. This turns out to be a general property of bond prices:
5. Interest rate risk is inversely related to the bond's coupon rate. Prices of low-coupon bonds are more sensitive to changes in interest rates than prices of high-coupon bonds.
Finally, bonds C and D are identical except for the yield to maturity at which the bonds currently sell. Yet bond C, with a higher yield to maturity, is less sensitive to changes in yields. This illustrates our final property:
6. The sensitivity of a bond's price to a change in its yield is inversely related to the yield to maturity at which the bond currently is selling.
The first five of these general properties were described by Malkiel (1962) and are sometimes known as Malkiel's bond pricing relationships. The last property was demonstrated by Homer and Liebowitz (1972).
These six propositions confirm that maturity is a major determinant of interest rate risk. However, they also show that maturity alone is not sufficient to measure interest rate sensitivity. For example, bonds B and C in Figure 11.1 have the same maturity, but the higher coupon bond has less price sensitivity to interest rate changes. Obviously, we need to know more than a bond's maturity to quantify its interest rate risk.
To see why bond characteristics such as coupon rate or yield to maturity affect interest rate sensitivity, let's start with a simple numerical example.
Table 11.1 gives bond prices for 8% annual coupon bonds at different yields to maturity and times to maturity. (For simplicity, we assume crtest term bond falls in value by less than 1% when the interest rate increases from 8% to 9%. The 10-year bond falls by 6.4% and the 20-year bond by more than 9%.


  TABLE 11.1   Prices of 8% annual coupon bonds





TABLE 11.2   Prices of zero-coupon bonds



Now look at a similar computation using a zero-coupon bond rather than the 8% coupon bond. The results are shown in Table 11.2.
Fors. Is this a violation of the EMH? o  indefinitely maturities beyond one year, the price of the zero-coupon bond falls by a greater proportional amount than the price of the 8% coupon bond. The observation that long-term bonds are more sensitive to interest rate movements than short-term bonds suggests that in some sense a zero-coupon bond must represent a longer-term investment than an equal-time-to-maturity coupon bond.
In fact, this insight about the effective maturity of a bond is a useful one that we can make mathematically precise. To start, note that the times to maturity of the two bonds in this example are not perfect measures of the long-or short-term nature of the bonds. The 8% bond makes many coupon payments, most of which come years before the bond's maturity date. Each payment may be considered to have its own "maturity." In this sense, it is often useful to view a coupon bond as a "portfolio" of coupon payments. The effective maturity of the bond would then be measured as some sort of average of the maturities of all the cash flows. The zero-coupon bond, by contrast, makes only one payment at maturity. Its time to maturity is well defined.
A high-coupon rate bond has a higher fraction of its value tied to coupons rather than payment of par value, and so the portfolio is more heavily weighted toward the earlier, short-maturity payments, which give it lower "effective maturity." This explains Malkiel's fifth rule, that price sensitivity falls with coupon rate.
Similar logic explains our sixth rule, that price sensitivity falls with yield to maturity. A higher yield reduces the present value of all of the bond's payments, but more so for more distant payments. Therefore, at a higher yield, a higher fraction of the bond's value is due to its earlier payments, which have lower effective maturity. The overall sensitivity of the bond price to changes in yields is thus lower.
Duration
To deal with the concept of the "maturity" of a bond that makes many payments, we need a measure of the average maturity of the bond's promised cash flows. We would also like to use such an effective maturity measure as a guide to the sensitivity of a bond to interest rate changes because price sensitivity tends to increase with time to maturity.
Frederick Macaulay (1938) called the effective maturity concept the duration of the bond. Macaulay's duration equals the weighted average of the times to each coupon or principal payment made by the bond. The weight applied to each time to payment clearly should be related to the "importance" of that payment to the value of the bond. In fact, the weight for each payment time is the proportion of the total value of the bond accounted for by that payment, the present value of the payment divided by the bond price.

Macaulay's duration
A measure of the effective maturity of a bond, defined as the weighted average of the times until ea instances in which relative strength aid="over-the-counter (OTC) marketch payment, with weights proportional to the present value of the payment.

We define the weight, wt, associated with the cash flow made at time t (denoted CFt) as

where y is the bond's yield to maturity. The numerator on the right-hand side of this equation is the present value of the cash flow occurring at time t, while the denominator is the present value of all the bond's payments. These weights sum to 1 because the sum of the cash flows discounted at the yield to maturity equals the bond price.
Using these values to calculate the weighted average of the times until the receipt of each of the bond's payments, we obtain Macaulay's formula for duration, denoted D.

If we write out each term in the summation sign, we can express duration as:

An example of how to apply Equation 11.1 appears in Spreadsheet 11.1, where we derive the durations of an 8% coupon and zero-coupon bond, each with three years to maturity. We assume that the yield to maturity on each bond is 10%. The present value of each payment is discounted at 10% for the number of years shown in column B. The weight associated with each payment time (column E) equals the present value of the payment (column D) divided by the bond price (the sum of the present values in column D).


SPREADSHEET 11.1
Calculation of the duration of two bonds using Excel spreadsheet







The numbers in column F are the products of time to payment and payment weight. Each of these products corresponds to one of the terms in Equation 11.1. According to that equation, we can calculate the duration of each bond by adding the numbers in column F.
The duration of the zero-coupon bond is exactly equal to its time to maturity, three years. This makes sense for, with only one payment, the average time until payment must be the bond's maturity. The three-year coupon bond, in contrast, has a shorter duration of 2.7774 years.
While the top panel of the spreadsheet in Spreadsheet 11.1 presents numbers for our particular example, the bottom panel presents the as a going concern1M18 formulas we actually entered in each cell. The inputs in the spreadsheet—specifying the cash flows the bond will pay—are given in columns B and C. In column D we calculate the present value of each cash flow using a discount rate of 10%, in column E we calculate the weights for Equation 11.1, and in column F we compute the product of time until payment and payment weight. Each of these terms corresponds to one of the terms in Equation 11.1. The sum of these terms, reported in cells F9 and F14, is therefore the duration of each bond. Using the spreadsheet, you can easily answer several "what if" questions such as the one in Concept Check 11.1.
 

CONCEPT   check11.1
 
Suppose the interest rate decreases to 9%. What will happen to the price and duration of each bond in Spreadsheet 11.1?

Duration is a key concept in bond portfolio management for at least three reasons. First, it is a simple summary measure of the effective average maturity of the portfolio. Second, it turns out to be an essential tool in immunizing portfolios from interest rate risk. We will explore this application in the next section. Third, duration is a measure of the interest rate sensitivity of a bond portfolio, which we explore here.
We have already noted that price sensitivity to interest rate movements generally increases with maturity. Duration enables us to quantify this relationship. It turns out that when interest rates change, the percentage change in a bond's price is proportional to its duration. Specifically, the proportional change in a bond's price can be related to the change in its yield to maturity, y, according to the rule

The proportional price change equals the proportional change in (1 plus the bond's yield) times the bond's duration. Therefore, bond price volatility is proportional to the bond's duration, and duration becomes a natural measure of interest rate exposure.1 This relationship is key to interest rate risk management.
Practitioners commonly use Equation 11.2 in a slightly different form. They define modified duration as D* = D/(1 + y) and rewrite Equation 11.2 as

modified duration
Macaulay's duration divided by 1 + yield to maturity. Measures interest rate sensitivity of bond.


The percentage change in bond price is just the product of modified duration and the change in the bond's yield to maturity. Because the percentage change in the bond price is proportional to modified duration, modified duration is a natural measure of the bond's exposure to interest rate volatility.


EXAMPLE 11.1


Duration and Interest Rate Risk
A bond with maturity of 30 years has a coupon rate of 8% (paid annually) and a yield to maturity of 9%. Its price is $897.26, and its duration is 11.37 years. What will happen to the bond price if the bond's yield to maturity increases to 9.1%?
Equation 11.3 tells us that an increase of .1% in the bond's yield to maturity (Δy = .001 in decimal terms) will result in a price change of



To confirm the relationship between duration and the sensitivity of bond price to interest rate changes, let's compare the price sensitivity of the three-year coupon bond in Spreadsheet 11.1, which has a duration of 2.7774 and duration of 2.7774 years. Both should have equal interest rate exposure if duration is a useful measure of price sensitivity.
The three-year bond sells for $950.263 at the initial interest rate of 10%. If the bond's yield increases by 1 basis point (1/100 of a percent) to 10.01%, its price will fall to $950.0231, a percentage decline of .0252%. The zero-coupon bond has a maturity of 2.7774 years. At the initial interest rate of 10%, it sells at a price of $1,000/1.102.7774 = $767.425. When the interest rate increases, its price falls to $1,000/1.10012.7774 = $767.2313, for an identical .0252% capital loss. We conclude that equal-duration assets are equally sensitive to interest rate movements.
Incidentally, this example confirms the validity of Equation 11.2. The equation predicts that the proportional price change of the two bonds should have been -2.7774 × .0001/1.10 = .000252, or .0252%, just as we found from direct computation.
 

CONCEPTRegulations
check11.2
 
a. In Concept Check 11.1, you calculated the price and duration of a three-year maturity, 8% coupon bond for an interest rate of 9%. Now suppose the interest rate increases to 9.05%. What is the new value of the bond, and what is the percentage change in the bond's price?
b. Calculate the percentage change in the bond's price predicted by the duration formula in Equation 11.2 or 11.3. Compare this value to your answer for (a).

The equations for the durations of coupon bonds are tedious, and spreadsheets like Spreadsheet 11.1 are cumbersome to modify for different maturities and coupon rates. Fortunately, spreadsheet programs such as Excel come with built-in functions for duration. Moreover, these functions easily accommodate bonds that are between coupon payment dates. Spreadsheet 11.2 illustrates how to use Excel to compute duration. The spreadsheets use many of the same conventions as the bond pricing spreadsheets described in Chapter 10.


SPREADSHEET 11.2
Using Excel functions to compute duration




Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie




We can use the spreadsheet to reconfirm the duration of the 8% coupon bond examined in Panel A of Spreadsheet 11.1. The settlement date (i.e., today's date) and maturity date are entered in cells B2 and B3 of Spreadsheet 11.2 using Excel's date function, DATE(year, month, day). For this three-year maturity bond, we don't have a specific settlement date. We arbitrarily set the settlement date to January 1, 2000, and use a maturity date precisely three years later. The coupon rate and yield to maturity are entered as decimals in cells B4 and B5, and the payment periods per year are entered in cell B6. Macaulay and modified duration appear in cells B9 and B10. Cell B9 shows that the duration of the bond is indeed 2.7774 years. The modified duration of the bond is 2.5249, which equals 2.7774/1.10.
 

CONCEPT   check11.3
 
  illustrates theompute the18
 
Consider a 9% coupon, 8-year maturity bond with annual payments, selling at a yield to maturity of 10%. Use Spreadsheet 11.2 to confirm that the bond's duration is 5.97 years. What would its duration be if the bond paid its coupon semiannually? Why intuitively does duration fall?

What Determines Duration?
Malkiel's bond price relations, which we laid out in the previous section, characterize the determinants of interest rate sensitivity. Duration allows us to quantify that sensitivity. For example, if we wish to speculate on interest rates, duration tells us how strong a bet we are making. Conversely, if we wish to remain "neutral" on rates, and simply match the interest rate sensitivity of a chosen bond market index, duration allows us to measure that sensitivity and mimic it in our own portfolio. For these reasons, it is crucial to understand the determinants of duration and convenient to have formulas to calculate the duration of some commonly encountered securities. Therefore, in this section, we present several "rules" that summarize most of its important properties. These rules are also illustrated in Figure 11.2, which contains plots of durations of bonds of various coupon rates, yields to maturity, and times to maturity.
We have already established:
Rule 1: The duration of a zero-coupon bond equals its time to maturity.


FIGURE 11.2
Duration as a function of maturity



We also have seen that the three-year coupon bond has a lower duration than the three-year zero-because coupons early in the bond's life reduce the bond's weighted-average time until payments. This illustrates another general property:
Rule 2: With time to maturity and yield to maturity held constant, a bond's duration and interest rate sensitivity are higher when the coupon rate is lower.
This property corresponds to Malkiel's fifth bond pricing relationship and is attributable to the impact of early coupons on the average maturity of a bond's payments. The lower these coupons, the less weight these early payments have on the weighted-average maturity of all the bond's payments. In other words, a lower fraction of the total value of the bond is tied up in the (earlier) coupon payments whose values are relatively insensitive to yields rather than the (later and more yield-sensitive) repayment of par value. Compare the plots in Figure 11.2 of the durations of the 3% coupon and 15% coupon bonds, each with identical yields of 15%. The plot of the duration of the 15% coupon bond lies below the corresponding plot for the 3% coupon bond.
Rule 3: With the coupon rate held">Regulations
 
This property of duration corresponds to Malkiel's third relationship and is fairly intuitive. What is surprising is that duration need not always increase with time to maturity. For some deep discount bonds, such as the 3% coupon bond selling to yield 15% in Figure 11.2, duration may eventually fall with increases in maturity. For virtually all traded bonds, however, it is safe to assume that duration increases with maturity.
Notice in Figure 11.2 that for the zero-coupon bond, maturity and duration are equal. For all the coupon bonds, however, duration increases by less than a year for each year's increase in maturity. The slope of the duration graph is less than 1, and duration is always less than maturity for positive-coupon bonds.
While long-maturity bonds generally will be high-duration bonds, duration is a better measure of the long-term nature of the bond because it also accounts for coupon payments. Maturity is an adequate measure only when the bond pays no coupons; then maturity and duration are equal.
Notice also in Figure 11.2 that the two 15% coupon bonds have different durations when they sell at different yields to maturity. The lower-yield bond has longer duration. This makes sense, because at lower yields the more distant payments have relatively greater present values and thereby account for a greater share of the bond's total value. Thus, in the weighted-average calculation of duration, the distant payments receive greater weights, which results in a higher duration measure. This establishes
Rule 4: With other factors held constant, the duration and interest rate sensitivity of a coupon bond are higher when the bond's yield to maturity is lower.
As we noted above, the intuition for this rule is that while a higher yield reduces the present value of all of the bond's payments, it reduces the value of more distant payments by a greater proportional amount. Therefore, at higher yields a higher fraction of the total value of the bond lies in its earlier payments, thereby reducing effective maturity. Rule 4, which is the sixth bond pricing relationship noted above, applies to coupon bonds. For zeros, duration equals time to maturity, regardless of the yield to maturity.
Finally, we present an algebraic rule for the duration of a perpetuity. This rule is derived from and is consistent with the formula for duration given in Equation 11.1, but it is far easier to use for infinitely lived bonds.
Rule 5: The duration of a level perpetuity is



  TABLE 11.3   Durations of annual coupon bonds (initial bond yield =6%)



For example, at a 15% yield, the duration of a perpetuity that pays $100 once a year forever is 1.15/.15 = 7.67 years, while at a 6% yield it is 1.06/.06 = 17.67 years.
Equation 11.4 makes it obvious that maturity and duration can differ substantially. The maturity of the perpetuity is infinite, while the duration of the instrument at a 15% yield is only 7.67 years. The present value-weighted cash flows early on in the life of the perpetuity dominate the computation of duration. Notice from Figure 11.2 that as their maturities become ever longer, the durations of the two coupon bonds with yields of 15% both converge to the duration of the perpetuity with the same yield, 7.67 years.
 

CONCEPT   check11.4
 
Show that the duration of a perpetuity increases as the interest rate decreases, in accordance with Rule 4.

Durations can vary widely among traded bonds. Table 11.3 presents durations for several bonds, all paying annual coupons and yielding 6% per year. Duration decreases as coupon rates increase and increases with time to maturity. According to Table 11.3 and Equation 11.2, if the interest rate were to increase from 6% to 6.1%, the 6% coupon, 20-year bond would fall in value by about 1.15% (= -12.158 × .1%/1.06) while the 8% coupon, five-year bond would fall by only .41% (= -4.342 × .1%/1.06). Notice also from Table 11.3 that duration is independent of coupon rate only for perpetuities.
11.2   PASSIVE BOND MANAGEMENT
Passive managers take bond prices as fairly set and seek to control only the risk of their fixed-income portfolios. Generally, there are two ways of viewing this risk. Some institutions, such as banks, are concerned with protecting the portfolio's current net worth or net market value against interest rate fluctuations. Risk-based capital guidelines for commercial banks and thrift institutions require the setting aside of additional capital as a buffer against potential losses in market value, for example, due to interest rate fluctuations. The amount of capital required is directly related to the losses that may be incurred. Other investors, such as pension funds, may have an investment goal to be reached after a given number ofs. Is this a violation of the EMH? o  indefinitely years. These investors are more concerned with protecting the future values of their portfolios.
What is common to all investors, however, is interest rate risk. The net worth of the firm and its ability to meet future obligations fluctuate with interest rates. Immunization and dedication techniques refer to strategies that investors use to shield their net worth from interest rate risk.

immunization
A strategy to shield net worth from interest rate movements.

Immunization
Many banks and thrift institutions have a natural mismatch between the maturities of assets and liabilities. For example, bank liabilities are primarily the deposits owed to customers; these liabilities are short term in nature and consequently of low duration. Assets largely comprise commercial and consumer loans or mortgages. These assets are of longer duration, and their values are correspondingly more sensitive than deposits to interest rate fluctuations. When interest rates increase unexpectedly, banks can suffer serious decreases in net worth—their assets fall in value by more than their liabilities.

On the MARKET FRONT










PENSION FUNDS
Pension funds are a significant group of investors on financial markets. But there are huge differences in their size. In absolute terms, the U.S. fund market is the largest amongst OECD countries, with a volume of $10.5 trillion US dollars (2011). In relative terms, however, the U.S. pension fund market is ranked seventh and below the OECD-wide weighted average of about 72 per cent of GDP. The countries with the highest proportion of pension assets are the Netherlands (138.2 per cent), Iceland (128.7), Switzerland (110.8), Australia (92.8), the United Kingdom (88.2) and Finland (75 per cent). The lowest pension fund assets to GDP ratios are reported by France and Greece (close to zero). The ratio depends on the design of the national pension system: countries with a defined benefits system, in which the pensions are mostly paid by the currently working members, typically show low ratios. A typical example is Germany. In contrast, in countries with a defined contribution system, where members typically pay their contributions to an individual account, the full contributions are invested, while in the defined benefit systems only temporary surpluses are invested on financial markets.
National pension funds do not only differ in volume, but also in their asset allocation: While equities account for at least one third of the assets under management in Australia, Canada, Finland, the Netherlands and the U.S., most countries invest most heavily in fixed income markets in order to gain a stable rate of return, and in a few countries, cash and other investments such as real estate play a significant role.
SOURCE: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Pension Markets in Focus, September 2012 illustrates theompute the18.

Similarly, a pension fund may have a mismatch between the interest rate sensitivity of the assets held in the fund and the present value of its liabilities—the promise to make payments to retirees. The nearby box illustrates the importance of pension funds and how they invest in bonds. Their liabilities, however, are also exposed to interest rates. If interest rates change, the present value of the fund's liabilities will also change. For example, in some recent years pension funds lost ground despite the fact that they enjoyed excellent investment returns. As interest rates fell, the value of their liabilities grew even faster than the value of their assets. The conclusion: Funds should match the interest rate exposure of assets and liabilities so that the value of assets will track the value of liabilities whether rates rise or fall. In other words, the financial manager might want to immunize the fund against interest rate volatility.
Pension funds are not alone in this concern. Any institution with a future fixed obligation might consider immunization a reasonable risk management policy. Insurance companies, for example, also pursue immunization strategies. In fact, the notion of immunization was introduced by F. M. Redington (1952), an actuary for a life insurance company. The idea is that duration-matched assets and liabilities let the asset portfolio meet the firm's obligations despite interest rate movements.
Consider, for example, an insurance company that issues a guaranteed investment contract, or GIC, for $10,000. (GICs are essentially zero-coupon bonds issued by the insurance company to its customers. They are popular products for individuals' retirement-savings accounts.) If the GIC has a five-year maturity and a guaranteed interest rate of 8%, the insurance company promises to pay $10,000 × (1.08)5 = $14,693.28 in five years.
Suppose that the insurance company chooses to fund its obligation with $10,000 of 8% annual coupon bonds, selling at par value, with six years to maturity. As long as the market interest rate stays at 8%, the company has fully funded the obligation, as the present value of the obligation exactly equals the value of the bonds.
Table 11.4A shows that if interest rates remain at 8%, the accumulated funds from the bond will grow to exactly the $14,693.28 obligation. Over the five-year period, the year-end coupon income of $800 is reinvested at the prevailing 8% market interest rate. At the end of the period, the bonds can be sold for $10,000; they still will sell at par value because the coupon rate still equals the market interest rate. Total income after five years from reinvested coupons and the sale of the bond is precisely $14,693.28.
If interest rates change, however, two offsetting influences will affect the ability of the fund to grow to the targeted value of $14,693.28. If interest rates rise, the fund will suffer a capital loss, impairing its ability to satisfy the obligation. The bonds will be worth less in five years than if interest rates had remained at 8%. However, at a higher interest rate, reinvested coupons will grow at a  as a going concern1M18faster rate, offsetting the capital loss. In other words, fixed-income investors face two offsetting types of interest rate risk: price risk and reinvestment rate risk. Increases in interest rates cause capital losses but at the same time increase the rate at which reinvested income will grow. If the portfolio duration is chosen appropriately, these two effects will cancel out exactly. When the portfolio duration is set equal to the investor's horizon date, the accumulated value of the investment fund at the horizon date will be unaffected by interest rate fluctuations. For a horizon equal to the portfolio's duration, price risk and reinvestment risk are precisely offsetting. The obligation is immunized.


  TABLE 11.4   Terminal value of a bond portfolio after five years (all proceeds reinvested)



In our example, the duration of the six-year maturity bonds used to fund the GIC is five years. You can confirm this using either Spreadsheet 11.1 or 11.2. The duration of the (zero-coupon) GIC is also five years. Because the fully funded plan has equal duration for its assets and liabilities, the insurance company should be immunized against interest rate fluctuations. To confirm this, let's check that the bond can generate enough income to pay off the obligation in five years regardless of interest rate movements.
In Table 11.4, Panels B and C consider two possible interest rate scenarios: Rates either fall to 7% or increase to 9%. In both cases, the annual coupon payments are reinvested at the new interest rate, which is assumed to change before the first coupon payment, and the bond is sold in year 5 to help satisfy the obligation of the GIC.
Table 11.4B shows that if interest rates fall to 7%, the total funds will accumulate to $14,694.05, providing a small surplus of $.77. If rates increase to 9% as in Table 11.4C, the fund accumulates to $14,696.02, providing a small surplus of $2.74.


FIGURE 11.3
Growth of invested funds
Note: The solid curve represents the growth of portfolio value at the original interest rate. If interest rates increase at time t*, the portfolio value falls but increases thereafter at the faster rate represented by the broken curve. At time D (duration) the curves cross.



Several">Regulations
Figure 11.3 illustrates this case. The solid curve traces the accumulated value of the bonds if interest rates remain at 8%. The dashed curve shows that value if interest rates happen to increase. The initial impact is a capital loss, but this loss eventually is offset by the now-faster growth rate of reinvested funds. At the five-year horizon date, equal to the bond's duration, the two effects just cancel, leaving the company able to satisfy its obligation with the accumulated proceeds from the bond.
We can also analyze immunization in terms of present as opposed to future values. Table 11.5A shows the initial balance sheet for the insurance company's GIC. Both assets and the obligation have market values of $10,000, so the plan is just fully funded. Panels B and C in the table show that whether the interest rate increases or decreases, the value of the bonds funding the GIC and the present value of the company's obligation change by virtually identical amounts. Regardless of the interest rate change, the plan remains fully funded, with the surplus in Table 11.5B and C just about zero. The duration-matching strategy has ensured that both assets and liabilities react equally to interest rate fluctuations.


TABLE 11.5   Market value balance sheets



Figure 11.4 is a graph of the present values of the bond and the single-payment obligation as a function of the interest rate. At the current rate of 8%, the values are equal, and the obligation is fully funded by the bond. Moreover, the two present value curves are tangent at y = 8%. As interest rates change, the change in value of both the asset and the obligation are equal, so the obligation remains fully funded. For greater changes in the interest rate, however, the present value curves diverge. This reflects the fact that the fund actually shows a small surplus at market interest rates other than 8%.
Why is there any surplus in the fund? After all, we claimed that a duration-matched asset and liability mix would make the investor indifferent to interest rate shifts. Actually, such a claim is valid for only small changes in the interest rate, because as bond yields change, so too does duration. (Recall Rule 4 for duration.) In fact, while the duration of the bond in this example is equal to five years at a yield to maturity of 8%, the duration rises to 5.02 years when the bond yield falls to 7% a illustrates theompute the18nd drops to 4.97 years at y = 9%. That is, the bond and the obligation were not duration-matched across the interest rate shift, so the position was not fully immunized.
This example demonstrates the need for rebalancing immunized portfolios. As interest rates and asset durations continually change, managers must adjust the portfolio to realign its duration with the duration of the obligation. Moreover, even if interest rates do not change, asset durations will change solely because of the passage of time. Recall from Figure 11.2 that duration generally decreases less rapidly than maturity as time passes, so even if an obligation is immunized at the outset, the durations of the asset and liability will fall at different rates. Without portfolio rebalancing, durations will become unmatched and the goals of immunization will not be realized. Therefore, immunization is a passive strategy only in the sense that it does not involve attempts to identify undervalued securities. Immunization managers still actively update and monitor their positions.

rebalancing
Realigning the proportions of assets in a portfolio as needed.



EXAMPLE 11.2


Constructing an Immunized Portfolio
An insurance company must make a payment of £19,487 in seven years. The market interest rate is 10%, so the present value of the obligation is £10,000. The company's portfolio manager wishes to fund the obligation using three-year zero-coupon bonds and perpetuities paying annual coupons. (We focus on zeros and perpetuities to keep the algebra simple.) How can the manager immunize the obligation?
Immunization requires that the duration of the portfolio of assets equal the duration of the liability. We can proceed in four steps:
Step 1.  Calculate the duration of the liability. In this case, the liability duration is simple to compute. It is a single-payment obligation with duration of seven years.
Step 2.  Calculate the duration of the asset portfolio. The portfolio duration is the weighted average of duration of each component asset, with weights proportional to the funds placed in each asset. The duration of the zero-coupon bond is simply its maturity, three years. The duration of the perpetuity is 1.10/.10 = 11 years. Therefore, if the fraction of the portfolio invested in the zero is called w, and the fraction invested in the perpetuity is (1 - emphasizing or including only  lower indefinitely w), the portfolio duration will be

Step 3.  Find the asset mix that sets the duration of assets equal to the seven-year duration of liabilities. This requires us to solve for w in the following equation

 This implies that w = 1/2. The manager should invest half the portfolio in the zero and half in the perpetuity. This will result in an asset duration of seven years.
Step 4.  Fully fund the obligation. Since the obligation has a present value of £10,000, and the fund will be invested equally in the zero and the perpetuity, the manager must purchase £5,000 of the zero-coupon bond and £5,000 of the perpetuity. Note that the face value of the zero will be £5,000 × (1.10)3 = £6,655.




FIGURE 11.4
Immunization. The coupon bond fully funds the obligation at an interest rate of 8%. Moreover, the present value curves are tangent at 8%, so the obligation will remain fully funded even if rates change by a small amount.



Even if a position is immunized, however, the portfolio manager still cannot rest. This is because of the need for rebalancing in response to changes in interest rates. Moreover, even if rates do not change, the passage of time also will affect duration and require rebalancing. Let us continue Example 11.2 and see how the portfolio manager can maintain an immunized position.


EXAMPLE 11.3


Rebalancing
Suppose that one year has passed, and the interest rate remains at 10%. The portfolio manager of Example 11.2 needs to reexamine her position. Is the position still fully funded? Is it still immunized? If not, what actions are required?
First, examine funding. The present value of the obligation will have grown to £11,000, as it is one year closer to maturity. The manager's funds also have grown to £11,000: The  as a going concern1M18zero-coupon bonds have increased in value from £5,000 to £5,500 with the passage of time, while the perpetuity has paid its annual £500 coupons and remains worth £5,000. Therefore, the obligation is still fully funded.
The portfolio weights must be changed, however. The zero-coupon bond now will have a duration of two years, while the perpetuity duration remains at 11 years. The obligation is now due in six years. The weights must now satisfy the equation

which implies that w = 5/9. To rebalance the portfolio and maintain the duration match, the manager now must invest a total of £11,000 × 5/9 = £6,111.11 in the zero-coupon bond. This requires that the entire £500 coupon payment be invested in the zero, with an additional £111.11 of the perpetuity sold and invested in the zero-coupon bond.


Of course, rebalancing the portfolio entails transaction costs as assets are bought or sold, so continuous rebalancing is not feasible. In practice, managers strike a compromise between the desire for perfect immunization, which requires continual rebalancing, and the need to control trading costs, which dictates less frequent rebalancing.
 

CONCEPT   check11.5
 
Look again at Example 11.3. What would have been the immunizing weights in the second year if the interest rate had fallen to 8%?

Cash Flow Matching and Dedication
The problems associated with immunization seem to have a simple solution. Why not simply buy a zero-coupon bond with face value equal to the projected cash outlay? This is cash flow matching, which automatically immunizes a portfolio from interest rate risk because the cash flow from the bond and the obligation exactly offset each other.

cash flow matching
Matching cash flows from a fixed-income portfolio with those of an obligation.


 Immunization




as a going concern1M18Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

The Excel immunization model allows you to analyze any number of time-period or holding-period immunization examples. The model is built using the Excel-supplied formulas for bond duration, which allow the investigation of any maturity bond without building a table of cash flows.

Excel Questions
1. When rates increase by 100 basis points, what is the change in the future sales price of the bond? The value of reinvested coupons?
2. What if rates increase by 200 basis points?
3. What is the relation between price risk and reinvestment rate risk as we consider larger changes in bond yields?

Cash flow matching on a multiperiod basis is referred to as a dedication strategy. In this case, the manager selects either zero-coupon or coupon bonds with total cash flows that match a series of obligations. The advantage of dedication is that it is a once-and-for-all approach to eliminating interest rate risk. Once the cash flows are matched, there is no need for rebalancing. The dedicated portfolio provides the cash necessary to pay the firm's liabilities regardless of the eventual path of interest rates.








dedication strategy
Refers to multiperiod cash flow matching.

Cash flow matching is not widely pursued, however, probably because of the constraints it imposes on bond selection. Immunization/dedication strategies are appealing to firms that do not wish to bet on general movements in interest rates, yet these firms may want to immunize using bonds they believe are undervalued. Cash flow matching places enough constraints on bond selection that it can make it impossible to pursue a dedication strategy using only "underpriced" bonds. Firms looking for underpriced bonds exchange exact and easy dedication for the possibility of achieving superior returns from their bon years, to the sensitivity of a zero-coupod portfolios.
Sometimes, cash flow matching is not even possible. To cash flow match for a pension fund that is obligated to pay out a perpetual flow of income to current and future retirees, the pension fund would need to purchase fixed-income securities with maturities ranging up to hundreds of years. Such securities do not exist, making exact dedication infeasible. Immunization is easy, however. If the interest rate is 8%, for example, the duration of the pension fund obligation is 1.08/.08 = 13.5 years (see Rule 5 on page 345). Therefore, the fund can immunize its obligation by purchasing zero-coupon bonds with maturity of 13.5 years and a market value equal to that of the pension liabilities. instances in which relative strength aid="over-the-counter (OTC) market
 

CONCEPT   check11.6
 
a. Suppose that this pension fund is obligated to pay out $800,000 per year in perpetuity. What should be the maturity and face value of the zero-coupon bond it purchases to immunize its obligation?
b. Now suppose the interest rate immediately increases to 8.1%. How should the fund rebalance in order to remain immunized against further interest rate shocks? Ignore transaction costs.

 

CONCEPT   check11.7
 
How would an increase in trading costs affect the attractiveness of dedication versus immunization?

11.3   CONVEXITY
Duration clearly is a key tool in bond portfolio management. Yet, the duration rule for the impact of interest rates on bond prices is only an approximation. Equation 11.3, which we repeat here, states that the percentage change in the value of a bond approximately equals the product of modified duration times the change in the bond's yield:

This equation asserts that the percentage price change is directly proportional to the change in the bond's yield. If this were exactly so, however, a graph of the percentage change in bond price as a function of the change in its yield would plot as a straight line, with slope equal to -D*. Yet we know from Figure 11.1, and more generally from Malkiel's five bond pricing relationships (specifically Relationship 2), that the relationship between bond prices and yields is not linear. The duration rule is a good approximation for small changes in bond yield, but it is less accurate for larger changes.
Figure 11.5 illustrates this point. Like Figure 11.1, this fi as a going concern1M18gure presents the percentage change in bond price in response to a change in the bond's yield to maturity. The curved line is the percentage price change for a 30-year maturity, 8% coupon bond, selling at an initial yield to maturity of 8%. The straight line is the percentage price change predicted by the duration rule: The modified duration of the bond at its initial yield is 11.26 years, so the straight line is a plot of -D*Δy = -11.26 × Δy. Notice that the two plots are tangent at the initial yield. Thus, for small changes in the bond's yield to maturity, the duration rule is quite accurate. However, for larger changes in yield, there is progressively more "daylight" between the two plots, demonstrating that the duration rule becomes progressively less accurate.


FIGURE 11.5
Bond price convexity. The percentage change in bond price is a convex function of the change in yield to maturity.



Notice from Figure 11.5 that the duration approximation (the straight line) always understates the value of the bond; it underestimates the increase in bond price when the yield falls, and it overestimates the decline in price when the yield rises. This is due to the curvature of the true price-yield relationship. Curves with shapes such as that of the price-yield relationship are said to be convex, and the curvature of the price-yield curve is called the convexity of the bond.

convexity
The curvature of the price-yield relationship of a bond.

We can quantify convexity as the rate of change of the slope of the price-yield curve, expressed as a fraction of the bond price.2 As a practical rule, you can view bonds with higher convexity as exhibiting higher curvature in the price-yield relationship. The convexity of noncallable bonds, such as that in Figure 11.5, is positive: The slope increases (i.e., becomes less negative) at higher yields.
Convexity allows us to improve the duration approximation for bond price changes. Accounting for convexity, Equation 11.3 can be modified as follows:3

The first term on the  emphasizing or including only  lower indefinitelyright-hand side is the same as the duration rule, Equation 11.3. The second term is the modification for convexity. Notice that for a bond with positive convexity, the second term is positive, regardless of whether the yield rises or falls. This insight corresponds to the fact noted just above that the duration rule always underestimates the new value of a bond following a change in its yield. The more accurate Equation 11.5, which accounts for convexity, always predicts a higher bond price than Equation 11.3. Of course, if the change in yield is small, the convexity term, which is multiplied by (Δy)2 in Equation 11.5, will be extremely small and will add little to the approximation. In this case, the linear approximation given by the duration rule will be sufficiently accurate. Thus, convexity is more important as a practical matter when potential interest rate changes are large.
Convexity is the reason that the immunization examples we considered above resulted in small errors. For example, if you turn back to Table 11.5 and Figure 11.4, you will see that the single-payment obligation that was funded with a coupon bond of the same duration was well immunized for small changes in yields. However, for larger yield changes, the two pricing curves diverged a bit, implying that such changes in yields would result in small surpluses. This is due to the greater convexity of the coupon bond.


EXAMPLE 11.4


Convexity
The bond in Figure 11.5 has a 30-year maturity, an 8% coupon, and sells at an initial yield to maturity of 8%. Because the coupon rate equals yield to maturity, the bond sells at par value, or $1,000. The modified duration of the bond at its initial yield is 11.26 years, and its convexity is 212.4, which can be calculated using the formula in footnote 2. (You can find a spreadsheet to calculate the convexity of a 30-year bond at the book's website, www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie. See also the nearby Excel Application.) If the bond's yield increases from 8% to 10%, the bond price will fall to $811.46, a decline of 18.85%. The duration rule, Equation 11.3, would predict a price decline of

which is considerably more than the bond price actually falls. The duration-with-convexity rule, Equation 11.5, is far more accurate:

which is far closer to the exact change in bond price. (Notice that when we use Equation 11.5, we must express interest rates as decimals rather than percentages. The change in rates from 8% to 10% is represented as Δy for the face value of the loan.

 .02.)
If the change in yield were smaller, say, .1%, convexity would matter less. The price of the bond actually would fall to $988.85, a decline of 1.115%. Without accounting for convexity, we would predict a price decline of

Accounting for convexity, we get almost the precisely correct answer:

Nevertheless, the duration rule is quite accurate in this case, even without accounting for convexity.

Why Do Investors Like Convexity?
Convexity is generally considered a desirable trait. Bonds with greater curvature gain more in price when yields fall than they lose when yields rise. For example, in Figure 11.6 bonds A and B have the same duration at the initial yield. The plots of their proportional price changes as a function of interest rate changes are tangent, meaning that their sensitivities to changes in yields at that point are equal. However, bond A is more convex than bond B. It enjoys greater price increases and smaller price decreases when interest rates fluctuate by larger amounts. If interest rates are volatile, this is an attractive asymmetry that increases the expected return on the bond, since bond A will benefit more from rate decreases and suffer less from rate increases. Of course, if convexity is desirable, it will not be available for free: Investors will have to pay more and accept lower yields on bonds with greater convexity.


FIGURE 11.6
Convexity of two bonds. Bond A has greater convexity than bond B.




 Convexity




Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

The Convexity spreadsheet allows you to calculate bond convexity. You can specify yield to maturity and coupon and allow for short maturities by setting later cash flows equal to zero and setting the last cash flow equal to principal plus final coupon payment.

Excel Questions
1. Calculate the convexity of a "bullet instances in which relative strength aid="over-the-counter (OTC) market" fixed-income portfolio, that is, a portfolio with a single cash flow. Suppose a single $1,000 cash flow is paid in year 5.
2. Now calculate the convexity of a "barbell" fixed-income portfolio, that is, a portfolio with equal cash flows over time. Suppose the security makes $100 cash flows in each of years 1-9, so that its duration is close to the bullet in Question 1.
 3. Do barbells or bullets have greater convexity?

11.4   ACTIVE BOND MANAGEMENT
Sources of Potential Profit
Broadly speaking, there are two sources of potential value in active bond management. The first is interest rate forecasting, that is, anticipating movements across the entire spectrum of the fixed-income market. If interest rate declines are forecast, managers will increase portfolio duration; if increases seem likely, they will shorten duration. The second source of potential profit is identification of relative mispricing within the fixed-income market. An analyst might believe, for example, that the default premium on one bond is unnecessarily large and the bond is underpriced.
These techniques will generate abnormal returns only if the analyst's information or insight is superior to that of the market. You can't profit from knowledge that rates are about to fall if everyone else in the market is onto this. In that case, the anticipated lower future rates will be built into bond prices in the sense that long-duration bonds already sell at higher prices, reflecting the anticipated fall in future short rates. If you do not have information before the market does, you will be too late to act—prices will have already responded to the news. You know this from our discussion of market efficiency.
For now we simply repeat that valuable information is differential information. And it is worth noting that interest rate forecasters have a notoriously poor track record.
Homer and Leibowitz (1972) have developed a popular taxonomy of active bond portfolio strategies. They characterize portfolio rebalancing activities as one of four types of bond swaps. In the first two swaps, the investor typically believes the yield relationship between bonds or sectors is only temporarily out of alignment. Until the aberration is eliminated, gains can be realized on the underpriced bond during a period of realignment called the workout period.
1. The substitution swap is an exchange of one bond for a nearly identical substitute. The substituted bonds should be of essentially equal coupon, maturity, quality, call features, sinking fund provisions, and so on. A substitution swap would be motivated by a belief that the market has temporarily mispriced the two bonds, with a discrepancy representing a profit opportunity.

to exploit your conviction about the stock price's future movement between . Calculate substitution swap
Exchange of one bond for a bond with similar attributes but more attractively priced.

An example of a substitution swap would be a sale of a 20-year maturity, 8% coupon Toyota bond that is priced to provide a yield to maturity of 8.05% coupled with a purchase of an 8% coupon Honda bond with the same time to maturity that yields 8.15%. If the bonds have about the same credit risk, there is no apparent reason for the Honda bonds to provide a higher yield. Therefore, the higher yield actually available in the market makes the Honda bond seem relatively attractive. Of course, the equality of credit risk is an important condition. If the Honda bond is in fact riskier, then its higher promised yield does not represent a bargain.
2. The intermarket spread swap is an exchange of two bonds from different sectors of the bond market. It is pursued when an investor believes the yield spread between two sectors of the bond market is temporarily out of line.

intermarket spread swap
Switching from one segment of the bond market to another.

For example, if the yield spread between 10-year Treasury bonds and 10-year Baa-rated corporate bonds is now 3%, and the historical spread has been only 2%, an investor might consider selling holdings of Treasury bonds and replacing them with corporates. If the yield spread eventually narrows, the Baa-rated corporate bonds will outperform the Treasury bonds.
Of course, the investor must consider carefully whether there is a good reason that the yield spread seems out of alignment. For example, the default premium on corporate bonds might have increased because the market is expecting a severe recession. In this case, the wider spread would not represent attractive pricing of corporates relative to Treasuries but would simply be an adjustment for a perceived increase in credit risk.
3. The rate anticipation swap is an exchange of bonds with different maturities. It is pegged to interest rate forecasting. Investors who believe rates will fall will swap into bonds of longer duration. For example, the investor might sell a five-year maturity Treasury bond, replacing it with a 25-year maturity Treasury bond. The new bond has the same lack of credit risk as the old one, but it has longer duration.

rate anticipation swap
A switch made in response to forecasts of interest rate changes.

4. The pure yield pickup swap is an exchange of a shorter-duration bond for a longer-duration bond. This swap is pursued not in response to perceived mispricing but as a means of increasing return by holding higher-yielding, longer-maturity bonds. The investor is willing to bear the interest rate risk this strategy entails.

pure yield pickup swap
Moving to higher yield bonds, usually with longer maturities.

A yield pickup swap can be illustrated using the Treasury bond listings in Figure 10.1 in the previous chapter. You can see from that table that longer-term T-bonds offered higher yields to maturity than shorter ones. The investor who swaps the shorter-term bond for the longer one will earn a higher rate of return as long as the yield curve does not shift upward during the holding period. Of course, if it does, the longer-duration bond will suffer a greater capital loss.
We can add a fifth swap, called a tax swap, to this list. This refers to a swap to exploit some tax advantage. For example, an investor may swap from one bond that has decreased in price to another similar bond if realization of capital losses is advantageous for tax purposes.

tax swap
Swapping two similar bonds to receive a tax benefit.

Horizon Analysis
One form of interest rate forecasting, which we encountered in the last chapter, is called horizon analysis. The analyst selects a particular investment period and predicts bond yields at the end of that period. Given the predicted yield to maturity at the end of the investment period, the bond price can be calculated. The coupon income earned over the period is then added to the predicted capital gain or loss to obtain a forecast of the total return on the bond over the holding period.

horizon analysis
Forecast of bond returns based largely on a prediction of the yield curve at the end of the investment horizon.



EXAMPLE 11.5


Horizon Analysis
A 20-year maturity bond with a 10% coupon rate (paid annually) currently sells at a yield to maturity of 9%. A portfolio manager with a two-year horizon needs to forecast the total return on the bond over the coming two years. In two years, the bond will have an 18-year maturity. The analyst forecasts that two years from now 18-year bonds will sell at yields to maturity of 8% and that coupon payments can be reinvested in short-term securities over the coming two years at a rate of 7%.
To calculate the two-year return on the bond, the analyst would perform the following calculations:

s. Is this a violation of the EMH? o  indefinitelyThe annualized rate of return over the two-year period would then be (1.278)1/2 - 1 = .13, or 13%.


 

CONCEPT   check11.8
 
What will be the rate of return in Example 11.5 if the manager forecasts that in two years the yield to maturity on 18-year maturity bonds will be 10% and that the reinvestment rate for coupons will be 8%?

An Example of a Fixed-Income Investment Strategy
To demonstrate a reasonable, active fixed-income portfolio strategy, we discuss here the policies of Sanford Bernstein & Co., as explained in a speech by its manager of fixed-income investments, Francis Trainer. The company believes big bets on general marketwide interest movements are unwise. Instead, it concentrates on exploiting numerous instances of perceived relative minor pricing misalignments within the fixed-income sector. The firm takes as a risk benchmark the Barclays Aggregate Bond Index, which includes the vast majority of publicly traded bonds with maturities greater than one year. Any deviation from this passive or neutral position must be justified by active analysis. Bernstein considers a neutral portfolio duration to be equal to that of the index.
The firm is willing to make only limited bets on interest rate movements. As Francis Trainer puts it in his speech:

If we set duration of our portfolios at a level equal to the index and never allow them to vary, this would imply that we are perpetually neutral on the direction of interest rates. However, we believe the utilization of these forecasts will add value and, therefore, we incorporate our economic forecast into the bond management process by altering the durations of our portfolios.
However, in order to prevent fixed-income performance from being dominated by the accuracy of just a single aspect of our research effort, we limit the degree to which we are willing to alter our interest rate exposure. Under the vast majority of circumstances, we will not permit the duration of our portfolios to differ from that of the [Barclays] Index by more than one year.

The company expends most of its effort in exploiting numerous but minor inefficiencies in bond prices that result from lack of attention by its competitors. Its analysts follow about 1,000 securities, attempting to "identify specific securities that are attractive or unattractive as well as identify trends in the richness or cheapness of industries and sectors." These two activities would be characterized as substitution swaps and  illustrates theompute the18intermarket spread swaps in the Homer-Leibowitz scheme.
Sanford Bernstein & Co. realizes that market opportunities will arise, if at all, only in sectors of the bond market that present the least competition from other analysts. For this reason, it tends to focus on relatively more complicated bond issues in the belief that extensive research efforts give the firm a comparative advantage in that sector. Finally, the company does not take unnecessary risks. If there do not appear to be enough seeminglyunds are placed in Treasury securities as a "neutral" parking space until new opportunities are identified.
To summarize the key features of this sort of strategy, we make the following observations:
1. A firm such as Bernstein has a respect for market prices. It believes that only minor mispricing usually can be detected. It works toward meaningful abnormal returns by combining numerous small profit opportunities, not by hoping for the success of one big bet.
2. To have value, information cannot already be reflected in market prices. A large research staff must focus on market niches that appear to be neglected by others.
3. Interest rate movements are extremely hard to predict, and attempts to time the market can wipe out all the profits of intramarket analysis.







SUMMARY
• Even default-free bonds such as Treasury issues are subject to interest rate risk. Longer-term bonds generally are more sensitive to interest rate shifts than short-term bonds. A measure of the average life of a bond is Macaulay's duration, defined as the weighted average of the times until each payment made by the security, with weights proportional to the present value of the payment.
• Modified duration is a direct measure of the sensitivity of a bond's price to a change in its yield. The proportional change in a bond's price approximately equals the negative of modified duration times the change in the bond's yield.
• Immunization strategies are characteristic of passive bond portfolio management. Such strategies attempt to render the individual or firm immune from movements in interest rates. This may take the form of immunizing net worth or, instead, immunizing the future accumulated value of a bond portfolio.
• Immunization of a fully funded plan is accomplished by matching the durations of assets and liabilities. To maintain an immunized position as time passes and interest rates change, the portfolio must be periodically rebalanced.
• Convexity refers to the curvature of a bond illustrates theompute the18's price-yield relationship. Accounting for convexity can substantially improve on the accuracy of the duration approximation for the response of bond prices to changes in yields.
• A more direct form of immunization is dedication or cash flow matching. If a portfolio is perfectly matched in cash flow with projected liabilities, rebalancing will be unnecessary.
• Active bond management can be decomposed into interest rate forecasting techniques and intermarket spread analysis. One popular taxonomy classifies active strategies as substitution swaps, intermarket spread swaps, rate anticipation swaps, and pure yield pickup swaps.







KEY TERMS
cash flow matching
convexity







dedication strategy
horizon analysis
immunization
intermarket spread swap
Macaulay's duration
modified duration
pure yield pickup swap
rate anticipation swap
rebalancing
substitution swap
tax swap
PROBLEM SETS
Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance. Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.
Basic

1. How can a perpetuity, which has an infinite maturity, have a duration as short as 10 or 20 years? (LO 11-1)
2. Yous. Is this a violation of the EMH? o  indefinitely predict that interest rates are about to fall. Which bond will give you the highest capital gain? (LO 11-1)
a. Low coupon, long maturity
b. High coupon, short maturity
c. High coupon, long maturity
d. Zero coupon, long maturity
3. The historical yield spread between AAA bonds and Treasury bonds widened dramatically during the credit crisis in 2008. If you believed the spread would soon return to more typical historical levels, what should you have done? This would be an example of what sort of bond swap? (LO 11-4)
4. A bond currently sells for $1,200, which gives it a yield to maturity of 8%. Suppose that if the yield increases by 25 basis points, the price of the bond falls to $1,155. What is the duration of this bond? (LO 11-2)
5. Macaulay's duration is less than modified duration except for: (LO 11-2)
a. Zero-coupon bonds.
b. Premium bonds.
c. Bonds selling at par value.
d. None of the above.
6. Is the decrease in a bond's price corresponding to an increase in its yield to maturity more or less than the price increase resulting from a decrease in yield of equal magnitude? (LO 11-3)
7. Short-term interest rates are more volatile than long-term rates. Despite this, the rates of return of long-term bonds are more volatile than returns on short-term securities. How can these two empirical observations be reconciled? (LO 11-1)
8. Find the duration of a 3% coupon bond making annual coupon payments if it has three years until maturity and a yield to maturity of 6.8%. What is the duration if the yield to maturity is 10.8%? (LO 11-2)
9. A ten-year bond has a yield of 12% and a duration of 7.206 years. If the bond's yield changes by 50 basis points, what is the percentage change in the bond's price? (LO 11-2)

Intermediate
10. A pension plan is obligated to make disbursements of $2.4 million, $3.4 million, and $2.4 million at the end of each of the next three years, respectively. Find the duration of the plan's obligations if the interest rate is 10% annually. (LO 11-2)
11. If the plan in the previous problem wants to fully fund and immunize its position, how much of its portfolio should it allocate to one-year zero-coupon bonds and perpetuities, respectively, if these are the only two assets funding the plan? (LO 11-4)
12. You own a fixed-income asset with a duration of four years. If the level of interest rates, which is currently 7.8%, goes down by 20 basis points, how much do you expect the price of the asset to go up (in percentage terms)? (LO 11-2)
13. Rank the interest rate sensitivity of the following pairs of bonds. (LO 11-1)
a. Bond A is an 8% coupon, 20-year maturity bond selling at par value.
Bond B is an 8% coupon, 20-year maturity bond selling below par value.
b.  Bond A is a 20-year, noncallable coupon bond with a coupon rate of 8%, selling at par.
Bond B is a 20-year, callable bond with a coupon rate of 9%, also selling at par.
14. Long-term Treasury bonds currently are selling at yields to maturity of nearly 8%. You expect interest rates to fall. The rest of the market thinks that they will remain unchanged over the coming year. In each question, choose the bond that will provide the higher capital gain if you are correct. Briefly explain your answer. (LO 11-2)
a. (1) A Baa-rated bond with coupon rate 8% and time to maturity 20 years.
(2) An Aaa-rated bond with coupon rate 8% and time to maturity 20 years.
b. (1) An A-rated bond with coupon rate 4% and maturity 20 years, callable at 105.
(2) An A-rated bond with coupon rate 8% and maturity 20 years, callable at 105.
c.  (1) A 6% coupon noncallable T-bond with maturity 20 years and YTM = 8%.
(2) A 9 for the face value of the loan.
 8%.
15. You will be paying $11,700 a year in tuition expenses at the end of the next two years. Bonds currently yield 7%. (LO 11-2)
a. What is the present value and duration of your obligation?
b. What maturity zero-coupon bond would immunize your obligation?
c. Suppose you buy a zero-coupon bond with value and duration equal to your obligation. Now suppose that rates immediately increase to 8%. What happens to your net position, that is, to the difference between the value of the bond and that of your tuition obligation? What if rates fall to 6%?
16. Pension funds pay lifetime annuities to recipients. If a firm remains in business indefinitely, the pension obligation will resemble a perpetuity. Suppose, therefore, that you are managing a pension fund with obligations to make perpetual payments of $4.2 million per year to beneficiaries. The yield to maturity on all bonds is 20%. (LO 11-4)
a. If the duration of 5-year maturity bonds with coupon rates of 16% (paid annually) is 4 years and the duration of 20-year maturity bonds with coupon rates of 10% (paid annually) is 11 years, how much of each of these coupon bonds (in market value) will you want to hold to both fully fund and immunize your obligation?
b. What will be the par value of your holdings in the 20-year coupon bond?

17. Frank Meyers, CFA, is a fixed-income portfolio manager for a large pension fund. A member of the Investment Committee, Fred Spice, is very interested in learning about the management of fixed-income portfolios. Spice has approached Meyers with several questions. Specifically, Spice would like to know how fixed-income managers position portfolios to capitalize on their expectations of future interest rates.
Meyers decides to illustrate fixed-income trading strategies to Spice using a fixed-rate bond and note. Both bonds have semiannual coupon periods. Unless otherwise stated all interest rate (yield curve) changes are parallel. The characteristics of these securities are shown in the following table. He also considers a nine-year floating-rate bond (floater) that pays a floating rate semiannually and is currently yielding 5%.

Spice asks Meyers about how a ">Regulations
(LO 11-5)
a. Shorten his portfolio duration.
b. Buy fixed-rate bonds.
c. Lengthen his portfolio duration.

18. Spice asks Meyers (see previous problem) to quantify price changes from changes in interest rates. To illustrate, Meyers computes the value change for the fixed-rate note in the table. Specifically, he assumes an increase in the level of interest rate of 100 basis points. Using the information in the table, what is the predicted change in the price of the fixed-rate note?  (LO 11-2)
19. You are managing a portfolio of $3 million. Your target duration is 10 years, and you can choose from two bonds: a zero-coupon bond with maturity 8 years, and a perpetuity, each currently yielding 10%. (LO 11-4)
a. How much of each bond will you hold in your portfolio?
b. How will these fractions change next year if target duration is now nine years?


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

20. Find the duration of a bond with settlement date June 8, 2012, and maturity date December 9, 2021. The coupon rate of the bond is 5%, and the bond pays coupons semiannually. The bond is selling at a yield to maturity of 6%. You can use Spreadsheet 11.2, available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie; link to Chapter 11 material. (LO 11-2)


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

21. What is the duration of the bond in the previous problem if coupons are paid annually? Explain why the duration changes in the direction it does. (LO 11-2)
22. You manage a pension fund that will provide retired workers with lifetime annuities. You determine that the payouts of the fund are essentially going to resemble level perpetuities of $1.4 million per year. The interest rate is 4%. You plan to fully fund the obligation using 5-year and 20-year maturity zero-coupon bonds. (LO 11-2)
a. How much market value of each of the zeros will be necessary to fund the plan if you desire an immunized position?
b. What must be the face value of the two zeros to fund the plan?


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

23. Find the convexity of a seven-year maturity, 6.5% coupon bond selling at a yield to maturity of 8.9%. The bond pays its coupons annually. (Hint: You can use the spreadsheet from this chapter's Excel Application on Convexity, setting cash flows after year 7 equal to zero. The spreadsheet is available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie; link to Chapter 11 material.) (LO 11-3)


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

24. a. Use a spreadsheet to calculate the durations of the two bonds in Spreadsheet 11.1 if the interest rate increases to 12%. Why does the duration of the coupon bond fall while that of the zero remains unchanged? (Hint: Examine what happens to the weights computed in column E.)

b. Use the same spreadsheet to calculate the duration of the coupon bond if the coupon were 12% instead of 8%.  emphasizing or including only  lower indefinitelyExplain why the duration is lower. (Again, start by looking at column E.) (LO 11-2)



Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

25. a. Footnote 2 in the chapter presents the formula for the convexity of a bond. Build a spreadsheet to calculate the convexity of the 8% coupon bond in Spreadsheet 11.1 at the initial yield to maturity of 10%.

b. What is the convexity of the zero-coupon bond? (LO 11-3)



Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

26. A 30-year maturity bond making annual coupon payments with a coupon rate of 15.5% has duration of 10.58 years and convexity of 162.6. The bond currently sells at a yield to maturity of 9%. Use a financial calculator or spreadsheet to find the price of the bond if its yield to maturity falls to 8% or rises to 10%. What prices for the bond at these new yields would be predicted by the duration rule and the duration-with-convexity rule? What is the percent error for each rule? What do you conclude about the accuracy of the two rules? (LO 11-3)
27. Currently, the term structure is as follows: One-year bonds yield 9.75%, two-year bonds yield 10.75%, three-year bonds and greater maturity bonds all yield 11.75%. You are choosing between one-, two-, and three-year maturity bonds all paying annual coupons of 10.75%, once a year. Which bond should you buy if you strongly believe that at year-end the yield curve will be flat at 11.75%? (LO 11-5)
28. A 40-year maturity bond has a 8% coupon rate, paid annually. It sells today for $957.42. A 30-year maturity bond has a 7.5% coupon rate, also paid annually. It sells today for $969.50. A bond market analyst forecasts that in five years, 35-year maturity bonds will sell at yields to maturity of 9% and that 25-year maturity bonds will sell at yields of 8.5%. Because the yield curve is upward-sloping, the analyst believes that coupons will be invested in short-term securities at a rate of 7%. Which bond offers the higher expected rate of return over the five-year period? (LO 11-5)
Challenge
 
29. A 13.05-year maturity zero-coupon bond selling at a yield to maturity of 8% (effective annual yield) has convexity of 120.2 and modified duration of 11.91 years. A 40-year maturity 6% coupon bond making annual coupon payments also selling at a yield to maturity of 8% has nearly identical modified duration—11.65 years—but considerably higher convexity of 280.2. (LO 11-3)
a. Suppose the yield to maturity on both bonds increases to 9%. What will be the actual percentage capital loss on each bond? What percentage capital loss would be predicted by the duration-with-convexity rule?
b. Repeat part (a), but this time assume the yield to maturity decreases to 7%.
c. Compare the performance of the two bonds in the two scenarios, one involving an increase in rates, the other a decrease. Based on their comparative investment performance, explain the attraction of convexity.
d. In view of your answer to (c), do you think it would be possible for two bonds with equal duration, but different convexity, to be priced initially at the same yield to maturity if the yields on both bonds always increased or decreased by equal amounts, as in this example? Would anyone be willing to buy the bond with lower convexity under these circumstances?
 
CFA Problems

1. Rank the following bonds in order of descending duration. (LO 11-2)

2. Philip Morris has issued bonds that pay annually with the following characteristics: (LO 11-2)

a. Calculate modified duration using the information above.
b. Explain why modified duration is a better measure than maturity when calculating the bond's sensitivity to changes in interest rates.
c. Identify the direction of change in modified duration if:

i. The coupon of the bond were 4%, not 8%.
illustrates theompute the18 ii. The maturity of the bond were 7 years, not 15 years.

3. As part of your analysis of debt issued by Monticello Corporation, you are asked to evaluate two specific bond issues, shown in the table below. (LO 11-2)
MONTICELLO CORPORATION BOND INFORMATION

a. Using the duration and yield information in the table, compare the price and yield behavior of the two bonds under each of the following two scenarios:

i. Strong economic recovery with rising inflation expectations.
 ii. Economic recession with reduced inflation expectations.

b. Using the information in the table, calculate the projected price change for bond B if the yield-to-maturity for this bond falls by 75 basis points.
c. Describe the shortcoming of analyzing bond A strictly to call or to maturity.
4. One common goal among fixed-income portfolio managers is to earn high incremental returns on corporate bonds versus government bonds of comparable durations. The approach of some corporate-bond portfolio managers is to find and purchase those corporate bonds having the largest initial spreads over comparable-duration government bonds. John Ames, HFS's fixed-income manager, believes that a more rigorous approach is required if incremental returns are to be maximized.

The following table presents data relating to one set of corporate/government spread relationships (in basis points, bp) present in the market at a given date: (LO 11-5)

CURRENT AND EXPECTED SPREADS AND DURATIONS OF HIGH-GRADE CORPORATE BONDS (ONE-YEAR HORIZON)

a. Recommend purchase of either Aaa or Aa bonds for a one-year investment horizon given a goal of maximizing incremental returns.
b. Ames chooses not to rely solely on initial spread relationships. His analytical framework considers a full range of other key variables likely to impact realized incremental returns, including call provisions and potential changes in interest rates. Describe other variables that Ames should include in his analysis, and explain how each of these could cause realized incremental">Regulations
 
5. Noah Kramer, a fixed-income portfolio manager based in the country of Sevista, is considering the purchase of a Sevista government bond. Kramer decides to evaluate two strategies for implementing his investment in Sevista bonds. Table 11.6 gives the details of the two strategies, and Table 11.7 contains the assumptions that apply to both strategies.









Investment strategies (amounts are market value invested) 


TABLE 11.7   Investment strategy assumptions 


Before choosing one of the two bond investment strategies, Kramer wants to analyze how the market value of the bonds will change if an instantaneous interest rate shift occurs immediately after his investment. The details of the interest rate shift are shown in Table 11.8. Calculate, for the instantaneous interest rate shift shown in Table 11.8, the percent change in the market value of the bonds that will occur under each strategy. (LO 11-2)



TABLE 11.8   Instantaneous interest rate shift immediately after investment 

6. a. Janet Meer is a fixed-income portfolio manager. Noting that the current shape of the yield curve is flat, she considers the purchase of a newly issued, option-free corporate bond priced at par; the bond is described in Table 11.9. Calculate the duration of the bond.


TABLE 11.9   7% option-free bond, maturity = 10 years 

b. Meer is also considering the purchase of a second newly issued, option-free corporate bond, which is described in Table 11.10. She wants to evaluate this second bond's price sensitivity to an instantaneous, downward parallel shift in the yield curve of 200 basis points. Estimate the total percentage price change for the bond if the yield curve experiences an instantaneous, downward parallel shift of 200 basis points. (LO 11-2)








PART
4

Security Analysis









Chapters in This Part:
12  Macroeconomic and Industry Analysis
13  Equity Valuation
14  Financial Statement Analysis

Tell your friends or relatives that you are studying investments and they will ask you, "What stocks should I buy?" This is the question at the heart of security analysis. How do analysts choose the stocks and other securities to hold in their portfolios?
Security analysis requires a wide mix of skills. You need to be a decent economist with a good grasp of both macroeconomics and microeconomics, the former to help you form forecasts of the general direction of the market and the latter to help you assess the relative position of particular industries or firms. You need a good sense of demographic and social trends to help identify industries with bright prospects. You need to be a quick study of the ins and outs of particular industries to choose the firms that will succeed within each industry. You need a good accounting background to analyze the financial statements that firms provide to the public. You also need to have mastered corporate finance, since security analysis at its core is the ability to value a firm. In short, a good security analyst will be a generalist, with a grasp of the widest range of financial issues. This is where there is the biggest premium on "putting it all together."
The chapters in Part Four are an introduction to security analysis. We will provide you with a "top-down" approach to the subject, starting with an overview of international, macroeconomic, and industry issues, and only then progressing to the analysis of particular firms to exploit your conviction about the stock price's future movement between . Then the  this point. These topics form the core of fundamental analysis. After reading these chapters, you will have a good sense of the various techniques used to analyze stocks and the stock market.

Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition












Chapter
12

Macroeconomic and Industry Analysis

Learning Objectives:

LO12-1 Predict the effect of exchange rates as well as monetary, fiscal, and supply-side policies on business conditions.
LO12-2 Use leading, coincident, and lagging economic indicators to describe and predict the economy's path through the business cycle.
LO12-3 Predict which industries will be more or less sensitive to business-cycle fluctuations.
LO12-4 Analyze the effect of industry life cycles and competitive structure on earnings prospects.


To determine a proper price for a firm's stock, the security analyst must forecast the dividends and earnings that can be expected from the firm. This is the heart of fundamental analysis, that is, the analysis of determinants of value such as earnings prospects. Ultimately, the business success of the firm determines the dividends it can pay to shareholders and the price it will command in the stock market. Because the prospects of the firm are tied to those of the broader economy, however, valuation analyses must consider the business environment in which the firm operates. For some firms, macroeconomic and industry circumstances might have a greater influence on profits than the firm's relative performance within its industry. In other words, investors need to keep the big economic picture in mind.

fundamental analysis
The analysis of determinants of firm value, such as prospects for earnings and dividends.

Therefore, in analyzing a firm's prospects it often mak individual and institutional investors.sleading reflectes sense to start with the broad economic environment, examining the state of the aggregate economy and even the international economy. From there, one considers the implications of the outside environment on the industry in which the firm operates. Finally, the firm's position within the industry is examined.
This chapter examines the broad-based aspects of fundamental analysis—macroeconomic and industry analysis. The following two chapters cover firm-specific analysis. We begin with a discussion of international factors relevant to firm performance and move on to an overview of the significance of the key variables usually used to summarize the state of the economy. We then discuss government macroeconomic policy and the determination of interest rates. We conclude the analysis of the macroeconomic environment with a discussion of business cycles. Next, we move to industry analysis, treating issues concerning the sensitivity of the firm to the business cycle, the typical life cycle of an industry, and strategic issues that affect industry performance.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

12.1   THE GLOBAL ECONOMY
A top-down analysis of a firm's prospects must start with the global economy. The international economy might affect a firm's export prospects, the price competition it faces from foreign competitors, or the profits it makes on investments abroad. Table 12.1 shows the importance of the global macroeconomy to firms' prospects. The effects of the euro zone debt crisis were widespread in 2011, and fears of a worldwide recession dampened stock markets in virtually all countries. Market returns across the world ranged from strikingly negative to just barely positive, reflecting the feared global slowdown.


TABLE 12.1   Economic performance 

Despite the obvious importance of global macroeconomic factors, there is also considerable variation in economic performance across countries. The Greek economy was expected to continue its painful contraction, with a forecast decline in GDP of 7.5% in 2012. At the other extreme, China's rapid growth was expected to continue, with a forecast expansion in 2012 of 8.2%. You can see from the table that the European economies were expected to be under the greatest stress in 2012 as the euro crisis continued, with expected growth rates all around zero. Asia was forecast to have much healthier growth, and the so-called BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India, and China), often grouped together because of their rapid recent development, were by and large expected to continue that performance.
These data illustrate that the national economic environment can be a crucial determinant of industry performance. It is far harder for businesses to succeed in a contracting economy than in an expanding one. This observation highlights the ro to exercise the1M18le of a big-picture macroeconomic analysis as a fundamental part of the investment process.
In addition, the global environment presents political risks of considerable magnitude. The euro crisis offers a compelling illustration of the interplay between politics and economics. The prospects of a bailout for Greece, as well as support for struggling but much larger economies such as Italy or Spain, are in large part political issues, but with enormous consequences for the world economy. Government bailouts of large banks during the financial crisis of 2008-2009 were similarly the stage for pitched political battles with huge economic consequences. And, of course, the ongoing political battle over government budget deficits is of tremendous import for the economy. At this level of analysis, it is clear that politics and economics are intimately entwined.
Other political issues that are less sensational but still extremely important to economic growth and investment returns include issues of protectionism and trade policy, the free flow of capital, and the status of a nation's workforce.
One obvious factor that affects the international competitiveness of a country's industries is the exchange rate between that country's currency and other currencies. The exchange rate is the rate at which domestic currency can be converted into foreign currency. For example, in early 2012, it took about 77 Japanese yen to purchase one U.S. dollar. We would say that the exchange rate is ¥77 per dollar or, equivalently, $.013 per yen.

exchange rate
The rate at which domestic currency can be converted into foreign currency.

As exchange rates fluctuate, the dollar value of goods priced in foreign currency similarly fluctuates. For example, in 1980, the dollar-yen exchange rate was about $.0045 per yen. Since the exchange rate in 2012 was $.013 per yen, a U.S. citizen would have needed 2.88 times as many dollars in 2012 to buy a product selling for ¥10,000 as would have been required in 1980. If the Japanese producer were to maintain a fixed yen price for its product, the price expressed in U.S. dollars would nearly triple. This would make Japanese products more expensive to U.S. consumers, however, and result in lost sales. Obviously, appreciation of the yen creates a problem for Japanese producers such as automakers that must compete with U.S. producers.
The nearby box discusses Honda's response to the dramatic increase in the value of the yen. It is moving a good part of its manufacturing operations to North America to take advantage of the reduced cost of production (as measured in yen) in the U.S. and Mexico. Moreover, by moving some production to North America, Honda diversifies its exposure to future exchange rate fluctuations.
Figure 12.1 shows the change in the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar relative to the purchasing power of several major currencies in the last decade. The ratio of purchasing powers is called the "real" or inflation-adjusted exchange rate. The change in the real exchange rate measures how much more or less expensive foreign goods">Bankers' Acceptancesompute the18 have become to U.S. citizens, accounting for both exchange rate fluctuations and inflation differentials across countries. A positive value in Figure 12.1 means that the dollar has gained purchasing power relative to another currency; a negative number indicates a depreciating dollar. Therefore, the figure shows that goods priced in terms of euros or Canadian dollars became considerably more expensive to U.S. consumers in the last 10 years but that goods priced in British pounds or yen became slightly cheaper. Conversely, goods priced in U.S. dollars became more expensive to Japanese consumers but more affordable to Canadian consumers.


FIGURE 12.1
Change in real exchange rate: U.S. dollar versus major currencies, 1999-2010




On the MARKET FRONT









HONDA REVS UP OUTSIDE JAPAN
Honda Motor Co. plans to shift a major chunk of its manufacturing to North America over the next two years, bulking up production capacity in the region by as much as 40% to combat a strengthening yen that has made Japanese cars too expensive to export around the world.
The drive to bulk up in North America is led by the yen's strength against the U.S. dollar, a change that is causing Honda and other Japanese automakers to lose money on many of the vehicles they now export from Japan. A stronger yen erodes the value of dollar-denominated profit and makes exports less price competitive.
Honda, which produced 1.29 million vehicles in North America in 2010, plans to build a new plant in Celaya, Mexico, and expand all seven of its existing assembly plants, aiming to build just short of 2 million cars and trucks a year, Tetsuo Iwamura, president of American Honda, the company's North American arm, said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal.
The strategic shift is "directly linked to the yen," Mr. Iwamura said. "It is virtually impossible to make money [on exporting vehicles from Japan] in the short and medium term."
Honda's shift is indicative of the broad impact the yen is having on Japanese automakers facing a currency that has strengthened by nearly 40% in the last four years. The yen was trading at 77.89 to the dollar Tuesday and as recently as 2007 was at 120 to the dollar.
The dramatic strengthening of the yen makes it particularly hard to make money on small cars because profit margins are already thin. To help reduce the number of Fits that Honda exports from Japan, the company recently began shipping Fit cars from China to Canadian dealers as a stopgap measure.
SOURCE: Excerpted from Mike Ramsey and Neal E. Boudette, "Honda Revs Up outside Japan," The Wall Street Journal, December 21, 2011. Reprinted by permission of The Wall Street Journal, Copyright © 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.

12.2   THE DOMESTIC MACROECONOMY
The macroeconomy is the environment in which all firms operate. The importance of the macroeconomy in determining investment performance is illustrated in Figure 12.2, which compares the level of the S&P 500 stock price index to estimates of earnings per share of the S&P 500 companies. The graph shows that stock prices tend to rise along with earnings. While the exact ratio of stock price to earnings per share varies with factors such as interest rates, risk, inflation rates, and other variables, the graph does illustrate that, as a general rule, the ratio has tended to be in the range of 12 to 25. Given "normal" price-to-earnings ratios, we would expect the S&P 500 Index to fall within these boundaries. While the earnings-multiplier rule clearly is not perfect—note the dramatic increase in the P/E multiple during the dot-com boom of the late 1990s—it also seems clear that the level of the broad market and aggregate earnings do trend together. Thus, the first step in forecasting the performance of the broad market is to assess the status of the economy as a whole.


FIGURE 12.2
S&P 500 Index versus earnings per share
Source: Authors' calculations using data from The Economic Report of the President.



The ability to forecast the macroeconomy can translate into spectacular investment performance. But it is not enough to forecast the macroeconomy well. One must forecast it better than one's competitors to earn abnormal profits. In this section, we will review some of the key economic statistics used to describe the state of the macroeconomy.
Gross Domestic Product
Gross domestic product, or GDP, is the measure of the economy's total production of goods and services. Rapidly growing GDP indicates an expanding economy with ample opportunity for a firm to increase sales. Another popular measure of the economy's output is industrial production. This statistic provides a measure of economic activity more narrowly focused on the manufacturing side of the economy.

gross domestic product (GDP)
out-of-the-money ompute the18The market value of goods and services produced over a period of time.

Employment
The unemployment rate is the percentage of the total labor force (i.e., those who are either working or actively seeking employment) yet to find work. The unemployment rate measures the extent to which the economy is operating at full capacity. The unemployment rate is a statistic related to workers only, but further insight into the strength of the economy can be gleaned from the employment rate of other factors of production. For example, analysts also look at the factory capacity utilization rate, which is the ratio of actual output from factories to potential output.

unemployment rate
The ratio of the number of people classified as unemployed to the total labor force.

Inflation
Inflation is the rate at which the general level of prices is rising. High rates of inflation often are associated with "overheated" economies, that is, economies where the demand for goods and services is outstripping productive capacity, which leads to upward pressure on prices. Most governments walk a fine line in their economic policies. They hope to stimulate their economies enough to maintain nearly full employment but not so much as to bring on inflationary pressures. The perceived trade-off between inflation and unemployment is at the heart of many macroeconomic policy disputes. There is considerable room for disagreement as to the relative costs of these policies as well as the economy's relative vulnerability to these pressures at any particular time.

inflation
The es is rising.

Interest Rates
High interest rates reduce the present value of future cash flows, thereby reducing the attractiveness of investment opportunities. For this reason, real interest rates are key determinants of business investment expenditures. Demand for housing and high-priced consumer durables such as automobiles, which are commonly financed, also is highly sensitive to interest rates because interest rates affect interest payments. In Section 12.3 we will examine the determinants of real interest rates.
Budget Deficit
The budget deficit of the federal government is the difference between government spending and revenues. Any budgetary shortfall must be offset by government borrowing. Large amounts of government borrowing can force up interest rates by increasing the total demand for credit in the economy. Economists generally believe excessive government borrowing will "crowd out" private borrowing and investing by forcing up interest rates and choking off business investment.

budget deficit
The amount by which government spending exceeds government revenues.

Sentiment
Consumers' and producers' optimism or pessimism concerning the economy are important determinants of economic performance. If consumers have confidence in their future income levels, for example, they will be more willing to spend on big-ticket items. Similarly, businesses will increase production and inventory levels if they anticipate higher demand for their products. In this way, beliefs influence how much consumption and investment will be pursued and affect the aggregate demand for goods and services.
 

CONCEPT   check12.1
 
Consider an economy where the dominant industry is automobile production for domestic consumption as well as export. Now suppose the auto market is hurt by an increase in the length of time people use their cars before replacing them. Describe the probable effects of this change on (a) GDP, (b) unemployment, (c) the government budget deficit, and (d) interest rates.

12.3   INTEREST RATES
The level of interest rates is perhaps the most important macroeconomic factor to consider in one's investment analysis. Forecasts of interest rates directly affect the forecast of returns in the fixed-income market. If your expectation is that rates will increase by more than the consensus view, you will want to shy away from longer term fixed-income securities. Similarly, increases in interest rates tend to be bad news for the stock market. Unanticipated increases in rates generally are associated with stock market declines. Thus, a superior technique to forecast rates would be of immense value to an investor attempting to determine the best asset allocation for his or her portfolio.
Unfortunately, forecasting interest rates is one of the most notoriously difficult parts of applied macroeconomics. Nonetheless, we do have a good understanding of the fundamental factors that determine the level of interest rates: 1. The supply of funds from savers, primarily households.
2. The demand for funds from businesses to be used to finance physical investments in plant, equipment, and inventories.
3. The government's net supply and/or demand for funds as modified by actions of the Federal Reserve Bank.
4. The expected rate of inflation.
Although there are many different interest rates economywide (as many as there are types of securities), these rates tend to move together, so economists frequently talk as though there were a single representative rate. We can use this abstraction to gain some insights into determining the real rate of interest if we consider the supply and demand curves for funds.
Figure 12.3 shows a downward-sloping demand curve and an upward-sloping supply curve. On the horizontal axis, we measure the quantity of funds, and on the vertical axis, we measure the real rate of interest.


FIGURE 12.3
Determination of the equilibrium real rate of interest



The supply curve slopes up from left to right because the higher the real interest rate, the greater the supply of household savings. The assumption is that at higher real interest rates, households will choose to postpone some current consumption and set aside or invest more of their disposable income for future use.
The demand curve slopes down from left to right because the lower the real interest rate, the more businesses will want to invest in physical capital. Assuming that businesses rank projects by the expected real return on invested capital, firms will undertake more projects the lower the real interest rate on the funds needed to finance those projects.
Equilibrium is at the point of intersection of the supply and demand curves, point E in Figure 12.3.
The government and the central bank (the Federal Reserve) can shift these supply and demand curves either to the right or to the left through fiscal and monetary policies. For example, consider an increase in the government's budget deficit. This increases the government's borrowing demand and shifts the demand curve to the right, which causes the equilibrium real interest rate to rise to point E′. That is, a forecast that indicates higher than previously expected government borrowing increases expectations of future interest rates. The Fed can offset such a rise through an increase in the money supply, which will increase the supply of loanable funds, and shift the supply curve to the right.
Thus, while the fundamental determinants of the real interest rate are the propensity of households to save and the expected individual and institutional investors. aid="over-the-counter (OTC) market productivity (or we could say profitability) of firms' investment in physical capital, the real rate can be affected as well by government fiscal and monetary policies.
The supply and demand framework illustrated in Figure 12.3 is a reasonable first approximation to the determination of the real interest rate. To obtain the nominal interest rate, one needs to add the expected inflation rate to the equilibrium real rate. As we discussed in Section 5.4, the inflation premium is necessary for investors to maintain a given real rate of return on their investments.
While monetary policy can clearly affect nominal interest rates, there is considerable controversy concerning its ability to affect real rates. There is widespread agreement that, in the long run, the ultimate impact of an increase in the money supply is an increase in prices with no permanent impact on real economic activity. A rapid rate of growth in the money supply, therefore, ultimately would result in a correspondingly high inflation rate and nominal interest rate, but it would have no sustained impact on the real interest rate. However, in the shorter run, changes in the money supply may well have an effect on the real interest rate.
12.4   DEMAND AND SUPPLY SHOCKS
A useful way to organize your analysis of the factors that might influence the macroeconomy is to classify any impact as a supply or demand shock. A demand shock is an event that affects the demand for goods and services in the economy. Examples of positive demand shocks are reductions in tax rates, increases in the money supply, increases in government spending, or increases in foreign export demand. A supply shock is an event that influences production capacity and costs. Examples of supply shocks are changes in the price of imported oil; freezes, floods, or droughts that might destroy large quantities of agricultural crops; changes in the educational level of an economy's workforce; or changes in the wage rates at which the labor force is willing to work.

demand shock
An event that affects the demand for goods and services in the economy.


supply shock
An event that influences production capacity and costs in the economy.

Demand shocks usually are characterized by aggregate output moving in the same direction as interest rates and inflation. For example, a big increase in government spending will tend to stimulate the economy and increase GDP. It also might increase interest rates by increasing the demand for borrowed funds by the government as well as by businesses that might desire to borrow to finance new ventures. Finally, it could increase the inflation rate if the demand for goods and services is raised to a level at  emphasizing or including only stllly.or beyond the total productive capacity of the economy.
Supply shocks usually are characterized by aggregate output moving in the opposite direction of inflation and interest rates. For example, a big increase in the price of imported oil will be inflationary because costs of production will rise, which eventually will lead to increases in prices of finished goods. The increase in inflation rates over the near term can lead to higher nominal interest rates. Against this background, aggregate output will be falling. With raw materials more expensive, the productive capacity of the economy is reduced, as is the ability of individuals to purchase goods at now-higher prices. GDP, therefore, tends to fall.
How can we relate this framework to investment analysis? You want to identify the industries that will be most helped or hurt in any macroeconomic scenario you envision. For example, if you forecast a tightening of the money supply, you might want to avoid industries such as automobile producers that might be hurt by the likely increase in interest rates. We caution you again that these forecasts are no easy task. Macroeconomic predictions are notoriously unreliable. And again, you must be aware that in all likelihood your forecast will be made using only publicly available information. Any investment advantage you have will be a result only of better analysis—not better information.
12.5   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT POLICY
As the previous section would suggest, the government has two broad classes of macroeconomic tools—those that affect the demand for goods and services and those that affect their supply. For much of postwar history, demand-side policy has been of primary interest. The focus has been on government spending, tax levels, and monetary policy. Since the 1980s, however, increasing attention has also been focused on supply-side economics. Broadly interpreted, supply-side concerns have to do with enhancing the productive capacity of the economy, rather than increasing the demand for the goods and services the economy can produce. In practice, supply-side economists have focused on the appropriateness of the incentives to work, innovate, and take risks that result from our system of taxation. However, issues such as national policies on education, infrastructure (such as communication and transportation systems), and research and development also are properly regarded as part of supply-side macroeconomic policy.
Fiscal Policy
Fiscal policy refers to the government's spending and tax actions and is part of "demand-side management." Fiscal policy is probably the most direct way either to stimulate or to slow the economy. Decreases in government spending directly deflate the demand for goods and services. Similarly, increases in tax rates immediately siphon income from consumers and result in fairly rapid decreases in consumption.

fiscal policy
The use of government spending and taxing for the specific purpose of stabilizing the economy.

Ironically, although fiscal policy has the most immediate impact on the  forecast the .
 
Moreover, much of government spending, such as that for Medicare or Social Security, is nondiscretionary, meaning that it is determined by formula rather than policy and cannot be changed in response to economic conditions. This places even more rigidity into the formulation of fiscal policy.
A common way to summarize the net impact of government fiscal policy is to look at the government's budget deficit or surplus, which is simply the difference between revenues and expenditures. A large deficit means the government is spending considerably more than it is taking in by way of taxes. The net effect is to increase the demand for goods (via spending) by more than it reduces the demand for goods (via taxes), therefore, stimulating the economy.
Monetary Policy
Monetary policy refers to the manipulation of the money supply to affect the macroeconomy and is the other main leg of demand-side policy. Monetary policy works largely through its impact on interest rates. Increases in the money supply lower short-term interest rates, ultimately encouraging investment and consumption demand. Over longer periods, however, most economists believe a higher money supply leads only to a higher price level and does not have a permanent effect on economic activity. Thus, the monetary authorities face a difficult balancing act. Expansionary monetary policy probably will lower interest rates and thereby stimulate investment and some consumption demand in the short run, but these circumstances ultimately will lead only to higher prices. The stimulation/inflation trade-off is implicit in all debate over proper monetary policy.

monetary policy
Actions taken by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to influence the money supply or interest rates.

Fiscal policy is cumbersome to implement but has a fairly direct impact on the economy, while monetary policy is easily formulated and implemented but has a less immediate impact. Monetary policy is determined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Board members are appointed by the president for 14-year terms and are reasonably insulated from political pressure. The board is small enough and often sufficiently dominated by its chairperson that policy can be formulated and modulated relatively easily.
Implementation of monetary policy also is quite direct. The most widely used tool is the open market operation, in which the Fed buys or sells Treasury bonds for its own account. When the Fed buys securities, it simply writes a check, thereby increasing the money supply. (Unlike us, the Fed can pay for the securities without drawing down funds at a bank to exercise the1M18 account.) Conversely, when the Fed sells a security, the money paid for it leaves the money supply. Open market operations occur daily, allowing the Fed to fine-tune its monetary policy.
Other tools at the Fed's disposal are the discount rate, which is the interest rate it charges banks on short-term loans, and the reserve requirement, which is the fraction of deposits that banks must hold as cash on hand or as deposits with the Fed. Reductions in the discount rate signal a more expansionary monetary policy. Lowering reserve requirements allows banks to make more loans with each dollar of deposits and stimulates the economy by increasing the effective money supply.
While the discount rate is under the direct control of the Fed, it is changed relatively infrequently. The federal funds rate is by far the better guide to Federal Reserve policy. The federal funds rate is the interest rate at which banks make short-term, usually overnight, loans to each other. These loans occur because some banks need to borrow funds to meet reserve requirements, while other banks have excess funds. Unlike the discount rate, the fed funds rate is a market rate, meaning that it is determined by supply and demand rather than being set administratively. Nevertheless, the Federal Reserve Board targets the fed funds rate, expanding or contracting the money supply through open market operations as it nudges the fed funds to its targeted value. This is the benchmark short-term U.S. interest rate, and as such it has considerable influence over other interest rates in the U.S. and the rest of the world.
Monetary policy affects the economy in a more roundabout way than fiscal policy. While fiscal policy directly stimulates or dampens the economy, monetary policy works largely through its impact on interest rates. Increases in the money supply lower interest rates, which stimulates investment demand. As the quantity of money in the economy increases, investors will find that their portfolios of assets include too much money. They will rebalance their portfolios by buying securities such as bonds, forcing bond prices up and interest rates down. In the longer run, individuals may increase their holdings of stocks as well and ultimately buy real assets, which stimulates consumption demand directly. The ultimate effect of monetary policy on investment and consumption demand, however, is less immediate than that of fiscal policy.

On the MARKET FRONT


THE NEW OLD BIG THING IN ECONOMICS: J. M. KEYNES
The U.S. and dozens of other nations are returning to massive government spending as a recession fighter. Around the world, interest rates have been slashed and trillions of dollars have been committed to bailouts. But the global recession is deepening anyway. So policy makers are invoking the ideas of British economist John Maynard Keynes (pronounced "canes"), who argued in the 1930s that governments should fight the Great Depression with heavy spending. With consumer and business spending so weak, he argued, governments had to boost demand directly.
Keynesian policies fell out of favor in the 1970s, as government spending was blamed for helping to spur inflation around the world. But with the global economic turmoil being compared to the 1930s, government spending is once again back in vogue.
Critics argue that government deficits drive up interest rates and reduce investments in the private sector, which they say is more efficient at deploying capital. Still, with the U.S. economy facing 1930s-style threats, the Obama administration is looking back to the Great Depression for guidance. President Franklin Roosevelt's Works Progress Administration provided jobs to millions of Americans.
Keynesian fiscal stimulus remained popular globally into the 1960s, particularly in rebuilding Europe and Japan after the war. But limits of Keynes-inspired growth were reached in the following decades. Many countries mistimed their spending, pouring money into their economies and leading to economic overheating. Many nations also wasted their money: Japan became notorious for investing in little-used airports and bridges leading into sparsely populated islands. With the rise of Ronald Reagan and Britain's Margaret Thatcher, critics of stimulus policy came to the fore. The goal became to shrink government.
Monetary policy also began to play a bigger role, as central bankers drove up interest rates to bring down inflation. Recessions seemed to grow more distant and less painful. The era from the early 1980s until the recent crisis became known as "the Great Moderation," when economic activity and inflation became less volatile. But during this latest period of financial turmoil, monetary policy has been inadequate. The U.S. Federal Reserve lowered its interest-rate target to near zero last month, but the economy has continued to spiral downward.
So, nations are turning again to government stimulus spending to try knocking the economy back on track. Economists say that if governments can get money into the economy quickly, targeting projects that will have the biggest effect, and make sure the spending is temporary, they can avoid inflation and wasteful spending.
To ensure money is spent, the U.S. and other nations are focusing on infrastructure investment to create jobs. President-elect Barack Obama plans to use stimulus funds to repair schools, expand broadband Internet access, and put energy-efficient technologies in public buildings.
Inflation has quickly disappeared as a concern around the world. It's likely to reappear once growth perks up. That leaves a big test for the resurgence of fiscal stimulus: Once the economy revives, Mr. Keynes warned, the spending needs to be reversed and deficits cut. That's something nations have had a hard time doing.
SOURCE: Excerpted from Sudeep Reddy, "The New Old Big Thing in Economics: J. M. Keynes," The Wall Street Journal, January 8, 2009. Reprinted by permission of The Wall Street Journal, Copyright © 2009 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.

The nearby box focuses on the choices facing economic policy makers who were attempting to mitigate a developing  individual and institutional investors. aid="over-the-counter (OTC) marketrecession during the financial crisis of 2008-2009. The box touches on many of the themes of economic policy, noting for example that with short-term interest rates near zero, monetary policy had already neared its limits, forcing governments to turn to fiscal policy. The article notes the danger that huge resulting federal deficits could increase interest rates and crowd out private investment and that, as the economy recovered, such deficits would need to be trimmed quickly to avoid the risk of reigniting inflation. Indeed, as the last paragraph of the article predicts, reigning in deficits has proved to be a difficult and contentious challenge.
 

CONCEPT   check12.2
 
Suppose the government wants to stimulate the economy without increasing interest rates. What combination of fiscal and monetary policy might accomplish this goal?

Supply-Side Policies
Fiscal policy and monetary policy are demand-oriented tools that affect the economy by stimulating the total demand for goods and services. The implicit belief is that the economy will not by itself arrive at a full-employment equilibrium and that macroeconomic policy can push the economy toward this goal. In contrast, supply-side policies treat the issue of the productive capacity of the economy. The goal is to create an environment in which workers and owners of capital have the maximum incentive and ability to produce and develop goods.
Supply-side economists also pay considerable attention to tax policy. While demand-siders look at the effect of taxes on consumption demand, supply-siders focus on incentives and marginal tax rates. They argue that lowering tax rates will elicit more investment and improve incentives to work, thereby enhancing economic growth. Some go so far as to claim that reductions in tax rates can lead to increases in tax revenues because the lower tax rates will cause the economy and the revenue tax base to grow by more than the tax rate is reduced.
 

CONCEPT   check12.3
 
Large tax cuts in 2001 were followed by relatively rapid growth in GDP. How would demand-side and supply-side economists differ in their interpretations of this phenomenon?

12.6   BUSINESS CYCLES
We've looked at the tools the government uses to fine-tune the economy, attempting to maintain low unemployment and low inflation. Despite these efforts, economies ">Bankers' Acceptancesompute the18repeatedly seem to pass through good and bad times. One determinant of the broad asset allocation decision of many analysts is a forecast of whether the macroeconomy is improving or deteriorating. A forecast that differs from the market consensus can have a major impact on investment strategy.
The Business Cycle
The economy recurrently experiences periods of expansion and contraction, although the length and depth of these cycles can be irregular. These recurring patterns of recession and recovery are called business cycles. Figure 12.4 presents graphs of several measures of production and output. The production series all show clear variation around a generally rising trend. The bottom graph of capacity utilization also evidences a clear cyclical (although irregular) pattern.


FIGURE 12.4
Cyclical indicators
Source: The Conference Board, Business Cycle Indicators, December 2008. Used with permission of The Conference Board, Inc.




business cycles
Recurring cycles of recession and recovery.

The transition points across cycles are called peaks and troughs, identified by the boundaries of the shaded areas of the graph. A peak is the transition from the end of an expansion to the start of a contraction. A trough occurs at the bottom of a recession just as the economy enters a recovery. The shaded areas in Figure 12.4 all represent periods of recession.

peak
The transition from the end of an expansion to the start of a contraction.


trough
The transition point between recession and recovery.

As the economy passes through different stages of the business cycle, the relative profitability of different industry groups might be expected to vary. For example, at a trough, just before the economy begins to recover from a recession, one would expect that cyclical industries, those with above-average sensitivity to the state of the economy, would tend to outperform other industries to exercise the1M18. Examples of cyclical industries are producers of durable goods, such as automobiles or washing machines. Because purchases of these goods can be deferred during a recession, sales are particularly sensitive to macroeconomic conditions. Other cyclical industries are producers of capital goods, that is, goods used by other firms to produce their own products. When demand is slack, few companies will be expanding and purchasing capital goods. Therefore, the capital goods industry bears the brunt of a slowdown but does well in an expansion.

cyclical industries
Industries with above-average sensitivity to the state of the economy.

In contrast to cyclical firms, defensive industries have little sensitivity to the business cycle. These are industries that produce goods for which sales and profits are least sensitive to the state of the economy. Defensive industries include food producers and processors, pharmaceutical firms, and public utilities. These industries will outperform others when the economy enters a recession.

defensive industries
Industries with below-average sensitivity to the state of the economy.

The cyclical/defensive classification corresponds well to the notion of systematic or market risk introduced in our discussion of portfolio theory. When perceptions about the health of the economy become more optimistic, for example, the prices of most stocks will increase as forecasts of profitability rise. Because the cyclical firms are most sensitive to such developments, their stock prices will rise the most. Thus, firms in cyclical industries will tend to have high-beta stocks. In general, then, stocks of cyclical firms will show the best results when economic news is positive, but they will also show the worst results when that news is bad. Conversely, defensive firms will have low betas and performance that is comparatively unaffected by overall market conditions.
If your assessments of the state of the business cycle were reliably more accurate than those of other investors, choosing between cyclical and defensive industries would be easy. You would choose cyclical industries when you were relatively more optimistic about the economy, and you would choose defensive firms when you were relatively more pessimistic. As we know from our discussion of efficient markets, however, attractive investment choices will rarely be obvious. It is usually not apparent that a recession or expansion has started or ended until several months after the fact. With hindsight, the transitions from expansion to recession and back might seem obvious, but it is often quite difficult to say whether the economy is heating up or slowing down at any moment.
Economic Indicators
Given the cyclical nature of the business cycle, it is not surprising that to some extent the cycle can be predicted. The Conference Board publishes a set of cyclical indicators to help forecast, measure, and interpret short-term fluctuations in economic activity. Leading inancial leverage increases the risko  indefinitelyeconomic indicators are those economic series that tend to rise or fall in advance of the rest of the economy. Coincident and lagging indicators, as their names suggest, move in tandem with or somewhat after the broad economy.

leading economic indicators
Economic series that tend to rise or fall in advance of the rest of the economy.

Ten series are grouped into a widely followed composite index of leading economic indicators. Similarly, four coincident and seven lagging indicators form separate indexes. The composition of these indexes appears in Table 12.2.


TABLE 12.2   Indexes of economic indicators 

Figure 12.5 graphs these three series. The dates at the top of the charts correspond to the turning points between expansions and contractions. While the index of leading indicators consistently turns before the rest of the economy, the lead time is somewhat erratic. Moreover, the lead time for peaks is consistently longer than that for troughs.


FIGURE 12.5
Indexes of leading, coincident, and lagging indicators
Source: The Conference Board, Business Cycle Indicators, December 2008. Used with permission of The Conference Board, Inc.



The stock market price index is a leading indicaing predictors of future profitability. Unfortunately, this makes the series of leading indicators much less useful for investment policy—by the time the series predicts an upturn, the market has already made its move. While the business cycle may be somewhat predictable, the stock market may not be. This is just one more manifestation of the efficient market hypothesis.
The money supply is another leading indicator. This makes sense in light of our earlier discussion concerning the lags surrounding the effects of monetary policy on the economy. An expansionary monetary policy can be observed fairly quickly, but it might not affect the economy for several months. Therefore, today's monetary policy might well predict future economic activity.
Other leading indicators focus directly on decisions made today that will affect production in the near future. For example, manufacturers' new orders for goods, contracts and orders for plant and equipment, and housing starts all signal a coming expansion in the economy.
">Bankers' Acceptancesompute the18A wide range of economic indicators are released to the public on a regular "economic calendar." Table 12.3 lists the public announcement dates and sources for about 20 statistics of interest. These announcements are reported in the financial press, for example, The Wall Street Journal, as they are released. They also are avator. This is as it should be, as stock priilable at many sites on the web, for example, at Yahoo!'s site. Figure 12.6 is a brief excerpt from a recent Economic Calendar page at Yahoo!. The page gives a list of the announcements released during the week of January 3, 2012. Notice that recent forecasts of each variable are provided along with the actual value of each statistic. This is useful, because in an efficient market, security prices will already reflect market expectations. The new information in the announcement will determine the market response.


FIGURE 12.6
Economic calendar at Yahoo! for the week of January 3, 2012
Source: Yahoo! Briefing Economic Calendar, biz.yahoo.com/c/e.html, downloaded, January 10, 2012. Yahoo! Finance, finance.yahoo.com.





  TABLE 12.3   Economic calendar 

Other Indicators
You can find lots of important information about the state of the economy from sources other than the official components of the economic calendar or the components of business-cycle indicators. Table 12.4, which is derived from some suggestions in Inc. magazine, contains a few.1


TABLE 12.4   Useful economic indicators 

12.7   INDUSTRY ANALYSIS
Industry analysis is important for the same reason that macroeconomic analysis is: Just as it is difficult for an industry to perform well when the macroeconomy is ailing, it is unusual for a fi emphasizing or including only stllly.rm in a troubled industry to perform well. Similarly, just as we have seen that economic performance can vary widely across countries, performance also can vary widely across industries. Figure 12.7 illustrates the dispersion of industry performance. It shows return on equity for several major industry groups in 2011. ROE ranged from 6.7% for money center banks to 36.4% for computer systems.


FIGURE 12.7
Return on equity, 2011
Source: Yahoo! Finance, finance.yahoo.com, January 11, 2012.



Given this wide variation in profitability, it is not surprising that industry groups exhibit considerable dispersion in their stock market performance. Figure 12.8 presents the 2011 stock market performance of the same industries included in Figure 12.7. The spread in performance across industries is remarkable, ranging from a 27.8% gain in the restaurant industry to a 33.2% loss in auto manufacturing stocks. This range of performance was very much available to virtually all investors in 2011. Recall that iShares are exchange-traded funds (see Chapter 4) that trade like stocks and thus allow even small investors to take a position in each traded industry. Alternatively, one can invest in mutual funds with an industry focus. For example, Fidelity offers over 40 sector funds, each with a particular industry focus.


FIGURE 12.8
Industry stock price performance, 2011
Source: The Wall Street Journal, January 3, 2012.



Defining an Industry
While we know what we mean by an industry, it can be difficult in practice to decide where to draw the line between one industry and another. Consider, for example, one of the industries depicted in Figure 12.7, application software firms. Even within this industry, there is substantial variation by focus and product line. Their differences may result in considerable dispersion in financial performance. Figure 12.9 shows 2012 ROE for a sample of the firms included in this industry, and performance did indeed wary widely: from 15.2% for Adobe to 44.2% for Microsoft.


FIGURE 12.9
ROE of application software firms, 2012
Source: Yahoo! Finance, finance.yahoo.com, January 11, 2012.



A useful way to define industry groups in practice is given by the North American Industry Classification System, or NAICS, codes.2 These are codes assigned to group firms for statistical analysis. The first two digits of the NAICS codes denote very broad industry classifications. For example, Table 12.5 shows that the codes for all construction firms start with 23. The next digits define the industry grouping more narrowly. For example, codes starting with 236 denote building construction, 2361 denotes residential construction, and 236115 denotes single-family construction. Firms with the same four-digit NAICS codes are commonly taken to be in the same industry.


  TABLE 12.5   Examples of NAICS industry codes 


NAICS codes
Classification of firms into industry groups using numerical codes to identify industries.

Industry classifications are never perfect. For example, both JCPenney and Neiman Marcus might be classified as department stores. Yet the former is a high-volume "value" store, while the latter is a high-margin elite retailer. Are they really in the same industry? Still, these classifications are a tremendous aid in conducting industry analysis since they provide a means of focusing on very broadly or fairly narrowly defined groups of firms.
Several other industry classifications are provided by other analysts; for example, Standard & Poor's reports on the performance of about 100 industry groups. S&P computes stock price indexes for each group, which is useful in assessing past investment performance. The Value Line Investment Survey reports on the conditions and prospects of about 1,700 firms, grouped into about 90 industries. Value Line's analysts prepare forecasts of the performance of industry groups as well as of each firm.
Sensitivity to the Business Cycle
Once the analyst forecasts the state of the macroeconomy, it is necessary to determine the implication of that forecast for specific industries. Not all industries are equally sensitive to the business cycle. For example, Figure 12.10 plots changes in retail sales (year individual and institutional investors. aid="over-the-counter (OTC) market over year) in two industries: jewelry and grocery stores. Clearly, sales of jewelry, which is a luxury good, fluctuate more widely than those of grocery stores. Jewelry sales jumped in 1999 at the height of the dot-com boom but fell steeply in the recessions of 2001 and 2008-2009. In contrast, sales growth in the grocery industry is relatively stable, with no years in which sales meaningfully decline. These patterns reflect the fact that jewelry is a discretionary good, whereas most grocery products are staples for which demand will not fall significantly even in hard times.


FIGURE 12.10
Industry cyclicality. Growth in sales, year over year, in two industries.



Three factors will determine the sensitivity of a firm's earnings to the business cycle. First is the sensitivity of sales. Necessities will show little sensitivity to business conditions. Examples of industries in this group are food, drugs, and medical services. Other industries with low sensitivity are those for which income is not a crucial determinant of demand. Tobacco products are examples of this type of industry. Another industry in this group is movies, because consumers tend to substitute movies for more expensive sources of entertainment when income levels are low. In contrast, firms in industries such as machine tools, steel, autos, and transportation are highly sensitive to the state of the economy.
The second factor determining business-cycle sensitivity is operating leverage, which refers to the division between fixed and variable costs. (Fixed costs are those the firm incurs regardless of its production levels. Variable costs are those that rise or fall as the firm produces more or less product.) Firms with greater amounts of variable as opposed to fixed costs will be less sensitive to business conditions. This is because, in economic downturns, these firms can reduce costs as output falls in response to falling sales. Profits for firms with high fixed costs will swing more widely with sales because costs do not move to offset revenue variability. Firms with high fixed costs are said to have high operating leverage, as small swings in business conditions can have large impacts on profitability.
The third factor influencing business-cycle sensitivity is financial leverage, which is the use of borrowing. Interest payments on debt must be paid regardless of sales. They are fixed costs that also increase the sensitivity of profits to business conditions. We will have more to say about financial leverage in Chapter 14.
Investors should not always prefer industries with lower sensitivity to the business cycle. Firms in sensitive industries will have high-beta stocks and are riskier. But while they swing lower in downturns, they also swing higher in upturns. As always, the issue you need to address is whether the expected return on the investment is fair compensation for the risks borne.
Sector Rotation
One way that many analysts think about the relationship between industry analysis and the business cycle is the notion of sector rotation. out-of-the-money ompute the18 The idea is to shift the portfolio more heavily into industry or sector groups that are expected to outperform based on one's assessment of the state of the business cycle.

sector rotation
An investment strategy that entails shifting the portfolio into industry sectors that are expected to outperform others based on macroeconomic forecasts.

Figure 12.11 is a stylized depiction of the business cycle. Near the peak of the business cycle, the economy might be overheated with high inflation and interest rates and price pressures on basic commodities. This might be a good time to invest in firms engaged in natural resource extraction and processing such as minerals or petroleum.


FIGURE 12.11
A stylized depiction of the business cycle



Following a peak, when the economy enters a contraction or recession, one would expect defensive industries that are less sensitive to economic conditions, for example, pharmaceuticals, food, and other necessities, to be the best performers. At the height of the contraction, financial firms will be hurt by shrinking loan volume and higher default rates. Toward the end of the recession, however, contractions induce lower inflation and interest rates, which favor financial firms.
At the trough of a recession, the economy is poised for recovery and subsequent expansion. Firms might thus be spending on purchases of new equipment to meet anticipated increases in demand. This, then, would be a good time to invest in capital goods industries, such as equipment, transportation, or construction.
Finally, in an expansion, the economy is growing rapidly. Cyclical industries such as consumer durables and luxury items will be most profitable in this stage of the cycle. Banks might also do well in expansions, since loan volume will be high and default exposure low when the economy is growing rapidly.
Figure 12.12 illustrates sector rotation. When investors are relatively pessimistic about the economy, they will shift into noncyclical industries such as consumer staples or health care. When anticipating an expansion, they will prefer more cyclical industries such as materials and technology.


FIGURE 12.12
Sector rotation



Let us emphasize again that sector rotation, like any other form of market timing, will be successful only if one anticipates the next stage of the business cycle better than other investors. The business cycle depicted in Figure 12.11 is highly stylized. In real life, it is never as clear how long each phase of the cycle will last, nor how extreme it will be. These forecasts are where analysts need to earn their keep.
 

CONCEPT   check12.4
 
In which phase of the business cycle would you expect the following industries to enjoy their best performance?
(a) Newspapers
(b) Machine tools
(c) Beverages
(d) Timber

Industry Life Cycles
Examine the biotechnology industry and you will find many firms with high rates of investment, high rates of return on investment, and very low dividends as a percentage of profits. Do the same for the electric utility industry and you will find lower rates of return, lower investment rates, and higher dividend payout rates. Why should this be?
The biotech industry is still new. Recently available technologies have created opportunities for the highly profitable investment of resources. New products are protected by patents, and profit margins are high. With such lucrative investment opportunities, firms find it advantageous to put all profits back into the firm. The companies grow rapidly on average.
Eventually, however, growth must slow. The high profit rates will induce new firms to enter the industry. Increasing competition will hold down prices and profit margins. New technologies become proven and more predictable, risk levels fall, and entry becomes even easier. As internal investment opportunities become less attractive, a lower fraction of profits is reinvested in the firm. Cash dividends increase.
Ultimately, in a mature industry, we observe "cash cows," firms with stable dividends and cash flows and little risk. Their growth rates might be similar to that of the overall economy. Industries in early stages of their life cycles offer high-risk/high-potential-return investments. Mature industries offer lower-risk, lower-return combinations.
This analysis suggests that a typical industry life cycle might be described by four stages: a start-up stage characterized by extremely rapid growth; a consolidation stage characterized by growth that is less rapid but still faster than that of the general economy; a maturity stage characterized by growth no faster than the general economy; and a stage of relative decline, in which the industry grows less rapidly than the rest of the economy or actually shrinks. This industry life cycle is illustrated in Figure 12.13. Let us turn to an elaboration of each of these stages.


FIGURE 12.13
The industry life cycle




industry life cycle
Stages through which firms typically pass as they mature.

Start-up stage The early stages of an industry are often characterized by a new technology or product, such as desktop personal computers in the 1980s, cell phones in the 1990s, or the new generation of 4G smart phones being introduced today. At this stage, it is difficult to predict which firms will emerge as industry leaders. Some firms will turn out to be wildly successful, and others will fail altogether. Therefore, there is considerable risk in selecting one particular firm within the industry. For example, in the smart phone industry, there is still a battle among competing technologies, such as Google's Android phones versus Apple's iPhone, and it is still difficult to predict ultimate market shares.
At the industry level, however, it is clear that sales and earnings will grow at an extremely rapid rate since the new product has not yet saturated its market. For example, in 2000 very few households had smart phones. The potential market for the product therefore was huge. In contrast to this situation, consider the market for a mature product like refrigerators. Almost all households in the U.S. already have refrigerators, so the market for this good is primarily composed of households replacing old ones. Obviously, the growth rate in this market in the next decade will be far lower than for smart phones.
Consolidation stage After a product becomes established, industry leaders begin to emerge. The survivors from the start-up stage are more stable, and market share is easier to predict. Therefore, the performance of the surviving firms will more closely track the performance of the overall industry. The industry still grows faster than the rest of the economy as the product penetrates the marketplace and becomes more commonly used.
Maturity stage At this point, the product has reached its potential for use by consumers. Further growth might merely track growth in the general economy. The product has become far more standardized, and producers are forced to compete to a greater extent on the basis of price. This leads to narrower profit margins and further pressure on profits. Firms at this stage sometimes are characterized as "cash cows," firms with reasonably stable cash flow but offering little opportunity for profitable expansion. The cash flow is best "milked from" rather than reinvested in the company.
We pointed to desktop personal computers as a start-up industry in the 1980s. By the mid-1990s it was a mature industry, with high market penetration, considerable price competition, low profit margins, and slowing sales. By the 1990s, desktops were progressively giving way to laptops, which were in their own start-up stage. Within a dozen years, laptops had individual and institutional investors. aid="over-the-counter (OTC) market in turn entered a maturity stage, with standardization, considerable market penetration, and dramatic price competition. Today, tablet computers are in a start-up stage.
Relative decline In this stage, the industry might grow at less than the rate of the overall economy, or it might even shrink. This could be due to obsolescence of the product, competition from new products, or competition from new low-cost suppliers; consider, for example, the steady displacement of desktops by laptops.
At which stage in the life cycle are investments in an industry most attractive? Conventional wisdom is that investors should seek firms in high-growth industries. This recipe for success is simplistic, however. If the security prices already reflect the likelihood for high growth, then it is too late to make money from that knowledge. Moreover, high growth and fat profits encourage competition from other producers. The exploitation of profit opportunities brings about new sources of supply that eventually reduce prices, profits, investment returns, and, finally, growth. This is the dynamic behind the progression from one stage of the industry life cycle to another. The famous portfolio manager Peter Lynch makes this point in One Up on Wall Street. He says: Many people prefer to invest in a high-growth industry, where there's a lot of sound and fury. Not me. I prefer to invest in a low-growth industry. . . . In a low-growth industry, especially one that's boring and upsets people [such as funeral homes or the oil-drum retrieval business], there's no problem with competition. You don't have to protect your flanks from potential rivals . . . and this gives [the individual firm] the leeway to continue to grow. [page 131]
In fact, Lynch uses an industry classification system in a very similar spirit to the life-cycle approach we have described. He places firms in the following six groups: 1. Slow growers. Large and aging companies that will grow only slightly faster than the broad economy. These firms have matured from their earlier fast-growth phase. They usually have steady cash flow and pay a generous dividend, indicating that the firm is generating more cash than can be profitably reinvested in the firm.
2. Stalwarts. Large, well-known firms like Coca-Cola or Colgate-Palmolive. They grow faster than the slow growers but are not in the very rapid growth start-up stage. They also tend to be in noncyclical industries that are relatively unaffected by recessions.
3. Fast growers. Small and aggressive new firms with annual growth rates in the neighborhood of 20% to 25%. Company growth can be due to broad industry growth or to an increase in market share in a more mature industry.
4. Cyclicals. These are firms with sales and profits that regularly expand and contract along with the business cycle. Examples are auto companies, steel companies, or the to purchase the asset at the  between . Calculate  construction industry.
5. Turnarounds. These are firms that are in bankruptcy or soon might be. If they can recover from what might appear to be imminent disaster, they can offer tremendous investment returns. A good example of this type of firm would be Chrysler in 1982, when it required a government guarantee on its debt to avoid bankruptcy. The stock price rose 15-fold in the next five years.
6. Asset plays. These are firms that have valuable assets not currently reflected in the stock price. For example, a company may own or be located on valuable real estate that is worth as much or more than the company's business enterprises. Sometimes the hidden asset can be tax-loss carryforwards. Other times the assets may be intangible. For example, a cable company might have a valuable list of cable subscribers. These assets do not immediately generate cash flow and so may be more easily overlooked by other analysts attempting to value the firm.
Industry Structure and Performance
The maturation of an industry involves regular changes in the firm's competitive environment. As a final topic, we examine the relationship between industry structure, competitive strategy, and profitability. Michael Porter (1980, 1985) has highlighted these five determinants of competition: threat of entry from new competitors, rivalry between existing competitors, price pressure from substitute products, the bargaining power of buyers, and the bargaining power of suppliers.
Threat of entry New entrants to an industry put pressure on price and profits. Even if a firm has not yet entered an ial for it to do so places pressure on prices, since high prices and profit margins will encourage entry by new competitors. Therefore, barriers to entry can be a key determinant of industry profitability. Barriers can take many forms. For example, existing firms may already have secure distribution channels for their products based on long-standing relationships with customers or suppliers that would be costly for a new entrant to duplicate. Brand loyalty also makes it difficult for new entrants to penetrate a market and gives firms more pricing discretion. Proprietary knowledge or patent protection also may give firms advantages in serving a market. Finally, an existing firm's experience in a market may give it cost advantages due to the learning that takes place over time.
Rivalry between existing competitors When there are several competitors in an industry, there will generally be more price competition and lower profit margins as competitors seek to expand their share of the market. Slow industry growth contributes to this competition since expansion must come at the expense of a rival's market share. High fixed costs also create pressure to reduce prices since fixed costs put greater pressure on firms to operate near full capacity. Industries producing relatively homogeneous goods also are subject to considerable price pressure since firms cannot compete on the basis of product differentiation.
Pressure from substitute products Substitute products mean that the industry faces competition from firms in related industries to purchase the asset at the  between . Calculate . For example, sugar producers compete with corn syrup producers. Wool producers compete with synthetic fiber producers. The availability of substitutes limits the prices that can be charged to customers.
Bargaining power of buyers If a buyer purchases a large fraction of an industry's output, it will have considerable bargaining power and can demand price concessions. For example, auto producers can put pressure on suppliers of auto parts. This reduces the profitability of the auto parts industry.
Bargaining power of suppliers If a supplier of a key input has monopolistic control over the product, it can demand higher prices for the good and squeeze profits out of the industry. One special case of this issue pertains to organized labor as a supplier of a key input to the production process. Labor unions engage in collective bargaining to increase the wages paid to workers. When the labor market is highly unionized, a significant share of the potential profits in the industry can be captured by the workforce.
The key factor determining the bargaining power of suppliers is the availability of substitute products. If substitutes are available, the supplier has little clout and cannot extract higher prices.







SUMMARY
• Macroeconomic policy aims to maintain the economy near full employment without aggravating inflationary pressures. The proper trade-off between these two goals is a source of ongoing debate.
• The traditional tools of macro policy are government spending and tax collection, which constitute fiscal policy, and manipulation of the money supply via monetary policy. Expansionary fiscal policy can stimulate the economy and increase GDP but tends to increase interest rates. Expansionary monetary policy works by lowering interest rates.
• The business cycle is the economy's recurring pattern of expansions and recessions. Leading economic indicators can be used to anticipate the evolution of the business cycle because their values tend to change before those of other key economic variables.
• Industries differ in their sensitivity to the business cycle. More sensitive industries tend to be those producing high-priced durable goods for which the consumer has considerable discretion as to the timing of purchase. Examples are automobiles or consumer durables. Other sensitive industries are those that produce capital equipment for other firms. Operating leverage and financial leverage increase sensitivity to the business cycle.







KEY TERMS
budget deficit
business cycles
cyclical industries defensive industries
demand shock
exchange rate
fiscal policy
fundamental analysis
gross domestic product (GDP) industry life cycle
inflation
leading economic indicators monetary policy
peak
sector rotation
NAICS codes
supply shock
trough
unemployment rate







PROBLEM SETS
 Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance. Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.
Basic

1. What are the differences between bottom-up and top-down approaches to security valuation? What are the advantages of a top-down approach? (LO 12-1)
2. Why does it make intuitive sense that the slope of the yield curve is considered a leading economic indicator? (LO 12-2)
3. Which one of the following firms would be described as having below-average sensitivity to the state of the economy? (LO 12-3)
a. An asset pinancial leverage increases the risko  indefinitelylay firm b. A cyclical firm
c. A defensive firm
d. A stalwart firm
4. The price of imported oil fell dramatically in late 2008. What sort of macroeconomic shock would this be considered? (LO 12-1)
5. How do each of the following affect the sensitivity of profits to the business cycle? (LO 12-3)
a. Financial leverage
b. Operating leverage
6. The present value of a firm's projected cash flows are $15 million. The break-up value of the firm if you were to sell the major assets and divisions separately would be $20 million. This is an example of what Peter Lynch would call a(n): (LO 12-4)
a. Stalwart
b. Slow-growth firm
c. Turnaround
d. Asset play
7. Define each of the following in the context of a business cycle. (LO 12-2)
a. Peak
b. Contraction
c. Trough
d. Expansion



8. Which of the following is consistent with a steeply upwardly sloping yield curve? (LO 12-2)


a. Monetary policy is expansive and fiscal policy is expansive.
b. Monetary policy is expan out-of-the-money ompute the18sive while fiscal policy is restrictive.
c. Monetary policy is restrictive and fiscal policy is restrictive.



9. Which of the following is not a governmental structural policy that supply-side economists believe would promote long-term growth in an economy? (LO 12-1)

a. A redistributive tax system.
b. A promotion of competition.
c. Minimal government interference in the economy.
10. What is typically true of corporate dividend payout rates in the early stages of an industry life cycle? Why does this make sense? (LO 12-4)
11. If the nominal interest rate is 9% and the inflation rate is 6%, then what is the real interest rate? (LO 12-1)
12. FinanceCorp has fixed costs of $15 million and profits of $10 million. What is its degree of operating leverage (DOL)? (LO 12-3)
Intermediate
13. Choose an industry and identify the factors that will determine its performance in the next three years. What is your forecast for performance in that time period? (LO 12-3)
14. What monetary and fiscal policies might be prescribed for an economy in a deep recession? (LO 12-1)
15. If you believe the U.S. dollar is about to depreciate more dramatically than do other investors, what will be your stance on investments in U.S. auto producers? (LO 12-1)
16. Unlike other investors, you believe the Fed is going to dramatically loosen monetary policy. What would be your recommendations about investments in the following industries? (LO 12-1)
a. Gold mining
b. Construction
17. Consider two firms producing smart phones. One uses a highly automated robotics process, while the other uses human workers on an assembly line and pays overtime when there is heavy production demand. (LO 12-3)
a. Which firm will have higher profits in a recession? In a boom?
b. Which firm's stock will have a higher beta?
18. According to supply-side economists, what will be the long-run impact on prices of a reduction in income tax rates? (LO 12-1)
19. Here are four industries and four forecasts for the macroeconomy. Choose the industry that you would expect to perform best in each scenario. (LO 12-3)
Industries: housing construction, health care, gold mining, steel production.
Economic Forecasts:
Deep recession: falling inflation, falling interest rates, falling GDP.
Superheated economy: rapidly rising GDP, increasing inflation and interest rates.
Healthy expansion: rising GDP, mild inflation, low unemployment.
Stagflation: falling GDP, high inflation.
20. For each pair of firms, choose the one that you think would be more sensitive to the business cycle. (LO 12-3)
a. General Autos or General Pharmaceuticals b. Friendly Airlines or Happy Cinemas 21. In which stage of the industry life cycle would you place the following industries? (Warning: There is considerable room for disagreement concerning the "correct" answers to this question.) (LO 12-4)
a. Oil well equipment
b. Computer hardware
Computer software d. Genetic engineering
e. Railroads
22. Why do you think the index of consumer expectations is a useful leading indicator of the macroeconomy? (See Table 12.2.) (LO 12-2)
23. Why do you think the change in the index of labor cost per unit of output is a useful lagging indicator of the macroeconomy? (See Table 12.2.) (LO 12-2)
24. You have $5,000 to invest for the next year and are considering three alternatives: a. A money market fund with an average maturity of 30 days offering a current annualized yield of 3%.
b. A one-year savings deposit at a bank offering an interest rate of 4.5%.
c. A 20-year U.S. Treasury bond offering a yield to maturity of 6% per year.
What role does your forecast of future interest rates play in your decision? (LO 12-1)
25. General Weedkillers dominates the chemical weed control market with its patented product Weed-ex. The patent is about to expire, however. What are your forecasts for changes in the industry? Specifically, what will happen to industry prices, sales, the profit prospects of General Weedkillers, and the profit prospects of its competitors? What stage of the industry life cycle do you think is relevant for the analysis of this market? (LO 12-4)

Use the following case in answering Problems 26-28: Institutional Advisors for All Inc., or IAAI, is a consulting firm that primarily advises all types of institutions such as foundations, endowments, pension plans, and insurance companies. IAAI also provides advice to a select group of individual investors with large portfolios. One of the claims the firm makes in its advertising is that IAAI devotes considerable resources to forecasting and determining long-term trends; then it uses commonly accepted investment models to determine how these trends should affect the performance of various investments. The members of the research department of IAAI recently reached to exercise the1M18 some conclusions concerning some important macroeconomic trends. For instance, they have seen an upward trend in job creation and consumer confidence and predict that this should continue for the next few years. Other domestic leading indicators that the research department at IAAI wishes to consider are industrial production, average weekly hours in manufacturing, S&P 500 stock prices, M2 money supply, and the index of consumer expectations.







Chapter
13

Equity Valuation

Learning Objectives:

LO13-1 Use financial statements and market comparables to estimate firm value.
LO13-2 Calculate the intrinsic value of a firm using either a constant-growth or multistage dividend discount model.
LO13-3 Assess the growth prospects of a firm, and relate growth opportunities to the P/E ratio.
LO13-4 Value a firm using free cash flow models.


You saw in our discussion of market efficiency that finding undervalued securities is hardly easy. At the same time, there are enough chinks in the armor of the efficient market hypothesis that the search for such securities should not be dismissed out of hand. Moreover, it is the ongoing search for mispriced securities that maintains a nearly efficient market. Even minor mispricing would allow a stock market analyst to earn his salary.
This chapter describes the ways stock market analysts try to uncover mispriced securities. The models presented are those used by fundamental analysts, those analysts who use information concerning the current and prospective profitability of a company to assess its fair market value. Fundamental analysts are different from technical analysts, who largely use trend analysis to uncover trading opportunities.
We start with a discussion of alternative measures of the value of a company. From there, we progress to quantitative tools called dividend discount models that security analysts commonly use to measure the value of a firm as an ongoing concern. Next, we turn to price-earnings, or P/E, ratios, explaining why they are of such interest to analysts but also highlighting some of their shortcomings. We explain how P/E ratios are tied to dividend valuation models and, more generally, to the growth prospects of the firm.
We close the chapter with a discussion and extended example of free cash flow models used by analystss="bodytext" style=";color:black;">Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

13.1   VALUATION BY COMPARABLES
The purpose of fundamental analysis is to identify stocks that are mispriced relative to some measure of "true" value that can be derived from observable financial data. Of course, true value can only be estimated. In practice, stock analysts use models to estimate the fundamental value of a corporation's stock from observable market data and from the financial statements of the firm and its competitors. These valuation models differ in the specific data they use and in the level of their theoretical sophistication. But, at their heart, most of them use the notion of valuation by comparables: They look at the relationship between price and various determinants of value for similar firms and then extrapolate that relationship to the firm in question.inancial leverage increases the risko  by selling
The Internet makes it convenient to obtain relevant data. For U.S. companies, the Securities and Exchange Commission provides information available to the public at its EDGAR website, www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml. The SEC requires all public companies (except foreign companies and companies with less than $10 million in assets and 500 shareholders) to file registration statements, periodic reports, and other forms electronically through EDGAR. Many websites such as finance.yahoo.com, money.msn.com, and finance.google.com also provide analysis and data derived from the EDGAR reports.
Table 13.1 shows some financial highlights for Microsoft as well as some comparable data for other firms in the software applications industry. The price per share of Microsoft's common stock is $28.25, and the total market value or capitalization of those shares (called market cap for short) is $237.6 billion. Under the heading "Valuation," Table 13.1 shows the ratio of Microsoft's stock price to five benchmarks. Its share price is 10.3 times its (per-share) earnings in the most recent 12 months, 4 times its recent book value, 3.3 times its sales, and 13.9 times its cash flow. The last valuation ratio, PEG, is the P/E ratio divided by the growth rate of earnings. We would expect more rapidly growing firms to sell at higher multiples of current earnings (more on this below), so PEG normalizes the P/E ratio by the growth rate.
These valuation ratios are commonly used to assess the valuation of one firm compared to others in the same industry, and we will consider all of them. The column to the right gives comparable ratios for other firms in the software applications industry. For example, an analyst might note that Microsoft's price-earnings ratio and price/CF ratio are both considerably below the industry average. Similarly, Microsoft's ratio of market value to book value, the net worth of the company as reported on the balance sheet, is also considerably below industry norms, 4 versus 10.5. These ratios might indicate that its stock is underpriced. However, Microsoft is a more mature firm than many in the industry, and perhaps this discrepancy reflects a lower expected future growth rate of sales. In fact, its PEG ratio is comparable to others in the industry. Clearly, rigorous valuation models will be necessary to sort through these sometimes conflicting signals of value.









book value
The net worth of common equity according to a firm's balance sheet.
Limitations of Book Value to exercise the1M4
Shareholders in a firm are sometimes called "residual claimants," which means that the value of their stake is what is left over when the liabilities of the firm are subtracted from its assets. Shareholders' equity is this net worth. However, the values of both assets and liabilities recognized in financial statements are based on historical—not current—values. For example, the book value of an asset equals the original cost of acquisition less some adjustment for depreciation, even if the market price of that asset has changed over time. Moreover, depreciation allowances are used to allocate the original cost of the asset over several years but do not reflect loss of actual value.


  TABLE 13.1   Financial highlights for Microsoft, January 2012



Whereas book values are based on original cost, market values measure current values of assets and liabilities. The market value of the shareholders' equity investment equals the difference between the current values of all assets and liabilities. We've emphasized that current values generally will not match historical ones. Equally or even more important, many assets, for example, the value of a good brand name or specialized expertise developed over many years, may not even be included on the financial statements but certainly influence market price. Market prices reflect the value of the firm as a going concern.
Can book value represent a "floor" for the stock's price, below which level the market price can never fall? Although Microsoft's book value per share is considerably less than its market price, other evidence disproves this notion. While it is not common, there are always some firms selling at a market price below book value. In early 2012, for example, such troubled firms included Sprint/Nextel, Citigroup, Mitsubishi, and AOL.
A better measure of a floor for the stoV9">liquidation value per share. This represents the amount of money that could be realized by breaking up the firm, selling its assets, repaying its debt, and distributing the remainder to the shareholders. If the market price of equity drops below the liquidation value of the firm, the firm becomes attractive as a takeover target. A corporate raider would find it profitable to buy enough shares to gain control and then actually liquidate because the liquidation value exceeds the value of the business as a going concern.

liquidation value
Net amount that can be realized by selling the assets of a firm and paying off the debt.

Another measure of firm value is the replacement cost of assets less inancial leverage increases the risko  by sellingliabilities. Some analysts believe the market value of the firm cannot get too far above its replacement cost for long because, if it did, competitors would enter the market. The competitive pressure would drive down the market value of all firms until they fell to replacement cost.

replacement cost
Cost to replace a firm's assets.

This idea is popular among economists, and the ratio of market price to replacement cost is known as Tobin's q, after the Nobel Prize-winning economist James Tobin. In the long run, according to this view, the ratio of market price to replacement cost will tend toward 1, but the evidence is that this ratio can differ significantly from 1 for very long periods of time.

Tobin's q,
Ratio of market value of the firm to replacement cost.

Although focusing on the balance sheet can give some useful information about a firm's liquidation value or its replacement cost, the analyst usually must turn to expected future cash flows for a better estimate of the firm's value as a going concern. We therefore turn to the quantitative models that analysts use to value common stock based on forecasts of future earnings and dividends.
13.2   INTRINSIC VALUE VERSUS MARKET PRICE
The most popular model for assessing the value of a firm as a going concern starts from the observation that the return on a stock investment comprises cash dividends and capital gains or losses. We begin by assuming a one-year holding period and supposing that ABC stock has an expected dividend per share, E(D1), of $4; that the current price of a share, P0, is $48; and that the expected price at the end of a year, E(P1), is $52. For now, don't worry about how you derive your forecast of next year's price. At this point we ask only whether the stock seems attractively priced today given your forecast of next year's price.
The expected holding-period return is E(D1) plus the expected price appreciation, E">Bankers' Acceptancesompute the4(P1) - P0, all divided by the current price P0.

Note that E( ) denotes an expected future value. Thus, E(P1) represents the expectation today of the stock price one year from now. E(r) is referred to as the stock's expected holding-period return. It is the sum of the expected dividend yield, E(D1)/P0, and the expected rate of price appreciation, the capital gains yield, [E(P1) - P0]/P0.
But what is the required rate of return for ABC stock? The capital asset pricing model (CAPM) asserts that when stock market prices are at equilibrium levels, the rate of return that investors can expect to earn on a security is rf + β[E(rM ) - rf]. Thus, the CAPM may be viewed as providing an estimate of the rate of return an investor can reasonably expect to earn on a security given its risk as measured by beta. This is the return that investors will require of any other investment with equivalent risk. We will denote this required rate of return as k. If a stock is priced "correctly," it will offer investors a "fair" return, that is, its expected return will equal its required return. Of course, the goal of a security analyst is to find stocks that are">Bankers' Acceptancesompute the4 mispriced. For example, an underpriced stock will provide an expected return greater than the required return.
Suppose that rf = 6%, E(rM ) - rf = 5%, and the beta of ABC is 1.2. Then the value of k is

The rate of return the investor expects exceeds the required rate based on ABC's risk by a margin of 4.7%. Naturally, the investor will want to include more of ABC stock in the portfolio than a passive strategy would dictate.
Another way to see this is to compare the intrinsic value of a share of stock to its market price. The intrinsic value, denoted V0, of a share of stock is defined as the present value of all cash payments to the investor in the stock, including dividends as well as the proceeds from the ultimate sale of the stock, discounted at the appropriate risk-adjusted interest rate, k. Whenever the intrinsic value, or the investor's own estimate of what the stock is really worth, exceeds the market price, the stock is considered undervalued and a good investment. For ABC, using a one-year investment horizon and a forecast that the stock can be sold at the end of the year at price P1 = $52, the intrinsic value is

intrinsic value
The present value of a firm's expected future net cash flows discounted by the required rate of return.


Equivalently, at a price of $50, the investor would derive a 12% rate of return—just equal to the required rate of return—on an investment in the stock. However, at the current price of $48, the stock is underpriced compared to intrinsic value. At this price, it provides better than a fair rate of return relative to its risk. Using the terminology of the CAPM, it is a positive-alpha stock, and investors will want to buy more of it than they would following a passive strategy.
In contrast, if the intrinsic value turns out to be lower than the current market price, investors should buy less of it than under the passive strategy. It might even pay to go short on ABC stock, as we to exercise the1M4 discussed in Chapter 3.
In market equilibrium, the current market price will reflect the intrinsic value estimates of all market participants. This means the individual investor whose V0 estimate differs from the market price, P0, in effect must disagree with some or all of the market-consensus estimates of E(D1), E(P1), or k. A common term for the market-consensus value of the required rate of return, k, is the market capitalization rate, which we use often throughout this chapter.

market capitalization rate
The market-consensus estimate of the appropriate discount rate for a firm's cash flows.

 

CONCEPT   check13.1
 
You expect the price of IBX stock to be $59.77 per share a year from now. Its current market price is $50, and you expect it to pay a dividend one year from now of $2.15 per share.
a. What are the stock's expected dividend yield, rate of price appreciation, and expected holding-period return?
b. If the stock has a beta of 1.15, the risk-free rate is 6% per year, and the expected rate of return on the market portfolio is 14% per year, what is the required rate of return on IBX stock?
c. What is the intrinsic value of IBX stock, and how does it compare to the current market price?

13.3   DIVIDEND DISCOUNT MODELS
Consider an investor who buys a share of Steady State Electronics stock, planning to hold it for one year. The intrinsic value of the share is the present value emphasizing or including only stllar. of the dividend to be received at the end of the first year, D1, and the expected sales price, P1. We will henceforth use the simpler notation P1 instead of E(P1) to avoid clutter. Keep in mind, though, that future prices and dividends are unknown, and we are dealing with expected values, not certain values. We've already established that

While this year's dividend is fairly predictable given a company's history, you might ask how we can estimate P1, the year-end price. According to Equation 13.1, V1 (the year-end value) will be

If we assume the stock will be selling for its intrinsic value next year, then V1 = P1, and we can substitute this value for P1 into Equation 13.1 to find

This equation may be interpreted as the present value of dividends plus sales price for a two-year holding period. Of course, now we need to come up with a forecast of P2. Continuing in the same way, we can replace P2 by (D3 + P3)/(1 + k), which relates P0 to the value of dividends plus the expected sales price for a three-year holding period.
More generally, for a holding period of H years, we can write the stock value as the present value of dividends over the H years plus the ultimate sales price, PH">Bankers' Acceptancesompute the4.

Note the similarity between this formula and the bond valuation formula developed in Chapter 10. Each relates price to the present value of a stream of payments (coupons in the case of bonds, dividends in the case of stocks) and a final payment (the face value of the bond or the sales price of the stock). The key differences in the case of stocks are the uncertainty of dividends, the lack of a fixed maturity date, and the unknown sales price at the horizon date. Indeed, one can continue to substitute for price indefinitely to conclude

Equation 13.3 states the stock price should equal the present value of all expected future dividends into perpetuity. This formula is called the dividend discount model (DDM) of stock prices.

dividend discount model (DDM)
A formula for the intrinsic value of a firm equal to the present value of all expected future dividends.

It is tempting, but incorrect, to conclude from Equation 13.3 that the DDM focuses exclusively on dividends and ignores capital gains as a motive for investing in stock. Indeed, we assume explicitly in Equation 13.1 that capital gains (as reflected in the expected sales price, P1) are part of the stock's value. At the same time, the price at which you can sell a stock in the future depends on dividend forecasts at that time.
The reason only dividends appear in Equation 13.3 is not that investors ignore capital gains. It is instead that those capital gains will be determined by dividend forecasts at the time the stock is sold. That is why in Equation 13.2 we can write the stock price as the present value of dividends plus sales price for any horizon date. PH is the present value at time H of all dividends expected to be paid after the horizon date. That value is then discounted back to today, time 0. The DDM asserts that stock prices are determined ultimately by the cash flows accruing to stockholders, and those are dividends.
The Constant-Growth DDM
Equation 13.3 as it stands is still not very useful in valuing a stock because it requires dividend forecasts for every year into the indefinite future. To make the DDM practical, we need to introduce some simplifying assumptions. A useful and common first pass at the problem is to assume that dividends are trending upward at a stable growth rate that we will call g. For example, if g emphasizing or including only stllar. = .05 and the most recently paid dividend was D0 = 3.81, expected future dividends are

Using these dividend forecasts in Equation 13.3, we solve for intrinsic value as

This equation can be simplified to

Note in Equation 13.4 that we divide D1 (not D0) by k - g to calculate intrinsic value. If the market capitalization rate for Steady State is 12%, we can use Equation 13.4 to show that the intrinsic value of a share of Steady State stock is

Equation 13.4 is called the constant-growth DDM or the Gordon model, after Myron J. Gordon, who popularized the model. It should remind you of the formula for the present value of a perpetuity. If dividends were expected not to grow, then the dividend stream would be a simple perpetuity, and the valuation formula for such a nongrowth stock would be P0 = D1/k.1 Equation 13.4 is a generalization of the perpetuity formula to cover the case of a growing perpetuity. As g increases, the stock price also rises.

constant-growth DDM
A form of the dividend discount model that assumes dividends will grow at a constant rate.



EXAMPLE 13.1


Preferred Stock and the DDM
Preferred stock that pays a fixed dividend can be valued using the constant-growth dividend discount model. The constant growth">Bankers' Acceptancesompute the4 rate of dividends is simply zero. For example, to value a preferred stock paying a fixed dividend of  2TYR (Turkish Lira) per share when the discount rate is 8%, we compute





EXAMPLE 13.2


The Constant-Growth DDM
High Flyer Industries has just paid its annual dividend of £3 per share. The dividend is expected to grow at a constant rate of 8% indefinitely. The beta of High Flyer stock is 1, the risk-free rate is 6%, and the market risk premium is 8%. What is the intrinsic value of the stock? What would be your estimate of intrinsic value if you believed that the stock was riskier, with a beta of 1.25?
Because a £3 dividend has just been paid and the growth rate of dividends is 8%, the forecast for the year-end dividend is £3 × 1.08 = &# class="generated-style" aid="SJHCF"> 1.0 × 8% = 14%. Therefore, the value of the stock is

If the stock is perceived to be riskier, its value must be lower. At the higher beta, the market capitalization rate is 6% + 1.25 × 8% = 16%, and the stock is worth only



The constant-growth DDM is valid only when g is less than k. If dividends were expected to grow forever at a rate faster than k, the value of the stock would be infinite. If an analyst derives an estimate of g that is greater than k, that growth rate must be unsustainable in the long run. The appropriate valuation model to use in this case is a multistage DDM such as those discussed below.
The constant-growth DDM is so widely used by stock market analysts that it is worth exploring some of its implications and limitations. The constant growth rate DDM implies that a stock's value will be greater:
1. The larger its expected dividend per share.
2. The lower the market capitalization rate, k.
3. The higher the expected growth rate of dividends.
Another implication of the constant-growth model is that the stock price is expected to grow at the same rate as dividends. To see this, suppose Steady State stock is selling at its intrinsic value of $57.14, so that V0 = P0. Then

Note that price is proportional to dividends. Therefore, next year, when the dividends paid to Steady State stockholders are expected to be higher by g = 5%, price also should increase by 5%. To confirm this, note

which is 5% higher than the current price of $57.14. To generalize

Therefore, the DDM implies that, in the case of constant expected growth of dividends, the expected rate of price appreciation in any year will equal that constant growth rate, g. For a stock whose market price equals its intrinsic value (V0 = P0) the expected holding-period return will be

This formula offers a means to infer the market capitalization rate of a stock, for if the stock is selling at its intrinsic value, then E(r) = k, implying that k = D1/P0 + g. By observing the dividend yield, D1/P0, and estimating the growth rate of dividends, we can compute k. This equation is known also as the discounted cash flow (DCF) formula.
This is an approach often used in rate hearings for regulated public utilities. The regulatory agency responsible for approving utility pricing decisions is mandated to allow the firms to charge just enough to cover costs plus a "fair" profit, that is, one that allows a competitive return on the investment the firm has made in its productive capacity. In turn, that return is taken to be the expected return investors require on the stock of the firm. The D1/P0 + g formula provides a means to infer that required return.


EXAMPLE 13.3


The Constant-Growth Model
Suppose that Steady State Electronics wins a major contract for its revolutionary computer chip. The very profitable contract will enable it to increase the growth rate of dividends from 5% to 6% without reducing the current dividend from the projected value of $4 per share. What will happen to the stock price? What will happen to future expected rates of return on the stock?
The stock price ought to increase in response to the good news about the contract, and indeed it does. The stock price jumps from its original value of $57.14 to a postannouncement price of

Investors who are holding the stock when the good news about the contract is announced will receive a substantial windfall.
On the other hand, at the new price the expected rate of return on the stock is 12%, just as it was before the new contract was announced.

This result makes sense, of course. Once the news about the contract is reflected in the stock price, the expected rate of return will be consistent with the risk of the stock. Since the risk of the stock has not changed, neither should the expected rate of return.


 

CONCEPT   check13.2
 
a. IBX's stock dividend at the end of this year is expected to be $2.15, and it is expected to grow at 11.2% per year forever. If the forecast the .

 
b. If IBX's current market price is equal to this intrinsic value, what is next year's expected price?
c. If an investor were to buy IBX stock now and sell it after receiving the $2.15 dividend a year from now, what is the expected capital gain (i.e., price appreciation) in percentage terms? What is the dividend yield, and what would be the holding-period return?
Stock Prices and Investment Opportunities
Consider two companies, Cash Cow, Inc., and Growth Prospects, each with expected earnings in the coming year of $5 per share. Both companies could in principle pay out all of these earnings as dividends, maintaining a perpetual dividend flow of $5 per share. If the market capitalization rate were k = 12.5%, both companies would then be valued at D1/k = $5/.125 = $40 per share. Neither firm would grow in value, because with all earnings paid out as dividends, and no earnings reinvested in the firm, both companies' capital stock and earnings capacity would remain unchanged over time; earnings2 and dividends would not grow.
Now suppose one of the firms, Growth Prospects, engages in projects that generate a return on investment of 15%, which is greater than the required rate of return, k = 12.5%. It would be foolish for such a company to pay out all of its earnings as dividends. If Growth Prospects retains or plows back some of its earnings into its highly profitable projects, it can earn a 15% rate of return for its shareholders, whereas if it pays out all earnings as dividends, it forgoes the projects, leaving shareholders to invest the dividends in other opportunities at a fair market rate of only 12.5%. Suppose, therefore, Growth Prospects chooses a lower dividend payout ratio (the fraction of earnings paid out as dividends), reducing payout from 100% to 40% and maintaining a plowback ratio (the fraction of earnings reinvested in the firm) of 60%. The plowback ratio also is referred to as the earnings retention ratio.

dividend payout ratio
Percentage of earnings paid out as dividends.


plowback ratio or earnings retention ratio
The proportion of the firm's earnings that is reinvested in the business (and not paid out as dividends).

The dividend of the company, therefore, will be only $2 (40% of $5 earnings) instead of $5. Will the share price fall? No, it will rise! Although dividends initially fall under the earnings reinvestment policy, subsequent growth in the assets of the firm because of reinvested profits will generate growth in future dividends, which will be reflected in today's share price.
Figure 13.1 illustrates the dividend streams generated by Growth Prospects under two dividend policies. A low reinvestment rate plan allows the firm to pay higher initial dividends but results in a lower dividend growth rate. Eventually, a high reinvestment rate plan will provide higher dividends. If the dividend growth generated by the reinvested earnings is high enough, the stock will be worth more under the high reinvestment strategy.


FIGURE 13.1
Dividend growth for two earnings reinvestment policies



How much growth will be generated? Suppose Growth Prospects starts with plant and equipment of $100 million and is all-equity-financed. With a return on investment or equity (ROE) of 15%, total earnings are ROE × $100 million = .15 × $100 million = $15 million. There are 3 million shares of stock outstanding, so earnings per share are $5, as posited above. If 60% of the $15 million in this year's earnings is reinvested, then the value of the firm's capital stock will increase by .60 × $15 million = $9 million, or by 9%. The percentage increase in the capital stock is the rate at which income was generated (ROE) times the plowback ratio (the fraction of earnings reinvested in more capital), which we will denote as b.
Now endowed with 9% more capital, the company earns 9% more income and pays out 9% higher dividends. The growth rate of the dividends, therefore, is3

If the stock price equals its intrinsic value, and this growth rate can be sustained (i.e., if the ROE and payout ratios are consistent with the long-run capabilities of the firm), then the stock should sell at

When Growth Prospects pursued a no-growth policy and paid out all earnings as dividends, the stock to exercise the1M4 price was only $40. Therefore, you can think of $40 as the value per share of the assets the company already has in place.
When Growth Prospects decided to reduce current dividends and reinvest some of its earnings in new investments, its stock price increased. The increase in the stock price reflects the fact that planned investments provide an expected rate of return greater than the required rate. In other words, the investment opportunities have positive net present value. The value of the firm rises by the NPV of these investment opportunities. This net present value is also called the present value of growth opportunities, or PVGO.

present value of growth opportunities (PVGO)
Net present value of a firm's future investments.

Therefore, we can think of the value of the firm as the sum of the value of assets already in place, or the no-growth value of the firm, plus the net present value of the future investments the firm will make, which is the PVGO. For Growth Prospects, PVGO = $17.14 per share:

We know that, in reality, dividend cuts almost always are accompanied by steep drops in stock prices. Does this contradict our analysis? Not necessarily: Dividend cuts are usually taken as bad news about the future prospects of the firm, and it is the new information about the firm—not the reduced dividend yield per se—that is responsible for the stock price decline.
For example, when J.P. Morgan cut its quarterly dividend from 38 cents to 5 cents a share in 2009, its stock price actually increased by about 5%: The company was able to convince investors that the cut would conserve cash and prepare the firm to weather a severe recession. When investors were convinced that the dividend cut made sense, the stock price actually increased. Similarly, when BP announced in the wake of the massive 2010 Gulf oil spill that it would suspend dividends for the rest of the year, its stock price did not budge. The cut already had been widely anticipated, so it was not new information. These examples show that stock price declines in response to dividend cuts are really a response to the information conveyed by the cut.
It is important to recognize that growth per se is not what investors desire. Growth enhances company value only if it is achieved by investment in projects with attractive profit opportunities (i.e., with ROE > k). To see why, let's now consider Growth Prospects' unfortunate sister company, Cash Cow. Cash Cow's ROE is only 12.5%, just equal to the required rate of return, k. Therefore, the NPV of its investment opportunities is zero. We've seen that following a zero-growth strategy with b to purchase the asset at the  between Savings and retirement plans = 0 and g = 0, the value of Cash Cow will be E1/k = $5/.125 = $40 per share. Now suppose Cash Cow chooses a plowback ratio of b = .60, the same as Growth Prospects' plowback. Then g would be

but the stock price is still

no different from the no-growth strategy.
In the case of Cash Cow, the dividend reduction that frees funds for reinvestment in the firm generates only enough growth to maintain the stock price at the current level. This is as it should be: If the firm's projects yield only what investors can earn on their own, then NPV is zero, and shareholders cannot be made better off by a high reinvestment rate policy. This demonstrates that "growth" is not the same as growth opportunities. To justify reinvestment, the firm must engage in projects with better prospective returns than those shareholders can find elsewhere. Notice also that the PVGO of Cash Cow is zero: PVGO = P0 - E1/k = 40 - 40 = 0. With ROE = k, there is no advantage to plowing funds back into the firm; this shows up as PVGO of zero. In fact, this is why firms with considerable cash flow, but limited investment prospects, are called "cash cows." The cash these firms generate is best taken out of or "milked from" the firm.


EXAMPLE 13.4


Growth Opportunities
Takeover Target is run by entrenched management that insists on reinvesting 60% of its earnings in projects that provide an ROE of 10%, despite the fact that the firm's capitalization rate is k = 15%. The firm's year-end dividend will be £2 per share, paid out of earnings of £5 per share. At to purchase the asset at the  between Savings and retirement plans what price will the stock sell? What is the present value of growth opportunities? Why would such a firm be a takeover target for another firm?
Given current management's investment policy, the dividend growth rate will be

and the stock price should be

The present value of growth opportunities is

PVGO is negative. This is because the net present value of the firm's projects is negative: The rate of return on those assets is less than the opportunity cost of capital.
Such a firm would be subject to takeover, because another firm could buy the firm for the market price of £22.22 per share and increase the value of the firm by changing its investment policy. For example, if the new management simply paid out all earnings as dividends, the value of the firm would increase to its no-growth value, E1/k = £5/.15 = £33.33.


 

CONCEPT   check13.3
 
a. Calculate the price of a firm with a plowback ratio of .60 if its ROE is 20%. Current earnings, E1, will be $5 per share, and k = 12.5%.
b. What if ROE is 10%, which is less than the market capitalization rate? Compare the firm's price in this instance to that of a firm with the same ROE and E1 but a plowback ratio of b = 0.

Life Cycles and Multistage Growth Models
As useful as the constant-growth DDM formula is, you need to remember that it is based on a simplifying assumption, namely, that the dividend growth rate will be constant forever. In fact, firms typically pass through life cycles with very different dividend profiles in different phases. In early years, there are ample opportunities for profitable reinvestment in the company. Payout ratios are low, and growth is correspondingly rapid. In later years, the firm matures, production capacity is sufficient to meet market demand, competitors enter the market, and attractive opportunities for reinvestment may become harder to find. In this mature phase, the firm may choose to increase the dividend payout ratio, rather than retain earnings. The dividend level increases, but thereafter it grows at a slower rate because the company has fewer growth opportunities.
Table 13.2 illustrates this profile. It gives Value Line's forecasts of return on capital, dividend payout ratio, and projected three-year growth rate in earnings per share of a sample of the firms included in the computer software and services industry versus those of East Coast electric utilities. (We compare return on capital rather than return on equity because the latter is affected by leverage, which tends to be far greater in the electric utility industry than in the software industry. Return on capital measures operating income per dollar of total long-term financing, regardless of whether the source of the capital supplied is debt or equity. We will return to this issue in the next chapter.)


TABLE 13.2   Financial ratios in two industries



By and large, software firms have attractive investment opportunities. The median return on capital of these firms is forecast to be 18.5%, and the firms have responded with quite high plowback ratios. Most of these firms pay no dividends at all. The high returns on capital and high plowback ratios result in rapid growth. The median growth rate of earnings per share in this group is projected at 13.3%.
In contrast, the electric utilities are more representative of mature firms. Their median return on capital is lower, 6%; dividend payout is higher, 60%; and average growth rate is lower, 3.6%. We conclude that the higher payouts of the electric utilities reflect their more limited opportunities to reinvest earnings at attractive rates of return.
To value companies with temporarily high growth, analysts use a multistage version of the dividend discount model. Dividends in the early high-growth period are forecast and their combined present value is calculated. Then, once the firm is projected to settle down to a steady growth phase, the constant-growth DDM is applied to value the remaining stream of dividends.
We can illustrate this with a real-life example using ainancial leverage increases the risko  by selling two-stage DDM. Figure 13.2 is a Value Line Investment Survey report on Honda Motor Co. Some of Honda's relevant information of the end of 2011 is highlighted.

two-stage DDM
Dividend discount model in which dividend growth is assumed to level off only at some future date.

Honda's beta appears at the circled A, its recent stock price at the B, the per-share dividend payments at the C, the ROE (referred to as "return on shareholder equity") at the D, and the dividend payout ratio (referred to as "all dividends to net profits") at the E.4 The rows ending at C, D, and E are historical time series. The boldfaced italicized entries under 2012 are estimates for that year. Similarly, the entries in the far right column (labeled 14-16) are forecasts for some time between 2014 and 2016, which we will take to be 2015.
Value Line provides explicit dividend forecasts over the relative short term, with dividends rising from $.72 in 2012 to $1 in 2015. We can obtain dividend inputs for this initial period by using the explicit forecasts for 2012-2015 and linear interpolation for the years between:

Now let us assume the dividend growth rate will be steady beyond 2015. What is a reasonable guess for that steady-state growth rate? Value Line forecasts a dividend payout ratio of .25 and an ROE of 10%, implying long-term growth will be

Our estimate of Honda's intrinsic value using an investment horizon of 2015 is therefore obtained from Equation 13.2, which we restate here:

Here, P2015 represents the forecast price at which we can sell our shares of Honda at the end of 2015, when dividends enter their constant-growth phase. That price, according to the constant-growth DDM, should be


FIGURE 13.2
Value Line Investment Survey report on Honda Motor Co.
Source: From Value Line Investment Survey, November 25, 2011. © 2011 Value Line, Inc. All Rights Reserved Worldwide. "Value Line" is a registered trademark of Value Line Inc.





The only variable remaining to be determined to calculate intrinsic value is the market capitalization rate, k.
One way to obtain k is from the CAPM. Observe from the Value Line data that Honda's beta is .90. The risk-free rate on long-term T-bonds in late 2011 was about 2.9%.5 Suppose that the market risk premium were forecast at 8%, roughly in line with its historical average. This would imply that the forecast for the market return was

Therefore, we can solve for the market capitalization rate for Honda as

Our forecast for the stock price in 2015 is thus

and today's estimate of intrinsic value is

We know from the Value Line report that Honda's actual price was $29.54 (at the circled B). Our intrinsic value analysis indicates Honda was underpriced by about 4.1%. Should we increase our holdings of Honda stock?
Perhaps. But before betting the farm, stop to consider how much confidence you should place in this estimate. We've had to guess at dividends in the near future, the ultimate growth rate of those dividends, and the appropriate discount rate. Moreover, we've assumed Honda will follow a relatively simple two-stage growth process. In practice, the growth of dividends can follow more complicated patterns. Even small errors in these approximations could upset a conclusion.
For example, we saw in Chapter 7 that betas are typically estimated with considerable imprecision. Suppose that Honda's beta is actually 1 rather than .9. Then its risk premium will be larger, and its market capitalization rate will be 10.9%. At this higher capitalization rate, the intrinsic value of the firm based on the two-stage model falls to $23.53, which is less than its recent stock price. Our conclusion regarding mispricing is reversed.
The exercise highlights the importance of assessing the sensitivity of your analysis to changes in underlying assumptions when you attempt to value stocks. Your estimates of stock values are no better than your assumptions. Sensitivity analysis will highlight the inputs that need to be most carefully examined. For example, we just found that even small changes in the estimated risk premium of the stock can out-of-the-money ompute the4 result in big changes in intrinsic value. Similarly, small changes in the assumed growth rate change intrinsic value substantially. On the other hand, reasonable changes in the dividends forecast between 2012 and 2015 have a small impact on intrinsic value.
 

CONCEPT   check13.4
 
Confirm that the intrinsic value of Honda using the same data as in our example, but assuming its beta is 1, is $23.53. (Hint: First calculate the discount rate and stock price in 2015. Then calculate the present value of all interim dividends plus the present value of the 2015 sales price.)



SPREADSHEET 13.1
A three-stage growth model for Honda





Multistage Growth Models
The two-stage growth model that we just considered for Honda is a good start toward realism, but clearly we could do even better if our valuation model allowed for more flexible patterns of growth. Multistage growth models allow dividends per share to grow at several different rates as the firm matures. Many analysts use three-stage growth models. They may allow for year-by-year forecasts of dividends for the short term, a final period of sustainable growth, and a transition period in between, during which dividend growth rates taper off from the initial rate to the ultimate sustainable rate. These models are conceptually no harder to work with than a two-stage model, but they require many more calculations and can be tedious to do by hand. It is easy, however, to build an Excel spreadsheet for such a model.
Spreadsheet 13.1 is an example of such a model. Column B contains the inputs we have used so far for Honda. Column E contains dividend forecasts. In cells E2 through E5 we present the Value Line estimates for the next four years. Dividend growth in this period is about 11.57% annually. Rather than assume a sudden transition to constant dividend growth starting in 2015, we assume instead that the dividend growth rate in 2015 will be 11.57% and that it will decline linearly through 2026 (see column F), finally reaching the constant terminal growth rate of 7.5% in 2026. Each dividend in the transition period is the previous year's dividend times that year's growth rate. Terminal value once the firm enters a constant-growth stage (cell G17) is computed from the constant-growth DDM. Finally, investor cash flow in each period (column H) equals dividends in each year plus the terminal value in 2027. The present value of these cash flows is computed in cell H19 as $36.79, about 20% more than the value we found in the two-stage model. We obtain a greater intrinsic value in this case because we assume that dividend growth, which at the current rate of 11.57% is extremely rapid, only gradually declines to its st individual and institutional investors. aid="0">www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodieeady-state value.
13.4   PRICE-EARNINGS RATIOS
The Price-Earnings Ratio and Growth Opportunities
Much of the real-world discussion of stock market valuation concentrates on the firm's price-earnings multiple, the ratio of price per share to earnings per share, commonly called the P/E ratio. In fact, one common approach to valuing a firm is to use an earnings multiplier. The value of the stock is obtained by multiplying projected earnings per share by a forecast of the P/E ratio. This procedure seems simple, but its apparent simplicity is deceptive. First, forecasting earnings is challenging. As we saw in the previous chapter, earnings will depend on international, macroeconomic, and industry as well as firm-specific factors, many of which are highly unpredictable. Second, forecasting the P/E multiple is even more difficult. P/E ratios vary across industries and over time. Nevertheless, our discussion of stock valuation provides some insight into the factors that ought to determine a firm's P/E ratio.

price-earnings multiple
The ratio of a stock's price to its earnings per share.

Recall our discussion of growth opportunities, in which we compared two firms, Growth Prospects and Cash Cow, each of which had earnings per share of $5. Growth Prospects reinvested 60% of its earnings in prospects with an ROE of 15%, while Cash Cow paid out all of its earnings as dividends. Cash Cow had a price of $40, giving it a P/E multiple of 40/5 = 8, while Growth Prospects sold for $57.14, giving it a multiple of 57.14/5 = 11.4. This observation suggests the P/E ratio might serve as a useful indicator of expectations of growth opportunities. We can see this explicitly by rearranging Equation 13.6 to

When PVGO = 0, Equation 13.7 shows that P0 = E1/k. The stock is valued like a nongrowing perpetuity of EPS1. The P/E ratio is just 1/k. However, as PVGO becomes an increasingly dominant contributor to price, ytext" aid="SJHSH">The ratio of PVGO to E/k has a simple interpretation. It is the ratio of the component of firm value reflecting growth opportunities to the c forecast the .
E/k). When future growth opportunities dominate the estimate of total value, the firm will command a high price relative to current earnings. Thus, a high P/E multiple appears to indicate that a firm is endowed with ample growth opportunities.


EXAMPLE 13.5


P/E Ratios and Growth Opportunities
Return again to Takeover Target, the firm we first encountered in Example 13.4. Earnings are £5 per share and the capitalization rate is 15%, implying that the no-growth value of the firm is E1/k = £5/.15 = £33.33. The stock price actually is £22.22, implying that the present value of growth opportunities equals -£11.11. This implies that the P/E ratio should be

In fact, the stock price is £22.22 and earnings are £5 per share, so the P/E ratio is £22.22/£5 = 4.44.


Let's see if P/E multiples do vary with growth prospects. Between 1995 and 2011, for example, Intel's P/E ratio averaged about 24.3 while Consolidated Edison's average P/E was only 13.3. These numbers do not necessarily imply that Intel was overpriced compared to Con Ed. If investors believed Intel would grow faster than Con Ed, the higher price per dollar would be justified. That is, investors might well pay a higher price per dollar of current earnings if they expect that earnings stream to grow more rapidly. In fact Intel's growth rate has been consistent with its higher P/E multiple. In this period, its earnings per share grew nearly fivefold, while Con Ed's earnings grew by only 20%. Figure 13.4 (on page 427) shows the EPS history of the two companies.
Clearly, the differences in expected growth opportunities justify differentials in P/E ratios across firms. The P/E ratio is in large part a reflection of the market's optimism concerning a firm's growth prospects. In their use of a P/E ratio, analysts must decide whether they are more or less optimistic than the market. If they are more optimistic, they will recommend buying the stock.


  TABLE 13.3   Effect of ROE and plowback on growth and the P/E ratio



There is a way to make these insights more precise. Look again at the constant-growth DDM formula, P0 = D1/(k - g). Now recall that dividends equal the earnings that are not reinvested in the firm: D1 = E1(1 - b). Recall also that g = ROE × b. Hence, substituting for D1 and g, we find that

implying that the P/E ratio for a firm growing at a long-run sustainable pace is

It is easy to verify that the P/E ratio increases with ROE. This makes sense, because high ROE projects give the firm good opportunities for growth.6 We also can verify that the P/E ratio increases for higher plowback, b, as long as ROE exceeds k. This too makes sense. When a firm has good investment opportunities, the market will reward it with a higher P/E multiple if it exploits those opportunities more aggressively by plowing back more earnings into those opportunities.
Remember, however, that growth is not desirable for its own sake. Examine Table 13.3, where we use Equation 13.8 to compute both growth rates and P/E ratios for different combinations of ROE and b. While growth always increases with the plowback ratio (move across the rows in Panel A of Table 13.3), the P/E ratio does not (move across the rows in Panel B). In the top row of Table 13.3B, the P/E falls as the plowback rate increases. In the middle row, it is unaffected by plowback. In the third row, it increases.
This pattern has a simple interpretation. When the expected ROE is less than the required return, k, investors prefer that the firm pay out earnings as dividends rather than reinvest earnings in the firm at an inadequate rate of return. That is, for ROE lower than k, the value of the firm falls as plowback increases. Conversely, when ROE exceeds k, the firm offers superior investment opportunities, so the value of the firm is enhanced as those opportunities are more fully exploited by increasing the plowback ratio.
Finally, where ROE just equals k, the firm offers "break-even" investment opportunities with a fair rate of return. In this case, investors are indifferent between reinvestment of earnings in the firm or elsewhere at the market capitalization rate, because the rate of return in either case is 12%. Therefore, the stock price is unaffected by the plowback ratio.
We conclude that the higher the plowback ratio, the higher the growth rate, but a higher plowback ratio does not necessarily mean a higher P/E ratio. Higher plowback increases P/E only if investments undertaken by the firm offer an expected rate of return higher than the market capitalization rate. Otherwise, increasing plowback hurts investors because more money is sunk into prospects with inadequate rates of return.
Notwithstanding these fine points, P/E ratios commonly are taken as proxies for the expected growth in dividends or earnings. In fact, a common Wall Street rule of thumb is that the growth rate ought to be roughly equal to the P/E ratio. In other words, the ratio of P/E to g, often called the PEG ratio, should be about 1. Peter Lynch, the famous portfolio manager, puts it this way in his book One Up on Wall Street:

PEG ratio
Ratio of P/E multiple to earnings growth rate.

The P/E ratio of any company that's fairly priced will equal its growth rate. I'm talking here about growth rate of earnings. . . . If the P/E ratio of Coca-Cola is 15, you'd expect the company to be growing at about 15% per year, etc. But if the P/E ratio is less than the growth rate, you may have found yourself a bargain.
Let's try his rule of thumb.


EXAMPLE 13.6


P/E Ratio versus Growth Rate
Assume:
 
Therefore, rM = rf + Market risk premium = 8% + 8% = 16%, and k = 16% for an average (β = 1) company. If we also accept as reasonable that ROE = 16% (the same value as the expected return on the stock) we conclude that

and

Thus the P/E ratio and g are about equal using these assumptions, consistent with the rule of thumb.
However, note that this rule of thumb, like almost all others, will not work in all circumstances. For example, the yield on long-term Treasury bonds today is more like 3%, so a comparable forecast of rM today would be

 
If we continue to focus on a firm with β = 1, and ROE still is about the same as k, then

while

The P/E ratio and g now diverge, and the PEG ratio is now 9.1/4.4 = 2.1. Nevertheless, lower-than-average PEG ratios are still widely seen as signaling potential underpricing.


Whatever its shortcomings, the PEG ratio is widely followed. The PEG ratio for the S&P over the last 20 years typically has fluctuated within the range between 1 and 1.5.
 

CONCEPT   check13.5
 
ABC stock has an expected ROE of 12% per year, expected earnings per share of $2, and expected dividends of $1.50 per share. Its market capitalization rate is 10% per year.
a. What are its expected growth rate, its price, and its P/E ratio?
b. If the plowback rate were .4, what would be the firm's expected dividend per share, growth rate, price, P/E, and PEG ratio?


On the MARKET FRONT


FACEBOOK'S $100 BILLION QUESTION: IS IT WORTH IT?
Setting the price for an IPO is always problematic, especially when the company is well known and the issue oversubscribed (such as Netscape in 1995 or LinkedIn in 2011). In the case of Facebook, the task of underwriters is not easy because it is a very popular social networking company. Figures can quickly become crazy. A couple of days before the IPO, the price was set to a range of $34 to $38 per share, which valued the business around $93 - $104 bn. Some analysts found this value overestimated, others, underestimated.
Yann Magnan and Soufiane Qassimi, two French analysts at Duff & Phelps, challenged this figure by computing the growth assumptions implied by this value. Under a discounted cash model, Facebook should multiply its sales by 27 until 2021 and thereafter have a constant growth of 2%. In terms of users, it should double its market share, multiply its turnover of users by ten, and maintain its profitability. Those objectives are ambitious but such performances already exist in this sector. For instance, Google increased its sales more than 430 times between 2001 and 2011. Those objectives are therefore not fully unrealistic!
But for the British analyst at Generator Research, Andrew Sheehy, those figures are too high. They would correspond to a price/ earnings ratio that would be five times the P/E of Apple: 100 times the earnings for Facebook versus 20 times for Apple. Even if Facebook met the growth opportunities in the smartphone industry, Andrew Sheehy already finds that the $3.7 bn turnover is an impressive figure for Facebook's business model. Andrew Sheehy believes that the growth in sales implied by the $100 bn value is possible only if Facebook develops "a completely new incremental business."
SOURCE: Martha White, "Is Facebook worth the price? Analysts split," Market Day on nbcnews.com, accessed May 15 2012, available at  forecast the .

Yann, Magnan and Soufiane Qassimi, "Valoriser Facebook à 100 milliards: un pari osé," lesechos.fr, accessed February 20 2012, available at http://lecercle.lesechos.fr/entreprises-marches/high-tech-medias/internet/221143623/valoriser-facebook-a-100-milliards-pari-ose.
The importance of growth opportunities is most evident in the valuation of start-up firms, for example, in the Internet boom of the late 1990s. Many companies that had yet to turn a profit were valued by the market at billions of dollars. The value of these companies was exclusively growth opportunities. For example, the online auction firm eBay had 1998 profits of $2.4 million, far less than the $45 million profit earned by the traditional auctioneer Sotheby's; yet eBay's market value was more than 10 times greater: $22 billion versus $1.9 billion. As it turns out, the market was quite right to value eBay so much more aggressively than Sotheby's. Its net income in 2010 was $1.8 billion, more than 11 times that of Sotheby's.
Of course, when company valuation is determined primarily by growth opportunities, those values can be very sensitive to reassessments of such prospects. When the market became more skeptical of the business prospects of most Internet retailers at the close of the 1990s, that is, as it revised the estimates of growth opportunities downward, their stock prices plummeted.
As perceptions of future prospects wax and wane, share price can swing wildly. Growth prospects are intrinsically difficult to tie down; ultimately, however, those prospects drive the value of the most dynamic firms in the economy.
The nearby box is an example of a simple valuation analysis. As Facebook headed toward its IPO in 2012, there was disagreement between analysts about the potential value oficle focuses on two key questions. First, would the growth rate of Facebook's sales (and therefore Facebook's profits) implied by this value be feasible? Second, what multiple of earnings is appropriate to translate an earnings forecast into a price forecast? These are precisely the questions addressed by our stock valuation models.
P/E Ratios and Stock Risk
One important implication of any stock valuation model is that (holding all else equal) riskier stocks will have lower P/E multiples. We can see this in the context of the constant-growth model by examining the formula for the P/E ratio (Equation 13.8):

Riskier firms will have higher required rates of return (i.e., higher values of k). Therefore, their P/E multiples will be lower. This is true even outside the context of the constant-growth model. For any individual and institutional investors. aid="0">www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie expected earnings and dividend stream, the present value of those cash flows will be lower when the stream is perceived to be riskier. Hence the stock price and the ratio of price to earnings will be lower.
Of course, many small, risky, start-up companies have very high P/E multiples. This does not contradict our claim that P/E multiples should fall with risk: Instead, it is evidence of the market's expectations of high growth rates for those companies. This is why we said that high-risk firms will have lower P/E ratios holding all else equal. Given a growth projection, the P/E multiple will be lower when risk is perceived to be higher.
Pitfalls in P/E Analysis
No description of P/E analysis is complete without mentioning some of its pitfalls. First, consider that the denominator in the P/E ratio is accounting earnings, which are influenced by somewhat arbitrary accounting rules such as the use of historical cost in depreciation and inventory valuation. In times of high inflation, historic cost depreciation and inventory costs will tend to underrepresent true economic values because the replacement cost of both goods and capital equipment will rise with the general level of prices. As Figure 13.3 demonstrates, P/E ratios fell dramatically in the 1970s when inflation spiked. This reflected the market's assessment that earnings in these periods are of "lower quality," artificially distorted by inflation, and warranting lower P/E ratios.
Earnings management is the practice of using flexibility in accounting rules to manipulate the apparent profitability of the firm. We will have much to say on this topic in the next chapter on interpreting financial statements. A version of earnings management that became common in recent years was the reporting of "pro forma earnings" measures. These measures are sometimes called operating earnings, a term with no precise generally accepted definition.

earnings management
The practice of using flexibility in accounting rules to manipulate the apparent profitability of the firm.

Pro forma earnings are calculated ignoring certain expenses, for example, restructuring charges, stock-option expenses, or write-downs of assets from continuing operations. Firms argue that ignoring these expenses gives a clearer picture of the underlying profitability of the firm.


FIGURE 13.3
P/E ratio of the S&P 500 Index and inflation



But when there is too much leeway for choosing what to exclude it becomes hard for investors or analysts to interpret the numbers or to compare them across firms">Bankers' Acceptancesompute the4. The lack of standards gives firms considerable leeway to manage earnings.
Even GAAP allows firms considerable discretion to manage earnings. For example, in the late 1990s, Kellogg took restructuring charges, which are supposed to be one-time events, nine quarters in a row. Were these really one-time events, or were they more appropriately treated as ordinary expenses? Given the available leeway in reporting earnings, the justified P/E multiple becomes difficult to gauge.
Another confounding factor in the use of P/E ratios is related to the business cycle. We were careful in deriving the DDM to define earnings as being net of economic depreciation, that is, the maximum flow of income that the firm could pay out without depleting its productive capacity. And reported earnings, as we note above, are computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and need not correspond to economic earnings. Beyond this, however, notions of a normal or justified P/E ratio, as in Equation 13.7 or 13.8, assume implicitly that earnings rise at a constant rate, or, put another way, on a smooth trend line. In contrast, reported earnings can fluctuate dramatically around a trend line over the course of the business cycle.
Another way to make this point is to note that the "normal" P/E ratio predicted by Equation 13.8 is the ratio of today's price to the trend value of future earnings, E1. The P/E ratio reported in the financial pages of the newspaper, by contrast, is the ratio of price to the most recent past accounting earnings. Current accounting earnings can differ considerably from future economic earnings. Because ownership of stock conveys the right to future as well as current earnings, the ratio of price to most recent earnings can vary substantially over the business cycle, as accounting earnings and the trend value of economic earnings diverge by greater and lesser amounts.
As an example, Figure 13.4 graphs the earnings per share of Intel and Consolidated Edison since 1995. Note that Intel's EPS fluctuates around its trend line more than Con Ed's. Because the market values the entire stream of future dividends generated by the company, when earnings are temporarily depressed, the P/E ratio should tend to be high—that is, the denominator of the ratio responds more sensitively to the business cycle than the numerator. This pattern is borne out well.
Figure 13.5 graphs the P/E ratios of the two firms. Intel has greater earnings volatility and more variability in its P/E ratio. Its clearly higher average growth rate shows up in its generally higher P/E ratio. The only period in which Con Ed's ratio exceeded Intel's was 2010-2011, a period when Intel's earnings rose at a far faster rate than its underlying trend. The market seems to have recognized that this earnings performance was not likely to be sustainable, and Intel's price did not respond dramatically to this fluctuation in earnings. Consequently, its P/E ratio declined.
This example shows why analysts must be careful in using P/E ratios. There is no way to say a P/E ratio is over">Bankers' Acceptancesompute the4ly high or low without referring to the company's long-run growth prospects, as well as to current earnings per share relative to the long-run trend line.
Nevertheless, Figures 13.4 and 13.5 demonstrate a clear relationship between P/E ratios and growth. Despite short-run fluctuations, Intel's EPS clearly trended upward over the period. Its compound rate of growth in the 1995-2011 period was 10.3%. Con Edison's earnings grew far less rapidly, with a compound growth rate of 1.2%. Intel's growth prospects are reflected in its consistently higher P/E multiple.
This analysis suggests that P/E ratios should vary across industries and, in fact, they do. Figure 13.6 shows P/E ratios for a sample of industries. Notice that the industries with the two highest multiples—biotech and business software—have attractive investment opportunities, whereas the industries with the lowest multiples—defense, oil and gas, and electric utilities—are in more mature industries with limited growth prospects. The relationship between P/E and growth is not perfect, which is not surprising in light of the pitfalls discussed in this section, but as a general rule, the P/E multiple tracks growth opportunities.


FIGURE 13.4
Earnings growth for two companies





FIGURE 13.5
Price-earnings ratios





FIGURE 13.6
P/E ratios
Source: Yahoo! Finance, finance.yahoo.com, January 24, 2012.



Combining P/E Analysis and the DDM
Some analysts use P/E ratios in conjunction with earnings forecasts to estimate the price of stock at an investor's horizon date. The Honda analysis in Figure 13.2 shows that Value Line forecast a P/E ratio for 2015 of 14. EPS for 2015 was forecast at $4, implying a price in 2015 of 14 × $4 = $56. Given an estimate of $56 for the 2015 sales price, we would compute Honda's intrinsic value as

Other Comparative Valuation Ratios
The price-earnings ratio is an example of a comparative valuation ratio. Such ratios are used to assess the valuation of one firm versus another based on a fundamental indicator such as earnings. For example, an analyst might compare the P/E ratios of two firms in the same industry to test whether the market is valuing one firm "more aggressively" than the other. Other such comparative ratios are commonly used.
Price-to-book ratio This is the ratio of price per share divided by book value per share. As we noted earlier in this chapter, some analysts view book value as a useful measure of fundamental value and therefore treat the ratio of price to book value as an indicator of how aggressively the market values the firm.
Price-to-cash-flow ratio Earnings as reported on the income statement can be affected by the company's choice of accounting practices and thus are commonly viewed as subject to some imprecision and even manipulation. In contrast, cash flow—which tracks cash actually flowing into or out of the firm—is less affected by accounting decisions. As a result, some analysts prefer to use the ratio of price to cash flow per share rather than price to earnings per share. Some analysts use operating cash flow when calculating this ratio; others prefer free cash flow, that is, operating cash flow net of new investment.
Price-to-sales ratio Many start-up firms have no earnings. As a result, the P/E ratio for these firms is meaningless. The price-to-sales ratio (the ratio of stock price to the annual sales per share) is sometimes taken as a valuation benchmark for these firms. Of course, price-to-sales ratios can vary markedly across industries, since profit margins vary widely.
Be creative Sometimes a standard valuation ratio will simply not be available, and you will have to devise your own. In the 1990s, some analysts valued retail Internet firms based on the number of hits their websites received. In retrospect, they valued these firms using too generous "price-to-hits" ratios. Nevertheless, in a new investment environment, these analysts used the information available to them to devise the best valuation tools they could.
Figure 13.7 presents the behavior of these valuation measures for the S&P 500. While the levels of these ratios differ considerably, for the most part they track each other fairly closely, with upturns and downturns at the same times.
13.5   FREE CASH FLOW VALUATION APPROACHES
An alternative approach to the dividend discount model values the firm using free cash flow, that is, cash flow available to the firm or the equityholders net of capital expenditures. This approach is particularly useful for firms that pay no dividends, for which the dividend discount model would be difficult to implement. But free cash flow models are valid for any firm, and can provide useful insights about firm value beyond the DDM.


FIGURE 13.7
Valuation ratios for the S&P 500



One approach is to discount the free cash flow for the firm (FCFF) at the weighted-average cost of capital to obtain the value of the firm and then subtract the then-existing value of debt to find the value of equity. Another is to focus from the start on the free cash flow to equityholders (FCFE), discounting those directly at the cost of equity to obtain the market value of equity.
The free cash flow to the firm is given as follows:

where

This is the cash flow that accrues from the firm's operations, net of investments in capital and net working capital. It includes cash flows available to both debt-and equityholders.7
Alternatively, we can focus on cash flow available to equityholders. This will differ from free cash flow to the firm by after-tax interest expenditures, as well as by cash flow associated with net issuance or repurchase of debt (i.e., principal repayments minus proceeds from issuance of new debt).

The free cash flow to the firm approach discounts year-by-year cash flows plus some estimate of terminal value, PT . In Equation 13.11,we use the constant-growth model to estimate terminal value. The appropriate discount rate is the weighted-average cost of capital.

where

To find equity value, we subtract the existing market value of debt from the derived value of the firm.
Alternatively, we can discount free cash flows to equity (FCFE) at the cost of equity, kE,

out-of-the-money ompute the4where

As in the dividend discount model, free cash flow models use a terminal value to avoid adding the present values of an infinite sum of cash flows. That terminal value may simply be the present value of a constant-growth perpetuity (as in the formulas above), or it may be based on a multiple of EBIT, book value, earnings, or free cash flow. As a general rule, estimates of intrinsic value depend critically on terminal value.
Spreadsheet 13.2 presents a free cash flow valuation of Honda using the data supplied by Value Line in Figure 13.2. We start with the free cash flow to the firm approach given in Equation 13.9. Panel A of the spreadsheet lays out values supplied by Value Line. (Entries for middle years are interpolated from beginning and final values.) Panel B calculates free cash flow. The sum of after-tax profits in row 11 plus after-tax interest payments in row 12 [that is, interest expense × (1 - tc)] equals EBIT(1 - tc). In row 13 we subtract the change in net working capital, in row 14 we add back depreciation, and in row 15 we subtract capital expenditures. The result in row 17 is the free cash flow to the firm, FCFF, for each year between 2012 and 2015.
To find the present value of these cash flows, we will discount at WACC, which is calculated in panel C. WACC is the weighted average of the after-tax cost of debt and the cost of equity in each year. When computing WACC, we must account for the change in leverage forecast by Value Line. To compute the cost of equity, we will use the CAPM as in our earlier (dividend discount model) valuation exercise but account for the fact that equity beta will decline each year as the firm reduces leverage.8
A reasonable approximation to Honda's cost of debt, which was rated A+ in 2012, is the yield to maturity on comparably rated long-term debt, approximately 4.2% (cell B25). Honda's debt-to-value ratio (assuming its debt is selling near par value) is computed in row 29. In 2011, the ratio was .32. Based on Value Line forecasts, it will fall to .20 by 2015. We interpolate the debt-to-value ratio for the intermediate years. WACC is computed in row 32. WACC increases slightly over time as the debt-to-value ratio steadily declines between 2012 and 2015. The present value factor for cash flows accruing in each year is the previous year's factor divided by (1 + WACC) for that year. The present value of each cash flow (rosh flow times the cumulative discount factor.


SPREADSHEET 13.2
Free cash flow valuation of Honda Motor





The terminal value of the firm (cell H17) is computed from the constant-growth model as FCFF2015 × (1 + g)/(WACC2015 - g), where g (cell B23) is the assumed value for the steady growth rate.9 We assume in the spreadsheet that g = .025, roughly the long-run growth rate of the broad economy.10 Terminal value is also discounted back to 2011 (cell H37), and the intrinsic value of the firm is thus found as the sum of discounted free cash flows between 2012 and 2015 plus the discounted terminal value. Finally, the value of debt in 2011 is subtracted from firm value to arrive at the intrinsic value of equity in 2011 (cell K37), and value per share is calculated in cell L37 as equity value divided by number of shares in 2011.
The free cash flow to equity approach yields a similar intrinsic value for the stock. FCFE (row 18) is obtained from FCFF by subtracting after-tax interest expense and net debt repurchases. The cash flows are then discounted at the equity rate. Like WACC, the cost of equity changes each period as leverage changes. The present value factor for equity cash flows is presented in row 34. Equity value is reported in cell J38, which is put on a per-share basis in cell L38.
Spreadsheet 13.2 is available at the Online Learning Center, www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie.
Comparing the Valuation Models
In principle, the free cash flow approach is fully consistent with the dividend discount model and should provide the same estimate of intrinsic value if one can extrapolate to a period in which the firm begins to pay dividends growing at a constant rate. This was demonstrated in two famous papers by Modigliani and Miller (1958, 1961). However, in practice, you will find that values from these models may differ, sometimes substantially. This is due to the fact that in practice, analysts are always forced to make simplifying assumptions. For example, how long will it take the firm to enter a constant-growth stage? How should depreciation best be treated? What is the best estimate of ROE? Answers to questions like these can have a big impact on value, and it is not always easy to maintain consistent assumptions across the models.
We have now valued Honda using several approaches, with estimates of intrinsic value as follows:
Bankers' Acceptancesompute the4">
What should we make of these differences? The two-stage dividend discount model is the most conservative of the estimates, probably because it assumes that Honda's dividend growth rate will fall to its terminal value after only three years. In contrast, the three-stage DDM allows growth to taper off over a longer period, and the estimate of intrinsic value from this model is extremely close to those from both free cash flow models. The DDM with a terminal value provided by the earnings multiple results in a higher estimate of intrinsic value. All of these models produce intrinsic values greater than Honda's market price. Perhaps the assumed terminal growth rate used in our valuation exercise is unrealistically high, or perhaps the stock is indeed underpriced compared to intrinsic value.
This valuation exercise shows that finding bargains is not as easy as it seems. While these models are easy to apply, establishing proper inputs is more of a challenge. This should not be surprising. In even a moderately efficient market, finding profit opportunities will be more involved than analyzing Value Line data for a few hours. The models are extremely useful to analysts, however. They provide ballpark estimates of intrinsic value. More than that, they force rigorous thought about underlying assumptions and highlight the variables with the greatest impact on value and the greatest payoff to further analysis.
The Problem with DCF Models
Our estimates of Honda's intrinsic value are all based on discounted cash flow (DCF) models, in which we calculate the present value of forecast cash flows and a terminal sales price at some future date. It is clear from the calculations for Honda that most of the action in these models is in the terminal value and that this value can be highly sensitive to even small changes in some input values (see, for example, Concept Check 13.4). Therefore, you must recognize that DCF valuation estimates are almost always going to be imprecise. Growth opportunities and future growth rates are especially hard to pin down.
For this reason, many value investors employ a hierarchy of valuation. They view the most reliable components of value as the items on the balance sheet that allow for a reasonable estimate of market price. Real estate, plant, and equipment would fall in this category.
A somewhat less reliable component of value is the economic profit on assets already in place. For example, a company like Intel earns a far higher ROE on its investments in chip-making facilities than its cost of capital. The present value of these "economic profits," or economic value added,11 is a major component of Intel's market value. This component of value is less certain than its balance sheet assets, however, because there is always a concern that new competitors will enter the market, force down prices and profit margins, and reduce the return on Intel's investments. Thus, one needs to carefully assess the barriers to entry that protect Intel's pricing and profit margins. We noted some of these barriers in the last chapter, where we discussed the role of industry analysis, market structure, and competitive position (see Section 12.7).
out-of-the-money ompute the4Finally, the least reliable components of value are growth opportunities, the purported ability of firms like Intel to invest in positive-NPV ventures that contribute to high market valuations today. Value investors don't deny that such opportunities exist, but they are skeptical that precise values can be attached to them and, therefore, tend to be less willing to make investment decisions that turn on the value of those opportunities.
13.6   THE AGGREGATE STOCK MARKET
The most popular approach to forecasting the overall stock market is the earnings multiplier approach applied at the aggregate level. The first step is to forecast corporate profits for the coming period. Then we derive an estimate of the earnings multiplier, the aggregate P/E ratio, based on a forecast of long-term interest rates. The product of the two forecasts is the estimate of the end-of-period level of the market.
The forecast of the P/E ratio of the market is sometimes derived from a graph similar to that in Figure 13.8, which plots the earnings yield (earnings per share divided by price per share, the reciprocal of the P/E ratio) of the S&P 500 and the yield to maturity on 10-year Treasury bonds. The two series clearly move in tandem over time and suggest that one might use this relationship and the current yield on 10-year Treasury bonds to forecast the earnings yield on the S&P 500. Given that earnings yield, a forecast of earnings could be used to predict the level of the S&P in some future period. Let's consider a simple example of this procedure.


FIGURE 13.8
Earnings yield of S&P 500 versus 10-year Treasury-bond yield





EXAMPLE 13.7


Forecasting the Aggregate Stock Market
In early 2012, the S&P 500 was at 1,350. The forecast for 12-month forward earnings per share for the S&P 500 portfolio was about $93. The long-term Treasury-bond yield at this time was about 3.1%. As a first approach, we might posit that the spread between the earnings yield and the Treasury yield, which was around 2.9% at the start of 2012, will remain at that level by the end of the year. Given the Treasury yield of 3.1%, this would imply an earnings yield for the S&P of 6% and a P/E ratio of 1/.06 = 16.67. Our forecast for the level of the S&P Index would then be 16.67 × 93 = 1,550. This would imply a one-year capital gain on the index of 200/1,350 = 14.8%.12
individual and institutional investors. aid="0">www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodieOf course, there is uncertainty regarding all three inputs into this analysis: the actual earnings on the S&P 500 stocks, the level of Treasury yields at year-end, and the spread between the Treasury yield and the earnings yield. One would wish to perform sensitivity or scenario analysis to examine the impact of changes in all of these variables. To illustrate, consider Table 13.4, which shows a simple scenario analysis treating possible effects of variation in the Treasury-bond yield. The scenario analysis shows that the forecast level of the stock market varies inversely and with dramatic sensitivity to interest rate changes.


Some analysts use an aggregate version of the dividend discount model rather than an earnings multiplier approach. All of these models, however, rely heavily on forecasts of such macroeconomic variables as GDP, interest rates, and the rate of inflation, which are difficult to predict accurately.
Because stock prices reflect expectations of future dividends, which are tied to the economic fortunes of firms, it is not surprising that the performance of a broad-based stock index like the S&P 500 is taken as a leading economic indicator, that is, a predictor of the performance of the aggregate economy. Stock prices are viewed as embodying consensus forecasts of economic activity and are assumed to move up or down in anticipation of movements in the economy. The government's index of leading economic indicators, which is taken to predict the progress of the business cycle, is made up in part of recent stock market performance. However, the predictive value of the market is far from perfect. A well-known joke, often attributed to Paul Samuelson, is that the market has forecast eight of the last five recessions.


TABLE 13.4   S&P 500 Index forecasts under various scenarios



SUMMARY
• One approach to firm valuation is to focus on the firm's book value, either as it appears on the balance sheet or adjusted to reflect the current replacement cost of assets or the liquidation value. Another approach is to focus on the present value of expected future dividends.
• The dividend discount model holds that the price of a share of stock should equal the present vavidends per share, discounted at an interest rate commensurate with the risk of the stock.
• The constant-growth version of the DDM asserts that if dividends are expected to grow at a constant rate forever, then the intrinsic value of the stock is determined by the formula

• This version of the DDM is simplistic in its assumption of a constant value of g. There are more sophisticated multistage versions of the model for more complex environments. When the constant-growth assumption is reasonably satisfied, however, the formula can be inverted to infer the market capitalization rate for the stock:

• Stock market analysts devote considerable attention to a company's price-earnings ratio. The P/E ratio is a useful measure of the market's assessment of the firm's growth opportunities. Firms with no growth opportunities should have a P/E ratio that is just the reciprocal of the capitalization rate, k. As growth opportunities become a progressively more important component of the total value of the firm, the P/E ratio will increase.
• Many analysts form their estimates of a stock's value by multiplying their forecast of next year's EPS by a predicted P/E multiple. Some analysts mix the P/E approach with the dividend discount model. They use an earnings multiplier to forecast the terminal value of shares at a future date and add the present value of that terminal value with the present value of all interim dividend payments.
• The free cash flow approach is the one used most in corporate finance. The analyst first estimates the value of the firm as the present value of expected future free cash flows to the entire firm and then subtracts the value of all claims other than equity. Alternatively, the free cash flows to equity can be discounted at a discount rate appropriate to the risk of the stock.
• The models presented in this chapter can be used to explain or to forecast the behavior of the aggregate stock market. The key macroeconomic variables that determine the level of stock prices in the aggregate are interest rates and corporate profits.







KEY TERMS
book value
constant-growth DDM
dividend discount model (DDM)
dividend payout ratio
earnings management
earnings retention ratio
 
intrinsic value
liquidation value
market capitalization rate
PEG ratio
plowback ratio
present value of growth opportunities (PVGO)
price-earnings multiple
replacement cost
Tobin's q
two-stage DDM







KEY FORMULAS
Intrinsic value:  
Constant-growth DDM: 
Growth opportunities: 
Determinant of P/E ratio: 
Free cash flow to the firm:

Free cash flow to equity:








PROBLEM SETS
Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance. Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.
Basic

1. In what circumstances would you choose to use a dividend discount model rather than a free cash flow forecast the .

(LO 13-4)
2. In what circumstances is it most important to use multistage dividend discount models rather than constant-growth models? (LO 13-2)
3. If a security is underpriced (i.e., intrinsic value > price), then what is the relationship between its market capitalization rate and its expected rate of return? (LO 13-2)


4. Deployment Specialists pays a current (annual) dividend of $1 and is expected to grow at 18% for two years and then at 5% thereafter. If the required return for Deployment Specialists is 8%, what is the intrinsic value of Deployment Specialists stock? (LO 13-2)



5. Jand, Inc., currently pays a dividend of $1.42, which is expected to grow indefinitely at 5%. If the current value of Jand's shares based on the constant-growth dividend discount model is $36.91, what is the required rate of return? (LO 13-2)



6. A firm pays a current dividend of $2, which is expected to grow at a rate of 7% indefinitely. If the current value of the firm's shares is $214, what is the required return applicable to the investment based on the constant-growth dividend discount model (DDM)? (LO 13-2)



7. Tri-coat Paints has a current market value of $50 per share with earnings of $5.97. What is the present value of its growth opportunities (PVGO) if the required return is 12%? (LO 13-2)
8. A firm has current assets that could be sold for their book value of $40 million. The book value of its fixed assets is $78 million, but they could be sold for $108 million today. The firm has total debt with a book value of $58 million, but interest rate declines have caused the market value of the debt to increase to $68 million. What is this firm's market-to-book ratio? (LO 13-1)
9. The market capitalization rate for Admiral Motors Company is 12%. Its expected ROE is 15% and its expected EPS is $7. If the firm's plowback ratio is 40%, what will be its P/E ratio? (LO 13-2)

10. Miltmar Corporation will pay a year-end dividend of $3, and dividends thereafter are expected to grow at the constant rate of 5% per year. The risk-free rate is 4%, and the expected return on the market portfolio is 15%. The stock has a beta of .84. What is the intrinsic value of the stock? (LO 13-2)
11. Sisters Corp expects to earn $9 per share next year. The firm's ROE is 14% and its plowback ratio is 60%. If the firm's market capitalization rate is 10%, what is the present value of its growth opportunities? (LO 13-3)
12. Eagle Products' EBIT is $580, its tax rate is 40%, depreciation is $32, capital expenditures are $72, and the planned increase in net working capital is $38. What is the free cash flow to the firm? (LO 13-4)
Intermediate
13. FinCorp's free cash flow to the firm is reported as $245 million. The firm's interest expense is $38 million. Assume the tax rate is 30% and the net debt of the firm increases by $7 million. What is the market value of equity if the FCFE is projected to grow at 4% indefinitely and the cost of equity is 12%? (LO 13-4)
14. A common stock pays er share of $4.40. The risk-free rate is 8% and the risk premium for this stock is 3%. If the annual dividend is expected to remain at $4.40, what is the value of the stock? (LO 13-2)
15. The risk-free rate of return is 6%, the required rate of return on the market is 12%, and High-Flyer stock has a beta coefficient of 1.0. If the dividend per share expected during the coming year, D1, is $2.00 and g = 4%, at what price should a share sell? (LO 13-2)
16. Explain why the following statements are true/false/uncertain. (LO 13-3)
a. With all else held constant, a firm will have a higher P/E if its beta is higher.
b. P/E will tend to be higher when ROE is higher (assuming plowback is positive).
c. P/E will tend to be higher when the plowback rate is higher.
17.  emphasizing or including only stllar.a. Computer stocks currently provide an expected rate of return of 14%. MBI, a large computer company, will pay a year-end dividend of $4 per share. If the stock is selling at $80 per share, what must be the market's expectation of the growth rate of MBI dividends?
b. If dividend growth forecasts for MBI are revised downward to 4% per year, what will happen to the price of MBI stock? What (qualitatively) will happen to the company's price-earnings ratio? (LO 13-3)
18. Even Better Products has come out with a new and improved product. As a result, the firm projects an ROE of 30%, and it will maintain a plowback ratio of .30. Its earnings this year will be $3 per share. Investors expect a 16% rate of return on the stock. (LO 13-3)
a. At what price and P/E ratio would you expect the firm to sell?
b. What is the present value of growth opportunities?
c. What would be the P/E ratio and the present value of growth opportunities if the firm planned to reinvest only 20% of its earnings?
19. a. MF Corp. has an ROE of 20% and a plowback ratio of 30%. If the coming year's earnings are expected to be $2 per share, at what price will the stock sell? The market capitalization rate is 14%.
b. What price do you expect MF shares to sell for in three years? (LO 13-2)
20. The market consensus is that Analog Electronic Corporation has an ROE = 11% and a beta of 2.00. It plans to maintain indefinitely its traditional plowback ratio of 3/5. This year's earnings were $2.40 per share. The annual dividend was just paid. The consensus estimate of the coming year's market return is 16%, and T-bills currently offer a 5% return. (LO 13-3)
a. Find the price at which Analog stock should sell.
b. Calculate the P/E ratio.
c. Calculate the present value of growth opportunities.
d. Suppose your research convinces you Analog will announce momentarily that it will immediately reduce its  to purchase the asset at the  between Savings and retirement plansplowback ratio to 2/5. Find the intrinsic value of the stock. The market is still unaware of this decision. Explain why V0 no longer equals P0 and why V0 is greater or less than P0.
21. The FI Corporation's dividends per share are expected to grow indefinitely by 7% per year. (LO 13-3)
a. If this year's year-end dividend is $10 and the market capitalization rate is 12% per year, what must the current stock price be according to the DDM?
b. If the expected earnings per share are $15, what is the implied value of the ROE on future investment opportunities?
c. How much is the market paying per share for growth opportunities (that is, for an ROE on future investments that exceeds the market capitalization rate)?
22. The stock of Nogro Corporation is currently selling for $25 per share. Earnings per share in the coming year are expected to be $5. The company has a policy of paying out 40% of its earnings each year in dividends. The rest is retained and invested in projects that earn a 20% rate of return per year. This situation is expected to continue indefinitely.  (LO 13-3)
a. Assuming the current market price of the stock reflects its intrinsic value as computed using the constant-growth DDM, what rate of return do Nogro's investors require?
b. By how much does its value exceed what it would be if all earnings were paid as dividends and nothing were reinvested?
c. If Nogro were to cut its dividend payout ratio to 25%, what would happen to its stock price? What if Nogro eliminated the dividend?
23. The risk-free rate of return is 6.5%, the expected rate of return on the market portfolio is 13%, and the stock of Xyrong Corporation has a beta coefficient of 2.7. Xyrong pays out 50% of its earnings in dividends, and the latest earnings announced were $20 per share. Dividends were just paid and are expected to be paid annually. You expect that Xyrong will earn an ROE of 25% per year on all reinvested earnings forever.  (LO 13-2)
a. What is the intrinsic value of a share of Xyrong stock?
b. If the market price of a share is currently $96, and you expect the market price to be equal to the intrinsic value one year from now, what is your expected one-year holding-period return on Xyrong stock?
24. The MoMi Corporation's cash flow from operations before interest and taxes was $3.4 million in the year just ended, and it expects that this will grow by 5% per year forever. To make this happen, the firm will have to invest an amount equal to 16% of pretax cash flow each year. The tax rate is 35%. Depreciation was $400,000 in the year just ended and is expected to grow at the same rate as the operating cash flow. The appropriate market capitalization rate for the unleveraged cash flow is 12% per year, and the firm currently has debt of $7 million outstanding. Use the free cash flow approach to value the firm's equity.  (LO 13-4)


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

25. Recalculate the intrinsic value of Honda using the three-stage growth model of Spreadsheet 13.1 (available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie link to Chapter 13 material). Treat each of the following scenarios independently.  (LO 13-2)
a. ROE in the constant-growth period will be 7.7%.
b. Honda's actual beta is 1.15.
c. The market risk premium is 10.9%.


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

26. Recalculate the intrinsic value of Honda shares using the free cash flow model of Spreadsheet 13.2 (available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie link to Chapter 13 material). Treat each scenario independently.  (LO 13-4)
a. Honda's P/E ratio starting in 2015 will be 13.5.
b. Honda's unlevered beta is .7.
c. The market risk premium is 8.5%.
Challenge
27. Chiptech, Inc., is an established computer chip firm with several profitable existing products as well as some promising new products in development. The company earned $1 per share last year and just paid out a dividend of $.50 per share. Investors believe the company plans to maintain its dividend payout ratio at 50%. ROE equals 20%. Everyone in the market expects this situation to persist indefinitely.  (LO 13-2)
a. What is the market price of Chiptech stock? The required return for the computer chip industry is 15%, and the company has just gone ex-dividend (i.e., the next dividend will be paid a year from now, at t = 1).
b. Suppose you discover that Chiptech's competitor has developed a new chip that will eliminate Chiptech's current technological advantage in this market. This new product, which will be ready to come to the market in two years, will force Chiptech  of its chips to remain competitive. This will decrease ROE to 15%, and, because of falling demand for its product, Chiptech will decrease the plowback ratio to .40. The plowback ratio will be decreased at the end of the second year, at t = 2: The annual year-end dividend for the second year (paid at t = 2) will be 60% of that year's earnings. What is your estimate of Chiptech's intrinsic value per share? (Hint: Carefully prepare a table of Chiptech's earnings and dividends for each of the next three years. Pay close attention to the change in the payout ratio in t = 2.)
c. No one else in the market perceives the threat to Chiptech's market. In fact, you are confident that no one else will become aware of the change in Chiptech's competitive  individual and institutional investors. aid="0">www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodiestatus until the competitor firm publicly announces its discovery near the end of year 2. What will be the rate of return on Chiptech stock in the coming year (i.e., between t = 0 and t = 1)? In the second year (between t = 1 and t = 2)? The third year (between t = 2 and t = 3)? (Hint: Pay attention to when the market catches on to the new situation. A table of dividends and market prices over time might help.)
 
CFA Problems


1. At Litchfield Chemical Corp. (LCC), a director of the company said that the use of dividend discount models by investors is "proof" that the higher the dividend, the higher the stock price. (LO 13-2)
a. Using a constant-growth dividend discount model as a basis of reference, evaluate the director's statement.
b. Explain how an increase in dividend payout would affect each of the following (holding all other factors constant):
i. Sustainable growth rate.
ii. Growth in book value.
2. Phoebe Black's investment club wants to buy the stock of either NewSoft, Inc. or Capital Corp. In this connection, Black prepared the following table. You have been asked to help her interpret the data, based on your forecast for a healthy economy and a strong stock market over the next 12 months. (LO 13-2)



a. Newsoft's shares have higher price-earnings (P/E) and price-book value (P/B) ratios than those of Capital Corp. (The price-book ratio is the ratio of market value to book value.) Briefly discuss why the disparity in ratios may not indicate that NewSoft's shares are overvalued relative to the shares of Capital Corp. Answer the question in terms of the two ratios, and assume that there individual and institutional investors. aid="0">www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie have been no extraordinary events affecting either company.
b. Using a constant-growth dividend discount model, Black estimated the value of NewSoft to be $28 per share and the value of Capital Corp. to be $34 per share. Briefly discuss weaknesses of this dividend discount model, and explain why this model may be less suitable for valuing NewSoft than for valuing Capital Corp.
c. Recommend and justify a more appropriate dividend discount model for valuing NewSoft's common stock.
3. Peninsular Research is initiating coverage of a mature manufacturing industry. John Jones, CFA, head of the research department, gathered the following fundamental industry and market data to help in his analysis:  (LO 13-3)



a. Compute the price-to-earnings (P0/E1) ratio for the industry based on this fundamental data.
b.  Jones wants to analyze how fundamental P/E ratios might differ among countries. He gathered the following economic and market data:



Determine whether each of these fundamental factors would cause P/E ratios to be generally higher for Country A or higher for Country B.
4. Janet Ludlow's firm requires all its analysts to use a two-stage DDM and the CAPM to value stocks. Using these measures, Ludlow has valued QuickBrush Company at $63 per share. She now must value SmileWhite Corporation.  (LO 13-2)
a. Calculate the required rate of return for SmileWhite using the information in the following table:



b. Ludlow estimates the following EPS and dividend growth rates for SmileWhite:




 Estimate the intrinsic value of SmileWhite using the table above and the two-stage DDM. Dividends per share in 2010 were $1.72.

 forecast the .

c.   Recommend QuickBrush or SmileWhite stock for purchase by comparing each company's intrinsic value with its current market price.
d. Describe one strength of the two-stage DDM in comparison with the constant-growth DDM. Describe one weakness inherent in all DDMs.
5. Rio National Corp. is a U.S.-based company and the largest competitor in its industry. Tables 















h. Return on equity.
i. P/E ratio.
j. Compound leverage ratio.
k. Net cash provided by operating activities.
2. Use the following cash flow data for Rocket Transport to find Rocket's: (LO 14-1)
a. Net cash provided by or used in investing activities.
b. Net cash provided by or used in financing activities.
c. Net increase or decrease in cash for the year.


3. The Crusty Pie Co., which specializes in apple turnovers, has a return on sales higher than the industry average, yet its ROA is the same as the industry average. How can you explain this? (LO 14-3)
4. The ABC Corporation has a profit margin on sales below the industry average, yet its ROA is above the industry average. What does this imply about its asset turnover? (LO 14-3)
5. A company's current ratio is 2. If the company uses cash to retire notes payable due within one year, would this transaction increase or decrease the current ratio? What about the asset turnover ratio? (LO 14-1)
6. Cash flow from investing activities excludes: (LO 14-1)
a. Cash paid for acquisitions.
b. Cash received from the sale of fixed assets.
c. Inventory increases due to a new (internally developed) product line.
d. All of the above.
7. Cash flow from operating activities includes: (LO 14-1)
a. Inventory increases resulting from acquisitions.
b. Inventory changes due to changing exchange rates.
c. Interest paid to bondholders.
d. Dividends paid to stockho"TI2MR">






PART
5

Derivative Markets









Chapters in This Part:
15  Options Markets
16  Option Valuation
17  Futures Markets and Risk Management

Horror stories about large losses incurred by high-flying traders in derivatives markets such as those for futures and options periodically become a staple of the evening news. Indeed, there were some amazing losses to report in the last decade: several totaling hundreds of millions of dollars, and a few amounting to more than a billion dollars. Among the most notorious of these were the loss of $7.2 billion in equity futures contracts by Société Générale in January 2008 and the loss of more than $100 billion on positions in credit derivatives by American International Group that resulted in a massive government bailout in September 2008. In the wake of these debacles, some venerable institutions have gone under, notable among them Barings Bank, which once helped the U.S. finance the Louisiana Purchase and the British Empire finance the Napoleonic Wars.
These stories, while important, fascinating, and even occasionally scandalous, often miss the point. Derivatives, when misused, can indeed provide a quick path to insolvency. Used properly, however, they are potent tools for risk management and control. In fact, you will discover in these chapters that one firm was sued for failing to use derivatives to hedge price risk. One article in The Wall Street Journal on hedging applications using derivatives was entitled "Index Options Touted as Providing Peace of Mind." Hardly material for bankruptcy court or the National Enquirer.
Derivatives provide a means to control risk that is qualitatively different from the techniques traditionally considered in portfolio theory. In contrast to the mean-variance analysis we discussed in Parts Two and Three, derivatives allow investors to change the shape of the probability distribution of investment returns. An entirely new approach to risk management follows from this insight.
The following chapters will explore how derivatives can be used as parts of a well-designed portfolio strategy. We will examine some popular portfolio strategies utilizing these securities and take a look at how derivatives are valued?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00 with an .

Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition












Chapter
15

Options Markets

Learning Objectives:

LO15-1 Calculate the profit to various option positions as a function of ultimate security prices.
LO15-2 Formulate option strategies to modify portfolio risk-return attributes.
LO15-3 Identify embedded options in various securities and determine how option characteristics affect the prices of those securities.


Derivative securities, or simply derivatives, play a large and increasingly important role in financial markets. These are securities whose prices are determined by, or "derive from," the prices of other securities.
Options and futures contracts are both derivative securities. Their payoffs depend on the value of other securities. Swap contracts, which we will discuss in Chapter 17, also are derivatives. Because the value of derivatives depends on the value of other securities, they can be powerful tools for both hedging and speculation. We will investigate these applications in the next three chapters, beginning in this chapter with options.
Trading of standardized options on a national exchange started in 1973 when the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) began listing call options. These contracts were almost immediately a great success, crowding out the previously existing over-the-counter options market.
Options contracts now are traded on several exchanges. They are written on common stock, stock indexes, foreign exchange, agricultural commodities, precious metals, and interest rates. In addition, the over-the-counter market also has enjoyed a tremendous resurgence in recent years as its trading in custom-tailored options has exploded. Popular and potent for modifying portfolio characteristics, options have become essential tools that every portfolio manager must understand.
This chapter is an introduction to options markets. It explains how puts and calls work and regulation of change the components of the DuPont formula.examines their investment characteristics. Popular option strategies are considered next. Finally, we will examine a range of securities with embedded options such as callable or convertible bonds.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

15.1   THE OPTION CONTRACT
A call option gives its holder the right to purchase an asset for a specified price, called the exercise or strike price, on or before some specified expiration date. For example, a September call option on IBM stock with exercise price $170 entitles its owner to purchase IBM stock for a price of $170 at any time up to and including the expiration date in September. The holder of the call is not required to exercise the option. She will choose to exercise only if the market value of the asset exceeds the exercise price. In this case, the option holder may "call away" the asset for the exercise price. Otherwise, the option may be left unexercised. If it is not exercised before the expiration date of the contract, a call option simply expires and becomes valueless. Therefore, if the stock price is greater than the exercise price on the expiration date, the value of the call option will equal the difference between the stock price and the exercise price; but if the stock price is less than the exercise price at expiration, the call will be worthless. The net profit on the call is the value of the option minus the price originally paid to purchase it.

call option
The right to buy an asset at a specified exercise price on or before a specified expiration date.


exercise or strike price
Price set for calling (buying) an asset or putting (selling) an asset.

The purchase price of the option is called the premium. It represents the compensation the purchaser of the call must pay for the ability to exercise the option only when exercise is profitable. Sellers of call options, who are said to write calls, receive premium income now as payment against the possibility they will be required at some later date to deliver the asset in return for an exercise price less than the market value of the asset. If the option is left to expire worthless, the writer of the call clears a profit equal to the premium income derived from the initial sale of the option. But if the call is exercised, the profit to the option writer is the premium income minus at the expiration date of the options.S  equal to the the difference between the value of the stock that must be delivered and the exercise price that is paid for those shares. If that difference is larger than the initial premium, the writer will incur a loss.

premium
Purchase price of an option.



EXAMPLE 15.1


Profits and Losses on a Call Option
Consider the September 2011 expiration call option on a share of IBM with an exercise price of $170 selling on August 25, 2011, for $3. Exchange-traded options expire on the third Friday of the expiration month, which for this option was September 16. Until the expiration date, the call holder may buy shares of IBM for $170. On August 25, IBM sells for $166.76. Because the stock price is currently less than $170 a share, it clearly would not make sense at the moment to exercise the option to buy at $170. Indeed, if IBM remains below $170 by the expiration date, the call will be left to expire worthless. On the other hand, if IBM is selling above $170 at expiration, the call holder will find it optimal to exercise. For example, if IBM sells for $172 on September 16, the option will be exercised, as it will give its holder the right to pay $170 for a stock worth $172. The value of each option on the expiration date would then be

Despite the $2 payoff at expiration, the call holder still realizes a loss of $1 on the investment because the initial purchase price was $3:

Nevertheless, exercise of the call is optimal at expiration if the stock price exceeds the exercise price because the exercise proceeds will offset at least part of the purchase price. The call buyer will clear a profit if IBM is selling above $173 at the expiration date. At that stock price, the proceeds from exercise will just cover the original cost of the call.


A put option gives its holder the right to sell an asset for a specified exercise or strike price on or before some expiration date. A September put on IBM with exercise price $170 entitles its owner to sell IBM stock to the put writer at a price of $170 at any time before expiration in September, even if the market price of IBM is less than $170. While profits on call options increase when the asset price rises, profits on put options increase when the asset price falls. A put will be exercised only if the exercise price is greater than the price of the underlying asset, that is, only if its holder can deliver for the exercise price an asset with market value less than that amount. (One doesn't need to own the shares of IBM to exercise the IBM put option. Upon exercise, the investor's broker purchases the necessary shares of IBM at the market price and immediately delivers or "put accessed on September 4 2012  at the end equal to thes them" to an option writer for the exercise price. The owner of the put profits by the difference between the exercise price and market price.)

put option
The right to sell an asset at a specified exercise price on or before a specified expiration date.



EXAMPLE 15.2


Profits and Losses on a Put Option
Now consider the September 2011 expiration put option on IBM with an exercise price of $170, selling on August 25 for $6.20. It entitled its owner to sell a share of IBM for $170 at any time until September 16. If the holder of the put buys a share of IBM and immediately exercises the right to sell it at $170, net proceeds will be $170 - $166.76 = $3.24. Obviously, an investor who pays $6.20 for the put has no intention of exercising it immediately. If, on the other hand, IBM were selling for $162 at expiration, the put would turn out to be a profitable investment. Its value at expiration would be

and the investor's profit would be $8 - $6.20 = $1.80. This is a holding-period return of $1.80/$6.20 = .29, or 29%—over only 22 days! Obviously, put option sellers on August 25 (who are on the other side of the transaction) did not consider this outcome very likely.


An option is described as in the money when its exercise would produce a positive cash flow. Therefore, a call option is in the money when the asset price exceeds the exercise price, and a put option is in the money when the asset price is less than the exercise price. Conversely, a call is out of the money when the exercise price exceeds the asset value; no one would exercise the right to purchase for the exercise price an asset worth less than that amount. A put option is out of the money when the exercise price is less than the asset price. Options are at the money when (LO 14-1)the exercise price and asset price are equal.

in the money
An option where exercise would generate a positive cash flow.


out of the money
An option which, if exercised, would produce a negative cash flow. Out-of-the-money options are therefore never exercised.


at the money
An option where the exercise price equals the asset price.

Options Trading
Some options trade on over-the-counter (OTC) markets. The OTC market offers the advantage that the terms of the option contract—the exercise price, expiration date, and number of shares committed—can be tailored to the needs of the traders. The costs of establishing an OTC option contract, however, are relatively high. Today, most option trading occurs on organized exchanges.
Options contracts traded on exchanges are standardized by allowable expiration dates and exercise prices for each listed option. Each stock option contract provides for the right to buy or sell 100 shares of stock (except when stock splits occur after the contract is listed and the contract is adjusted for the terms of the split).
Standardization of the terms of listed option contracts means all market participants trade in a limited and uniform set of securities. This increases the depth of trading in any particular option, which lowers trading costs and results in a more competitive market. Exchanges, therefore, offer two important benefits: ease of trading, which flows from a central marketplace where buyers and sellers or their representatives congregate, and a liquid secondary market where buyers and sellers of options can transact quickly and cheaply.
Until recently, most options trading in the U.S. took place on the Chicago Board Options Exchange. However, by 2003 the International Securities Exchange, an electronic exchange based in New York, had displaced the CBOE as the largest options market. Options trading in Europe is uniformly transacted in electronic exchanges.
Figure 15.1 is a reproduction of listed stock option quotations for IBM from The Wall Street Journal Online. The last recorded price on the New York Stock Exchange for IBM stock was $166.76 per share.1 Figure 15.1 includes options with exercise prices of $160 through $170, in $5 increments. These values also are called the strike prices.


FIGURE 15.1
Options on IBM, August 24, 2011
Source: The Wall Street Journal Online, August 25, 2011. Reprinted by permission of The Wall Street Journal, Copyright © 2011 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.



The exercise or strike prices bracket the stock price. While exercise prices generally are set at five-point intervals for stocks, larger intervals may be set for stocks selling above $100, and intervals of $2.50 may be used for stocks selling at low prices.2 If the stock price moves outside the range of exercise prices of the existing set of options, new options with appropriate exercise prices may be offered. Therefore, at any time, both in-the-money and out-of-the-money options will be listed, as in this example.
Figure 15.1 shows both call and put options listed for each exercise price and expiration date. The three sets of columns for each option report closing price, trading volume in contracts (each contract is for 100 shares of stock), and open interest (number of outstanding contracts).
When we compare the prices of call options with the same expiration date but different exercise prices in Figure 15.1, we see that the value of the call is lower when the exercise price is higher. This makes sense, for the right to purchase a share is not as valuable when the purchase price is higher. Thus, the September expiration IBM call option with strike price $160 sells for $9.15, while the $170 exercise price September call sells for only $3. Conversely, put options are worth more when the exercise price is higher: You would rather have the right to sell IBM shares for $170 than for $160, and this is reflected in the prices of the puts. The September expiration put option with strike price $170 sells for $6.20, while the $160 exercise price September put sells for only $2.62.
Not infrequently, you will find some options that go an entire day without trading. A lack of trading is denoted by a dash in the volume and price columns in Figure 15.1. Because trading is infrequent, it is not unusual to find option prices that appear out of line with other prices. You might see, for example, two calls with different exercise prices that seem to sell for the same price. This discrepancy arises because the last trades for these options may have occurred at different times during the day. At any moment, the call with the lower exercise price must be worth more, and the put less, than an otherwise-identical call or put with a higher exercise price.
Expirations of most exchange-traded options tend to be fairly short, ranging up to only several onger-term options are traded with expirations ranging up to three years. These options are called LEAPS (for Long-term Equity AnticiPation Securities).
 

CONCEPT   check15.1
 
a. What will be the proceeds and net international diversificationre.

 
b. Now answer part (a) for an investor who purchases the October expiration IBM put option with exercise price $165.
American and European Options
An American option allows its holder to exercise the right to purchase (if a call) or sell (if a put) the underlying asset on or before the expiration date. European options allow for exercise of the option only on the expiration date. American-style options, because they allow more leeway than their European-style counterparts, generally will be more valuable. Most traded options in the U.S. are American-style. Foreign currency options and some stock-index options are notable exceptions to this rule, however.

American option
Can be exercised on or before its expiration.


European option
Can be exercised only at expiration.

The Option Clearing Corporation
The Option Clearing Corporation (OCC), the clearinghouse for options trading, is jointly owned by the exchanges on which stock options are traded. The OCC places itself between options traders, becoming the effective buyer of the option from the writer and the effective writer of the option to the buyer. All individuals, therefore, deal only with the OCC, which effectively guarantees contract performance.
When an option holder exercises an option, the OCC arranges for a member firm with clients who have written that option to make good on the option obligation. The member firm selects from among its clients who have written that option to fulfill the contract. The selected client must deliver 100 shares of stock at a price equal to the exercise price for each call option contract written or must purchase 100 shares at the exercise price for each put option contract written.
Because the OCC guarantees contract performance, it requires option writers to post margin to guarantee that they can fulfill their contract obligations. The margin required is determined in part by the amount by which the option is in the money, because that value is an indicator of the potential obligation of the option writer upon exercise of the option. When the required margin exceeds the posted margin, the writer will receive a margin call. The holder international diversification/ompute the  of the option need not post margin because the holder will exercise the option only if it is profitable to do so. After purchasing the option, no further money is at risk.
Margin requirements also depend on whether the underlying asset is held in portfolio. For example, a call option writer owning the stock against which the option is written can satisfy the margin requirement simply by allowing a broker to hold that stock in the brokerage account. The stock is then guaranteed to be available for delivery should the call option be exercised. If the underlying security is not owned, however, the margin requirement is determined by the value of the underlying security as well as by the amount by which the option is in or out of the money. Out-of-the-money options require less margin from the writer, for expected payouts are lower.
Other Listed Options
Options on assets other than stocks also are widely traded. These include options on market indexes and industry indexes, on foreign currency, and even on the futures prices of agricultural products, gold, silver, fixed-income securities, and stock indexes. We will discuss these in turn.
Index options An index option is a call or put based on a stock market index such as the S&P 500. Index options are traded on several broad-based indexes as well as on several industry-specific indexes. We discussed many of these indexes in Chapter 2.
The construction of the indexes can vary across contracts or exchanges. For example, the S&P 100 Index is a value-weighted average of the 100 stocks in the Standard & Poor's 100 stock group. The weights are proportional to the market value of outstanding equity for each stock. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, by contrast, is a price-weighted average of 30 stocks.
Options contracts on many foreign stock indexes also trade. For example, options on the Nikkei Stock Index of Japanese stocks trade on the Singapore as well as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Options on European indexes such as the Financial Times Share Exchange (FTSE 100) trade on the NYSE-Euronext exchange. The Chicago Board Options Exchange also lists options on industry indexes such as the oil or high-tech industries.
In contrast to stock options, index options do not require that the call writer actually "deliver the index" upon exercise or that the put writer "purchase the index." Instead, a cash settlement procedure is used. The payoff that would accrue upon exercise of the option is calculated, and the option writer simply pays that amount to the option holder. The payoff is equal to the difference between the exercise price of the option and the value of the index. For example, if the S&P index is at 1,280 when a call option on the index with exercise price 1,270 is exercised, the holder of the call receives a cash payment equal to the difference, 1,280 - 1,270, times the contract multiplier of $100, or $1,000 per contract.
Options on the major indexes, that is, the S&P 100 contract, often called the OEX after its ticker symbol, the S&P 500 Index (the SPX), and the Dow Jones Industrials (the DJX), are by far the most actively traded contracts on the CBOE. Together,e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute the  these contracts dominate CBOE volume.
Futures options Futures options give their holders the right to buy or sell a specified futures contract, using as a futures price the exercise price of the option. Although the delivery process is slightly complicated, the terms of futures options contracts are designed in effect to allow the option to be written on the futures price itself. The option holder receives upon exercise net proceeds equal to the difference between the current futures price on the specified asset and the exercise price of the option. Thus, if the futures price is, say, $37, and the call has an exercise price of $35, the holder who exercises the call option on the futures gets a payoff of $2.
Foreign currency options A currency option offers the right to buy or sell a quantity of foreign currency for a specified amount of domestic currency. Currency option contracts call for purchase or sale of the currency in exchange for a specified number of U.S. dollars. Contracts are quoted in cents or fractions of a cent per unit of foreign currency.
There is an important difference between currency options and currency futures options. The former provide payoffs that depend on the difference between the exercise price and the exchange rate at expiration. The latter are foreign exchange futures options that provide payoffs that depend on the difference between the exercise price and the exchange rate futures price at expiration. Because exchange rates and exchange rate futures prices generally are not equal, the options and futures options contracts will have different values, even with identical expiration dates and exercise prices. Today, trading volume in currency futures options dominates by far trading in currency options.
Interest rate options Options also are traded on Treasury notes and bonds, Treasury bills, and government bonds of other major economies such as the U.K. or Japan. Options on several interest rates also trade. Among them are contracts on Treasury bond, Treasury note, federal funds, LIBOR, Eurodollar, and British and euro-denominated yields.
15.2   VALUES OF OPTIONS AT EXPIRATION
Call Options
Recall that a call option gives the right to purchase a security at the exercise price. If you hold a call on Fin Corp stock with an exercise price of $80, and Fin Corp is now selling at $90, you can exercise your option to purchase the stock at $80 and simultaneously sell the shares at the market price of $90, clearing $10 per share. Yet if the shares sell below $80, you can sit on the option and do nothing, realizing no further gain or loss. The value of the call option at expiration equals

where ST is the value of the stock at the expiration date and X international diversification/ompute the  is the exercise price. This formula emphasizes the option property because the payoff cannot be negative. The option is exercised only if ST exceeds X. If ST is less than X, the option expires with zero value. The loss to the option holder in this case equals the price originally paid. More generally, the profit to the option holder is the option payoff minus the original purchase price.
The value at expiration of the call with exercise price $80 is given by the following schedule:

For stock prices at or below $80, the option expires worthless. Above $80, the option is worth the excess of the stock price over $80. The option's value increases by one dollar for each dollar increase in the stock price. This relationship can be depicted graphically, as in Figure 15.2.


FIGURE 15.2
Payoff and profit to call option at expiration



The solid line in Figure 15.2 depicts the value of the call at expiration. The net profit to the holder of the call equals the gross payoff less the initial investment in the call. Suppose the call cost $14. Then the profit to the call holder would be as given in the dashed (bottom) line of Figure 15.2. At option expiration, the investor has suffered a loss of $14 if the stock price is less than or equal to $80.
Profits do not become positive until the stock price at expiration exceeds $94. The break-even point is $94, because at that price the payoff to the call, ST - X = $94 - $80 = $14, equals the cost paid to acquire the call. Hence, the call holder shows a profit only if the stock price is higher.
Conversely, the writer of the call incurs losses if the stock price is high. In that scenario, the writer will receive a call and will be obligated to deliver a stock worth ST for only X dollars.

The call writer, who is exposed to losses if the stock price increases, is willing to bear this risk in return for the option premium.
Figure 15.3 depicts the payoff and profit diagrams for the call writer. These are the mirror images of the corresponding diagrams for call holders. The break-even point for the option writer also is $94. The (negative) payoff at that point just offsets the premium originally received when the option was written.


FIGURE 15.3
Payoff and profit to call writers at expiration



Put Options
A put option conveys the right to sell an asset at the exercise price. In this case, the holder will not exercise unless the asset price is less than the exercise price. For example, if Fin Corp shares were to fall to $70, a put option with exercise price $80 could be exercised to give a $10 payoff. The holder would purchase a share for $70 and simultaneously deliver it to the put option writer for the exercise price of $80.
The value of a put option at expiration is

The solid line in Figure 15.4 illustrates the payoff at expiration to the holder of a put option on Fin Corp stock with an exercise price of $80. If the stock price at option expiration is above $80, the put has no value, as the right to sell the shares at $80 would not be exercised. Below a price of $80, the put value at expiration increases by $1 for each dollar the stock price falls. The dashed line in Figure 15.4 is a graph of the put option owner's profit at expiration, net of the initial cost of the put.


FIGURE 15.4
Payoff and profit to put option at expiration



Writing puts naked (i.e., writing a put without an offsetting short position in the stock for hedging purposes) exposes the writer to losses if the market falls. Writing naked, deep, out-of-the-money puts was once considered an attractive way to generate income, as it was believed that as long as the market did not fall sharply before the option expiration, the option premium could be collected without the put holder ever exercising the option against the writere that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute the . Because only sharp drops in the market could result in losses to the writer of the put, the strategy was not viewed as overly risky. However, the nearby box notes that in the wake of the market crash of October 1987, such put writers suffered huge losses. Participants now perceive much greater risk to this strategy. Conversely, the nearby box also highlights that writing puts can be effective when used strategically.

On the MARKET FRONT









GENERATING INCOME FROM OPTIONS
For the majority of investors who deal in derivatives, options are primarily used as hedging instruments. That is to say that they are used to reduce or moderate the risk of the investor's portfolio positions.
More risky is a strategy that was quite popular in the 1980s until the October 1987 crash and which experienced a resurgence once a bull market environment returned.
This strategy involves selling 'naked' or uncovered put options on individual stocks to benefit from the option premium that the seller, or option writer, receives. This strategy works very well as long as the market stays in an uptrend or suffers only minor setbacks. A key issue in using this strategy is whether the options are American options - which can be exercised at any time, or European options - which can only be exercised at expiry.
Options on individual stocks are nearly always American style, whilst options on indexes are almost always European style.
Many investors suffered significant losses from what they thought was a relatively safe way of generating additional income in their portfolios, both in October 1987 and more recently in 2008 when the stock markets suddenly collapsed. Many of the options were exercised and in many cases the option writers had no choice but to then sell the stocks at significant discounts to the exercise prices, as they did not have sufficient cash balances to cover the costs.
It should be noted that the strategy of writing puts can be employed as an effective portfolio management tool, so long as the investor has the cash resources to pay for the stock at the exercise price and has set that price at a level at which he is happy to acquire the stock.
This approach was adopted by Warren Buffet, for example, when he sought to build stakes in companies that he favors as long term investments. In 1993, he used this approach to acquire a stake in Coca-Cola. On his valuation, Coca-Cola was worth $35 per share. At the time it was trading around $39 per share. He wrote 5 million put options with a strike price of $35 for an option price of $1.50 and then waited for the price to move in his favor. Even if it did not, he had collected $7.5 million in option premium.
More recently, in 2008, Berkshire Hathaway wrote a series of puts on approximately 8 million shares of Burlington Northern as a means of increasing its holding from around 18% to 22.5% of the company. Tption premium received was approximately $51 million. Having achieved the international diversification/ompute the  target position of 22.5% of the company, Berkshire Hathaway went on to bid for the whole of the company, but was obliged to pay $100 a share (in a mixture of cash and stock) to make the acquisition.
More controversially, Berkshire Hathaway has written long-term European puts on the S&P500, the FTSE 100, the Euro Stoxx 50 and the Nikkei 250. These mature between 2019 and 2028. The value of the underlying stock is around $37 billion and the option premiums received totalled nearly $5 billion. These are, of course, over-the-counter options written with specific counterparties and thus subject to specifically agreed rules.
SOURCE: Based on: Au, T. P. A modern approach to Graham & Dodd Investing, John Wiley & Sons (2004), pp. 61.
Berkshire Hathaway Annual Reports (2008-2011).
SEC form 4 filings for Berkshire Hathaway (October-December 2008).

 

CONCEPT   check15.2
 
Consider these four option strategies: (i) buy a call; (ii) write a call; (iii) buy a put; (iv) write a put.
a. For each strategy, plot both the payoff and profit diagrams as a function of the final stock price.
b. Why might one characterize both buying calls and writing puts as "bullish" strategies? What is the difference between them?
c. Why might one characterize both buying puts and writing calls as "bearish" strategies? What is the difference between them?

Options versus Stock Investments
Purchasing call options is a bullish strategy; that is, the calls provide profits when stock prices increase. Purchasing puts, in contrast, is a bearish strategy. Symmetrically, writing calls is bearish, while writing puts is bullish. Because option values depend on the price of the underlying stock, the purchase of options may be viewed as a substitute for direct purchase or sale of a stock. Why might an option strategy be preferable to direct stock transactions? We can begin to answer this question by comparing the values of option versus stock positions in Fin Corp.
Suppose you believe the stock will increase in value from its current level, which we assume is $90. You know your analysis could be incorrect, however, and the share price also could fall. Suppose a six-month maturity call option with exercise price of $90 se?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00S  equal to thells for $10 and the semiannual interest rate is 2%. Consider the following three strategies for investing a sum of $9,000. Suppose the firm will not pay any dividends until after the options expire.

Strategy A: Invest entirely in stock. Buy 100 shares, each selling for $90.
Strategy B: Invest entirely in at-the-money call options. Buy 900 calls, each selling for $10. (This would require 9 contracts, each for 100 shares.)
Strategy C: Purchase 100 call options for $1,000. Invest the remaining $8,000 in six-month T-bills, to earn 2% interest.

Let us trace the possible values of these three portfolios when the options expire in six months as a function of the stock price at that time.

Portfolio A will be worth 100 times the share price. Portfolio B is worthless unless the shares sell for more than the exercise price of the call. Once that point is reached, the portfolio is worth 900 times the excess of the stock price over the exercise price. Finally, portfolio C is worth $8,160 from the investment in T-bills ($8,000 × 1.02 = $8,160) plus any profits from the 100 call options. Remember that each of these portfolios involves the same $9,000 initial investment. The rates of return on these three portfolios are as follows:

These rates of return are graphed in Figure 15.5.


FIGURE 15.5
Rate of return to three strategies




 Options, Stock, and Lending




Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

An Excel model based on the Fin Corp example discussed in the text is shown below. The model allows you to use any accessed on September 4 2012  at the end equal to the variety of options, stock, and lending or borrowing with a set investment amount and demonstrates the investment flexibility of options.

Excel Questions
1. Plot the rate of return to the call-plus-bills strategy using a diagram like that in Figure 15.5 but now assuming the investor uses an in-the-money call option with a strike price of $80. Assume the calls sell for $15. The higher cost for these calls compared to the at-the-money calls will result in less money being placed in T-bills, since the investment budget is still $9,000.
2. Compare the plots of rate of return for the strategies using at-the-money calls (as in Figure 15.5) and your solution to Question 1. Which strategy is riskier?

Comparing the returns of portfolios B and C to those of the simple investment in stock represented by portfolio A, we see that options offer two interesting features. First, an option offers leverage. Compare the returns of portfolios B and A. When the stock fares poorly, ending anywhere below $90, the value of portfolio B falls precipitously to zero—a rate of return of negative 100%. Conversely, modest increases in the rate of return on the stock result in disproportionate increases in the option rate of return. For example, a 4.8% increase in the stock price from $105 to $110 would increase the rate of return on the call from 50% to 100%. In this sense, calls are a levered investment on the stock. Their values respond more than proportionately to changes in the stock value.
Figure 15.5 vividly illustrates this point. For stock prices above $90, the slope of the all-option portfolio is far steeper than that of the all-stock portfolio, reflecting its greater proportional sensitivity to the value of the underlying security. The leverage factor is the reason that investors (illegally) exploiting inside information commonly choose options as their investment vehicle.
The potential insurance value of options is the second interesting feature, as portfolio C shows. The T-bill-plus-option portfolio cannot be worth less than $8,160 after six months, as the option can always be left to expire worthless. The worst possible rate of return on portfolio C is -9.33%, compared to a (theoretically) worst possible rate of return on the stock of -100% if the company were to go bankrupt. Of course, this insurance comes at a price: When the share price increases,e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute the  portfolio C does not perform as well as portfolio A, the all-stock portfolio. For stock prices above $90, portfolio C underperforms portfolio A by about 9.33 percentage points.
This simple example makes an important point. While options can be used by speculators as effectively leveraged stock positions, as in portfolio B, they also can be used by investors who desire to tailor their risk exposures in creative ways, as in portfolio C. For example, the call-plus-T-bills strategy of portfolio C provides a rate of return profile quite unlike that of the stock alone. The absolute limitation on downside risk is a novel and attractive feature of this strategy. In the next section we will discuss several option strategies that provide other novel risk profiles that might be attractive to hedgers and other investors.
Option Strategies
An unlimited variety of payoff patterns can be achieved by combining puts and calls with various exercise prices. Below we explain the motivation and structure of some of the more popular ones.
Protective put Imagine you would like to invest in a stock but you are unwilling to bear potential losses beyond some given level. Investing in the stock alone seems risky to you because in principle you could lose all the money you invest. You might consider instead investing in stock and purchasing a put option on the stock.
Table 15.1 shows the total value of your portfolio at option expiration. Whatever happens to the stock price, you are guaranteed a payoff equal to the put option's exercise price because the put gives you the right to sell the share for the exercise price even if the stock price is below that value.


  TABLE 15.1   Payoff to protective put strategy



Figure 15.6 illustrates the payoff and profit to this protective put strategy. The solid line in Figure 15.6C is the total payoff. The dashed line is displaced downward by the cost of establishing the position, S0 + P. Notice international diversification/ompute the  that potential losses are limited.

protective put
An asset combined with a put option that guarantees minimum proceeds equal to the put's exercise price.



EXAMPLE 15.3


Protective Put
Suppose the strike price is X = $90 (SGD, Singapore dollar) and the stock is selling for $87 at option expiration. Then the value of your total portfolio is $90: The stock is worth $87 and the value of the expiring put option is

Another way to look at it is that you are holding the stock and a put contract giving you the right to sell the stock for $90. Even if S < $90, you can still sell the stock for $90 by exercising the put. On the other hand, if the stock price is above $90, say, $94, then the right to sell a share at $90 is worthless. You allow the put to expire unexercised, ending up with a share of stock worth ST = $94.




FIGURE 15.6
Value of a protective put position at expiration



It is instructive to compare the profit on the protective put strategy with that of the stock investment. For simplicity, consider an at-the-money protective put, so that X = S0. Figure 15.7 compares the profits for the two strategies. The profit on the stock is zero if the stock price remains unchanged, and ST = S0. It rises or falls by $1 for every dollar swing in the ultimate stock price. The profit on the protective put is negative and equal to the cost of the put if ST is below S0. The profit on the protective put increases one for one withregulation of required is, the  increases in the stock price once the stock price exceeds X.


FIGURE 15.7
Protective put versus stock investment (at-the-money put option)



Figure 15.7 makes it clear that the protective put offers some insurance against stock price declines in that it limits losses. As we shall see in the next chapter, protective put strategies are the conceptual basis for the portfolio insurance industry. The cost of the protection is that, in the case of stock price increases, your profit is reduced by the cost of the put, which turned out to be unneeded.
This example also shows that despite the common perception that "derivatives mean risk," derivative securities can be used effectively for risk management. In fact, such risk management is becoming accepted as part of the fiduciary responsibility of financial managers. Indeed, in a highly cited court case, Brane v. Roth, a company's board of directors was successfully sued for failing to use derivatives to hedge the price risk of grain held in storage. Such hedging might have been accomplished using protective puts. Some observers believe that this case will ultimately lead to a broad legal obligation for firms to use derivatives and other techniques to manage risk.

risk management
Strategies to limit the risk of a portfolio.

The claim that derivatives are best viewed as risk management tools may seem surprising in light of the credit crisis of the last few years. The crisis was immediately precipitated when the highly risky positions that many financial institutions had established in credit derivatives blew up in 2007-2008, resulting in large losses and government bailouts. Still, the same characteristics that make derivatives potent tools to increase risk also make them highly effective in managing risk, at least when used properly. Derivatives have aptly been compared to power tools: very useful in skilled hands but also very dangerous when not handled with care. The nearby box makes the case for derivatives a"VF370">
On the MARKET FRONT








DERIVATIVES AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Derivatives are used to hedge risks in foreign currencies, interest rates, commodities, equities and other macroeconomic factors and are sometimes used to leverage positions in various financial markets. Derivatives are prevalent both in the exchange-traded as well as the over-the-counter (OTC) markets. international diversification" aid="164N1M 
The financial crisis across the globe has exposed the possibility of systemic risks in the derivatives market, particularly the OTC market. This is because counterparty risk is difficult to gauge in the OTC market. According to the Bank for International Settlements, the notional value of outstanding contracts in OTC markets reached $583,000bn in June 2010, which is 15 per cent higher than at the start of the crisis in 2007. Collateral underlying OTC contracts creates doubt as counterparties would not be able to examine which part of balance sheet is available to mitigate their credit claims. In an unregulated environment, the notional value of OTC derivatives is not obligated by capital requirement.
Use of derivatives was at the heart of financial instability for many financial institutions. The misuse of derivative instruments like heavily leveraged speculative positions led to significant losses. Most financial institutions have reduced their speculative positions. In addition, risk management personnel will be monitoring these financial institutions' speculative positions as it can influence systemic risks.
There has been a call for regulatory reforms in the derivatives market across Europe. This reform provides a foundation for a more transparent and efficient derivatives marketplace. The OTC market face the greatest changes. The new rules require that OTC derivatives be traded on exchanges or other electronic trading platforms and that they be processed through clearing houses. The new rule also requires trades to be reported to data repositories to allow regulators to see trading activity. These could have a significant impact on the OTC market as it represents 90 per cent of the notional value of the total derivatives market. European companies are hitting out at these new reforms as they could lead to a drain of corporate cash.
This new move is likely to provide customers with the flexibility to manage their risks. Customers can enjoy the OTC market structure and liquidity that is required to undertake the contracts but sceptics argue that an exchange model could drive OTC derivatives and their numerous benefits to extinction. In addition, if trading derivatives is limited to an exchange, liquidity might dry up.
Critics argue that the anonymous exchange traded system that exists in the equities market calls for a large number of bids. However, the market structure for derivatives is different from that of the equities market. In the derivatives market there are relatively few institutional investors while there are an infinite number of potential contracts. The derivatives market has grown exponentially as institutions can reduce their risk by customizing the maturity dates, notional amounts and other features which differ in each contract. This isn't the case for exchanges that require standardized contracts. There are only a few instances where trading of an OTC fixed income or derivatives product has successfully moved to an exchange model. The controversy over Greek credit default swaps and the possibility that such derivatives have worsened Greece's financial woes have added to the debate.
The OTC market tries to balance the requirements of liquidity makers, like banks with liquidity takers (the clients). The purpose of reforms in the derivatives market is not to close down the market but to introduce higher protection. Trading on electronic platforms will help market participants to manage risk transparently and efficiently in a way financial legislation mandates. Several major worldwide f accessed on September 4 2012  at the end equal to theinancial institutions have agreed to undertake more of their trades through OTC clearing houses and exchange traded platforms. This is particularly the case for credit default swaps and interest rate derivatives.
SOURCE: Duyn, A. V. Derivatives transparency is key battleground, The Financial Times, March 11 2010.
Duyn, A. V. European companies in derivatives protest, The Financial Times, August 27 2009.
Grant, J. Alert on splintering of derivatives reform, The Financial Times, April 17 2011.
Olesky, L. Don't make derivatives extinct, The Financial Times, August 9 2010.


 Straddles and Spreads




Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

Using spreadsheets to analyze combinations of options is very helpful. Once the basic models are built, it is easy to extend the analysis to different bundles of options. The Excel model "Spreads and Straddles" shown below can be used to evaluate the profitability of different strategies.

Excel Question
1. Use the data in this spreadsheet to plot the profit on a bullish spread (see Figure 15.10) with X1= 120 and X2 = 130.

Covered calls A covered call position is the purchase of a share of stock with the simultaneous sale of a call option on that stock. The written option is "covered" because the potential obligation to deliver the stock can be satisfied using the stock held in the portfolio. Writing an option without an offsetting stock position is called by contrast naked option writing. The payoff to a covered call, presented in Table 15.2, equals the stock value minus the payoff of the call. The call payoff is subtracted because the covered call position involves issuing a call to another investor who can choose to exercise it to profit at your expense.

covered call
Writing a call on an asset together with buying the asset.



  TABLE 15.2   Payoff to a covered call



The solid line in Figure 15.8C illustrates the payoff pattern. You see that the total position is worth ST when the stock price at time T is below X and rises to a maximum of X when ST exceeds X. In essence, the sale of the call option means the call writer has sold the claim to any stock value above X in return for the initial premium (the call price). Therefore, at expiration, the position is worth at most X. The dashed line of Figure 15.8C is the net profit to the covered call.


FIGURE 15.8
Value of a covered call position at expiration



Writing covered call options has been a popular investment strategy among institutional investors. Consider the managers of a fund invested largely in stocks. They might find it appealing to write calls on some or all of the stock in order to boost income by the premiums collected. Although they thereby forfeit potential capital gains should the stock price rise above the exercise price, if they view X as the price at which they plan to sell the stock anyway, then the call may be viewed as enforcing a kind of "sell discipline." The written call guarantees the stock sale will occur as planned.


EXAMPLE 15.4


Covered Call
Assume a pension fund holds 1,000 shares of GXX stock, with a current price of €130 per share. Suppose the portfolio manager intends to sell all 1,000 shares if the share price hits €140, and a call expiring in 90 days with an exercise price of €140 currently sells for €5 international diversification" aid="164N1M . By writing 10 GXX call contracts (100 shares each) the fund can pick up €5,000 in extra income. The fund would lose its share of profits from any movement of GXX stock above €140 per share, but given that it would have sold its shares at €140, it would not have realized those profits anyway.


Straddle A long straddle is established by buying both a call and a put on a stock, each with the same exercise price, X, and the same expiration date, T. Straddles are useful strategies for investors who believe a stock will move a lot in price but are uncertain about the direction of the move. For example, suppose you believe an important court case that will make or break a company is about to be settled, and the market is not yet aware of the situation. The stock will either double in value if the case is settled favorably or will drop by half if the settlement goes against the company. The straddle position will do well regardless of the outcome because its value is highest when the stock price makes extreme upward or downward moves from X.

straddle
A combination of a call and a put, each with the same exercise price and expiration date.

The worst-case scenario for a straddle is no movement in the stock price. If ST equals X, both the call and the put expire worthless, and the investor's outlay for the purchase of both options is lost. Straddle positions basically are bets on volatility. An investor who establishes a straddle must view the stock as more volatile than the market does. Conversely, investors who write straddles—selling both a call and a put—must believe the market is less volatile. They accept the option premiums now, hoping the stock price will not change much before option expiration.
The payoff to a straddle is presented in Table 15.3. The solid line of Figure 15.9C illustrates this payoff. Notice that the portfolio payoff is always positive, except at the one point where the portfolio has zero value, ST = X. You might wonder why all investors don't pursue such a no-lose strategy. To see why, remember that the straddle requires that both the put and the call be purchased. The value of the portfolio at expiration, while never negative, still must exceed the initial cash outlay for a straddle investor to clear a profit.


  TABLE 15.3regulation of required is, the    Payoff to a straddle





FIGURE 15.9
Payoff and profit to a straddle at expiration



The dashed line of Figure 15.9C is the profit to the straddle. The profit line lies below the payoff line by the cost of purchasing the straddle, P + C. It is clear from the diagram that the straddle position generates a loss unless the stock price deviates substantially from X. The stock price must depart from X by the total amount expended to purchase the call and the put in order for the purchaser of the straddle to clear a profit.
Strips and straps are variations of straddles. A strip is two puts and one call on a security with the same exercise price and expiration date. A strap is two calls and one put.
 

CONCEPT   check15.3
 
Graph the profit and payoff diagrams for strips and straps.

Spreads A spread is a combination of two or more call options (or two or more puts) on the same stock with differing exercise prices or times to expiration. Some options are bought, while others are sold, or written. A money spread involves the purchase of one option and the simultaneous sale of another with a different exercise price. A time spread refers to the sale and purchase of options with differing expiration dates.

spread
A combination of two or more call options or put options on the same asset with differing exercise prices or times to expiration.

Consider a money spread in which one call international diversification/ompute the  option is bought at an exercise price X1, while another call with identical expiration date, but higher exercise price, X2, is written. The payoff to this position will be the difference in the value of the call held and the value of the call written, as in Table 15.4.


  TABLE 15.4   Payoff to a bullish spread



There are now three instead of two outcomes to distinguish: the lowest-price region, where ST is below both exercise prices; a middle region, where ST is between the two exercise prices; and a high-price region, where ST exceeds both exercise prices. Figure 15.10 illustrates the payoff and profit to this strategy, which is called a bullish spread because the payoff either increases or is unaffected by stock price increases. Holders of bullish spreads benefit from stock price increases.


FIGURE 15.10
Value of a bullish spread position at expiration



One motivation for a bullish spread might be that the investor thinks one option is overpriced relative to another. For example, an investor who believes an X = $50 call is cheap compared to an X = $55 call might establish the spread, even without a strong desire to take a bullish position in the stock.
Collars A collar is an options strategy that brackets the value of a portfolio between two bounds. Suppose that an investor currently is holding a large position in Eagle Corp., which is currently selling at $70 per share. A lower bound of $60 can be placed on the value of the portfolio by buying a protective put with exercise price $60. This protection, however, requires that the investor pay the put premium. To raise the money to pay for the put, the investor might write a call option, say, with exercise price $80. The call might sell for roughly the same price as the put, meaning that the net outlay for the two options positions is approximately zero?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00S  equal to the. Writing the call limits the portfolio's upside potential. Even if the stock price moves above $80, the investor will do no better than $80, because at a higher price the stock will be called away. Thus the investor obtains the downside protection represented by the exercise price of the put by selling her claim to any upside potential beyond the exercise price of the call.

collar
An options strategy that brackets the value of a portfolio between two bounds.



EXAMPLE 15.5


Collars
A collar would be appropriate for an investor who has a target wealth goal in mind but is unwilling to risk losses beyond a certain level. Suppose you are contemplating buying a house for $160,000, for example. You might set this figure as your goal. Your current wealth may be $140,000, and you are unwilling to risk losing more than $20,000. A collar established by (1) purchasing 2,000 shares of stock currently selling at $70 per share, (2) purchasing 2,000 put options (20 option contracts) with exercise price $60, and (3) writing 2,000 calls with exercise price $80 would give you a good chance to realize the $20,000 capital gain without risking a loss of more than $20,000.


 

CONCEPT   check15.4
 
Graph the payoff diagram for the collar described in Example 15.5.

15.3   OPTIONLIKE SECURITIES
Suppose you never intend to trade an option directly. Why do you need to appreciate the properties of options in formulating an investment plan? Many financial instruments and agreements have features that convey implicit or explicit options to one or more parties. To value and use these securities correctly, you must understand their embedded option attributes.
Callable Bonds
You know from Chapter 10 that many corporate bonds are issued with call provisions entitling the issuer to buy bonds back from bondholders at some time in the future at a specified call price. A call provision conveys a call option to the issuer, where the exercise price is equal to the price at which the bond can be repurchased. A callable bond arrangement is essentially a sale of a straight bond (a bond with no option features such as callability or convertibility) to the investor and the concurrent sale of a call option by the investor to the bond-issuing firm.
e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute the Investors must receive some compensation for offering this implicit call option. If the callable bond were issued with the same coupon rate as a straight bond, we would expect it to sell at a discount to the straight bond equal to the value of the call. To sell callable bonds at par, firms must issue them with coupon rates higher than the coupons on straight debt. The higher coupons are the investor's compensation for the call option retained by the issuer. Coupon rates usually are selected so that the newly issued bond will sell at par value.
Figure 15.11 illustrates this optionlike property. The horizontal axis is the value of a straight bond with otherwise identical terms as the callable bond. The dashed 45-degree line represents the value of straight debt. The solid line is the value of the callable bond, and the dotted line is the value of the call option retained by the firm. A callable bond's potential for capital gains is limited by the firm's option to repurchase at the call price.
 

CONCEPT   check15.5
 
How is a callable bond similar to a covered call strategy on a straight bond?



FIGURE 15.11
Values of callable bond compared with straight bond



The option inherent in callable bonds actually is more complex than an ordinary call option because usually it may be exercised only after some initial period of call protection. The price at which the bond is callable may change over time also. Unlike exchange-listed options, these features are defined in the initial bond covenants and will depend on the needs of the issuing firm and its perception of the market's tastes.
 

CONCEPT   check15.6
 
Suppose the period of call protection is extended. How will this affect the coupon rate the company needs to offer to enable it to sell the bonds at par value?

Convertible Securities
Convertible bonds and convertible preferred stock convey options to the holder of the security rather than to the issuing firm. A convertible security typically gives its holder the right to exchange each bond or share of preferred international diversification/ompute the  stock for a fixed number of shares of common stock, regardless of the market prices of the securities at the time.
 

CONCEPT   check15.7
 
Should a convertible bond issued at par value have a higher or lower coupon rate than a nonconvertible bond issued at par?

For example, a bond with a conversion ratio of 10 allows its holder to convert one bond of par value $1,000 into 10 shares of common stock. Alternatively, we say the conversion price in this case is $100: To receive 10 shares of stock, the investor sacrifices bonds with face value $1,000 or $100 of face value per share. If the present value of the bond's scheduled payments is less than 10 times the value of one share of stock, it may pay to convert; that is, the conversion option is in the money. A bond worth $950 with a conversion ratio of 10 could be converted profitably if the stock were selling above $95, as the value of the 10 shares received for each bond surrendered would exceed $950. Most convertible bonds are issued "deep out of the money." That is, the issuer sets the conversion ratio so that conversion will not be profitable unless there is a substantial increase in stock prices and/or decrease in bond prices from the time of issue.
A bond's conversion value equals the value it would have if you converted it into stock immediately. Clearly, a bond must sell for at least its conversion value. If it did not, you could purchase the bond, convert it immediately, and clear a riskless profit. This condition could never persist, for all investors would pursue such a strategy and quickly bid up the price of the bond.
The straight bond value or "bond floor" is the value the bond would have if it were not convertible into stock. The bond must sell for more than its straight bond value because a convertible bond has more value; it is in fact a straight bond plus a valuable call option. Therefore, the convertible bond has two lower bounds on its market price: the conversion value and the straight bond value.
Figure 15.12 illustrates the optionlike properties of the convertible bond. Figure 15.12A shows the value of the straight debt as a function of the stock price of the issuing firm. For healthy firms, the straight debt value is almost independent of the value of the stock because default risk is small. However, if the firm is close to bankruptcy (stock prices are low), default risk increases, and the straight bond value falls. Panel B shows the conversion value of the bond. Panel C compares the value of the convertible bond to these two lower bounds.


FIGURE 15.12
Value of a convertible bond as a function of stock price



When stock prices are low, the straight bond value is the effective lower bound, and the conversion option is nearly irrelevant. The convertible will trade like straight debt. When stock prices are high, the bond's price is determined by its conversion value. With conversion all but guaranteed, the bond is essentially equity in disguise.
We can illustrate with two examples.

Bond A has a conversion value of only $600. Its value as straight debt, in contrast, is $967. This is the present value of the coupon and principal payments at a market rate for straight debt of 8.5%. The bond's price is $972, so the premium over straight bond value is only $5, reflecting the low probability of conversion. Its reported yield to maturity based on scheduled coupon payments and the market price of $972 is 8.42%, close to that of straight debt.
The conversion option on bond B is in the money. Conversion value is $1,250, and the bond's price, $1,255, reflects its value as equity (plus $5 for the protection the bond offers against stock price declines). The bond's reported yield is 4.76%, far below the comparable yield on straight debt. The big yield sacrifice is attributable to the far greater value of the conversion option.
In theory, we could value convertible bonds by treating them as straight debt plus call options. In practice, however, this approach is often impractical for several reasons:
1. The conversion price frequently increases over time, which means the exercise price for the option changes.
2. Stocks may pay several dividends over the life of the bond, further complicating the option value analysis.
3. Most convertibles also are callable at the discretion of the firm. In essence, both the investor and the issuer hold options on each other. If the issuer exercises its call option to repurchase the bond, the bondholders typically have a month during which they still can convert. When issuers use a call option, knowing that bondholders will choose to convert, the issuer is said to have forced a conversion. These conditions together mean the actual maturity of the bond is indeterminate.
Warrants
Warrants are essentially call options issued by a firm. One important difference between calls and warrants is that exercise of a warrant requires the firm to issue a new share of stock to satisfy its obligation—the total number of shares outstanding increases. Exercise of a call option requires only that the writer of the call deliver an already-issued share of stock to discharge the obligation. In this case, the number of shares outstanding remains fixed. Also unlike call options, warrants result in a cash flow to the firm when the warrant holder pays the exercise price. These differences mean warrant values will differ somewhat from the values of call options with identical terms.

?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00S  equal to thewarrant
An option issued by the firm to purchase shares of the firm's stock.

Like convertible debt, warrant terms may be tailored to meet the needs of the firm. Also like convertible debt, warrants generally are protected against stock splits and dividends in that the exercise price and the number of warrants held are adjusted to offset the effects of the split.
Warrants often are issued in conjunction with another security. Bonds, for example, may be packaged together with a warrant "sweetener," frequently a warrant that may be sold separately. This is called a detachable warrant.
Issues of warrants and convertible securities create the potential for an increase in outstanding shares of stock if exercise occurs. Exercise obviously would affect financial statistics that are computed on a per-share basis, so annual reports must provide earnings per share figures under the assumption that all convertible securities and warrants are exercised. These figures are called fully diluted earnings per share.3
Collateralized Loans
Many loan arrangements require that the borrower put up collateral to guarantee the loan will be paid back. In the event of default, the lender takes possession of the collateral. A nonrecourse loan gives the lender no recourse beyond the right to the collateral. That is, the lender may not sue the borrower for further payment if the collateral turns out not to be valuable enough to repay the loan.4
This arrangement gives an implicit call option to the borrower. Assume the borrower is obligated to pay back L dollars at the maturity of the loan. The collateral will be worth ST dollars at maturity. (Its value today is S0.) The borrower has the option to wait until loan maturity and repay the loan only if the collateral is worth more than the L dollars necessary to satisfy the loan. If the collateral is worth less than L, the borrower can default on the loan, discharging the obligation by forfeiting the collateral, which is worth only ST .
Another way of describing such a loan is to view the borrower as turning over collateral to the lender but retaining the right to reclaim it by paying off the loan. The transfer of the collateral with the right to reclaim it is equivalent to a payment of S0 accessed on September 4 2012  at the end equal to the dollars less a simultaneous recovery of a sum that resembles a call option with exercise price L. In effect, the borrower turns over collateral but keeps an option to "repurchase" it for L dollars at the maturity of the loan if L turns out to be less than ST. This is a call option.
A third way to look at a collaterized loan is to assume the borrower will repay the L dollars with certainty but also retain the option to sell the collateral to the lender for L dollars, even if ST is less than L. In this case, the sale of the collateral would generate the cash necessary to satisfy the loan. The ability to "sell" the collateral for a price of L dollars represents a put option, which guarantees the borrower can raise enough money to satisfy the loan simply by turning over the collateral.
Figure 15.13 illustrates these interpretations. Figure 15.13A is the value of the payment to be received by the lender, which equals the minimum of ST or L. Panel B shows that this amount can be expressed as ST minus the payoff of the call implicitly written by the lender and held by the borrower. Panel C shows it also can be viewed as a receipt of L dollars minus the proceeds of a put option.


FIGURE 15.13
Collateralized loan
A: Payoff to collateralized loan
B: Lender can be viewed as collecting the collateral from the borrower but issuing an option to the borrower to call back the collateral for the face value of the loan
C: Lender can be viewed as collecting a risk-free loan from the borrower but issuing a put to the borrower to sell the collateral for the face value of the loan



Leveraged Equity and Risky Debt
 
Investors holding stock in incorporated firms are protected by limited liability, which means that if the firm cannot pay its debts, the firm's creditors may attach only the firm's assets and may not sue the corporation's equityholders for further payment. In effect, any time the corporation borrows money, the maximum possible collateral for the loan is the total of the firm's assets. If the firm declares bankruptcy, we can interpret this as an admission that the assets of the firm are insufficient to satisfy the claims against it. The corporation may discharge its obligations by transferring ownership of the firm's assets to the creditors.
Just as is true for nonrecourse collateralized loans, the required payment to the creditors represents the exercise price of the implicit option, while the value of the firm is the underlying asset. The equityholders have a put option to transfer their ownership claims on the firm to the creditors in return for the face value of the firm's debt.
Alternatively, we may view the equityholders as retaining a call option. They have, in effect, already transferred their ownership claim to the firm to the creditors but have retained the right to reacquire the ownership claim by paying off the loan. Hence, the equityholders have the option to "buy back" the firm for a specified price, or they have a call option.
The significance of this observation is that analysts can value corporate bonds using option-pricing techniques. The default premium required of risky debt in principle can be estimated using option valuation models. We will consider some of these models in the next chapter.
15.4   EXOTIC OPTIONS
Investors clearly value the portfolio strategies made possible by trading options; this is reflected in the heavy trading volume in these markets and their tremendous success. Success breeds imitation, and in recent years we have witnessed tremendous innovation in the range of option instruments available to investors. Part of this innovation has occurred in the market for customized options, which now trade in active over-the-counter markets. Many of these options have terms that would have been highly unusual even a few years ago; they therefore are called exotic options. In this section, we will survey a few of the more interesting variants of these new instruments.
Asian Options
You already have been introduced to American and European options. Asian options are options with payoffs that depend on the average (rather than final) price of the underlying assome portion of the life of the option. For example, an Asian call option may have a payoff equal to the average stock price over the last three months minus the exercise price, if that value is positive or zero. These options may be of interest to firms that wish to hedge a profit stream that depends on the average price of a commodity over some period of time.
Currency-Translated Options
accessed on September 4 2012  at the end equal to theCurrency-translated options have either asset or exercise prices denominated in a foreign currency. A good example of such an option is the quanto, which allows an investor to fix in advance the exchange rate at which an investment in a foreign currency can be converted back into dollars. The right to translate a fixed amount of foreign currency into dollars at a given exchange rate is a simple foreign exchange option. Quantos are more interesting, however, because the amount of currency that will be translated into dollars depends on the investment performance of the foreign security. Therefore, a quanto in effect provides a random number of options.
Digital Options
Digital options, also called binary or "bet" options, have fixed payoffs that depend on whether a condition is satisfied by the price of the underlying asset. For example, a binary call option might pay off a fixed amount of $100 if the stock price at expiration exceeds the exercise price. The Chicago Board of Options Exchange lists binary options on the S&P 500, but, to date, trading volume has been limited.







SUMMARY
• A call option is the right to buy an asset at an agreed-upon exercise price. A put option is the right to sell an asset at a given exercise price.
• American-style options allow exercise on or before the exercise date. European-style options allow exercise only on the expiration date. Most traded options are American in nature.
• Options are traded on stocks, stock indexes, foreign currencies, fixed-income securities, and several futures contracts.
• Options can be used either to lever up an investor's exposure to an asset price or to provide insurance against volatility of asset prices. Popular option strategies include covered calls, protective puts, straddles, and spreads.
• Many commonly traded securities embody option characteristics. Examples of these securities are callable bonds, convertible bonds, and warrants. Other arrangements, such as collateralized loans and limited-liability borrowing, can be analyzed as conveying implicit options to one or more parties.







KEY TERMS
American option
at the money
call option
collar
covered call
European option
exercise price
in the money
out of the money
premium
protective put
put option
risk management
spread
straddle
strike price
warrant







KEY FORMULAS

PROBLEM SETS
Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance. Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.
Basic

1. We said that options can be used either to scale up or reduce overall portfolio risk. What are some examples of risk-increasing and risk-reducing options strategies? Explain each. (LO 15-2)
2. Why do you think the most actively traded options tend to be the ones that are near the money? (LO 15-1)
3. The following price quotations are for exchange-listed options on Primo Corporation common stock.



With at the expiration date of the options.S  equal to the transaction costs ignored, how much would a buyer have to pay for one call option contract? (LO 15-1)
4. Turn back to Figure 15.1, which lists the prices of various IBM options. Use the data in the figure to calculate the payoff and the profits for investments in each of the following October 2011 expiration options, assuming that the stock price on the expiration date is $168. (LO 15-1)
a. Call option, X = 160
b. Put option, X = 160
c. Call option, X = 165
d. Put option, X = 165
e. Call option, X = 170
f. Put option, X = 170
5. You purchase one IBM October 160 put contract for a premium of $5.35. What is your maximum possible profit? (See Figure 15.1.) (LO 15-1)
6. An investor buys a call at a price of $5.90 with an exercise price of $54. At what stock price will the investor break even on the purchase of the call? (LO 15-1)
7. You establish a straddle on Walmart using September call and put options with a strike price of $70. The call premium is $5.25 and the put premium is $6. (LO 15-2)
a. What is the most you can lose on this position?
b. What will be your profit or loss if Walmart is selling for $56 in September?
c. At what stock prices will you break even on the straddle?
8. The following diagram shows the value of a put option at expiration: accessed on September 4 2012  at the end equal to the



Ignoring transaction costs, which of the following statements about the value of the put option at expiration is true? (LO 15-1)
a. The expiration value of the short position in the put is $4 if the stock price is $76.
b. The expiration value of the long position in the put is -$4 if the stock price is $76.
c. The long put has a positive expiration value when the stock price is below $80.
d. The value of the short position in the put is zero for stock prices equaling or exceeding $76.

Intermediate

9. You are a portfolio manager who uses options positions to customize the risk profile of your clients. In each case, what strategy is best given your client's objective? (LO 15-2)



a. • Performance to date: Up 16%.

•  Client objective: Earn at least 15%.
•  Your scenario: Good chance of large stock price gains or large losses between now and end of year.


i. Long straddle
 ii. Long bullish spread
iii. Short straddle

b. • Performance to date: Up 16%.

•  Client objective: Earn at least 15%.
•  Your Scenario: Good chance of large stock price losses between now and end of year.


i. Long put options
 ii. Short call options
international diversificationre.

iii. Long call options


10. An investor purchases a stock for $51 and a put for $.55 with a strike price of $48. The investor sells a call for $.55 with a strike price of $56. What is the maximum profit and loss for this position? Draw the profit and loss diagram for this strategy as a function of the stock price at expiration. (LO 15-1)
11. Imagine that you are holding 6,600 shares of stock, currently selling at $50 per share. You are ready to sell the shares but would prefer to put off the sale until next year due to tax reasons. If you continue to hold the shares until January, however, you face the risk that the stock will drop in value before year-end. You decide to use a collar to limit downside risk without laying out a good deal of additional funds. January call options with a strike price of $55 are selling at $3, and January puts with a strike price of $45 are selling at $3. What will be the value of your portfolio in January (net of the proceeds from the options) if the stock price ends up at (a) $36? (b) $50? (c) $56? Compare these proceeds to what you would realize if you simply continued to hold the shares. (LO 15-2)
12. Suppose you think FedEx stock is going to appreciate substantially in value in the next year. Say the stock's current price, S0, is $100, and the call option expiring in one year has an exercise price, X, of $100 and is selling at a price, C, of $10. With $10,000 to invest, you are considering three alternatives:
a. Invest all $10,000 in the stock, buying 100 shares.
b. Invest all $10,000 in 1,000 options (10 contracts).
c. Buy 100 options (one contract) for $1,000 and invest the remaining $9,000 in a money market fund paying 4% interest annually.

What is your rate of return for each alternative for four stock prices one year from now? Summarize your results in the table and diagram below. (LO 15-1)

e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute the Rate of return on investment


13. The common stock of the P.U.T.T. Corporation has been trading in a narrow price range for the past month, and you are convinced it is going to break far out of that range in the next three months. You do not know whether it will go up or down, however. The current price of the stock is $100 per share, the price of a three-month call option with an exercise price of $100 is $10, and a put with the same expiration date and exercise price costs $7. (LO 15-2)
a. What would be a simple options strategy to exploit your conviction about the stock price's future movements?
b. How far would the price have to move in either direction for you to make a profit on your initial investment?







regulation of change the components of the DuPont formula. dollarChapter
16

Option Valuation

Learning Objectives:

LO16-1 Identify the features of an option that affect its market value.
LO16-2 Compute an option value in two-scenario and binomial models of the economy.
LO16-3 Compute the Black-Scholes value and implied volatility of an option.
LO16-4 Compute the proper relationship between call and put prices.
LO16-5 Compute the hedge ratio of an option, and use that ratio to manage risk.


In the previous chapter, we examined option markets and strategies. We ended by noting that many securities contain embedded options that affect both their values and their risk-return characteristics. In this chapter, we turn our attention to option valuation issues. Understanding most of these models requires considerable mathematical and statistical background. Still, many of their ideas and insights can be demonstrated in simple examples, and we will concentrate on these.
We start with a discussion of the factors that ought to affect option prices. After this qualitative discussion, we present a simple "two-state" quantitative option valuation model and show how we can generalize it into a useful and accurate pricing tool. Next, we move on to one particular option valuation formula, the famous Black-Scholes model. Option-pricing models allow us to "back out" market estimates of stock price volatility, and we will examine these estimates of implied volatility.
Next we turn to some of the more important applications of option-pricing theory in risk management. Finally, we take a brief look at some of the empirical evidence on option pricing and the implications of that evidence concerning the limitations of the Black-Scholes model.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

  16.1   OPTION VALUATION: INTRODUCTION

Intrinsic and Time Values
Consider a call option that is out of the money at the moment, with the stock price below the exercise price. This does not mean the option is valueless. Even though immediate exercise would be unprofitable, the call retains a accessed on September 4 2012  at the endsubstitute positive value because there is always a chance the stock price will increase sufficiently by the expiration date to allow for profitable exercise. If not, the worst that can happen is that the option will expire with zero value.
The value S0 - X is sometimes called the intrinsic value of an in-the-money call option because it gives the payoff that could be obtained by immediate exercise. Intrinsic value is set equal to zero for out-of-the-money or at-the-money options. The difference between the actual call price and the intrinsic value is commonly called the time value of the option.

intrinsic value
Stock price minus exercise price, or the cash flow that could be attained by immediate exercise of an in-the-money call option.


time value
Difference between an option's price and its intrinsic value.

Time value is an unfortunate choice of terminology because it may confuse the option's time value with the time value of money. Time value in the options context simply refers to the difference between the option's price and the value the option would have if it were expiring immediately. It is the part of the option's value that may be attributed to the fact that it still has positive time to expiration.
Most of an option's time value typically is a type of "volatility value." As long as the option holder can choose not to exercise, the payoff cannot be worse than zero. Even if a call option is out of the money now, it still will sell for a positive price because it offers the potential for a profit if the stock price increases, while imposing no risk of additional loss should the stock price fall. The volatility value lies in the right not to exercise the option if that action would be unprofitable. The option to exercise, as opposed to the obligation to exercise, provides insurance against poor stock price performance.
As the stock price increases substantially, it becomes more likely that the call option will be exercised by expiration. In this case, with exercise all but assured, the volatility value becomes minimal. As the stock price gets ever larger, the option value approaches the "adjusted" intrinsic value—the stock price minus the present value of the exercise price, S0 - PV(X ).
Why should this be? If you know the option will be exercised and the stock purchased for X dollars, it is as though you own the stock already. The stock certificate might as well be sitting in your safe-deposit box now, as it will be there in only a few months. You just haven't paid for it yet. The present value of your obligation is the present value of X, so the present value of the net payoff of the call option is S0 - PV(X ).1
Figure 16.1 illustrates the call option valuation function. The value curve shows that when the stock price is low, the option is nearly worthless because there is almost no chance that it will be exercised. When the stock price is very high, the option value approaches adjusted intrinsic value. In the midrange case, where the option is approximately at the money, the option curve diverges from the straight lines corresponding to adjusted intrinsic value. This is because, while exercise today would have a negligible (or negative) payoff, the volatility value of the option is quite high in this region.


FIGURE 16.1
Call option value before expiration



The call option always increases in value with the stock price. The slope is greatest, however, when the option is deep in the money. In this case, exercise is all but assured, and the option increases in price one-for-one with the stock price.
Determinants of Option Values
We can identify at least six factors that should affect the value of a call option: the stock price, the exercise price, the volatility of the stock price, the time to expiration, the interest rate, and the dividend rate of the stock. The call option should increase in value with the stock price and decrease in value with the exercise price because the payoff to a call, if exercised, equals ST - X. The magnitude of the expected payoff from the call increases with the difference S0 - X.
Call option value also increases with the volatility of the underlying stock price. To see why, consider circumstances where possible stock prices at expiration may range from $10 to $50 compared to a situation where stock prices may range only from $20 to $40 at the expiration date of the options.S substitute. In both cases, the expected, or average, stock price will be $30. Suppose the exercise price on a call option is also $30. What are the option payoffs?

If each outcome is equally likely, with probability .2, the expected payoff to the option under high-volatility conditions will be $6, but under the low-volatility conditions, the expected payoff to the call option is half as much, only $3.
Despite the fact that the average stock price in each scenario is $30, the average option payoff is greater in the high-volatility scenario. The source of this extra value is the limited loss an option holder can suffer, or the volatility value of the call. No matter how far below $30 the stock price drops, the option holder will get zero. Obviously, extremely poor stock price performance is no worse for the call option holder than moderately poor performance.
In the case of good stock performance, however, the call option will expire in the money, and it will be more profitable the higher the stock price. Thus, extremely good stock outcomes can improve the option payoff without limit, but extremely poor outcomes cannot worsen the payoff below zero. This asymmetry means volatility in the underlying stock price increases the expected payoff to the option, thereby enhancing its value.2
 

CONCEPT   check16.1
 
Should a put option increase in value with the volatility of the stock?

Similarly, longer time to expiration increases the value of a call option. For more distant expiration dates, there is more time for unpredictable future events to affect prices, and the range of likely stock prices increases. This has an effect similar to that of increased volatility. Moreover, as time to expiration lengthens, the present value of the exercise price falls, thereby benefiting the call option holder and increasing the option value. As a corollary to this issue, call option values are higher when interest rates rise (holding the stock price constant), because higher interest rates also reduce the present value of the exercise price.
Finally, the dividend payout policy of the firm affects option values. A high dividend payout policy puts a drag on the rate of growth of the stock price. For any expected total rate of return on the stock, a higher dividend yield must imply a lower expected rate of capital gain. This drag on stock appreciation decreases the potential payoff from the call option, thereby lowering the call value. Table 16.1 summarizes these relationships.
 

CONCEPT   check16.2
 
Prepare a table like Table 16.1 for the determinants of put option values. How should put values respond to increases in S, X, T, σ, rf, and dividend payout?



  TABLE 16.1   Determinants of call option values



16.2   BINOMIAL OPTION PRICING
Two-State Option Pricing
A complete understanding of commonly used option valuation formulas is difficult without a substantial mathematics background. Nevertheless, we can develop valuable insight into option valuation by considering a simple special case. Assume a stock price can take only two possible values at option expiration: The stock will either increase to a given higher price or decrease to a given lower price. Although this may seem an extreme simplification, it allows us to come closer to understanding more complicated and realistic models. Moreover, we can extend this approach to describe far more reasonable specifications of stock price behavior. In fact, several major financial firms employ variants of this simple model to value options and securities with optionlike features.
Suppose the stock now sells at $100, and the price will either increase by a factor of u = 1.2 to $120 (u stands for "up") or fall by a factor of d = .9 to $90 (d stands for "down") by year-end. A call option on the stock might specify an exercise price of $110 and a time to expiration of one year. The interest rate is 10%. At year-end, the payoff to the holder of the call option will be either zero, if the stock flass="generated-style" aid="10DJAH">These possibilities are illustrated by the following "value trees":

Compare this payoff to that of a portfolio consisting of one share of the stock and borrowing of $81.82 at the interest rate of 10%. The payoff of this portfolio also depends on the stock price at year-end.

We know the cash outlay to establish the portfolio is $18.18: $100 for the stock less the $81.82 proceeds from borrowing. Therefore, the portfolio's value tree is

The payoff of this portfolio is exactly three times that of the call option for either value of the stock price. In other words, three call options will exactly replicate the payoff to the portfolio; it follows that three call options should have the same price as the cost of establishing the portfolio. Hence, the three calls should sell for the same price as the "replicating portfolio." Therefore,

or each call should sell at C = $6.06. Thus, given the stock price, exercise price, interest rate, and volatility of the stock price (as represented by the magnitude of the up or down movements), we can derive the fair value for the call option.
This valuation approach relies heavily on the notion of replication. With only two possible end-of-year values of the stock, the payoffs to the levered stock portfolio replicate the payoffs to three call options and so need to command the same market price. This notion of replication is behind most option-pricing formulas. For more complex price distributions for stocks, the replication technique is correspondingly more complex, but the principles remain the same.
One way to view the role of replication is to note that, using the numbers assumed for this example, a portfolio made up of one share of stock and three call options written is perfectly hedged. Its year-end value is independent of the ultimate stock price:

The investor has formed a riskless portfolio with a payout of $90. Its value must be the present value of $90, or $90/1.10 = $81.82. The value of the portfolio, which equals $100 from the stock held long minus 3C from the three calls written, should equal $81.82. Hence, $100 - 3C = $81.82, or C = $6.06.
The ability to create a perfect hedge is the key to this argument. The hedge locks in the end-of-year payout, which therefore can be discounted using the risk-free?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00S substitute interest rate. To find the value of the option in terms of the value of the stock, we do not need to know the option's or the stock's beta or expected rate of return. The perfect hedging, or replication, approach enables us to express the value of the option in terms of the current value of the stock without this information. With a hedged position, the final stock price does not affect the investor's payoff, so the stock's risk and return parameters have no bearing.
The hedge ratio of this example is one share of stock to three calls, or one-third. For every call option written, one-third share of stock must be held in the portfolio to hedge away risk. This ratio has an easy interpretation in this context: It is the ratio of the range of the values of the option to those of the stock across the two possible outcomes. The stock, which originally sells for S0 = $100, will be worth either d × $100 = $90 or u × $100 = $120, for a range of $30. If the stock price increases, the call will be worth Cu = $10, whereas if the stock price decreases, the call will be worth Cd = 0, for a range of $10. The ratio of ranges, $10/$30, is one-third, which is the hedge ratio we have established.
The hedge ratio equals the ratio of ranges because the option and stock are perfectly correlated in this two-state example. Because they are perfectly correlated, a perfect hedge requires that the option and stock be held in a fraction determined only by relative volatility.
We can generalize the hedge ratio for other two-state option problems as

where Cu or Cd refers to the call option's value when the stock goes up or down, respectively, and uS0 and dS0 are the stock prices in the two states. The hedge ratio, H, is the ratio of the swings in the possible end-of-period values of the option and the stock. If the investor writes one option and holds H shares of stock, the value of the portfolioe that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute thegta will be unaffected by the stock price. In this case, option pricing is easy: Simply set the value of the hedged portfolio equal to the present value of the known payoff.
Using our example, the option-pricing technique would proceed as follows:
1. Given the possible end-of-year stock prices, uS0 = $120 and dS0 = $90, and the exercise price of $110, calculate that Cu = $10 and Cd = $0. The stock price range is $30, while the option price range is $10.
2. Find that the hedge ratio is $10/$30 = ⅓.
3. Find that a portfolio made up of ⅓ share with one written option would have an end-of-year value of $30 with certainty.
4. Show that the present value of $30 with a one-year interest rate of 10% is $27.27.
5. Set the value of the hedged position equal to the present value of the certain payoff:

6. Solve for the call's value, C0 = $6.06.
What if the option were overpriced, perhaps selling for $6.50? Then you can make arbitrage profits. Here is how:

Although the net initial investment is zero, the payoff in one year is positive and riskless. If the option were underpriced, one would simply reverse this arbitrage strategy: Buy the option, and sell the stock short to eliminate price risk. Note, by the way, that the present value of the profit to the above arbitrage strategy equals three times the amount by which the option is overpriced. The present value of the risk-free profit of $1.45 at a 10% interest rate is $1.32. With three options written in the strategy above, this translates to a profit of $.44 per option, exactly the amount by which the option was overpriced: $6.50 versus the "fair value" of $6.06.
 

CONCEPT   check16.3
 
Suppose the call option had been underpriced, selling at $5.50. Formulate the arbitrage strategy to exploit the mispricing, and show that it provides a riskless cash flow in one year of $.6167 per option purchased. Compare the present value of this cash flow to the option mispricing.

Generalizing the Two-State Approach
Although the two-state stock price model seems simplistic, we can generalize it to incorporate more realistic assumptions. To start, suppose we were to break up the year into two six-month segments and then assert that over each half-year segment the stock price could take on two values. In this example, we will say it can increase 10% (i.e., u = 1.10) or decrease 5% (i.e., d = .95). A stock initially selling at $100 could follow the following possible paths over the course of the year:

The midrange value of $104.50 can be attained by two paths: an increase of 10% followed by a decrease of 5%, or a decrease of 5% followed by an increase of 10%.
There are now three possible end-of-year values for the stock and three for the option:

Using methods similar to those we followed above, we could value Cu from knowledge of Cuu and Cud, then value Cd from knowledge of Cdu and Cdd, and finally value C from knowledge of Cu and Cd. And there is no reason to stop at six-month intervals. We could next break the year into 4 three-month units, or 12 one-month units, or 365 one-day units, each of which would be posited to have a two-state process. Although the calculations become quite numerous and correspondingly tedious, they are easy to program into a computer, and such computer programs are used widely by participants in the options market.


EXAMPLE 16.1 international diversification" aid="164N1Mgta


Binomial Option Pricing
Suppose that the risk-free interest rate is 5% per six-month period and we wish to value a call option with exercise price £110 on the stock described in the two-period price tree just above. We start by finding the value of Cu. From this point, the call can rise to an expiration-date value of Cuu = £11 (since at this point the stock price is u × u × S0 = £121) or fall to a final value of Cud = 0 (since at this point the stock price is u × d × S0 = £104.50, which is less than the £110 exercise price). Therefore, the hedge ratio at this point is

Thus, the following portfolio will be worth £209 at option expiration regardless of the ultimate stock price:

The portfolio must have a current market value equal to the present value of £209:

Solve to find that Cu = £6.984.
Next we find the value of Cd. It is easy to see that this value must be zero. If we reach this point (corresponding to a stock price of £95), the stock price at option expiration will be either £104.50 or £90.25; in both cases, the option will expire out of the money. (More formally, we could note that with Cud = Cdd = 0, the hedge ratio is zero, and a portfolio of zero shares will replicate the payoff of the call!)
Finally, we solve for C by using the values of Cu and Cd. The following Concept Check leads you through the calculations that show the option value to be £4.434.


 

CONCEPT   check16.4
 
Show that the initial value of the call option in Example 16.1 is £4.434.
 a. Confirm that the spread in option values is Cu - Cd = £6.984.
b. Confirm that the spread in stock values is uS0 - dS0 = £15.
 c. Confirm that the hedge ratio is .4656 shares purchased for each call written.
 d. Demonstrate that the value in one period of a portfolio comprising .4656 shares and one call written is riskless.
 e. Calculate the present value of this payoff.
f. Solve for the option value.

Making the Valuation Model Practical
As we break the year into progressively finer subintervals, the range of possible year-end stock prices expands. For example, when we increase the number of subperiods to three, the number of possible stock prices increases to four, as demonstrated in the following stock price tree:

Thus, by allowing for an ever-greater number of subperiods, we can overcome one of the apparent limitations of the valuation model: that the number of possible end-of-period stock prices is small.
Notice that extreme outcomes such as u3S0 or d3S0 will be relatively rare, as they require either three consecutive increases or decreases in the three subintervals. More moderate, or midrange, results such as u2dS0 can be arrived at by more than one path; any combination of two price increases and one decrease will result in stock price u2dS0. There are three of these paths: uud, udu, duu. In contrast, only one path, uuu, results in a stock price of u3S0. Thus, midrange values are more likely. The probability of each outcome can be described by the binomial distribution, and this multiperiod approach to option pricing is called the binomial model.

binomial model
An option valuation model predicated on the assumption that stock prices can move to only two values over any short time period.

To make the model more realistic, we can break up the option maturity into more and more subperiods. As we do, the probability distribution for the final stock price will more and more resemble the familiar bell-shaped curve, with highly unlikely extreme outcomes and far more likely midrange outcomes.
But we still need to answer an important practical question. Before the model can be used to value actual options, we neede that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute thegta a way to choose reasonable values for u and d. The spread between up and down movements in the price of the stock reflects the volatility of its rate of return, so the choice for u and d should depend on that volatility. Call σ your estimate of the standard deviation of the stock's continuously compounded annualized rate of return and Δt the length of each subperiod. To make the standard deviation of the stock in the binomial model match your estimate of σ, it turns out that you can set  and .3 You can see that the proportional difference between u and d increases with annualized volatility as well as the duration of the subperiod. This makes sense, as both higher σ and longer holding periods make future stock prices more uncertain. The following example illustrates how to use this calibration.


EXAMPLE 16.2


Calibrating u and d to Stock Volatility
Suppose you are using a three-period model to value a one-year option on a stock with volatility (i.e., annualized standard deviation) of σ = .30. With a time to expiration of T = 1 year, and three subperiods, you would calculate Δt = T/n = 1/3,  and . accessed on September 4 2012  at the endsubstitute Given the probability of an up movement, you could then work out the probability of any final stock price. For example, suppose the probability that the stock price increases is .554 and the probability that it decreases is .446.4 Then the probability of stock prices at the end of the year would be as follows:

We plot this probability distribution in Figure 16.2, Panel A. Notice that the two middle end-of-period stock prices are, in fact, more likely than either extreme.


Now we can extend Example 16.2 by breaking up the option maturity into ever-shorter subintervals. As we do, the stock price distribution becomes increasingly plausible, as we demonstrate in Example 16.3.


EXAMPLE 16.3


Increasing the Number of Subperiods
In Example 16.2, we broke up the year into three subperiods. Let's also look at the cases of 6 and 20 subperiods.

We plot the resulting probability distributions in Panels B and C of Figure 16.2.5
Notice that the right tail of the distribution in Panel C is noticeably longer than the left tail. In fact, as the number of intervals increases, the distribution progressively approaches the skewed lognormal (rather than the symmetric normal) distribution. Even if the stock price were to decline in each subinterval, it can never drop below zero. But there is no corresponding upper bound on its potential performance. This asymmetry gives rise to the skewness of the distribution.


Eventually, as we divide the option maturity into an ever-greater number of subintervals, each node of the event tree would correspond to an infinitesimally small time interval. The possible stock price movement within that time interval would be correspondingly small. As those many intervals passed, the end-of-period stock price would more and more closely resemble a lognormal distribution.6 Thus, the apparent oversimplification of the two-state model can be overcome by progressively subdividing any period into many subperiods.
At any node, one still could set up a portfolio that would be perfectly hedged over the next time computed and the portfolio composition could be revised to rema international diversificationre.
dynamic hedging, the continued updating of the hedge ratio as time passes. As the dynamic hedge becomes ever finer, the resulting option valuation procedure becomes more precise. The nearby box offers further refinements on the use of the binomial model.
 

CONCEPT   check16.5
 
Would you expect the hedge ratio to be higher or lower when the call option is more in the money?

16.3   BLACK-SCHOLES OPTION VALUATION
While the binomial model we have described is extremely flexible, it requires a computer to be useful in actual trading. An option-pricing formula would be far easier to use than the tedious algorithm involved in the binomial model. It turns out that such a formula can be derived if one is willing to make just two more assumptions: that both the risk-free interest rate and stock price volatility are constant over the life of the option. In this case, as the time to expiration is divided into ever more subperiods, the distribution of the stock price at expiration progressively approaches the lognormal distribution, as suggested by Figure 16.2. When the stock price distribution is actually lognormal, we can derive an exact option-pricing formula.


FIGURE 16.2
Probability distributions for final stock price: possible outcomes and associated probabilities. In each panel, the stock's expected annualized, continuously compounded rate of return is 10% and its standard deviation is 30%.






On the MARKET FRONT









A RISK-NEUTRAL SHORTCUT
We pointed out earlier in the chapter that the binomial-model valuation approach is arbitrage-based. We can value the option by replicating it with shares of stock plus international diversification/ompute thegta borrowing. The ability to replicate the option means that its price relative to the stock and the interest rate must be based only on the technology of replication, and not on risk preferences. It cannot depend on risk aversion or the capital asset pricing model or any other model of equilibrium risk-return relationships.
This insight—that the pricing model must be independent of risk aversion—leads to a very useful shortcut to valuing options. Imagine a risk-neutral economy, that is, an economy in which all investors are risk-neutral. This hypothetical economy must value options the same as our real one, because risk aversion cannot affect the valuation formula.
In a risk-neutral economy, investors would not demand risk premiums and would therefore value all assets by discounting expected payoffs at the risk-free rate of interest. Therefore, a security such as a call option would be valued by discounting its expected cash flow at the risk-free rate: . We put the expectation operator in quotation marks to signify that this is not the true expectation but the expectation that would prevail in the hypothetical risk-neutral economy. To be consistent, we must calculate this expected cash flow using the expected rate of return the stock would have in the risk-neutral economy as one of our inputs, not using its actual expected rate of return. But if we successfully maintain consistency, the value derived for the hypothetical economy should match the one in our own.
How do we compute the expected cash flow from the option in the risk-neutral economy? Because there are no risk premiums, the stock's expected rate of return must equal the risk-free rate. Call p the probability that the stock price increases. Then p must be chosen to equate the expected rate of increase of the stock price to the risk-free rate (we ignore dividends here):

This implies that  We call p a risk-neutral probability to distinguish it from the true or "objective" probability. To illustrate, in our two-state example at the beginning of Section 16.2, we had u = 1.2, d = .9,regulation of required nternational  and rf = .10. Given these values, 
Now let's see what happens if we use the discounted cash flow formula to value the option in the risk-neutral economy. We continue to use the two-state example from Section 16.2. We find the present value of the option payoff using the risk-neutral probability and discount at the risk-free interest rate:

This answer exactly matches the value we found using our no-arbitrage approach!
 We repeat: This is not truly an expected discounted value.
 • The numerator is not the true expected cash flow from the option because we use the risk-neutral probability, p, rather than the true probability.
 • The denominator is not the proper discount rate for option cash flows because we do not account for the risk.
 • In a sense these two "errors" cancel out. But this is not just luck: We are assured to get the correct result because the no-arbitrage approach implies that risk preferences cannot affect the option value. Therefore, the value computed for the risk-neutral economy must equal the value that we obtain in our economy.


When we move to the more realistic multiperiod model, the calculations are more cumbersome but the idea is the same. Footnote 4 shows how to relate p to any expected rate of return and volatility estimate. Simply set the expected rate of return on the stock equal to the risk-free rate, use the resulting probability to work out the expected payoff from the option, discount at the risk-free rate, and you will find the option value. These calculations are actually fairly easy to program in Excel.

The Black-Scholes Formula
Financial economists searched for years for a workable option-pricing model before Black and Scholes (1973) and Merton (1973) derived a formula for the value of a call option. Now widely used by options market participants, the Black-Scholes pricing formula for a European-style call option is

Black-Scholes pricing formula
A formula to value an option that uses the stock price, the risk-free interest rate, the time to expiration, and the standard deviation of the stock return.


where
 
and where



FIGURE 16.3
A standard normal probability function



Notice a surprising feature of Equation 16.1: The option value does not depend on the expected rate of return on the stock. In a sense, this information is already built into the formula with inclusion of the stock price, which itself depends on the stock's risk and return characteristics. This version of the Black-Scholes formula is predicated on the assumption that the underlying asset has a constant dividend (or income) yield.
Although you may find the Black-Scholes formula intimidating, we can explain it at a somewhat intuitive level. Consider a nondividend-paying stock, for which δ = 0. Then S0e-δT = S0.
The trick is to view the N(d) terms (loosely) as risk-adjusted probabilities that the call option will expire in the money. First, look at Equation 16.1 assuming both N(d) terms are close to 1, that is, when there is a very high probability that the option will be exercised. Then the call option value is equal to S0 - Xe-rT, which is what we called earlier the adjusted intrinsic value, S0 - PV( at the expiration date of the options.S substituteX). This makes sense; if exercise is certain, we have a claim on a stock with current value S0 and an obligation with present value PV(X), or with continuous compounding, Xe-rT.
Now look at Equation 16.1 assuming the N(d) terms are close to zero, meaning the option almost certainly will not be exercised. Then the equation confirms that the call is worth nothing. For middle-range values of N(d) between 0 and 1, Equation 16.1 tells us that the call value can be viewed as the present value of the call's potential payoff adjusting for the probability of in-the-money expiration.
How do the N(d) terms serve as risk-adjusted probabilities? This question quickly leads us into advanced statistics. Notice, however, that d1 and d2 both increase as the stock price increases. Therefore, N(d1) and N(d2) also increase with higher stock prices. This is the property we would desire of our "probabilities." For higher stock prices relative to exercise prices, future exercise is more likely.


EXAMPLE 16.4


Black-Scholes Call Option Valuation
You can use the Black-Scholes formula fairly easily. Suppose you want to value a call option under the following circumstances:

First calculate

Next find N(d1) and N(d2). The normal distribution function is tabulated and may be found in many statistics textbooks. A table of N(d) is provided as Table 16.2. The normal distribution function N(d) is also provided in any spreadsheet program. In Microsoft Excel, for example, the function name is NORMSDIST. Using either Excel or Table 16.2 (using interpolation for .43), we find that

Finally, remember that with δ = 0, S0e-δT = S0. Thus, the value of the call option is



 

CONCEPT   check16.6
 
Calculate the call option value if the standard deviation on the stock is .6 instead of .5. Confirm that the option is worth more using this higher volatility.

What if the option price in Example 16.4 were $15 rather than $13.70? Is the option mispriced? Maybe, but before betting your career on that, you may want to reconsider the valuation analysis. First, like all models, the Black-Scholes formula is based on some simplifying abstractions that make the formula only approximately valid.


  TABLE 16.2   Cumulative normal distribution



Some of the important assumptions underlying the formula are the following:
1. The stock will pay a constant, continu international diversification" aid="164N1Mgtaous dividend yield until the option expiration date.
2. Both the interest rate, r, and variance rate, σ2, of the stock are constant (or in slightly more general versions of the formula, both are known functions of time—any changes are perfectly predictable).
3. Stock prices are continuous, meaning that sudden extreme jumps, such as those in the aftermath of an announcement of a takeover attempt, are ruled out.
Variants of the Black-Scholes formula have been developed to deal with many of these limitations.
Second, even within the context of the Black-Scholes model, you must be sure of the accuracy of the parameters used in the formula. Four of these—S0, X, T, and r—are straightforward. The stock price, exercise price, and time to expiration are readily determined. The interest rate used is the money market rate for a maturity equal to that of the option, and the dividend yield is usually reasonably stable, at least over short horizons.
The last input, though, the standard deviation of the stock return, is not directly observable. It must be estimated from historical data, from scenario analysis, or from the prices of other options, as we will describe momentarily. Because the standard deviation must be estimated, it is always possible that discrepancies between an option price and its Black-Scholes value are simply artifacts of error in the estimation of the stock's volatility.
In fact, market participants often give the option valuation problem a different twist. Rather than calculating a Black-Scholes option value for a given stock standard deviation, they ask instead: What standard deviation would be necessary for the option price that I actually observe to be consistent with the Black-Scholes formula? This is called the implied volatility of the option, the volatility level for the stock that the option price implies. Investors can then judge whether they think the actual stock standard deviation exceeds the implied volatility. If it does, the option is considered a good buy; if actual volatility seems greater than the implied volatility, the option's fair price would exceed the observed price.

implied volatility
The standard deviation of stock returns that is consistent with an option's market value.

Another variation is to compare two options on the same stock with equal expiration dates but different exercise prices. The option with the higher implied volatility would be considered relatively expensive because a higher standard deviation is required to justifyregulation of required nternational  its price. The analyst might consider buying the option with the lower implied volatility and writing the option with the higher implied volatility.
The Black-Scholes call option valuation formula, as well as implied volatilities, is easily calculated using an Excel spreadsheet, as in Spreadsheet 16.1. The model inputs are provided in column B, and the outputs are given in column E. The formulas for d1 and d2 are provided in the spreadsheet, and the Excel formula NORMSDIST(d1) is used to calculate N(d1). Cell E6 contains the Black-Scholes call option formula.


SPREADSHEET 16.1
Spreadsheet to calculate Black-Scholes call-option values





To compute an implied volatility, we can use the Goal Seek command from the What-If Analysis menu (which may be found under the Data tab) in Excel. (See Figure 16.4 for an illustration.) Goal Seek asks us to change the value of one cell to make the value of another cell (called the target cell) equal to a specific value. For example, if we observe a call option selling for $7 with other inputs as given in the spreadsheet, we can use Goal Seek to change the value in cell B2 (the standard deviation of the stock) to set the option value in cell E6 equal to $7. The target cell, E6, is the call price, and the spreadsheet manipulates cell B2. When you click OK, the spreadsheet finds that a standard deviation equal to .2783 is consistent with a call price of $7; therefore, 27.83% would be the call's implied volatility if it were selling at $7.


FIGURE 16.4

ed volatility



 

CONCEPT   check16.7
 
Consider the call option in Example 16.4. If it sells for $15 rather than the value of $13.70 found in the example, is its implied volatility more or less than .5? Use Sregulation of required nternational preadsheet 16.1 (available at the Online Learning Center) to find its implied volatility at this price.

The Chicago Board Options Exchange regularly computes the implied volatility of major stock indexes. Figure 16.5 is a graph of the implied (30-day) volatility of the S&P 500. During periods of turmoil, implied volatility can spike quickly. Notice the peaks in January 1991 (Gulf War), in August 1998 (collapse of Long-Term Capital Management), on September 11, 2001, in 2002 (buildup to invasion of Iraq), and, most dramatically, during the credit crisis of 2008. Because implied volatility correlates with crisis, it is sometimes called an "investor fear gauge," and, as the nearby box makes clear, observers use it to infer the market's assessment of possible stock price swings in coming months. In this case, the Food and Drug Administration's imminent ruling on the viability of an important drug being developed by Dendreon Corporation created tremendous uncertainty about its future stock price and a commensurate jump in the implied volatility of its stock options.


FIGURE 16.5
Implied volatility of the S&P 500 (VIX index), expressed as an annualized standard deviation
Source: Chicago Board Options Exchange. CBOE Volatility Index® (VIX®) data is provided by Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated (CBOE) and CBOE makes no warranties of any kind with respect to this data. Used with permission.



In March 2004, a futures contract on the 30-day implied volatility of the S&P 500 began trading on the CBOE Futures Exchange. The payoff of the contract depends on market implied volatility at the expiration of the contract. The ticker symbol of the contract is VIX.
Figure 16.5 also reveals an awkward empirical fact. While the Black-Scholes formula is derived assuming that stock volatility is constant, the time series of implied volatilities consistent with that formula is in fact far from constant. This contradiction reminds us that the Black-Scholes model (like all models) is a simplification that does not capture all aspects of real markets. In this particular context, extensions of the pricing model that allow stock volatility to evolve randomly over time would be desirable, and, in fact, many extensions of the model along these lines have been suggested.8

On the MARKET FRONT


IMPLIED VOLATILITY SPIKES ON DENDREON CORP. AHEAD OF FDA'S PROVENGE RULING
Biotech issue Dendreon Corporation (DNDN) is on the verge of a major fundamental development—the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) is slated to issue its verdict on Dendreon's prostate cancer vaccine, Provenge, by May 1.regulation of required nternational  As a result, implied volatility on DNDN's options is pretty much off the charts.
Check it out: DNDN's at-the-money May 40 call is pricing in implied volatility of 155%, while the May 40 put carries implied volatility of 157% (as of Tuesday's close). By contrast, the equity's one-month historical volatility stands at 28%. It seems inevitable that DNDN will make some kind of major move on the charts following the regulatory decision.
Overall, speculators are feeling antsy ahead of the FDA's Provenge decision. DNDN's 10-day International Securities Exchange (ISE) put/call volume ratio of 0.81 ranks higher than 92% of other such readings taken during the past year, suggesting that traders [seeking downside protection] have rarely purchased puts over calls at a faster pace.

DNDN's Schaeffer's Volatility Index (SVI) is sky-high ahead of the FDA ruling
SOURCE: Elizabeth Harrow, "Implied Volatility Spikes on Dendreon Corp. Ahead of FDA's Provenge Ruling," Schaeffer's Investment Research, www.schaeffersresearch.com, April 28, 2010. Used with permission.

The fact that volatility changes unpredictably means that it can be difficult to choose the proper volatility input to use in any option-pricing model. A considerable amount of recent research has been devoted to techniques to predict changes in volatility. These techniques, which are known as ARCH and stochastic volatility models, posit that changes in volatility are partially predictable and that by analyzing recent levels and trends in volatility, one can improve predictions of future volatility.9
The Put-Call Parity Relationship
So far, we have focused on the pricing of call options. In many important cases, put prices can be derived simply from the prices of calls. This is because prices of European put and call options are linked together in an equation known as the put-call parity relationship. Therefore, once you know the value of a call, finding the value of the put is easy.
To derive the parity relationship, suppose you buy a call option and write a put option, each with the same exercise price, Using Goal Seek to find implian>X, and the same expiration date, T. At expiration, the payoff on your investment will equal the payoff to the call minus the payoff that must be made on the put. The payoff for each option will depend on whether the ultimate stock price, ST, exceeds the exercise price at contract expiration.

Figure 16.6 illustrates this payoff pattern. Compare the payoff to that of a portfolio made up of the stock plus a borrowing position, where the money to be paid back will grow, with interest, to X dollars at the maturity of the loan. Such a position is a levered equity position in which PV(X) = Xe-rT dollars is borrowed today (so that X will be repaid at maturity), and S0 dollars is invested in the stock. The total payoff of the levered equity position is ST - X, the same as that of the option strategy. Thus, the long call-short put position replicates the levered equity position. Again, we see that option trading provides leverage.


FIGURE 16.6
The payoff pattern of a long call-short put position



Because the option portfolio has a payoff identical to that of the levered equity position, the costs of establishing them must be equal. The net cash outlay necessary to establish the option position is C - P: The call is purchased for C, while the written put generates income of P. Likewise, the levered equity position requires a net cash outlay of S0 - Xe-rT, the cost of the stock less the proceeds from borrowing. Equating these costs, we conclude

Equation 16.2 is called the put-call parity relationship because it represents the proper relationship between put and call prices. If the parity relationship is ever violated, an arbitrage?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00S substitute opportunity arises.

put-call parity relationship
An equation representing the proper relationship between put and call prices.



EXAMPLE 16.5


Put-Call Parity
Suppose you observe the following data for a certain stock.

We use these data in the put-call parity relationship to see if parity is violated.

This result, a violation of parity (9 does not equal 7.59) indicates mispricing and leads to an arbitrage opportunity. You can buy the relatively cheap portfolio (the stock plus borrowing position represented on the right-hand  portfolio (the long call-short put position corresponding to the left-hand side, that is, write a call and buy a put).
Let's examine the payoff to this strategy. In six months, the stock will be worth ST. You borrowed the present value of the exercise price, $105, and must pay back the loan with interest, resulting in a cash outflow of $105. The written call will result in a cash outflow of ST - $105 if ST exceeds $105. The purchased put pays off $105 - ST if the stock price is below $105.
Table 16.3 summarizes the outcome. The immediate cash inflow is $1.41, precisely equal to the mispricing of the option. In six months, the various positions provide exactly offsetting cash flows: The $1.41 inflow is realized risklessly without any offsetting outflows. This is an arbitrage opportunity that investors will pursue on a large scale until buying and selling pressure restores the parity condition expressed in Equation 16.2.




TABLE 16.3   Arbitrage strategy



Equation 16.2 actually applies only to options on stockse that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute thegta that pay no dividends before the expiration date of the option. It also applies only to European options, as the cash flow streams from the two portfolios represented by the two sides of Equation 16.2 will match only if each position is held until expiration. If a call and a put may be optimally exercised at different times before their common expiration date, then the equality of payoffs cannot be assured, or even expected, and the portfolios will have different values.
The extension of the parity condition for European call options on dividend-paying stocks is, however, straightforward. Problem 32 at the end of the chapter leads you through the extension of the parity relationship. The more general formulation of the put-call parity condition is

where PV(dividends) is the present value of the dividends that will be paid by the stock during the life of the option. If the stock does not pay dividends, Equation 16.3 becomes identical to Equation 16.2.
Notice that this generalization would apply as well to European options on assets other than stocks. Instead of using dividend income in Equation 16.3, we would let any income paid out by the underlying asset play the role of the stock dividends. For example, European put and call options on bonds would satisfy the same parity relationship, except that the bond's coupon income would replace the stock's dividend payments in the parity formula.
Let's see how well parity works using real data on the IBM options in Figure 15.1 from the previous chapter. The September expiration call with exercise price $170 and time to expiration of 22 days cost $3, while the corresponding put option cost $6.20. IBM was selling for $166.76, and the annualized short-term (money market) interest rate on this date was .08%. No dividends will be paid between the date of the listing and the option expiration date. According to parity, we should find that

So parity is violated by about $.03 per share. Is this a big enough difference to exploit? Almost certainly not. You have to weigh the potential profit against the trading costs of the call, put, and stock. More important, given the fact that options may trade relatively infrequently, this deviation from parity might not be "real" but may instead be attributable to "stale" (i.e., out-of-date) price quotes at which you cannot actually trade.
Put Option Valuation
As we saw in Equation 16.3, we can use the put-call parity relationship to value put options once we know the call option value. Sometimes, however, it is easier to work with a put option valuation formula directly. The Black-Scholes formula for the value of a European put option is10



EXAMPLE 16.6


Black-Scholes Put Option Valuation
Using data from the Black-Scholes call option in Example 16.4, we find that a European put option on that stock with identical exercise price and time to expiration is worth

Notice that this value is consistent with put-call parity:

As we noted traders can do, we might then compare this formula value to the actual put price as one step in formulating a trading strategy.


Equation 16.4 is valid for European puts. Most listed put options are American-style, however, and offer the opportunity of early exercise. Because an American option allows its owner to exercise at any time before the expiration date, it must be worth at least as much as the corresponding European option. However, while Equation 16.4 describes only the lower bound on the true value of the American put, in many applications the approximation is very accurate.
16.4   USING THE BLACK-SCHOLES FORMULA
Hedge Ratios and the Black-Scholes Formula
In the last chapter, we considered two investments in FinCorp stock: 100 shares or 900 call options. We saw that the call option position was more sensitive to swings in the stock price than the all-stock position. To analyze the overall exposure to a stock price more precisely, however, it is necessary to quantify these relative sensitivities. A tool that enables us to summarize the overall exposure of portfolios of options with various exercise prices and times to expiration is the hedge ratio. An option's hedge ratio is the change in the price of an option for a $1 increase in the stock price. A call option, therefore, has a positive hedge ratio, and a put option has a negative hedge ratio. The hedge ratio is commonly called the option's delta.

hedge ratio or delta
The number of shares of stock required to hedge the price risk of holding one option.

If you were to graph the option value as a function of the stock value as we have done for a call option in Figure 16.7, the hedge ratio is simply the slope of the value function evaluated at the current stock price. For example, suppose the slope of the curve at S0 = $120 equals .60. As the stock increases in value by $1, the option increases by approximately $.60, as the figure showse that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute thegta.


FIGURE 16.7
Call option value and hedge ratio



For every call option written, .60 shares of stock would be needed to hedge the investor's portfolio. For example, if one writes 10 options and holds six shares of stock, according to the hedge ratio of .6, a $1 increase in stock price will result in a gain of $6 on the stock holdings, while the loss on the 10 options written will be 10 × $.60, an equivalent $6. The stock price movement leaves total wealth unaltered, which is what a hedged position is intended to do. The investor holding both the stock and options in proportions dictated by their relative price movements hedges the portfolio.
Black-Scholes hedge ratios are particularly easy to compute. The hedge ratio for a call is N(d1), while the hedge ratio for a put is N(d1) - 1. We defined N(d1) as part of the Black-Scholes formula in Equation 16.1. Recall that N(d) stands for the area under the standard normal curve up to d. Therefore, the call option hedge ratio must be positive and less than 1.0, while the put option hedge ratio is negative and of smaller absolute value than 1.0.
Figure 16.7 verifies the insight that the slope of the call option valuation function is less than 1, approaching 1 only as the stock price becomes extremely large. This tells us that option values change less than one-for-one with changes in stock prices. Why should this be? Suppose an option is so far in the money that you are absolutely certain it will be exercised. In that case, every $1 increase in the stock price would increase the option value by $1. But if there is a reasonable chance the call option will expire out of the money, even after a moderate stock price gain, a $1 increase in the stock price will not necessarily increase the ultimate payoff to the call; therefore, the call price will not respond by a full $1.
The fact that hedge ratios are less than 1 does not contradict our earlier observation that options offer leverage and are sensitive to stock price movements. Although dollar movements in option prices are slighter than dollar movements in the stock price, the rate of return?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00S substitute volatility of options remains greater than stock return volatility because options sell at lower prices. In our example, with the stock selling at $120, and a hedge ratio of .6, an option with exercise price $120 may sell for $5. If the stock price increases to $121, the call price would be expected to increase by only $.60, to $5.60. The percentage increase in the option value is $.60/$5 = 12%, however, while the percentage stock price increase is only $1/$120 = .83%. The ratio of the percent changes is 12%/.83% = 14.4. For every 1% increase in the stock price, the option price increases by 14.4%. This ratio, the percent change in option price per percent change in stock price, is called the option elasticity.

option elasticity
The percentage increase in an option's value given a 1% increase in the value of the underlying security.

The hedge ratio is an essential tool in portfolio management and control. An example will show why.


EXAMPLE 16.7


Portfolio Hedge Ratios
Consider two portfolios, one holding 750 FinCorp calls and 200 shares of FinCorp and the other holding 800 shares of FinCorp. Which portfolio has greater dollar exposure to FinCorp price movements? You can answer this question easily using the hedge ratio.
Each option changes in value by H dollars for each dollar change in stock price, where H stands for the hedge ratio. Thus, if H equals .6, the 750 options are equivalent to 450 shares (= .6 × 750) in terms of the response of their market value to FinCorp stock price movements. The first portfolio has less dollar sensitivity to stock price change because the 450 share-equivalents of the options plus the 200 shares actually held are less than the 800 shares held in the second portfolio.
This is not to say, however, that the first portfolio is less sensitive to the stock's rate of return. As we noted in discussing option elasticities, the first portfolio may be of lower total value than the second, so despite its lower sensitivity in terms of total market value, it might have greater rate-of-return sensitivity. Because a call option has a lower market value than the stock, its price changes more than proportionally with stock price changes, even though its hedge ratio is less than 1.


 

CONCEPT   check16.8
 
What is the elasticity of a put option currently selling for $4 with exercise price $120 and hedge ratio -.4 if the stock price is currently $122?

Portfolio Insurance
In Chapter 15, we showed that protective put strategies offer a sort of insurance policy on an asset. The protective put has proven to be extremely popular with investors. Even if the asset price falls, the put conveys the right to sell the asset for the exercise price, which is a way to lock in a minimum portfolio value. With an at-the-money put (X = S0), the maximum loss that can be realized is the cost of the put. The asset can be sold for X, which equals its original price, so even if the asset price falls, the investor's net loss over the period is just the cost of the put. If the asset value increases, however, upside potential is unlimited. Figure 16.8 graphs the profit or loss on a protective put position as a function of the change in the value of the underlying asset.


FIGURE 16.8
Profit on a protective put strategy



While the protective put is a simple and convenient way to achieve portfolio insurance, that is, to limit the worst-case portfolio rate of return, there are practical difficulties in trying to insure a portfolio of stocks. First, unless the investor's portfolio corresponds to a standard market index for which puts are traded, a put option on the portfolio will not be available for purchase. And if index puts are used to protect a nonindexed portfolio, tracking error can result. For example, if the portfolio falls in value while the market index rises, the put will fail to provide the intended protection. Moreover, the maturities of traded options may not match the investor's horizon. Therefore, rather than using option strategies, investors may use trading strategies that mimic the payoff to a protective put option.

portfolio insurance
Portfolio strategies that limit investment losses while maintaining upside potential.

Here is the general idea. Even if a put option on the desired portfolio with the desired expiration date does not exist, a theoretical option-pricing model (such as the Black-Scholes model) can be used to determine h international diversificationre.
would respond to the portfolio's value if the option did trade. For example, if stock prices were to fall, the put option would increase in value. The option model could quantify this relationship. The net exposure of the (hypothetical) protective put portfolio to swings in stock prices is the sum of the exposures of the two components of the portfolio: the stock and the put. The net exposure of the portfolio equals the equity exposure less the (offsetting) put option exposure.
We can create "synthetic" protective put positions by holding a quantity of stocks with the same net exposure to market swings as the hypothetical protective put position. The key to this strategy is the option delta, or hedge ratio, that is, the change in the price of the protective put option per change in the value of the underlying stock portfolio.


EXAMPLE 16.8


Synthetic Protective Puts
Suppose a portfolio is currently valued at R100 million (South African rand). An at-the-money put option on the portfolio might have a hedge ratio or delta of -.6, meaning the option's value swings R.60 for every rand change in portfolio value, but in an opposite direction. Suppose the stock portfolio falls in value by 2%. The profit on a hypothetical protective put position (if the put existed) would be as follows (in millions of rand):

We create the synthetic option position by selling a proportion of shares equal to the put option's delta (i.e., selling 60% of the shares) and placing the proceeds in risk-free T-bills. The rationale is that the hypothetical put option would have offset 60% of any change in the stock portfolio's value, so one must reduce portfolio risk directly by selling 60% of the equity and putting the proceeds into a risk-free asset. Total return on a synthetic protective put position with R60 million in risk-free investments such as T-bills and R40 million in equity is:

The synthetic and actual protective put positions have equal returns. We conclude that if you sell a proportion of shares equal to the put option's delta and place the proceeds in cash equivalents, your exposure to the stock market will equal that of the desired protective put position.


The difficulty with synthetic positions is that deltas constantly change. Figure 16.9 shows that as the stock price falls, the absolute value of the appropriate hedge ratio increases. Therefore, market declines require extra hedging, that is, additional conversion of equity into cash. This constant updating of the hedge ratio is called dynamic hedging, as discussed in Section 16.2. Another term for such hedging is delta hedging, because the option delta is used?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00S substitute to determine the number of shares that need to be bought or sold.

dynamic hedging
Constant updating of hedge positions as market conditions change.



FIGURE 16.9
Hedge ratios change as the stock price fluctuates



Dynamic hedging is one reason portfolio insurance has been said to contribute to market volatility. Market declines trigger additional sales of stock as portfolio insurers strive to increase their hedging. These additional sales are seen as reinforcing or exaggerating market downturns.
In practice, portfolio insurers do not actually buy or sell stocks directly when they update their hedge positions. Instead, they minimize trading costs by buying or selling stock-index futures as a substitute for sale of the stocks themselves. As you will see in the next chapter, stock prices and index future prices usually are very tightly linked by cross-market arbitrageurs so that futures transactions can be used as reliable proxies for stock transactions. Instead of selling equities based on the put option's delta, insurers will sell an equivalent number of futures contracts.11

On the MARKET FRONT


J. P. MORGAN ROLLS DICE ON MICROSOFT OPTIONS
Microsoft, in a shift that could be copied throughout the technology business, said yesterday that it plans to stop issuing stock options to its employees, and instead will provide them with restricted stock.
The deal could portend a seismic shift for Microsoft's Silicon Valley rivals, and it could well have effects on Wall Street. Though details of the plan still aren't clear, J. P. Morgan effectively plans to buy the options from Microsoft employees who opt for restricted stock instead. Employee stock options are granted as a form of compensation and allow employees the right to exchange the options for shares of company stock.
The price offered to employees for the options presumably will be lower than the current value, giving J. P. Morgan a chance to make a profit on the deal. Rather than holding the options, and thus betting Microsoft's stock will rise, people familiar with the bank's strategy say J. P. Morgan probably will match each option it buys from the company's employees with a separate trade in the stock market that both hedges the bet and gives itself a margin of profit.
For Wall Street's so-called rocket scientists who do complicated financial transactions such as this one, the strategy behind J. P. Morgan's deal with Microsoft isn't particularly unique or at the expiration date of the options.S substitute sophisticated. They add that the bank has several ways to deal with the millions of Microsoft options that could come its way.
The bank, for instance, could hedge the options by shorting, or betting against, Microsoft stock. Microsoft has the largest market capitalization of any stock in the market, and its shares are among the most liquid, meaning it would be easy to hedge the risk of holding those options.
J. P. Morgan also could sell the options to investors, much as they would do with a syndicated loan, thereby spreading the risk. During a conference call with investors, [Microsoft Chief Executive Steve] Ballmer said employees could sell their options to "a third party or set of third parties," adding that the company was still working out the details with J. P. Morgan and the SEC.
SOURCE: Excerpt from The Wall Street Journal, July 9, 2003. Reprinted by permission of The Wall Street Journal, Copyright © 2003 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.

Several portfolio insurers suffered great setbacks during the market "crash" of October 19, 1987, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than 20%. A description of what happened then should help you appreciate the complexities of applying a seemingly straightforward hedging concept.
1. Market volatility at the crash was much greater than ever encountered before. Put option deltas computed from historical experience were too low; insurers underhedged, held too much equity, and suffered excessive losses.
2. Prices moved so fast that insurers could not keep up with the necessary rebalancing. They were Ȏm. The futures market saw a "gap" opening, where the opening price was nearly 10% below the previous day's close. Prices dropped before insurers could update their hedge ratios.
3. Execution problems were severe. First, current market prices were unavailable, with trade execution and the price quotation system hours behind, which made computation of correct hedge ratios impossible. Moreover, trading in stocks and stock futures ceased during some periods. The continuous rebalancing capability that is essential for a viable insurance program vanished during the precipitous market collapse.
4. Futures prices traded at steep discounts to their proper levels compared to reported stock prices, thereby making the sale of futures (as a proxy for equity sales) to increase hedging seem expensive. While you will see in the next chapter that stock-index futures prices normally exceed the value of the stock index, on October 19, futures sold far below the stock-index level. When some insurers gambled that the futures price would recover to its usual premium over the stock index and chose to defer sales, they remained underhedged. As the market fell farther, their portfolios experienced substantial losses.
While most observers believe that the portfolio insurance industry will never recover from the market crash, dynamic hedges are still widely used by lar international diversification" aid="164N1Mgtage firms to hedge potential losses from options positions. For example, the nearby box notes that when Microsoft ended its employee stock option program and J. P. Morgan purchased many already-issued options from Microsoft employees, it was widely expected that Morgan would protect its options position by selling shares in Microsoft in accord with a delta hedging strategy.
Option Pricing and the Crisis of 2008-2009
Merton12 shows how option-pricing models can provide insight into the financial crisis of 2008-2009. The key to understanding his argument is to recognize that when banks lend to or buy the debt of firms with limited liability, they implicitly write a put option to the borrower. To see why, consider the payoff to the lender when the loan comes due for repayment. If the borrower has sufficient assets to pay off the loan, it will do so, and the lender will be fully repaid. But if the borrower has insufficient assets, it can declare bankruptcy and discharge its obligations by transferring ownership of the firm to its creditors. The borrower's ability to satisfy a loan by transferring ownership is equivalent to the right to "sell" itself to the creditor for the face value of the loan. This arrangement is therefore just like a put option on the firm with exercise price equal to the stipulated loan repayment.
Figure 16.10 shows the payoff to the lender at loan maturity (time T) as a function of the value of the borrowing firm, VT, when the loan, with face value L, comes due. If VT ≥ L, the lender is paid off in full. But if VT < L, the lender gets the firm, which is worth less than the promised payment L.


FIGURE 16.10
A risky loan. The payoff to the lender may be viewed as $L, the face value of the loan, minus the proceeds to a put option on the value of the firm with exercise price L.



We can write the payoff in a way that emphasizes the implicit put option:

Equation 16.5 shows that the payoff on the loan equals L (when the firm has sufficient assets to pay off the debt) minus the payoff of a put option on the value of the firm (VT) with an exercise price of L. Therefore, we may view risky lending as a combination of safe lending, with a guaranteed payoff of L, with a short position in a put option on the borrower.
When firms sell credit default swaps (see Chapter 10), the implicit put option is even clearer. Here, the CDS seller agrees to make up any losses due to the insolvency of a bond issuer. If the bond issuer goes bankrupt, leaving assets of only VT for the creditors, the CDS seller is obligated to make up the difference, L - VT. This is in essence a pure put option.
Now think about the exposure of these implicit put writers to changes in the financial health of the underlying firm. The value of a put option on VT appears in Figure 16.11. When the firm is financially strong (i.e., V is far greater than L), the slope of the curve is nearly zero, implying that there is little exposure of the implicit put writer (either the bank or the CDS writer) to the value of the borrowing firm. For example, when firm value is 1.75 times the value of the debt, the lighter line drawn tangent to the put value curve has a slope of only -.040. But if there is a big shock to the economy, and firm value falls, not only does the value of the implicit put rise, but its slope is now steeper, implying that exposure to further shocks is now greater. When firm value is only 75% of the value of the loan, the slope of the line tangent to the put value valuation curve is far steeper, -.644. You can see how as you get closer to the edge of the cliff, it gets easier and easier to slide right off.


FIGURE 16.11
Value of implicit put option on a loan guarantee as a percentage of the face value of debt (debt maturity = 1 year, standard deviation of value of firm = 40%, risk free rate = 6%)



We often hear people say that a shock to asset values of the magnitude of the financial crisis was a 10-sigma event, by which they mean that such an event was so extreme that it would be 10 standard deviations away from an expected outcome, making it virtually inconceivable. But this analysis shows that standard deviation may be a moving target, increasing dramatically as the firm weakens. As the economy falters and put options go further into the money, their sensitivity to further shocks increases, increasing the risk that even worse losses may be around the corner. The built-in instability of risk exposures makes a scenario like the crisis more plausible and should give us pause when we discount an extreme scenario as "almost impossible."
16.5   EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE
There have been an enormous number of empirical tests of the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. For the most part, the results of the studies have been positive in that the Black-Scholes model generates option values quite close to the actual prices at which options trade. At the same time, some smaller but regular empirical failures of the model have been noted.
Whaley (1982) examines the performance of the Black-Scholes formula relative to that of more complicated option formulas that allow for early exercise. His findings indicate that formulas that allow for the possibility of early exercise do better at pricing than the Black-Scholes formula. The Black-Scholes formula seems to perform worst for options on stocks with high dividend payouts. The true American call option formula, on the other hand, seems to fare equally well in the prediction of option prices on stocks with high or low dividend payouts.
Rubinstein (1994) has emphasized a more serious problem with the Black-Scholes model. If the model were accurate, the implied volatility of all options on a particular stock with the same expiration date would be equal—after all, the underlying asset and expiration date are the same for each option, so the volatility inferred from each also ought to be the same. But, in fact, when one actually plots implied volatility as a function of exercise price, the typical results appear as in Figure 16.12, which treats S&P 500 Index options as the underlying asset. Implied volatility steadily falls as the exercise price rises. Clearly, the Black-Scholes model is missing something.


FIGURE 16.12
Implied volatility as a function of exercise price
Source: Mark Rubinstein, "Implied Binomial Trees," Journal of Finance 49 (July 1994), pp. 771-818, Figure 2. Used with permission of John Wiley and Sons, via Copyright Clearance Center.



Rubinstein suggests that the problem with the model hae that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute thegtas to do with fears of a market crash like that of October 1987. The idea is that deep out-of-the-money puts would be nearly worthless if stock prices evolve smoothly, since the probability of the stock falling by a large amount (and the put option thereby moving into the money) in a short time would be very small. But a possibility of a sudden large downward jump that could move the puts into the money, as in a market crash, would impart greater value to these options. Thus, the market might price these options as though there is a bigger chance of a large drop in the stock price than would be suggested by the Black-Scholes assumptions. The result of the higher option price is a greater implied volatility derived from the Black-Scholes model.
Interestingly, Rubinstein points out that prior to the 1987 market crash, plots of implied volatility like the one in Figure 16.12 were relatively flat, consistent with the notion that the market was then less attuned to fears of a crash. However, postcrash plots have been consistently downward-sloping, exhibiting a shape often called the option smirk. When we use option-pricing models that allow for more general stock price distributions, including jumps and random changes in volatility, they generate downward-sloping implied volatility curves similar to the one observed in Figure 16.12.13







SUMMARY
• Option values may be viewed as the sum of intrinsic value plus time or "volatility" value. The volatilitock price moves against the holder. Thus, option holders cannot lose more than the cost of the option regardless of stock price performance.
• Call options are more valuable when the exercise price is lower, when the stock price is higher, when the interest rate is higher, when the time to expiration is greater, when the stock's volatility is greater, and when dividends are lower.
• Options may be priced relative to the underlying stock price using a simple two-period, two-state pricing model. As the number of periods increases, the model can approximate more realistic stock price distributions. The Black-Scholes formula may be seen as a limiting case of the binomial option model, as the holding period is divided into progressively smaller subperiods.
• The put-call parity theorem relates the prices of put and call options. If the relationship is violated, arbitrage opportunities will result. Specifically, the relationship that must be satisfied is

 where Xe that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute thegta is the exercise price of both the call and the put options and PV(X) is the present value of the claim to X dollars to be paid at the expiration date of the options.
• The implied volatility of an option is the standard deviation of stock returns consistent with an option's market price. It can be backed out of an option-pricing model by finding the stock volatility that makes the option's value equal to its observed price.
• The hedge ratio is the number of shares of stock required to hedge the price risk involved in writing one option. Hedge ratios are near zero for deep out-of-the-money call options and approach 1 for deep in-the-money calls.
• Although hedge ratios are less than 1, call options have elasticities greater than 1. The rate of return on a call (as opposed to the dollar return) responds more than one-for-one with stock price movements.
• Portfolio insurance can be obtained by purchasing a protective put option on an equity position. When the appropriate put is not traded, portfolio insurance entails a dynamic hedge strategy where a fraction of the equity portfolio equal to the desired put option's delta is sold, with proceeds placed in risk-free securities.
• Empirically, implied volatilities derived from the Black-Scholes formula tend to be lower on options with higher exercise prices. This may be evidence that the option prices reflect the possibility of a sudden dramatic decline in stock prices. Such "crashes" are inconsistent with the Black-Scholes assumptions.







KEY TERMS
binomial model
Black-Scholes pricing formula
delta
dynamic hedging
hedge ratio
implied volatility
intrinsic value
option elasticity
portfolio insurance
put-call parity relationship
time value







KEY FORMULAS

PROBLEM SETS
 Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance. Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.
Basic

1. A call option with a strike price of $70 on a stock selling at $85 costs $16.80. What are the call option's intrinsic and time values? (LO 16-1)
2. A put option on a stock with a current price of $52 has an exercise price of $54. The price of the corresponding call option is $5.10. According to put-call parity, if the effective annual risk-free rate of interest is 4% and there are three months until expiration, what should be the value of the put? (LO 16-4)
3. A call option on Jupiter Motors stock with an exercise price of $80 and one-year expiration is selling at $7. A put option on Jupiter stock with an exercise price of $80 and one-year expiration is selling at $5. If the risk-free rate is 7% and Jupiter pays no dividends, what should the stock price be? (LO 16-4)
4. We showed in the text that the value of a call option increases with the volatility of the stock. Is this also true of put option values? Use the put-call parity relationship as well as a numerical example to prove your answer. (LO 16-4)

Intermediate

5. In each of the following questions, you are asked to compare two options with parameters as given. The risk-free interest rate for all cases should be assumed to be 6%. Assume the stocks on which these options are written pay no dividends. (LO 16-1)
a.



Which put option is written on the stock with the lower price?
(1) A
international diversification" aid="164N1Mgta(2) B
(3) Not enough information
b.



Which put option must be written on the stock with the lower price?
(1) A
(2) B
(3) Not enough information
c.



Which call option must have the lower time to expiration?
(1) A
(2) B
(3) Not enough information
d.



Which call option is written on the stock with higher volatility?
(1) A
(2) B
(3) Not enough information
e.



Which call option is written on the stock with higher volatility?
(1) A
(2) B
(3) Not enough information
6. Reconsider the determination of the hedge ratio in the two-state model (Section 16.2), where we showed that one-third share of stock would hedge one option. What would be the hedge ratio for each of the following exercise prices: $130, $115, $105, $95? What do you conclude about the hedge ratio as the option becomes progressively more in the money? (LO 16-5)
7. Show that Black-Scholes call option hedge ratios increase as the stock price increases. Consider a one-year option with exercise price $40 on a stock with annual standard deviation 15%. The T-bill rate is 2% per year. Find N(d at the expiration date of the options.S substitute1) for stock prices $35, $40, and $45. (LO 16-3)
8. We will derive a two-state put option value in this problem. Data: S0 = 110; X = 120; 1 + r = 1.10. The two possibilities for ST are 140 and 100. (LO 16-2)
a. Show that the range of S is 40 while that of P is 20 across the two states. What is the hedge ratio of the put?
b. Form a portfolio of two shares of stock and four puts. What is the (nonrandom) payoff to this portfolio? What is the present value of the portfolio?
c. Given that the stock currently is selling at 100, show that the value of the put must be 10.91.
9. Calculate the value of a call option on the stock in the previous problem with an exercise price of 110. Verify that the put-call parity relationship is satisfied by your answers to both Problems 8 and 9. (Do not use continuous compounding to calculate the present value of X in this example, because the interest rate is quoted as an effective per-period rate.) (LO 16-2)



Use the following case in answering Problems 10-15: Mark Washington, CFA, is an analyst with BIC. One year ago, BIC analysts predicted that the U.S. equity market would most likely experience a slight downturn and suggested delta-hedging the BIC portfolio. As predicted, the U.S. equity markets did indeed experience a downturn of approximately 4% over a 12-month period. However, portfolio performance for BIC was disappointing, lagging its peer group by nearly 10%. Washington has been told to review the options strategy to determine why the hedged portfolio did not perform as expected.

10. Which of the following best at the expiration date of the options.S substitute explains a delta-neutral portfolio? A delta-neutral portfolio is perfectly hedged against: (LO 16-5)
a. Small price changes in the underlying asset.
b. Small price decreases in the underlying asset.
c. All price changes in the underlying asset.
11. After discussing the concept of a delta-neutral portfolio, Washington determines that he needs to further explain the concept of delta. Washington draws the value of an option as a function of the underlying stock price. Draw such a diagram, and indicate how delta is interpreted. Delta is the: (LO 16-5)
a. Slope in the option price diagram.
b. Curvature of the option price graph.
c. Level in the option price diagram.
12. Washington considers a put option that has a delta of -.65. If the price of the underlying asset decreases by $6, then what is the best estimate of the change in option price? (LO 16-5)
13. BIC owns 51,750 shares of Smith & Oates. The shares are currently priced at $69. A call option on Smith & Oates with a strike price of $70 is selling at $3.50 and has a delta of .69. What is the number of call options necessary to create a delta-neutral hedge? (LO 16-5)
14. Return to the previous problem. Will the number of call options written for a delta-neutral hedge increase or decrease if the stock price falls? (LO 16-5)
15. Which of the following statements regarding the goal of a delta-neutral portfolio is most accurate? One example of a delta-neutral portfolio is to combine a: (LO 16-5)
a. Long position in a stock with a short position in call options so that the value of the portfolio does not change with changes in the value of the stock.
b. Long position in a stock with a short position in a e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.wompute thegtacall option so that the value of the portfolio changes with changes in the value of the stock.
c. Long position in a stock with a long position in call options so that the value of the portfolio does not change with changes in the value of the stock.


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

16. Use the Black-Scholes formula to find the value of a call option on the following stock:

(LO 16-3)


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

17. Find the Black-Scholes value of a put option on the stock in the previous problem with the same exercise price and expiration as the call option. (LO 16-3)


Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

18. Recalculate the value of the option in Problem 16, successively substituting one of the changes below while keeping the other parameters as in Problem 16:


Consider each scenario independently. Confirm that the option value changes in accordance with the prediction of Table 16.1. (LO 16-3)

19. What would be the Excel formula in Spreadsheet 16.1 for the Black-Scholes value of a straddle position? (LO 16-3)
20. Would you expect a $1 increase in a call option's exercise price to lead to a decrease in the option's value of more or less than $1? (LO 16-1)
21. All else being equal, is a put option on a high-beta stock worth more than one on a low-beta stock? The firms have identical firm-specific risk. (LO 16-1)
22. All else being equal, is a call option on a stock with a lot of firm-specific risk worth more than one on a stock with little firm-specific risk? The betas of the stocks are equal. (LO 16-1)
23. All else being equal, will a call option with a high exercise price have a higher or lower hedge ratio than one with a low exercise price? (LO 16-5)
24. Should the rate of return of a call option on a long-term Treasury bond be more or less sensitive to changes in interest rates than the rate of return of the underlying bond? (LO 16-1)
25. If the stock price falls and the call price rises, then what has happened to the call option's implied volatility? (LO 16-1)
26. If the time to expiration falls and the put price rises, then what has happened to the put option's implied volatility? (LO 16-1)
27. According to the Black-Scholes formula, what will be the value of the hedge ra as the stock price becomes infinitely large? Explain briefly. (LO 16-5)
28. According to the Black-Scholes formula, what will be the value of the hedge ratio of a put option for a very small exercise price? (LO 16-5)
29. The hedge ratio of an at-the-money call option on IBM is .12. The hedge ratio of an at-the-money put option is -.59. What is the hedge ratio of an at-the-money straddle position on IBM? (LO 16-5)


Please visit us at 















cash settlement
clearinghouse
convergence property cost-of-carry relationship cross-hedging
foreign exchange swap forward contract
futures price
index arbitrage
interest rate swaps
long position
maintenance margin
marking to market
notional principal
price value of a basis point
program trading
short position
single stock futures spot-futures parity theorem spread







KEY FORMULAS

PROBLEM SETS
 Select problems are available in McGraw-Hill's Connect Finance. Please see the Supplements section of the book's frontmatter for more information.
Basic

1. On January 1, you sold one March maturity S&P 500 Index futures contract at a futures price of 800. If the futures price is 900 on February 1, what is your profit? The contract multiplier is $250. (LO 17-1)
2. The current level of the S&P 500 is 700. The dividend yield on the S&P 500 is 2%. The risk-free interest rate is 1%. What should a futures contract with a one-year maturity be selling for? (LO 17-3)








PART
6









Active Investment Management








Chapters in This Part:
18  Portfolio Performance Evaluation
19  Globalization and International Investing
20  Hedge Funds
21  Taxes, Inflation, and Investment Strategy
22  Investors and the Investment Process

Passive investment, or indexing, is the preferred strategy for investors who believe markets are essentially efficient. While administration of passive portfolios requires efficient organization and trading structure, there is no need for security analysis or portfolio strategy. In contrast, active managers believe that markets are not efficient and that bargains can be found in security markets by application of asset valuation and portfolio theory.
Earlier in the text we asked how to effectively exploit security mispricing—how to balance superior expected returns with the increased risk from reduced diversification. In a market economy, we look to incentives: How will portfolio managers behave when evaluated using standard performance measures? They will choose portfolios that are expected to provide them with the best evaluation. Superior results, in turn, will lead to increased assets under management and higher profits. Accordingly, Chapter 18 discusses performance evaluation and techniques to achieve superior performance.
Investing across borders is conceptually a simple extension of efficient diversification. This pursuit confronts the effects of political risk and uncertain exchange rates on future performance, however. These issues, unique to international investing, are addressed in Chapter 19.
Chapter 20 covers hedge funds, probably the most active of active managers. It also focuses on some of the special problems encountered in evaluation of hedge fund performance.
Investments originate with a savings plan that diverts funds from consumption to investment. Taxes and inflation complicate the relationship between how much you save and what you will be able to achieve with your accumulating investment fund. Chapter 21 introduces a framework to formulate an effective household savings/investment plan.
Professional management of active investment begins with a contractual relationship between a client and a portfolio manager. The economic needs of clients must be articulated and their objectives translated into an operational financial plan. For this purpose, the CFA Institute has laid out a broad framework for active investment management. Chapter 22 familiarizes you with this framework?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un004VK0R.

Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition












Chapter
18








Portfolio Performance Evaluation

Learning Objectives:

LO18-1 Compute risk-adjusted rates of return, and use them to evaluate investment performance.
LO18-2 Determine which risk-adjusted performance measure is appropriate in a variety of investment contexts.
LO18-3 Apply style analysis to assess portfolio strategy.
LO18-4 Decompose portfolio returns into components attributable to asset allocation choices versus security selection choices.
LO18-5 Assess the presence and value of market-timing ability.


In previous chapters, we derived predictions for expected return as a function of risk. In this chapter, we ask how we can evaluate the performance of a portfolio manager accounting for portfolio risk. Adjusting average returns for risk presents a host of issues because the proper measure of risk may not be obvious and risk levels may change along with portfolio composition.
We begin with conventional approaches to risk adjustment. These use the risk measures developed earlier to rank investment results. We show the problems with these approaches when you try to apply them in a real and complex world. Finally, we examine evaluation procedures used in the field. We show how overall investment results are decomposed and attributed to the underlying asset allocation and security selection decisions of the portfolio manager.
We finally turn to two specific forms of active management: market timing based solely on macroeconomic factors, and security selection based on microeconomic forecasting.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

  18.1   RISK-ADJUSTED RETURNS
Investment Clients, Service Providers, and Objectives of Performance Evaluation
Individual households as well as institutional money managers must decide whether to use passive or active management. Passive management involves (1) capital allocation between cash (almost-risk-free vehicles such as money market funds) and the chosen risky portfolio constructed from one or more index funds or ETFs.








passive management
Holding a well-diversified portfolio without attempting to search out security mispricing.









cash
Shorthand for virtually risk-free money market securities.

Still, the concept of passive management is not completely unambiguous. At one extreme, passive investors will commit to capital allocation with a fixed risky portfolio and change their allocations only infrequently in response to significant changes in circumstances or risk tolerance. At the other extreme, they will adjust portfolio weights based on estimates of risk derived, for example, from VIX (the volatility indexes, discussed in Chapter 16) or from other sources.
Alternatively, households and institutional endowments may choose active management, in which case they usually become clients of professional portfolio managers.1 The dividing line between passive and active management is the forecasting of future rates of return on asset classes and/or individual assets. Such forecasting is more difficult than estimation of risk by an order of magnitude. The reason for this is quite subtle and is lost on many professional as well as novice investors. Competition among the vast number of investors means that security prices generally reflect publicly available information. Thus, successful forecasting of future prices and rates of return requires differential private information. To estimate risk, on the other hand, investors can freely and quite easily use publicly available information, making these estimates a commodity. Accordingly, we call active managers those who forecast returns in conjunction with risk to construct optimal portfolios. A few professionals restrict their activity to market timing (switching between risky portfolios and cash), some concentrate on asset allocation only, and most engage in both asset allocation and security selection.2








active management
Attempts to achieve returns higher than commensurate with risk by forecasting broad markets and/or by identifying mispriced securities.

Both clients and professionals are interested in performance evaluation. Clients need to know whether their chosen professionals produce adequate net-of-fee returns. Professionals need to shore up their methodology and maintain qualified staff with adequate compensation to compete in the market for these services. Lapses in performance can cost them dearly as evidence shows that funds under management flow quickly from underachievers to superperformers.
Performance evaluation of a portfolio is difficult because of the great volatility of asset returns. A portfolio's average return over an evaluation period is inadequate to measure performance. To begin with, the average return realized over any particular period may not represent the expected return. Surely, luck (good or bad) should not be allowed to dominate the evaluation process. Even when the average return does approximate expected return, it still would be invalid as a measure of performance because it ignores risk—we expect higher-risk investments to outperform lower-risk ones in average to boom markets and to underperform in bear markets. Hence, we must estimate portfolio risk to determine the adequacy of the average return. Since volatility generates statistical errors in estimates of both expected return and risk, we must remain skeptical of the evaluation process.







Comparison Groups
The simplest and most popular way to adjust returns for portfolio risk is to compare rates of return with those of other investment funds with similar risk characteristics. For example, high-yield bond portfolios are grouped into one "universe," growth stock equity funds are grouped into another universe, and so on. Then the average returns of each fund within the universe are ordered, and each portfolio manager receives a percentile ranking depending on relative performance within the comparison universe, the collection of funds to which performance is compared. For example, the manager with the ninth-best performance in a universe of 100 funds would be the 90th percentile manager: Her performance was better than 90% of all competing funds over the evaluation period.








comparison universe
The set of portfolio managers with similar investment styles that is used to assess relative performance.



FIGURE 18.1
Universe comparison: Periods ending December 31, 2012



These relative rankings usually are displayed in a chart like Figure 18.1. The chart summarizes performance rankings international diversificationital-bompute thereta over four periods: one quarter, one year, three years, and five years. The top and bottom lines of each box are drawn at the rate of return of the 95th and 5th percentile managers. The three dotted lines correspond to the rates of return of the 75th, 50th (median), and 25th percentile managers. The diamond is drawn at the average return of a particular fund, the Markowill Group, and the square is drawn at the average return of a benchmark index such as the S&P 500. This format provides an easy-to-read representation of the performance of the fund relative to the comparison universe.
This comparison with other managers of similar investment groups is a useful first step in evaluating performance. Even so, such rankings can be misleading. Consider that within a particular universe some managers may concentrate on particular subgroups, so that portfolio characteristics are not truly comparable. For example, within the equity universe, one manager may concentrate on high-beta stocks. Similarly, within fixed-income universes, interest rate risk can vary across managers. These considerations suggest that we need more precise risk adjustment.
Basic Performance-Evaluation Statistics
Performance evaluation relies on the index model discussed in Sections 6.5 and 7.2 and on the CAPM of Section 7.1. The single-index model equation applied to a portfolio P is

where RPt = rPt - rft is portfolio P 's excess return over cash equivalents during period t, rft is the return on cash, and RMt is the excess return on the market index. βP is the portfolio's sensitivity to the market index, hence its measure of systematic risk, and βPRMt is the component of return that is driven by the market. The extra-market or nonsystematic component, αP + ePt, includes the portfolio alpha plus zero-mean noise, e, called the residual, which is uncorrelated with RM. Thus, the expected excess return of the portfolio for some evaluation period is

We measure expected returns over the period (unfortunately, with sampling error) by average return.
The CAPM hypothesis is that the market portfolio is mean-variance efficient. The index model uses an index portfolio, M, to proxy for the theoretical market portfolio, and hence it is the benchmark passive strategy against which competing portfolios are measured. The CAPM hypothesis is that the alpha of all securities and competing portfolios is zero. A professional who claims to outperform the index must produce a positive alpha; the validity of the CAPM doesn't preclude some professionals from doing so, as long as the totality of investments that exhibit positive alpha is not large relative to aggregate wealth in the economy.
What about portfolio risk? As noted above, beta measures systematic risk since the variance of the market-driven return component is

and the term  is the same for all portfolios. The extra-market component of return contributes the quantity Var(eP) to portfolio variance. The standard deviation of the residual return e, which we will denote here as σe, is called residual risk or residual SD. The variance of the return on P is thus the sum of the variances (since the systematic and residual components are uncorrelated):

We may now prepare the statistics that are used for performance evaluation of a portfolio P from a sample of observations over an interval of T periods (usually months). The procedure includes the following steps:
accessed on September 4 2012  assets">εta1. Obtain the time series of RPt for portfolio P, and RMt for the benchmark M.
2. Compute the arithmetic averages of the series . These are taken as estimates of the expected returns of portfolios P and M for the evaluation period.
3. Compute the standard deviations of returns for portfolios P and M, σP and σM. These serve as estimates of the total risk of P and M.
4. Run a regression of RPt on RMt to obtain estimates of P's beta, alpha, residual SD, and correlation with the benchmark. Check the significance statistics to see that the sample is reasonable. In particular, if the beta coefficient estimate is not significant, the sample may be insufficient for the performance-evaluation statistics discussed below.
5. Recall from Equation 18.2 that the regression intercept is P's alpha, 
6. Recall from Equation 18.4 that the standard error, or residual standard deviation, of the regression is 
Table 18.1 presents performance-evaluation statistics for two professionally managed portfolios, P and Q, the benchmark, M, and cash. Notice that Pe that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. in the ompute thereta is aggressive with a beta of 1.25. Q might be a hedge fund, not completely market-neutral (which would entail a beta of zero), but still with a defensive beta of .5. Thus, most of the volatility of Q is due to its residual SD.
Performance Evaluation of Entire-Wealth Portfolios Using the Sharpe Ratio and M-Square
Consider The Diabetes Foundation, a small charity, whose board has decided to invest its endowment in one of the three portfolios of Table 18.1. In this case, the total risk of the chosen portfolio will also be the endowment's risk. Accordingly, the familiar Sharpe ratio,








Sharpe ratio
Reward-to-volatility ratio; ratio of portfolio excess return to standard deviation.




  TABLE 18.1   Performance of two managed portfolios, P and Q, the benchmark portfolio, M, and cash equivalents



which measures risk by total volatility (SD), must determine the choice. Table 18.1 shows that the Sharpe ratio of portfolio P (.398) is highest; hence P would be the charity's choice. Notice that P's average return is sufficiently large to compensate for the fact that it is the highest SD portfolio; conversely, although Q is the least volatile, its Sharpe ratio is the lowest.
The Sharpe ratio has a clear interpretation, namely, the incremental return an investor may expect for every increase of 1% of standard deviation. It is the slope of the capital allocation line supported by that portfolio. But should investors consider the difference in Sharpe ratios between portfolio P and the benchmark portfolio (LO 17-1)
an class="ital" aid="139548">M (.398 - .344 = .054) large? That is harder to interpret and leads us to a variant on the Sharpe ratio.
international diversificationAT1MretaImagine a portfolio with the same standard deviation as the benchmark, σM. Then the difference between the Sharpe ratios of the portfolio and the benchmark would be the difference in their risk premiums divided by that common standard deviation. Put differently, ranking portfolios with a common volatility by Sharpe ratio will be equivalent to ranking them very simply by risk premium—estimated from the sample excess returns, as in Equation 18.5. This makes comparison of portfolios with equal standard deviation easy to interpret.
Can we transform P to an equivalent portfolio with the same standard deviation as the benchmark, σM, without affecting its Sharpe ratio? Yes, we can: Recall that the slope of P's CAL is the Sharpe ratio of all portfolios on that line. Therefore, we just choose the portfolio on CALP that has standard deviation σM. All portfolios on CALP are mixtures of portfolio P with risk-free borrowing or lending. When we invest a weight w in P and 1 - w in the risk-free asset, we just slide up (when w > 1) or down (when w < 1) the CAL. Call P* the portfolio created by mixing P with the risk-free asset in just the right proportion to make the standard deviation match that of the benchmark. In other words, portfolio P* is portfolio P with just the right amount of leverage to make the standard deviation match that of the benchmark.
We form P* by choosing w = σM/σP because this makes the SD of P* international diversificationital-bompute thereta equal to wσP = σM. The risk premium of portfolio P* therefore can be written in terms of the Sharpe ratio of P:

Similarly, the risk premium of the benchmark can be written in terms of its Sharpe ratio:

The difference between the risk premium of P*, the leverage-adjusted version of P, and the benchmark is known as M-square (after Leah and Franco Modigliani)3 and is written M2.

M-square (M2)
Return difference between a managed portfolio leveraged to match the volatility of a passive index and the return on that index.


M-square is the rate-of-return differential between P* and M, a legitimate and easy-to-interpret performance measure because the portfolios are volatility-matched. Equation 18.6 shows us that it also is a simple transformation of the difference between their Sharpe ratios. Table 18.1 and Figure 18.2 show this vividly.


FIGURE 18.2
M2 of portfolio P



Suppose that instead of investing all ian class="generated-style" aid="13958D"> the endowment had invested only σM/ international diversificationital-bompute theretaσP = 18.5/24.1 = .7676 or 76.76% of its funds, with the remainder placed in risk-free assets. The average excess return on this P* would have been .7676 × 9.6% = 7.37%. Thus M-square of P is 7.37% - 6.37% = 1%. We also could find this measure directly from the difference in Sharpe ratios: 18.5% × (.398 - .344) = 1%. (For practice, verify that the M-square of portfolio Q is .72%.)
Performance Evaluation of Fund of Funds Using the Treynor Measure
We have used the Sharpe ratio, or its variant M-square, to choose between an actively managed portfolio competing with a passive benchmark as the sole risky position for an endowment. But some funds are so large that they engage several managers to run risky component portfolios. For example, CalPERS (the California Public Employee Retirement System) is a large pension fund with around $220 billion to invest in September 2011. Like many large plans, it uses a fund of funds approach, allocating the endowment among a number of professional managers (funds) based in part on performance. This requires a different performance measure.








fund of funds
Mutual funds or hedge funds that invest in other funds.

To see why, suppose CalPERS considers two managers, and it so happens that both establish portfolios with average returns, beta, and residual standard deviation equal to those of portfolio Q in Table 18.1. If Q were considered as the sole investment portfolio, the endowment fund would reject it because it has a negative M-square of -.72%. But if the residuals of the two Q-like portfolios are uncorrelated, the residual SD of an equally weighted portfolio of the two would be only  In turn, the total portfolio SD would be  international diversificationAT1Mreta With the same average return as Q, the Sharpe ratio of the combined portfolio is 5.5/14.31 = .384, and its M-square is positive: 18.5(.384 - .344) = .74%. The improvement is due to the benefits of diversification that arise when we combine the two funds into an equally weighted portfolio. With residual risk lessened due to diversification, the trade-off of excess return to total volatility is enhanced.
This exercise suggests that for a fund of funds, where residual risk can be largely diversified away, we should compare average excess return to nondiversifiable or systematic, rather than total, risk. Since beta measures systematic risk, Treynor (1965) proposed the following measure, since named after him:

As Table 18.1 demonstrates, the Treynor measure can differ from Sharpe's, suggesting that the proper performance measure depends on the role of the risky position in the investor's overall portfolio.








Treynor measure
Ratio of portfolio excess return to beta.

Performance Evaluation of a Portfolio Added to the Benchmark Using the Information Ratio
Now we consider yet another scenario, one in which an endowment considers adding a position in an actively managed portfolio to an already existing passive portfolio. The Central State University endowment has so far been a passive investor. Presented with a positive alpha achieved by the managers of P and Q, the board decides to add a position in just one of the portfolios. Which should it choose? To answer, we must choose the portfolio which, when combined with the benchmark, generates the higher Sharpe ratio. In Section 6.5 we saw that the key to this problem is the information ratio.








information ratio
Ratio of alpha to the standard deviation of diversifiable risk.

We can calculate the Sharpe ratio of the optimized portfolio from the Sharpe ratio of the benchmark M, and the information ratio of the added portfolio using Equation 6.17, which we repeat here:

where  international diversificationnd.
 is the information ratio of portfolio P. Table 18.1 indicates that the information ratio of P, .24, is higher than that of Q, .15. Equation 18.8 tells us that the Sharpe ratio of the optimized portfolio using P will be .42, but only .38 using Q—still better than the benchmark's .34. Once again, we see that the role of the evaluated portfolio in the investor's complete portfolio determines the choice of performance measure. A different measure can lead to different judgment of superiority. The following table summarizes our conclusions:

The Relation of Alpha to Performance Measures
Alpha, also known as the Jensen measure after Michael Jensen, who first proposed it, appears everywhere in performance evaluation; why then, did we not present it as a performance measure? To answer, we must see its relation in the three performance measures.








Jensen measure
The alpha of an investment.

When short sales are allowed, a negative alpha is as good as, or even better than, a positive one when constructing the optimal portfolio. A negative, or short, position in a negative-alpha stock will turn the alpha positive. If the stock's beta is positive, a negative position in it will also reduce systematic and therefore overall risk. Thus, a negative-alpha, positive-beta stock serves double duty in optimizing a portfolio.4 However, if short sales are prohibited, a negative-alpha stock is no better than a zero-alpha one because it must be ignored.
The foregoing not withstanding, when it comes to performance evaluation, we judge ex-post (after the fact) portfolio returns. We cannot directly observe the manager's ex-ante (before the fact) expectations. We know that the manager must have judged the alpha positive ex-ante. But forecasting errors or just bad luck could have driven an ex-ante positive-alpha portfolio into negative-alpha territory. Thus, in performance evaluation, a negative realized alpha must be taken to indicate below-average performance.
The relation of the Jensen measure to the Sharpe and Treynor measures can be gleaned from Equation 18.2. Substituting the right-hand side of the equation for the average excess at the expiration date of the options.assetsUniversity of  return and employing some manipulation, we find that the Sharpe measure is

where ρ is the correlation between the excess return of P and the benchmark. First, observe that alpha alone does not determine which portfolio has a larger Sharpe ratio. The standard deviation of P and its correlation with the benchmark are also important. Thus positive alpha is not a sufficient condition for a managed portfolio to offer a higher Sharpe measure than the passive benchmark.
While it is not sufficient, a positive alpha is necessary to obtain a higher Sharpe ratio than the benchmark's SM, because SM (ρ - 1) is negative. Superior performance in this context is a stiff challenge because, to achieve a positive alpha, it is necessary to construct a portfolio that is different from the benchmark. But this, in turn, will increase residual risk (which lowers the correlation coefficient) and offset the improvement in alpha. Notice that portfolio Q has a larger alpha, 2.3%, than P, 1.6%. Moreover, its ratio of alpha to standard deviation (2.3/18 = .128) is far greater than P's (1.6/24.1 = .066). Despite all this, Q's Sharpe ratio is smaller because its correlation coefficient with M is low (.51) compared with P's (.96).
The Treynor measure, which measures performance of a portfolio within a fund of funds, also is related to the portfolio alpha via Equation 18.2 as follows:

 is common to all portfolios; therefore, the relative rank of TP is determined by the ratio  Thus here, too, e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. in the ompute theretaa positive alpha is necessary but not sufficient to rank alternative active portfolios; we also need to know beta.
Finally, to complete the list, a positive alpha is needed to increase the Sharpe ratio of any portfolio to which the measured one is added. At the stage of constructing a portfolio, negative-alpha securities are useful because one can take a short position in them. But in performance evaluation we are asking whether the realized return on a manager's portfolio suggests we should employ the manager in the future to construct a piece of our overall portfolio. We are willing to do so only if the manager's forecasts have translated to realized returns with a positive alpha.
However, here, too, alpha alone cannot rank portfolios, since a portfolio with lower alpha but also lower residual risk still can be judged of better overall performance (Sharpe ratio). We can be sure, though, that a negative alpha indicates inferior performance by all performance measures.
 

CONCEPT   check18.1
 
Consider the following data for a particular sample period when returns were high:

Calculate alpha and the three performance measures for portfolio P and the market. The T-bill rate during the period was 6%. By which measures did portfolio P outperform the market?








Alpha Capture and Alpha Transport
In the next chapter, we will see that many hedge funds seek positive alpha with zero beta. They wish to obtain abnormal returns without taking a stance on the direction of the broad market. Even if a portfolio is relatively underpriced, it may still suffer losses if it falls with the market. The solution is to hedge out the market exposure of the portfolio by selling either the stock index or stock-index futures. This long stock-short index strategy provides a market neutral position while maintaining the positive alpha and is therefore called alpha capture. With the captured alpha, you can establish any desired sensitivity to particular market sectors using index products such as ETFs.








alpha capture
Construction of a positive-alpha portfolio with all systematic risk hedged away.

This last procedure is called e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. in the ompute theretaalpha transfer or alpha transport, because you transfer alpha from the sector where you find it to the market sector in which you seek exposure. Finding alpha requires skill. By contrast, beta, or market exposure, is a "commodity product" that can be supplied cheaply through index funds.








alpha transfer or alpha transport
Establishing alpha while using index products both to hedge market exposure and to establish exposure to desired sectors.



EXAMPLE 18.1


Alpha Capture and Transport
Zeta, a portfolio manager, established a positive-alpha portfolio P with a positive exposure to the market index: βPM = 1.3. Now she wishes to transfer the alpha. Her objective is a portfolio that is market neutral but with positive exposure to the health care sector. In other words, she wants to "transport" her positive-alpha portfolio from a broad market exposure to a narrow health care exposure, a sector she believes will outperform. Her goal is a zero-net-investment position with a beta of zero on the market index but with a beta of .5 on a health care sector index.
We call Zeta's final portfolio Z, which will be constructed from positions in the original positive-alpha portfolio P, the market index portfolio M, the health care index portfolio P,H, and the risk-free asset F. Zeta will first isolate alpha by neutralizing P's market beta. She will then use a health care sector index portfolio to establish her desired exposure to health care. In the end, she wants her final portfolio Z to have a zero beta on the broad market, βZM = 0, and a beta of .5 on health care, βZH = .5.
Zeta's statistical analysis implies that a health care exchange-traded fund, XLV, has a market beta, β?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00assetsUniversity of XLV = .9. Therefore, as she establishes exposure to the health care portfolio, she will also take on market exposure, and this too must be hedged away. Therefore, as Table 18.2 shows, she must take a position in the market index sufficiently large to offset the beta of portfolio P as well as the additional market exposure created by her position in the health care ETF. The hedging strategy that creates pure exposure to the health care sector is similar to the hedging of factor exposures that we encountered in the discussion of the arbitrage pricing theory (see Tables 7.5 and 7.9).5


An important issue that is often lost when evaluating ex-post alpha is statistical significance. After all, even if the true alpha is zero, you expect to estimate a positive alpha in roughly 50% of the evaluated portfolios (and a negative alpha in the other 50%). Given capital market volatility, it is fair to expect that even truly nonzero alphas often would be statistically insignificant. We would be more inclined to believe a nonzero alpha of a portfolio manager is a real phenomenon if it persists over time. Take a look at Figure 8.8 of Chapter 8. Unfortunately, the graph suggests that persistence of alpha is mostly found in negative-alpha portfolios, and little is evident in portfolios of positive alpha.
Performance Evaluation with a Multi-Index Model
The Fama-French (FF) three-factor model discussed in Section 7.4 has almost completely replaced the single-index model in academic performance evaluation, and has been gaining "market share" in the investment services industry.6 Evidence in favor of augmenting the market index with the size (SMB) and value (HML) portfolios is compelling. How should this affect performance evaluation?
Expanding Equation 18.1 to include the size and value factors, we have,7

Equation 18.11 states that expected return is determined by betas on three factors, not just by beta relative to the market index. Notice that the index portfolio, M, has zero alpha; if you regress RM on the three right-hand-side portfolios, it will be completely explained by the first factor, RM, and so it will have an intercept of zero. The same applies to SMB and HML, and thus any portfolio formed from one or more index portfolios will have zero alpharegulation of compar representation.


TABLE 18.2   Alpha capture and transfer to the health care sector




 Performance Measures




Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

The Excel model "Performance Measures" calculates all of the performance measures discussed in this chapter. The model available on our website is built to allow you to compare eight different portfolios and to rank them on all measures discussed in this chapter.









Excel Questions
1. Examine the performance measures of the funds included in the spreadsheet. Rank the funds by the five performance measures. Are the rankings across funds consistent? What explains these results?
 2. Which fund would you choose if you were considering investing the entire risky portion of your portfolio? What if you were considering adding a small position in one of these funds
In a three-factor security market as described by Equation 18.11, the market index is no longer the single efficient portfolio. Instead, we can use as our benchmark (default) portfolio the combination of factor portfolios that maximizes the Sharpe ratio. Once this benchmark is identified, the Treynor-Black method can be deployed: First identify the optimal active portfolio based on alpha values from security analysis; then mix the active portfolio with the said benchmark to find the optimal risky portfolio. This implies that the information ratio from the multifactor equation is the appropriate performance measure for an active portfolio to be added to the multifactor benchmark.
Failure to recognize the multi-index equation (when valid) in favor of a misspecified single-index equation can lead one to overestimate performance. Apparent alpha values that reflect the impact of omitted factors will be mistaken for superior performance.
Recent research by Cremers, Petajisto, and Zitzewitz (2010) shows that indexes such as the S&P 500 and Russell 2000 demonstrate significant nonzero alphas when evaluated using the FF model even when a momentum factor is added. The problem in finding adequate passive benchmarks tells us that performance evaluation is really (after more than 40 years) still in its infancy and our inferences should elicit some healthy skepticism.
  18.2   STYLE ANALYSIS
Style analysis was introduced by Nobel Laureate William Sharpe (1992). The popularity of the concept was aided by a widely cited study (Brinson et al., 1991) concluding that 91.5% of the variation in returns of 82 mutual funds could be explained by the funds' asset allocation to bills, bonds, and stocks. Later studies that considered asset allocation across a broader range of asset classes found that as much as 97% of fund returns can be explained by asset allocation alone.
Sharpe considered 12 asset class (style) portfolios. His idea was to regress fund returns on indexes representing a range of asset classes. The regression coefficient on each index would then measure the implicit allocation to that "style." Because funds are barred from short positions, the regression coefficients are constrained to be either zero or positive and to sum to 100%, so as to represent a complete asset allocation. The R-square of the regression would then measure the percentage of return variability due to style choice rather than security selection. Finally, in this regression there is no intercept, and residuals are not constrained to sum to zero. This sum equals the total return from security selection. This feature allows us to track the cumulative residual and observe how return from security selection evolves over time.
To illustrate the approach, consider Sharpe's study of the monthly returns on Fidelity's Magellan Fund over the period January 1985 through December 1989, shown in Table 18.3. While there are 12 asset classes, each one represented by a stock index, the regression coefficients are positive for only four of them. We can conclude that the fund returns are well explained by only four style portfolios. Moreover, these four style portfolios alone explain 97.3% of the variance of returns.
The proportion of return variability not explained by asset allocation can be attributed to security selection within asset classes. For Magellan, this was 100 - 97.3 = 2.7%. To evaluate the average contribution of stock selection to fund performance we track the residuals from the regression, displayed in Figure 18.3. The figure plots the cumulative effect of these residuals; the steady upward trend confirms Magellan's success at stock selection in this period. Notice that the plot in Figure 18.3 is far smoother than the plot in Figure 18.4, which shows Magellan's performance compared to a standard benchmark, the S&P 500. This reflects the fact that the regression-weighted index portfolio tracks Magellan's overall style much better than the S&P 500. The performance spread is much noisier using the S&P as the benchmark.


TABLE 18.3 accessed on September 4 2012  assets">εta     Sharpe's style portfolios for the Magellan fund





FIGURE 18.3
Fidelity Magellan Fund cumulative return difference: Fund versus style benchmark
Source: William F. Sharpe, "Asset Allocation: Management Style and Performance Evaluation," Journal of Portfolio Management, Winter 1992, pp. 7-19. Figure 17, p. 18. Used with permission of Institutional Investor, Inc., www.iijournals.com. All Rights Reserved.





FIGURE 18.4
Fidelity Magellan Fund cumulative return difference: Fund versus S&P 500
Source: William F. Sharpe, "Asset Allocation: Management Style and Performance Evaluation," Journal of Portfolio Management, Winter 1992, pp. 7-19. Figure 16, p. 17. Used with permission of Institutional Investor, Inc., www.iijournals.com. All Rights Reserved.



Of course, Magellan's consistently positive residual returns (reflected in the steadily increasing plot of cumulative return difference) is hardly common. Figure 18.5 shows the frequency distribution of average residuals across 636 mutual funds. The distribution has the familiar bell shape with a slightly negative mean of -.074% per month.


FIGURE 18.5
Average tracking error, 636 mutual funds, 1985-1989
Source: William F. Sharpe, "Asset Allocation: Management Style and Performance Evaluation," Journal of Portfolio Management, Winter 1992, pp. 7-19. Figure 18, p. 18. Used with permission of Institutional Investor, Inc., www.iijournals.com. All Rights Reserved.



Style international diversificationital-bompute thereta analysis has become very popular in the investment management industry and has spawned quite a few variations on Sharpe's methodology. Many portfolio managers utilize websites that help investors identify their style and stock selection performance. The nearby box shows that style analysis is at the heart of recent debates about the investment performance of hedge funds.
18.3   MORNINGSTAR'S RISK-ADJUSTED RATING
The commercial success of Morningstar, Inc., the premier source of information on mutual funds, has made its Risk Adjusted Rating (RAR) among the most widely used performance measures. The Morningstar five-star rating is coveted by the managers of the thousands of funds covered by the service.

On the MARKET FRONT


WHAT'S IT ALL ABOUT, ALPHA?
Too many notes. That's what Emperor Joseph II famously said to Mozart on seeing his opera "The Marriage of Figaro." But surely to think of a musical work as just a series of notes is to miss the magic.
Could the same be said about fund management? It is the fashion these days to separate beta (the systematic return delivered by the market) from alpha (the manager's skill). Investors are happy to pay high fees for the skill, but regard the market return as a commodity. Distinguishing the two is, however, sometimes difficult.
A fund manager might beat the market because of luck or recklessness, rather than skill, for example. Suppose he has packed his portfolio with oil stocks and then profits when the price of crude rises. More generally, alpha skeptics often attribute abnormal returns to "style bias," such as [the manager who favors stocks with an energy focus. Popular style biases are often based on factors that seem to have predicted past alpha, such as firm size.] But should the skeptics be biased against style bias? After all, the only portfolio utterly free of bias would be one that included the entire market.
Academics have entered this debate, trying to pin down the factors that drive a fund's performance. Bill Fung and Narayan Naik of London Business School have come up with a seven-factor model which, they say, can explain the bulk of hedge-fund performance. After allowing for these factors, the average fund of hedge funds has not produced any alpha in the past decade, except during the dot-com bubble. This approach suggests the whole idea of alpha might be an illusion.
However, it is also possible to take the opposite tack. This type of analysis gives managers no credit for choosing the systematic factors—the betas—that drive their portfolios. Yes, these betas could often have been bought for very low fees. But would an investor have been able to put them together in the right combination?
It is as if a diner in Gordon Ramsay's restaurants international diversificationnd.

 
There are two potential criticisms of the cloned approach. One is that it will simply reproduce all the systematic returns that hedge funds generate and none of their idiosyncratic magic. However, this "magic" is hard to pin down, and even if it does exist, it may be worth no more than the fees hedge funds charge.
The second criticism is that the clones will always be a step behind the smart money. You cannot clone a hedge fund until you know where it has been. But by then it may have moved on.
Mozart might have sympathized. His operas were more than the sum of his notes. But even if the great composer had no peers, he has had plenty of imitators.
SOURCE: Excerpted from The Economist, March 22, 2007. © The Economist Newspaper Limited, London. Used with permission via Copyright Clearance Center.
Morningstar calculates a number of RAR performance measures that are similar, although not identical, to the standard mean-variance measures (see Chapter 4 for a more detailed discussion). The most distinct measure, the Morningstar Star Rating, is based on comparison of each fund to a peer group. The peer group for each fund is selected on the basis of the fund's investment universe (e.g., international, growth versus value, fixed-income) as well as portfolio characteristics such as average price-to-book value, price-earnings ratio, and market capitalization.
Morningstar computes fund returns (adjusted for loads) as well asto a portfolio invested in the market index a risk measure based on fund performance in its worst years. The risk-adjusted performance is ranked across funds in a style group, and stars are awarded based on the following table:

The Morningstar RAR method produces results that are similar but not identical to that of the mean/variance-based Sharpe ratios. Figure 18.6 demonstrates the fit between ranking by RAR and by Sharpe ratios from the performance of 1,286 diversified equity funds over the period 1994-1996. Sharpe notes that this period is characterized by high returns that contribute to a good fit.


FIGURE 18.6
Rankings based on Morningstar's category RARs and excess return Sharpe ratios
Source: William F. Sharpe (1997), "Morningstar Performance Measures," εtaNH">www.stanford.edu/+wfsharpe/art/stars/stars0.htm. Used with permission.



18.4   RISK ADJUSTMENTS WITH CHANGING PORTFOLIO COMPOSITION
One potential problem with risk-adjustment techniques is that they all assume that portfolio risk, whether it is measured by standard deviation or beta, is constant over the relevant time period. This isn't necessarily so. If a manager attempts to increase portfolio beta when she thinks the market is about to go up and to decrease beta when pessimistic, both the standard deviation and the beta of the portfolio will change over time. This can wreak havoc with our performance measures.


EXAMPLE 18.2


Risk Measurement with Changing Portfolio Composition
Suppose the Sharpe measure of the passive strategy (investing in a market-index fund) is .4. A portfolio manager is in search of a better, active strategy. Over an initial period of, say, four quarters, he executes a low-risk or defensive strategy with an annualized mean excess return of 1.5% and a standard deviation of 3.4%. This makes for a Sharpe measure of .44, which beats the passive strategy.
Over the next period of another four quarters, this manager finds that a high-risk strategy is optimal, with an annual mean excess return of 8.75% and standard deviation of 20%. Here again the Sharpe measure is .44. Over the two years, our manager maintains a better-than-passive Sharpe measure.
Figure 18.7 shows a pattern of (annualized) quarterly returns that is consistent with our description of the manager's strategy over two years. In the first four quarters, the excess returns are -3%, 5%, 1%, and 3%, consistent with the predicted mean and SD. In the next four quarters, the excess returns are -9%, 27%, 25%, and -8%, also consistent with predictions for the higher-volatility period. Thus, each year exhibits a Sharpe measure of .44.
But if we treat the eight-quarter sequence as a single measurement period instead of two independent periods, the portfolio's mean and standard deviation over the full period are 5.125% and 13.8% respectively, resulting in a Sharpe measure of only .37, apparently inferior to the passive strategy!




FIGURE 18.7
Portfolio returns. In the first four quarters, the firm follows a low-risk, low-return policy. In the next four quarters, it shifts to a high-international diversificationAT1Mretarisk, high-return policy.



What went wrong in Example 18.2? Sharpe's ratio does not recognize the shift in the mean from the first four quarters to the next as a result of a strategy change. Instead, the difference in mean returns in the two years adds to the appearance of volatility in portfolio returns. The change in mean returns across time periods contributed to the variability of returns over the same period. Unfortunately, an outside observer cannot tell that policy changes within the sample period are the source of some of the return variability. Therefore, the active strategy with shifting means appears riskier than it really is, which biases the estimate of the Sharpe measure downward.
When assessing the performance of actively managed portfolios, it is important to keep track of portfolio composition and changes in portfolio mean return and risk. We will see another example of this problem when we turn to market timing.
Another warning: When we address the performance of mutual funds selected because they have been successful, we need to be highly cautious in evaluating their track records. In particular, we need to recognize that even if all managers were equally skilled, a few "winners" would emerge by sheer chance each period. With thousands of funds in operation, the best-performing funds will have been wildly successful, even if these results reflect luck rather than skill. The nearby box addresses this issue. Another manifestation of selection bias arises when we limit a sample of funds to those for which returns are available over an entire sample period. This practice implies that we exclude from consideration all funds that were closed down over the sample period. The ensuing bias is called survivorship bias. It turns out that when even a small number of funds have failed, the upward bias in the performance of surviving funds can be substantial. Most mutual fund databases now include failed funds so that samples can be protected from survivorship bias.








survivorship bias
Upward bias in average fund performance due to the failure to account for failed funds over the sample period.








Performance Manipulation
Imagine a manager whose performance is measured over two-year return periods, as in Example 18.2, for which the Sharpe ratio in each year is .44. Now we are at the end of the first year, when the manager's portfolio has returned the aforementioned four annualized quarterly rates of -3%, 5%, 1%, and 3%, providing the assumed Sharpe ratio of .44.
At this point the manager identifies the high-risk but better-than-passive strategy of the example; but he recognizes that following this strategy, he can expect a losing Sharpe ratio of .37. But what if the portfolio is "de-levered" by shifting 5regulation of compar representation/6 of its value into bills. With this shift to safety (and zero excess return), the four second-year returns would be -1.5%, 4.5%, 4.17%, and -1.33%. Because the Sharpe ratio is invariant to shifts between the risky portfolio and risk-free asset, the second-year Sharpe ratio is still .44. Despite this, the eight-quarter Sharpe ratio is now evaluated at .47.8 So far, little damage has been wrought. But given that the prospectuses of many funds promise general investment strategies (for example, investing in equity), they may not allow significant investments in bills. In that event, managers may reduce risk by moving into low-beta stocks. This distorts their security selection decisions, and investors end up with less-than-optimal portfolios due to the manipulation of the Sharpe ratio.
This type of manipulation is only one in a menu that includes investments in derivatives. These strategies also can be used to manipulate the other performance measures discussed earlier in the chapter. A manipulation-free performance measure exists, but since it hasn't yet penetrated the industry, we leave it for future consideration.
18.5   PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION PROCEDURES
Rather than focus on risk-adjusted returns, practitioners often want simply to ascertain which decisions resulted in superior or inferior performance. Superior investment performance depends on an ability to be in the "right" securities at the right time. Timing and selection ability may be considered broadly, such as being in equities as opposed to fixed-income securities when the stock market is performing well. Or it may be defined at a more detailed level, such as choosing the relatively better-performing stocks within a particular industry.
Portfolio managers constantly make both broad-brush asset market allocation decisions as well as more detailed sector and security allocation decisions within markets. Performance attribution studies attempt to decompose overall performance into discrete components that may be identified with a particular level of the portfolio selection process.
Attribution analysis starts from the broadest asset allocation choices and progressively focuses on ever-finer details of portfolio choice. The difference between a managed portfolio's performance and that of a benchmark portfolio may be expressed as the sum of the contributions to performance of a series of decisions made at the various levels of the construction process. For example, one common attribution system decomposes performance into three components: (1) broad asset market allocation choices across equity, fixed-income, and money markets; (2) industry (sector) choice within each market; and (3) security choice within each sector.
To illustrate this method, consider the attribution results for a hypothetical portfolio. The portfolio invests in stocks, bonds, and money market securitiese that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. in the ompute thereta. The portfolio return over the period is 5.34%. An attribution analysis appears in Tables 18.4 through 18.7.


  TABLE 18.4   Performance of the managed portfolio





  TABLE 18.5   Performance attribution





TABLE 18.6   Sector allocation within the equity market





  TABLE 18.7   Portfolio attribution: summary



The first step is to establish a benchmark level of performance against which performance ought to be compared. This benchmark is called the bogey. It is the portfolio designed to fit the fund prospectus in the absence of any active choice, in other words, the fund's passive or default portfolio. A fund's prospectus likely dictates a "normal" range for investment weights, say 50%-70% in equities, 20%-40% in bonds, and 0%-10% in bills. We will use the middle of these ranges to form the bogey, with a neutral asset allocation of 60% in equities, 30% in bonds, and 10% in bills, as shown in Table 18.4.








bogey
The benchmark portfolio an investment manager is compared to for performance evaluation.

The prospectus also likely specifies benchmarks for each asset class. For instance, the S&P 500 often serves as the benchmark for equity investments, and the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index may be used for fixed income. Table 18.4 shows the returns on these benchmarks for the relevant period. The neutral asset allocation, along with the returns on the benchmark indexes, generates the bogey return shown in Table 18.4, 3.97%. The table also records the actual portfolio return, 5.34%. The difference between actual and bogey returns, 1.37%, is the excess return of the managed portfolio. We next try to measure the relative contributions of  at the expiration date of the options.assetsUniversity of asset allocation versus security selection decisions to this advantageous performance.

On the MARKET FRONT


THE MAGELLAN FUND AND MARKET EFFICIENCY: ASSESSING THE PERFORMANCE OF MONEY MANAGERS
Fidelity's Magellan Fund outperformed the S&P 500 in eleven of the thirteen years ending in 1989. Is such performance consistent with the efficient market hypothesis? Casual statistical analysis would suggest not.
If outperforming the market were like flipping a fair coin, as would be the case if all securities were fairly priced, then the odds of an arbitrarily selected manager producing eleven out of thirteen winning years would be only about 0.95%, or 1 in 105. The Magellan Fund, however, is not a randomly selected fund. Instead, it is the fund that emerged after a thirteen-year "contest" as a clear winner. Given that we have chosen to focus on the winner of a money management contest, should we be surprised to find performance far above the mean? Clearly not.
Once we select a fund precisely because it has outperformed all other funds, the proper benchmark for predicted performance is no longer a standard index such as the S&P 500. The benchmark must be the expected performance of the best-performing fund out of a sample of randomly selected funds.
Consider as an analogy a coin flipping contest. If fifty contestants were to flip a coin thirteen times, and the winner were to flip eleven heads out of thirteen, we would not consider that evidence that the winner's coin was biased. Instead, we would recognize that with fifty contestants, the probability is greater than 40% that the individual who emerges as the winner would in fact flip heads eleven or more times. (In contrast, a coin chosen at random that resulted in eleven out of thirteen heads would be highly suspect!)
How then ought we evaluate the performance of those managers who show up in the financial press as (recently) superior performers. We know that after the fact some managers will have been lucky. When is the performance of a manager so good that even after accounting for selection bias—the selection of the ex post winner—we still cannot account for such performance by chance?








SELECTION BIAS AND PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Consider this experiment. Allow fifty money managers to flip a coin thirteen times, and record the maximum number of heads realized by any of the contestants. (If markets are efficient, the coin will have the same probability of turning up heads as that of a money manager beating the market.) Now repeat the contest, and again record the winning number of heads. Repeat this experiment 10,000 times. When we are done, we can compute the frequency distribution of the winning number of heads over the 10,000 trials.
Table 1 (column 1) presents the results of such an experiment simulated on a computer. The table shows that in 9.2% of the contests, the winning number of heads was nine; in 47.4% of the trials ten heads would be enough to emerge as the best manager. Interestingly, in 43.3% of the trial international diversificationAT1Mretas, the winning number of heads was eleven or better out of thirteen.

TABLE 1     
PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTION OF NUMBER OF SUCCESSFUL YEARS OUT OF THIRTEEN FOR THE BEST-PERFORMING MONEY MANAGER


Viewed in this context, the performance of Magellan is still impressive but somewhat less surprising. The simulation shows that out of a sample of 50 managers, chance alone would provide a 43.3% probability that someone would beat the market at least eleven out of thirteen years. Averaging over all 10,000 trials, the mean number of winning years necessary to emerge as most reliable manager over the thirteen-year contest was 10.43.
Therefore, once we recognize that Magellan is not a fund chosen at random, but a fund that came to our attention precisely because it turned out to perform so well, the frequency with which it beat the market is no longer high enough to be considered a violation of market efficiency. Indeed, using the conventional 5% confidence level, we could not reject the hypothesis that the consistency of its performance was due to chance.
The other columns in Table 1 present the frequency distributions of the winning number of successful coin flips (analogously, the number of years in which the best-performing manager beats an efficient market) for other possible sample sizes. Not surprisingly, as the pool of managers increases, the predicted best performance steadily gets better. By providing as a benchmark the probability distribution of the best performance, rather than the average performance, the table tells us how many grains of salt to add to reports of the latest investment guru.

SOURCE: Alan J. Marcus, "The Magellan Fund and Market Efficiency." The Journal of Portfolio Management, Fall 1990, pp. 85-86. Used with permission of Institutional Investor, Inc., www.iijournals.com. All Rights Reserved.








Asset Allocation Decisions
The managed portfolio is actually invested in the equity, fixed-income, and money markets with weights of 70%, 7%, and 23%, respectively. The portfolio's performance could be due to the departure of this weighting scheme from the benchmark 60/30/10 weights and/or to superior or inferior results within each of the three broad markets.
To isolate the effect of the manager's asset allocation choice, we measure the performance of a hypothetical portfolio that would have been invested in the indexes for each market with the actual weights of 70/7/23. This return measures the effect of the shift away from the benchmark 60/30/10 weights without allowing for any effects attributable to active international diversificationnd.
 
Superior performance relative to the bogey is achieved by overweighting investments in markets that outperform the bogey and by underweighting poorly performing markets. The contribution of asset allocation to superior performance equals the sum over all markets of the excess weight in each market times the return of the index for each sector.
Table 18.5A demonstrates that asset allocation contributed 31 basis points to the portfolio's excess return of 137 basis points. The major contribution of asset allocation to superior performance in this period comes from the heavy weighting of the equity market when the equity market has an excellent return of 5.81%.







Sector and Security Selection Decisions
If .31% of the excess performance can be attributed to advantageous asset allocation across markets, the remaining 1.06% then must be attributable to sector selection and security selection within each market. Table 18.5B details the contribution of the managed portfolio's sector and security selection to total performance.
Panel B shows that the equity component of the managed portfolio has a return of 7.28% versus a return of 5.81% for the S&P 500. The fixed-income return is 1.89% versus 1.45% for the Aggregate Bond Index. The superior performance in both equity and fixed-income markets weighted by the portfolio proportions invested in each market sums to the 1.06% contribution to performance attributable to sector and security selection.
Table 18.6 documents the sources of the equity market performance by each sector within the market. The first three columns detail the allocation of funds within the equity market compared to their representation in the S&P 500. Column (4) shows the rate of return of each sector, and column (5) equals the product of the difference in the sector weight and the sector's performance.
Note that good performance derives from overweighting well-performing sectors such as consumer noncyclicals, as well as underweighting poorly performing sectors such as technology. The excess return of the equity component of the portfolio attributable to sector allocation alone is 1.29%. As the equity component of the portfolio outperformed the S&P 500 by 1.47%, we conclude that the effect of security selection within sectors must have contributed an additional 1.47 - 1.29, or .18%, to the performance of the equity component of the portfolio.
A similar sector analysis can be applied to the fixed-income portion of the portfolio, but we do not show those results here.

 Performance Attribution




international diversificationnd.

Please visit us at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie

The Excel model "Performance Attribution" that is available on our website is built on the example that appears in Section 18.5. The model allows you to specify different allocations and to analyze the contribution sectors and weightings for different performances.








Excel Questions
1. What would happen to the contribution of asset allocation to overall performance if the actual weights had been 70/17/13 in the three markets rather than 75/12/13? Explain your result.
 2. Show what would happen to the contribution of security selection to performance if the actual return on the equity portfolio had been 7.5% instead of 6.5% and the return on the S&P 500 had been 6.81% instead of 5.81%. Explain your result.







Summing Up Component Contributions
In this attribution period, all facets of the portfolio selection process were successful. Table 18.7 details the contribution of each aspect of performance. Asset allocation across the major security markets contributes 31 basis points. Sector and security allocation within those markets contributes 106 basis points, for total excess portfolio performance of 137 basis points.
The sector and security allocation of 106 basis points can be partitioned further. Sector allocation within the equity market results in excess performance of 129 basis points, and security selection within sectors contributes 18 basis points. (The total equity excess performance of 147 basis points is multiplied by the 70% weight in equity to obtain the contribution to portfolio performance.) Similar partitioning could be done for the fixed-income sector.
 

CONCEPT   check18.2
 
a. Suppose the benchmark weights had been set at 70% equity, 25% fixed-income, and 5% cash equivalents. What then would be the contributions of the manager's asset allocation choices?
b. Suppose the S&P 500 return had been 5%. Recompute the contribution of the manager's security selection choices.

18.6 international diversificationAT1Mreta   MARKET TIMING
Pure market timing involves switching funds between the risky portfolio and cash in response to forecasts of relative performance. To evaluate the potential of a pure market-timing strategy, consider the fortunes of three families of investors who had $1 to invest on December 1, 1926. Their heirs counted their blessings 82 years later, in 2008. The investment history of the families included the Great Depression, a major bear market in 2008 (when the S&P 500 lost 39%), and seven other recessions in between. The families differed wildly in their investment strategy:








market timing
A strategy that moves funds between the risky portfolio and cash, based on forecasts of relative performance.

1. Family A invested solely in a money market or cash equivalents.
2. Family B invested solely in stocks (the S&P 500 portfolio), reinvesting all dividends.
3. Family C switched, every month, 100% of its funds between stocks and cash, based on its forecast of which sector would do better next month.
While the strategies of families A and B are straightforward, that of family C is worth pondering. Try asking friends: "What would it take to be a perfect market timer?" Many would venture that to accomplish perfect timing, the timer would need to be able to forecast the rate of return on stocks at the start of every month. But actually, you wouldn't need the precise rate of return: "All" the perfect timer would have to know is whether stocks will outperform cash! You might think that such elementary knowledge wouldn't be worth all that much. But examine Table 18.8, computed from the actual return history on cash and stocks.


  TABLE 18.8   Performance of cash, stocks, and perfect-timing strategies



The first panel of Table 18.8 provides the punch line: After 82 years, $1 returned $20 to the cash fund of family A, and most of those nominal profits were undone by inflation over the period. Despite the Great Depression and recessions of varying severity, the stock fund of family B outdid the cash fund by a factor of more than 80, ending up with $1,626. But the gains to the perfect-timing family C would have been otherworldly indeed (as was the family's power of prediction); the timing fund starting with $1 would have ended with $36.7 billion.
 

CONCEPTεta">   check18.3
 
Use annual rates of return from the Online Learning Center (www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie) to replicate Table 18.8 for the 1926-2008 period for a market timer who could perfectly forecast only once a year, rather than every month. Why is the performance of the annual timer not as good as that of the monthly timer?

These results have some lessons for us. The first has to do with the power of compounding. This effect is particularly important as ever more funds under management represent pension savings. The horizons of pension investments may not be as long as 82 years, but they are measured in decades, making compounding an important factor.
The second is a huge difference between the end value of the all-safe asset strategy ($20) and of the all-equity strategy ($1,626). Why would anyone invest in safe assets? By now you know the reason: risk. The annual standard deviation of the equity strategy was 19.38%. The high standard deviation of the return on the equity portfolio is commensurate with its significantly higher average return. The higher average excess return reflects the long-term risk premium.
Is the return premium on the perfect-timing strategy also a risk premium? It can't be: Because the perfect timer never does worse than either bills or the market, the extra return cannot be compensation for the possibility of poor returns; instead it is attributable to superior analysis. The value of superior information is reflected in the tremendous ending value of the portfolio. This value does not reflect compensation for risk.
Consider how you might choose between two hypothetical strategies. Strategy 1 offers a sure rate of return of 5%; strategy 2 offers an uncertain return that is given by 5% plus a random number that is equally likely to be either 0% or 5%. The results for each strategy are:

Clearly, strategy 2 dominates strategy 1, as its rate of return is at least equal to that of strategy 1 and sometimes greater. No matter how risk averse you are, you will always prefer strategy 2 to strategy 1, even though strategy 2 has a significant standard deviation. Compared to strategy 1, strategy 2 provides only good surprises, so the standard deviation in this case cannot be a measure of risk.
You can look at these strategies as analogous to the case of the perfect timer compared with either an all-equity or all-cash strategy. In every period, the perfect timer obtains at least as good a return, in some cases better. Therefore, the timer's standard deviation is a misleading measure of risk when you compare perfect timing to an all-equity or all-cash strategy.
Valuing Market Timing as an Option
Merton (1981) shows that perfect market timing can be viewed as a call option on the market index in this sense: Investing 100% in T-bills plus holding a call option on the equity portfolio will yield returns identical to those of the portfolio of the perfect timer who invests 100% in either the safe asset or the equity portfolio, whichever will yield the higher return. The perfect timer's return is shown in Figure 18.8. The rate of return is bounded from below by the risk-free rate, rf .


FIGURE 18.8
Rate of return of a perfect market timer



To see how timing ability can be treated as an option, suppose the market index currently is at S0 and a call option on the index has exercise price of X = S0(1 + rf). If the market outperforms bills over the coming period, ST will exceed X; it will be less than X otherwise. Now look at the payoff to a portfolio consisting of this option plus S0 dollars invested in bills.

The portfolio returns the risk-free rate when the market return is less than the risk-free rate and pays the market return when the market beats bills. This represents perfect market timing. Consequently, the value of perfect-timing ability must equal the value of the call option.
Valuation of the call option embedded in market timing is relatively straightforward using the Black-Scholes formula. Set S0 = $1 (to find the value of the call per dollar invested in the market), use an exercise price of X = (1 + rf) (for example,  accessed on September 4 2012  assets">εtathe current risk-free rate is about .12%), and a volatility of σ = 18% (about the historical annual standard deviation of the S&P 500). For a once-a-month timer, T = 1/12 . According to the Black-Scholes formula, the call option conveyed by market-timing ability is worth 2.1% of assets, and this is the monthly fee one could presumably charge for such services. Annualized, that fee is about 28%, similar to the excess return of the market timer in Table 18.8. Less frequent timing would be worth less (see Concept Check 18.3). If one could time the market only on an annual basis, then T = 1 and the value of perfect timing would be about 7.2% per year.







The Value of Imperfect Forecasting
But managers are not perfect forecasters. While managers who are right most of the time presumably do very well, "right most of the time" does not mean merely the percentage of the time a manager is right. A Tucson, Arizona, weather forecaster who always predicts "no rain" may be right 90% of the time, but this "stopped clock" strategy does not require any forecasting ability.
Neither is the overall proportion of correct forecasts an appropriate measure of market forecasting ability. If the market is up two days out of three, and a forecaster always predicts a market advance, the two-thirds success rate is not a measure of forecasting ability. We need to examine the proportion of bull markets (rM > rf) correctly forecast as well as the proportion of bear markets (rM < 






Chapter







19








Globalization and International Investing

Learning Objectives:

LO19-1 Understand the special issues that affect the efficacy of international diversification.
LO19-2 Formulate hedge strategies to offset the currency risk involved in international investments.
LO19-3 Implement international investment strategies.
LO19-4 Decompose investment returns into contributing factors such as country, currency, and stock selection.


The S&P 500 market index is widely used in practice as "the" risky market portfolio. This may be justified on the grounds that an S&P 500 Index fund or ETF is the simplest acceptable passive portfolio of U.S. equities, and thus can be viewed as an appropriate benchmark. But the S&P index does not cover all U.S. equity, and even the broadest U.S. equities index makes up less than 40% of world equity market value. In this chapter, we look beyond domestic markets to survey issues of extended diversification.
In one sense, international investing may be viewed as no more than a straightforward generalization of our earlier treatment of portfolio selection with a larger menu of assets from which to construct a portfolio. One faces similar issues of diversification, security analysis, security selection, and asset allocation. On the other hand, international investments pose some problems not encountered in domestic markets: exchange rate risk, restrictions on capital flows across national boundaries, political risk, country-specific regulations, and differing accounting practices.
We begin by looking at market capitalization of stock exchanges around the world and its relation to the home-country GDP. Next, we examine exchange rate risk and how such risk can be mitigated by using foreign exchange futures and forward contracts. We also introduce political and country-specific risk that must be considered in the overall risk assessment of international investments.
We then examine the efficacy of investing globally in the context of equilibrium in inter-national capital markets with and without hedging foreign exchange risk. Finallynerated-style" aid="139653"> Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

19.1   GLOBAL MARKETS FOR EQUITIES







Developed Countries
To appreciate the myopia of an exclusive investment focus on U.S. stocks and bonds, consider the data in Table 19.1. Our list includes 32 "developed" countries (according to World Bank criteria), accounting for 85% of world equity capitalization in 2011 and 68% of the world gross domestic product in 2010.


  TABLE 19.1   Market capitalization of stock exchanges in developed countries



The first two columns of Table 19.1 show market capitalization in 2000 and 2011. The first line shows capitalization for all world exchanges, showing total capitalization of corporate equity in 2011 as $38.2 trillion, of which U.S. stock exchanges made up $13.9 trillion, or 36.4%. The year-to-year changes in the figures in these columns demonstrate the volatility of these markets.
The next three columns of Table 19.1 compare country equity capitalization as a percentage of the world's in 2000 and 2011, as well as the growth in capitalization over those 12 years. The two crises of the first dozen years of the 21st century, the bursting of the tech bubble in 2000-2001, and the financial crisis of 2008-2009 hit the developed countries hardest. Average growth of developed-country equity markets over these years was an anemic 1.7%, compared with a world average of 2.79% and 16.3% for emerging markets.
The last three columns of Table 19.1 show GDP, per capita GDP, and the equity capitalization as a percentage of GDP in 2010. Although per capita GDP in developed countries is not as variable across countries as total GDP, which is determined in part by total population, market capitalization as a percentage of GDP is quite variable. This suggests widespread differences in economic structure even across developed countries.







Emerging Markets
For a passive strategy, one could argue that a portfolio of equities of just the six countries with the largest capitalization would make up 64% (in 2011) of the world portfolio and may be sufficiently diversified. However, at the expiration date of the options.assetsIt is easy to see this argument will not hold for active portfolios that seek to tilt investments toward promising assets. Active portfolios will naturally include many stocks or indexes of emerging markets.
Table 19.2 makes the point. Surely, active portfolio managers must prudently scour stocks in markets such as Colombia, China, and Russia with annual growth rates so far in the 21st century in excess of 33% (⅓ per year!). Table 19.2 shows data from the 20 largest emerging markets. But managers also would not want to have missed other markets that exhibited marked, if not quite so dramatic, growth over the same years.


  TABLE 19.2   Market capitalization of stock exchanges in emerging markets



These 20 emerging markets make up 24% of the world GDP and, together with the 25 developed markets in Table 19.1, make up 92% of the world GDP. Per capita GDP in these emerging markets was quite variable, ranging from $1,019 (Pakistan) to $41,122 (Singapore). Market capitalization as a percent of GDP of the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China) is still below 70% (only 11% in China!), suggesting that these emerging markets are expected to show significant growth over the coming years, even without spectacular growth in GDP.
The growth of capitalization in emerging markets over this period was much more volatiand rewards in this segment of the globe may be substantial.
Market Capitalization and GDP
A contemporary view of economic development (rigorously stated in de Soto, 2000) holds that an important requirement for economic advancement is a developed code of business laws, institutions, and regulations that allows citizens to legally own, capitalize, and trade capital assets. As a corollary, we expect that development of equity markets will serve as a catalyst for enrichment of the population, that is, that countries with larger relative capitalization of equities will tend to be richer. For rich countries, with already-large equity markets, this relationship will be weaker.
Figure 19.1 depicts the relationship1 between per capita GDP and market capitalization (where both variables have been transformed to log10 scale). Figure 19.1A shows a scatter diagram and regression line for 2000, while the situation in 2011 is shown in Figure 19.1B. While developed markets are mostly above the line and emerging markets mostly below it, the latter dramatically moved up in relative market capitalization over these years international diversificationAT1M19U.. This move was sufficient to greatly moderate the slope of the line. One can also easily see the upward shift of the whole world on the vertical axis that measures per capita GDP.


FIGURE 19.1
Per capita GDP and market capitalization as percent of GDP
A: log scale, 2000 data
B: log scale, 2010 data




The regression slope coefficient measures the average percent change in per capita income when market capitalization increases by 1%. In 2000, this value was .64, but it fell to .35 in 2011. The scatter around the regression line has also visibly grown, as reflected in an R-square of .52 in 2000 but only .10 in 2011.
Home-Country Bias
One would expect that most investors, particularly institutional and professional investors, would be aware of the opportunities offered by international investing. Yet in practice, investor portfolios notoriously overweight home-country stocks compared to a neutral indexing strategy and underweight, or even completely ignore, foreign equities. This has come to be known as the home-country bias. Despite a continuous increase in cross-border investing, home-country bias still pervades investor portfolios. We return to this issue in Section 19.3.
19.2   RISK FACTORS IN INTERNATIONAL INVESTING
Opportunities in international investments do not come free of risk or of the cost of specialized analysis. The risk factors that are unique to international investments are exchange rate risk and country-specific risk, discussed in the next two sections.







Exchange Rate Risk
It is best to begin with a simple example showing how exchange rate fluctuations affect the returns of investments denominated in foreign currencies.


EXAMPLE 19.1


Exchange Rate Risk
Consider an investment in risk-free British government bills paying 10% annual interest in British pounds. While these U.K. bills would be the risk-free asset to a British investor, this is not the case for a U.S. investor. Suppose, for example, the current exchange rate is $2 per pound, and the U.S. investor starts with $20,000. That amount can be exchanged for £10,000 and invested at a riskless 10% rate in the United Kingdom to provide £11,000 in one year. accessed on September 4 2012  assets">Ross, Westerfieldta
What happens if the dollar-pound exchange rate varies over the year? Say that during the year, the pound depreciates relative to the dollar, so that by year-end only $1.80 is required to purchase £1. The £11,000 can be exchanged at the year-end exchange rate for only $19,800 (= £11,000 × $1.80/£), resulting in a loss of $200 relative to the initial $20,000 investment. Despite the positive 10% pound-denominated return, the dollar-denominated return is negative 1%.


We can generalize from Example 19.1. The $20,000 is exchanged for $20,000/E0 pounds, where E0 denotes the original exchange rate ($2/£). The U.K. investment grows to (20,000/E0) × [1 + rf (UK)] British pounds, where rf(UK) is the risk-free rate in the United Kingdom. The pound proceeds ultimately are converted back to dollars at the subsequent exchange rate E1, for total dollar proceeds of 20,000(E1/E0)[1 + rf(UK)]. The dollar-denominated return on the investment in British bills, therefore, is

We see in Equation 19.1 that the dollar-denominated return for a U.S. investor equals the pound-denominated return times the exchange rate "return." For a U.S. investor, the investment in British bills is a combination of a safe investment in the United Kingdom and a risky investment in the performance of the pound relative to the dollar. Here, the pound fared poorly, falling from a value of $2 to only $1.80. The loss on the pound more than offsets the earnings on the British bill.
Figure 19.2 illustrates this point. It presents rates of returns on stock market indexes in several countries for 2010. Returns are shown in local currencies as well as in dollars, adjusted for exchange rate movements. It's clear that exchange rate fluctuations over this period had large effects on dollar-denominated returns in several countries.
 

CONCEPT   check19.1
 
Using the data in Example 19.1, calculate the rate of return in dollars to a U.S. investor holding the British bill if the year-end exchange rate is (a) E1 = $2/£; (b) E1 = $2.20/£.



FIGURE 19.2
Stock market returns in U.S. dollars and local currencies for 2010
Source: Datastream, online.thomsonreuters.com/datastream.



Pure exchange rate risk is the risk borne by investments in foreign safe assets. The investor in U.K. bills of Example 19.1 bears only the risk of the U.K./U.S. exchange rate. We can assess the magnitude of exchange rate risk by examination of historical rates of change in various exchange rates and their correlations.








exchange rate risk
The uncertainty in asset returns due to movements in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currency.

Table 19.3A shows historical exchange rate risk measured by the standard deviation of monthly percent changes in the exchange rates of major currencies against the U.S. dollar over the period 2001-2011. The data show that currency risk is quite high. The annualized standard deviation of the percent changes in the exchange rate ranged from 9.13% (Japanese yen) to 13.87% (Australian dollar). The standard deviation of returns on U.S. large stocks for the same period was 16%. Hence, exchange rate volatility was roughly 70% that of the volatility on stocks. Clearly, an active investor who believes that a foreign stock is underpriced but has no information about any mispricing of its currency should consider hedging the currency risk exposure when tilting the portfolio toward the stock. Exchange rate risk of the major currencies has been relatively high so far in this century. For example, a study by Solnik (1999) for the period 1971-1998 finds lower standard deviations, ranging from 4.8% (Canadian dollar) to 12% (Japanese yen).


TABLE 19.3   Rates of change in major  international diversificationAT1M19U.currencies against the U.S. dollar, 2002-2011 (annualized monthly rate)



In the context of international portfolios, exchange rate risk may be mostly diversifiable. This is evident from the low correlation coefficients in Table 19.3B. (There are notable exceptions in the table, though, and this observation will be reinforced when we compare the risk of hedged and unhedged country portfolios in a later section.) Thus, passive investors with well-diversified international portfolios need not be concerned with hedging exposure to foreign currencies.
The effect of exchange rate fluctuations also shows up in Table 19.3C, which presents the returns on money market investments in different countries. While these investments are virtually risk-free in local currency, they are risky in dollar terms because of exchange rate risk. International investment flows by currency speculators should roughly equalize the expected dollar returns in various currencies, adjusted for risk. Moreover, exchange rate risk is largely diversifiable, as Table 19.3B shows, and hence we would expect similar dollar returns from cash investments in major currencies.
We can illustrate exchange rate risk using a yen-denominated investment during this period. The low yen-denominated LIBOR rate, .24%, compared to the U.S.-dollar LIBOR rate, 2.18%, suggests that investors expected the yen to appreciate against the dollar by around 1.94%, the interest rate differential across the two countries. But those expectations were not realized; in fact, the yen actually appreciated against the dollar at an annual rate of 5.75%, leading to an annual dollar-denominated return on a yen investment of 5.99% (the .24% yen interest rate together with the realized exchange rate appreciation of 5.75%). However, such deviations between prior expectations and actual returns of this magnitude are not shocking. The "surprise" return in a yen LIBOR investment (converted into dollars) was the difference between the actual return in dollars, 5.99%, and the dollar-denominated LIBOR rate of 2.18%, amounting to 3.81%. This surprise is actually considerably less than the yen standard deviation of 9.13%. In fact, none of the six surprises exceeded the standard deviation, which is actually the surprising event here.
Investors can hedge exchange rate risk using a forward or futures contract in foreign exchange. Recall that such contracts entail delivery or acceptance of one currency for another at a stipulated exchange rate. To illustrate, recall Example 19.1. In this case, to hedge her exposure to the British pound, the U.S. investor would agree to deliver pounds for dollars at a fixed exchange rate, thereby eliminating the future risk involved with conversion of the pound investment back into dollars.


EXAMPLE 19.2


Hedging Exchange Rate Risk
If the futures exchange rate in Example 19.1 had been F0 accessed on September 4 2012  assets">Ross, Westerfieldta = $1.93/£ when the investment was made, the U.S. investor could have ensured a riskless dollar-denominated return by locking in the year-end exchange rate at $1.93/£. In this case, the riskless U.S. return would have been 6.15%:

Here are the steps to lock in the dollar-denominated returns. The futures contract entered in the second step exactly offsets the exchange rate risk incurred in step 1.



You may have noticed that the futures hedge in Example 19.2 is the same type of hedging strategy at the heart of the spot-futures parity relationship discussed in Chapter 17. In both instances, futures markets are used to eliminate the risk of holding another asset. The U.S. investor can lock in a riskless dollar-denominated return either by investing in the United Kingdom and hedging exchange rate risk or by investing in riskless U.S. assets. Because the returns on two riskless strategies must provide equal returns, we conclude that








or

This relationship is called the interest rate parity relationship or covered interest arbitrage relationship.

interest rate parity relationship or covered interest arbitrage relationship
The spot-futures exchange rate relationship that precludes arbitrage opportunities.

Consider the intuition behind this result. If rf(US) is greater than rf(UK), money invested in the United States will grow at a faster rate than money invested in the United Kingdom. If this is so, why wouldn't all investors decide to invest their money in the United States? One important reason is that the dollar may be depreciating relative to the pound. Although dollar investments in the United States grow faster than pound investments in the United Kingdom, each dollar is worth progressively fewer pounds as time passes. Such an effect will exactly offset the advantage of the higher U.S. interest rate.
To complete the argument, we need only determine how a depreciating dollar will be reflected in Equation 19.2. If the dollar is depreciating, meaning that progressively more dollars are required to purchase each pound, then the forward exchange rate, F0 (which equals the dollars required to purchase 1 pound for delivery in the future), must exce at the expiration date of the options.assetsIt is easy to seeed E0, the current exchange rate.
That is exactly what Equation 19.2 tells us: When rf(US) exceeds rf(UK), F0 must exceed E0. The depreciation of the dollar embodied in the ratio of F0 to E0 exactly compensates for the difference in interest rates available in the two countries. Of course, the argument also works in reverse: If rf(US) is less than rf(UK), then F0 will be less than E0.


EXAMPLE 19.3


Covered Interest Arbitrage
What if the interest rate parity relationship were violated? Suppose rf(US) is 6.15% but the futures price is $1.90/£ instead of $1.93/£. You could adopt the following strategy to reap arbitrage profits. In this example, let E1 denote the exchange rate that will prevail in one year. E1 is, of course, a random variable from the perspective of today's investors.

In step 1, you borrow 1 pound in the United Kingdom (worth $2 at the current exchange rate) and, after one year, repay the pound borrowed with interest. Because the loan is made in the United Kingdom at the U.K. interest rate, you would repay 1.10 pounds, which would be worth E1(1.10) dollars. The U.S. loan in step 2 is made at the U.S. interest rate of 6.15%. The futures position in step 3 results in receipt of 1.10 pounds, for which you would first pay F0 (i.e., 1.90) dollars each and then convert into dollars at exchange rate E1e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. in the ompute the19U..
The exchange rate risk here is exactly offset between the pound obligation in step 1 and the futures position in step 3. The profit from the strategy is, therefore, riskless and requires no net investment. This is an arbitrage opportunity.


 

CONCEPT   check19.2
 
What are the arbitrage strategy and associated profits if the initial future price is F0 = $1.95/pound?

Ample empirical evidence bears out this theoretical relationship. For example, on April 3, 2009, the interest rate on one-year U.S. Treasury securities was .58%, while the rate in Germany was .78%. The spot exchange rate was $1.3488/ €. Substituting these values into Equation 19.2, we find that interest rate parity implies that the forward exchange rate for delivery in one year should have been 1.3488 × 1.0058/1.0078 = $1.3461/€. The actual forward rate was $1.3473/€, which was so close to the parity value that transaction costs would have prevented arbitrageurs from profiting from the discrepancy.
Direct versus indirect quotes The exchange rate in Example 19.1 is expressed as dollars per pound. This is an example of what is termed a direct exchange rate quote. The euro-dollar exchange rate is also typically expressed as a direct quote. In contrast, exchange rates for other currencies such as the Japanese yen or Swiss franc are typically expressed as indirect quotes, that is, as units of foreign currency per dollar, for example, 120 yen per dollar. For currencies expressed as indirect quotes, depreciation of the dollar would result in a decrease in the quoted exchange rate ($1 buys fewer yen); in contrast, dollar depreciation versus the pound would show up as a higher exchange rate (more dollars are required to buy £1). When the exchange rate is quoted as foreign currency per dollar, the domestic and foreign exchange rates in Equation 19.2 must be switched: In this case the equation becomes

For example, if the interest rate in the U.S. is higher than in Japan, the dollar will sell in the forward market at a lower price than in the spot market.







Imperfect Exchange Rate Risk Hedging
e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. in the ompute the19U.Unfortunately, perfect exchange rate hedging usually is not so easy. In Example 19.2, we knew exactly how many pounds to sell in the forward or futures market because the pound-denominated proceeds in the United Kingdom were riskless. If the U.K. investment had not been in bills, but instead had been in risky U.K. equity, we would know neither the ultimate value in pounds of our U.K. investment nor how many pounds to sell forward. That is, the hedging opportunity offered by foreign exchange forward contracts would be imperfect.
To summarize, the generalization of Equation 19.1 is that

where r(foreign) is the possibly risky return earned in the currency of the foreign investment. You can set up a perfect hedge only in the special case that r(foreign) is itself a known number. In that case, you know you must sell in the forward or futures market an amount of foreign currency equal to [1 + r(foreign)] for each unit of that currency you purchase today.
 

CONCEPT   check19.3
 
How many pounds would the investor in Example 19.2 need to sell forward to hedge exchange rate risk if (a) r(UK) = 20%, and (b) r(UK) = 30%?

Country-Specific Risk
In principle, security analysis at the macroeconomic, industry, and firm-specific level is similar in all countries. Such analysis aims to provide estimates of expected returns and risk of individual assets and portfolios. However, to achieve the same quality of information about assets in a foreign country is by nature more difficult and hence more expensive. Moreover, the risk of coming by false or misleading information is greater.
Consider two investors: an American wishing to invest in Indonesian stocks and an Indonesian wishing to invest in U.S. stocks. While each would have to consider macroeconomic analysis of the foreign country, the task would be much more difficult for the American investor. The reason is not that investment in Indonesia is necessarily riskier than investment in the U.S. You can easily find many U.S. stocks that are, in the final analysis, riskier than a number of Indonesian stocks. The difference accessed on September 4 2012  assets">Ross, Westerfieldta lies in the fact that U.S. financial markets are more transparent than those of Indonesia.
In the past, when international investing was novel, the added risk was referred to as political risk and its assessment was an art. As cross-border investment has increased and more resources have been utilized, the quality of related analysis has improved. A leading organization in the field (which is quite competitive) is the PRS (Political Risk Services) Group, and the presentation here follows the PRS methodology.2








political risk
Possibility of expropriation of assets, changes in tax policy, restrictions on the exchange of foreign currency for domestic currency, or other changes in the business climate of a country.

PRS's country risk analysis results in a country composite risk rating on a scale of 0 (most risky) to 100 (least risky). Countries are then ranked by the composite risk measure and divided into five categories: very low risk (100-80), low risk (79.9-70), moderate risk (69.9-60), high risk (59.9-50), and very high risk (less than 50). To illustrate, Table 19.4 shows the placement of countries in the January 2011 issue of the PRS International Country Risk Guide. It is not surprising to find Norway at the top of the very-low-risk list, and small emerging markets at the bottom, with Somalia (ranked 140) closing the list. What may be surprising is the fairly mediocre ranking of the U.S. (ranked 32), comparable to Libya (20) and Bahrain (29), all three in the low-risk category.


  TABLE 19.4   Composite risk ratings for January 2011 versus February 2010



The composite risk rating is a weighted average of three measures: political risk, financial risk, and economic risk. Political risk is measured on a scale of 100-0, while financial and economic risk are measured on a scale of 50-0. The three measures are added and divided by 2 to obtain the composite rating. The variables used by PRS to determine the composite risk rating from the three measures are shown in Table 19.5.


  TABLE 19.5   Variables used in PRS's political risk score



Table 19.6 shows the three risk measures for seven of the countries in Table 19.4, in ordere that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. in the ompute the19U. of the January 2011 ranking of the composite risk ratings. The table shows that by political risk, the United States ranked third among these seven countries. But in the financial risk measure, the U.S. ranked sixth among the seven. The surprisingly poor performance of the U.S. in this dimension was probably due to its exceedingly large government and balance-of-trade deficits, which put considerable pressure on its exchange rate. Exchange rate stability, foreign trade imbalance, and foreign indebtedness all enter PRS's computation of financial risk. The financial crisis that began in August of 2008 was a striking vindication of PRS's judgment of assigning relatively low financial scores to the U.S. and other major markets.


TABLE 19.6   Current risk ratings and composite risk forcasts



Country risk is captured in greater depth by scenario analysis for the composite measure and each of its components. Table 19.7 (A and B) shows one-and five-year worst-case and best-case scenarios for the composite ratings and for the political risk measure. Risk stability is based on the difference in the rating between the best-and worst-case scenarios and is quite large in most cases. The worst-case scenario can move a country to a higher risk category. For example, Table 19.7B shows that in the worst-case five-year scenario, China and Turkey were particularly vulnerable to deterioration in the political environment.


  TABLE 19.7   Composite and political risk forecasts



Finally, Table 19.8 shows ratings of political risk by each of its 12 components. Corruption (variable F) in Japan is rated better than in the U.S. In democratic accountability (variable K), China ranked worst, and the United States, Canada, and India best, while China ranked best in government stability (variable A).


TABLE 19.8   Political risk points by component, January 2011



Each monthly issue of the International Country Risk Guide of the PRS Group includes great detail and holds some 250 pages. Other organizations compete in supplying such evaluations. The result is that today's investor can become well equipped to properly assess the risk involved in international investing.
19.3   INTERNATIONAL INVESTING: RISK, RETURN, AND BENEFITS FROM  international diversificationnd.
 
U.S. investors have several avenues through which they can invest internationally. The most obvious method, which is available in practice primarily to larger institutional investors, is to purchase securities directly in the capital markets of other countries. However, even small investors now can take advantage of several investment vehicles with an international focus.
Shares of several foreign firms are traded in U.S. markets in the form of American Depository Receipts, or ADRs. A U.S. financial institution such as a bank will purchase shares of a foreign firm in that firm's country and then issue claims to those shares in the United States. Each ADR is then a claim on a given number of the shares of stock held by the bank. In this way, the stock of foreign companies can be traded on U.S. stock exchanges. Trading foreign stocks with ADRs is therefore as easy as trading U.S. stocks.
There is also a wide array of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds with an international focus. Single-country funds invest in the shares of only one country. In addition to single-country funds, there are several open-end mutual and exchange-traded funds with an international focus. For example, Fidelity offers funds with investments concentrated overseas, generally in Europe, in the Pacific Basin, and in developing economies in its emerging opportunities fund. Vanguard, consistent with its indexing philosophy, offers separate index funds for Europe, the Pacific Basin, and emerging markets. The nearby box discusses a wide range of single-country exchange-traded index funds.
U.S. investors also can trade derivative securities based on prices in foreign security markets. For example, they can trade options and futures on the Nikkei stock index of 225 stocks Exchange) indexes of U.K. and European stocks.
Risk and Return: Summary Statistics
Illustrations for most of our discussions in the remaining part of this chapter derive from a database of country market-index returns. We use 10 years of monthly returns over 2002-2011 for 48 non-U.S. country market indexes as well as the U.S. S&P 500. This decade stretches from the beginning of the recovery from the bursting of the tech bubble in 2001, through the low-interest rate boom period that followed and the ensuing financial crisis of 2008, and, finally, to the beginning of the slow recovery from that crisis.
Analysis of risky assets typically focuses on excess returns over the risk-free rate. This alone adds a perplexing aspect to international investing, since the appropriate risk-free rate varies around the globe. Rates of return on identical indexes (as well as individual assets) will generate different excess returns when safe bonds are denominated in different currencies. Although our perspective is U.S.-based, our methodology would serve investors in any country, yet the numbers may differ when applied to risk-free rates denominated in other currencies.
The tumultuous period we analyze resulted in unexpected low average excess returns, primarily in developed markets, while most emerging markets continued unabated growth. This fact alone conveys an important les accessed on September 4 2012  assets">Ross, Westerfieldtason. It provides an extreme example of the general observation that realized returns are very noisy reflections of investor expectations and cannot provide accurate forecasts of future returns. Past returns do, however, provide an indication of risk, at least for the near future. While the near-efficient market hypothesis applies to expected returns (to wit: future returns cannot be forecast from past returns), it does not apply to forecasting risk. Thus our exercise will allow us to demonstrate the distinction between what you can and cannot learn from historical returns that evidently departed from prior expectations.
While active-strategy managers engage in individual-market asset allocation and security selection, we will restrict our international diversification to country market-index portfolios, keeping us on the side of an enhanced passive strategy. Nevertheless, our analysis illustrates the essential features of extended active management as well.
We begin with an investigation of the characteristics of individual markets and then proceed to analyze the benefits of diversification, using portfolios constructed from these individual markets. The market capitalization of individual-country indexes can be found in Tables 19.1 and 19.2, and the aggregated results for the portfolios are shown in Table 19.9A. This table also displays the performance of two types of portfolios: portfolios aggregated from country indexes and regional-index portfolios. The performances of individual-country-index portfolios are shown in Table 19.9B.

On the MARKET FRONT


LOW-COST FOREIGN INDEX FUNDS CALLED WEBS ELIMINATE SOME OF THE GUESSWORK AND COSTS OF INVESTING ABROAD
With foreign markets generally stronger this year, a new way to invest abroad has appeared at a good time. WEBS, an acronym for World Equity Benchmark Shares, represents an investment in a portfolio of publicly traded foreign stocks in a selected country. Each WEBS Index Series seeks to generate investment results that generally correspond to the price and yield performance of a specific Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) index.
You sell these shares rather than redeeming them, but there the similarity to closed-end country funds ends. WEBS are equity securities, not mutual funds. WEBS shares trade continuously on a secondary market, the Amex, during regular Amex trading hours, like any other publicly traded U.S. stock listed on the exchange. In contrast, mutual fund shares do not trade in the secondary market, and are normally bought and sold from the issuing mutual fund at prices determined only at the end of the day. The new funds create and redeem shares in large blocks as needed, thus preventing the big premiums or discounts to net asset value typical of closed-end country funds. As index portfolios, WEBS are passively managed, so their expenses run much lower than for current open-or closed-end country funds.
accessed on September 4 2012  assets">Ross, WesterfieldtaWEBS shares offer U.S. investors portfolio exposure to country-specific equity markets, in a single, listed security you can easily buy, sell, or short on the Amex. Unlike American Depository Receipts (ADRs) that give you an investment in just one company, WEBS shares enable you to gain exposure to a broad portfolio of a desired foreign country's stocks. You gain broad exposure in the country or countries of your choice without the complications usually associated with buying, owning, or monitoring direct investments in foreign countries. You also have the conveniences of trading on a major U.S. exchange and dealing in U.S. dollars.
Some investors may prefer the active management, diversity, and flexibility of open-end international equity index funds as a way to limit currency and political risks of investing in foreign markets. As conventional open-end funds, however, the international funds are sometimes forced by net redemptions to sell stocks at inopportune times, which can be a particular problem in foreign markets with highly volatile stocks.
You pay brokerage commissions on the purchase and sale of WEBS, but since their portfolios are passively managed, their management and administrative fees are relatively low and they eliminate most of the transaction charges typical of managed funds.








FOREIGN INDEX BASKETS


SOURCES: Modified from The Outlook, May 22, 1996, published by Standard and Poor's; and Amex website, www.amex.com, February 2000.
Reprinted by permission of Standard & Poor's, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.



TABLE 19.9A   Market value and performance of country portfolio combinations compared with regional-index portfolios





  TABLE 19.9B   Performance of individual-country-index portfolios, monthly excess returns in U.S. dollars over 2002-2011





For the aggregated country-index portfolios, we examine a strategy that constructs value-weighted portfolios of developed and emerging markets based on market capitalizations at the beginning of 2002. These portfolios are rebalanced after five years, in 2007, based on capitalizations at the end of 2006, and held for another five years. (Dividends are reinvested throughout the 10-year experiment.) Such a strategy is feasible to a large degree, since many (although, admittedly, not all) country-index portfolios are investable as index international diversificationAT1M19U. funds or ETFs. Because not all country indexes are investable, this hypothetical strategy perhaps generates a bit more efficient diversification than is actually possible. On the other hand, if actually held, these value-weighted portfolios would automatically be rebalanced to value weights continually. In contrast, we rebalance only once after five years, which slightly attenuates diversification benefits. On balance, then, we expect these hypothesized portfolios to perform about as well as a feasible country-based, passive international strategy.
These portfolios are contrasted with completely feasible international dvesting in regional-index funds, which are also shown in Table 19.9A. This comparison is based on standard performance statistics, namely, average and standard deviation of excess returns (denominated in U.S. dollars), as well as beta and alpha estimated against a U.S.-only portfolio. We will assess these performance statistics after we first take a broad-brush look at the return behavior of developed versus emerging market indexes.
Are Investments in Emerging Markets Riskier?
In Figure 19.3, developed countries and emerging markets are separately ordered from lowest to highest standard deviation. The standard deviations of investments in emerging markets are charted with those in developed countries. The graphs clearly show that, considered as total portfolios, emerging markets are generally riskier than developed countries, since risk is measured by total volatility of returns. Still, you can find emerging markets that appear safer than some developed countries. However, if one considers adding a foreign country index to an indexed U.S. portfolio, the relevant risk measure is the country's beta against the U.S.3


FIGURE 19.3
Monthly standard deviation of excess returns in developed and emerging markets, 2002-2011



Figure 19.4 ranks and charts the betas of country returns (in U.S. dollars) against the U.S. index. It shows that betas of six developed and eight emerging markets were estimated to be below 1. Notice, however, that this is only about one-third of all 48 foreign markets. Thus we can foresee the conclusion: A well-diversified international portfolio may well be riskier than the U.S. alone, which has consistently exhibited the lowest standard deviation of all countries. This is not to say, however, that an international portfolio with higher variance would be inferior. In fact, when a risk-free asset is available, minimum-variance portfolios are never efficient (they are dominated by the maximum Sharpe ratio, or tangency, portfolio on the efficient frontier). But, then, the international portfolio must show a sufficiently larger average return to provide a larger Sharpe ratio.


FIGURE 19.4
Beta against regulation of compar correctlythe U.S. market of developed and emerging markets, 2002-2011



Comparison between developed and emerging markets' betas in Figure 19.4 shows that, in contrast to the picture painted by standard deviation, emerging markets are not meaningfully riskier to U.S. investors than developed markets. This is the most important lesson from this exercise.
Are Average Returns Higher in Emerging Markets?
Figure 19.5 repeats the previous exercise for average excess returns. The graph shows that emerging markets generally provided higher average returns than developed markets over the period 2002-2011. The fact that only 2 (developed) of the 49 markets averaged a lower rate than the risk-free alternative is quite unusual given the volatility of these markets. However, this result is partially due to the weak U.S. dollar over these years. When returns are hedged, that is, returns are measured in local currencies, returns in eight countries, all developed, average below U.S. T-bills over the 10-year period. Beyond that, we see that countries with relatively low betas (e.g., Pakistan) earned higher returns than countries with relatively high betas, even the highest-beta country, Turkey. Further, average returns in emerging markets were generally higher than those in developed countries despite the fact that emerging market betas were not higher, implying that emerging markets provided better diversification opportunities than developed markets in this period.


FIGURE 19.5
Average dollar-denominated excess returns of developed and emerging markets, 2002-2011



We shouldn't be too surprised by these results. Remember again that the SD of an average estimated over 120 months (without serial correlation, which is very low) is given by  SD(10-year average) = SD(1-month average)/. Thus, the SD of the 10-year average monthly return for Pakistan would be about .92%, and that of Turkey about 1.20%. An outcome of one SD in opposite directions for these two portfolios would span a distance of about 2.12%, while the difference in average returns is only .21%. The conclusion is one we've noted before: We cannot read too much into realized averages even over periods as long as 10 years.
Instinct calls for estimating alpha or information ratios for individual markets, to see whether they are distributed around zero. Recall from our discussion of performance evaluation in Chapter 18 that, without positive alpha, we cannot conclude that an asset has shown superior performance on any measure. The information ratio measures the potential increase in the Sharpe ratio if the country index were to be added in an optimal proportion to the U.S index.
Figure 19.6 verifies that information ratios in emerging markets were, on the whole, clearly better than those in developed markets. This is a result of inferior performance of the eight markets most affected by the financial crisis, all developed countries, and four stellar emerging market performers. The performance of the other 36 markets cannot be distinguished in terms of emerging versus developed. Here again, given the high volatilities, finding four outperformers and eight underperformers in a group of 48 countries is not surprising or significant.


FIGURE 19.6
Information ratios of developed and emerging markets against U.S. dollar-denominated returns, 2002-2011



One striking result is the inferior performance of the U.S. We see this in Table 19.9A: Although the U.S. has the lowest standard deviation among all countries, it still ranks near the bottom in terms of the Sharpe ratio. This may be explained by the financial crisis and/or by the steady decline in the international economic position of the U.S, as reflected by the steady decline in the value of the dollar.4 To investigate the latter possibility, we compare emerging and developed markets using returns in local currencies. Recall that U.S. investors can achieve such returns by hedging the currencies of the country portfolios in which they invest.
Is Exchange Rate Risk Important in International Portfolios?
Table 19.3 revealed that changes in exchange rates vary widely across country pairs. In Figures 19.7 to 19.10 we compare results for SD, beta coefficients, average excess return, and information ratios for both developed and emerging markets using dollar and local-currency returns. Figures 19.7 and 19.8 look at the issue of risk. Both measures show that returns in local currency are convincingly less risky than dollar-denominated returns. The difference (at least over the recent 10 years) is greater when comparing beta. Remember, however, that this result applies only to adding one country to the U.S. portfolio; relative contributions to risk could change if one were to consider broader diversification.


FIGURE 19.7
Standard deviation of excess returns in dollar-denominated and local currencies, 2002-2011





FIGURE 19.8
Market beta against U.S. using?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00assetsIt is easy to see dollar-denominated and local-currency excess returns, 2002-2011



Hedging currency risk when investing internationally is often undertaken to reduce overall portfolio risk. However, the decision of whether to hedge foreign currencies in an internationally diversified portfolio can also be made as part of active management. If a portfolio manager believes the U.S. dollar is, say, overvalued against a given currency, then hedging the exposure to that currency would, if correct, enhance the portfolio return in U.S dollars. The potential gain from this decision depends on the weight of that currency in the overall portfolio. Such a decision applied to investments in only one country would have a small effect on overall risk. But what if the manager estimates that the dollar is generally overvalued against most or all currencies? In this case, hedging the entire exposure would constitute a bet with significant effect on total risk. At the same time, if the decision is correct, such a large position can provide handsome gains.
Figures 19.9 and 19.10 show that dollar-denominated average excess returns and information ratios are a bit better than those denominated in local currencies. Since the risk-adjusted returns are no better in local currency than in dollars, we must conclude that the superior performance of emerging market portfolios is due to surprises about their economic performance and not solely due to the decline in the U.S. dollar.


FIGURE 19.9
Average dollar-denominated and local-currency excess returns, 2002-2011





FIGURE 19.10
Information ratios against U.S. computed from dollar-denominated and local-currency returns, 2002-2011










Benefits from International Diversification
Table 19.10 tells the story of international diversification. First, notice the strong trend of increasing correlation. Of the 16 countries, only four show stable correlation from the late 1960s through 2011. The rest show significant increases. In the most recent decade, the correlation of the portfolio of tradeable world country portfolios excluding the U.S. with that of the U.S. is .90. Hence, the benefits of diversification can be expected to emanate from countries with relatively lower correlations (admittedly, among themselves, as well as with the U.S.). Table 19.9B shows that such low correlations are found mostly in the emerging markets.


 at the expiration date of the options.assetsIt is easy to see  TABLE 19.10   Correlation of foreign investments with U.S. returns over time (dollar-denominated excess returns)



To assess the value of international diversification, we return to Table 19.9A, where we first viewed portfolio standard deviation. We find that whether we diversify from U.S.-only investments either to the entire world or to emerging markets only, the standard deviation of the portfolio increases. This results from higher standard deviations of foreign markets that are not offset by the relatively low correlations of emerging markets.
Nevertheless, the objective of diversification is not merely risk reduction. Rather, it is to increase the Sharpe ratio. Here we see that, in any configuration, the Sharpe ratio of internationally diversified portfolios is higher than that of the U.S. alone. Even without any notion about emerging versus developed markets, holding the world portfolio results in a significantly higher Sharpe ratio. Using the more revealing M2 measure (see Chapter 18), the advantage of the world countries portfolio amounts to 284 basis points annually. Even the less diversified world ETF portfolio earned an annual risk-adjusted premium of 107 basis points.
Thus the data clearly indicate that despite increasing correlations, even a passive strategy of holding a world ETF is still superior to the U.S.-only portfolio. Figure 19.11 shows diversification benefits based on 1995 correlations and diversification into randomly selected stocks from around the world compared with a one-stock portfolio. This representation no longer serves the purpose of analyzing the true benefits from international diversification. These benefits accrue not from reduction in standard deviation but rather from improved risk-adjusted performance.


FIGURE 19.11
International diversification. Portfolio standard deviation as a percent of the average standard deviation of a one-stock portfolio.
Source: Figure J: Adjusted versus Reported Price/Earnings Ratio from "Why Not Diversify Internationally Rather Than Domestically?" by Bruno H. Solnik. Copyright 1995, CFA Institute. Reproduced and republished from Financial Analysts Journal, January/February 1995, with permission from the CFA Institute. All rights reserved.










Misleading Representation of Diversification Benefits
The baseline technique for constructing efficient portfolios is the efficient frontier. A useful efficient frontier is constructed from expectede that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. in the ompute the19U. returns and an estimate of the covariance matrix of returns. This frontier, combined with cash assets, generates the capital allocation line—the set of efficient complete portfolios, as elaborated in Chapters 6 and 7. The benefit from this efficient diversification is reflected in the curvature of the efficient frontier. Other things equal, the lower the covariance across stocks, the greater the curvature of the efficient frontier and the greater the risk reduction for any desired expected return. So far, so good. But suppose we replace expected returns with realized average returns from a sample period to construct an efficient frontier; what is the possible use of this graph?







Chapter







20








Hedge Funds

Learning Objectives:

LO20-1 Identify directional versus nondirectional or market-neutral investment strategies.
LO20-2 Formulate "pure plays" on seemingly misaligned security prices, and identify the risks that are hedged in these strategies as well as the risks that remain.
LO20-3 Cite the various difficulties entailed in evaluating hedge fund investment performance.
LO20-4 Interpret incentive fees charged by hedge funds as implicit options and value them using option-pricing methods.


While mutual funds are still the dominant form of investing in securities markets for most individuals, hedge funds enjoyed far greater growth rates in the last decade. Assets under hedge fund management increased from around $200 billion in 1997 to about $2 trillion in 2012. Like mutual funds, hedge funds allow private investors to pool assets to be invested by a fund manager. Unlike mutual funds, however, they are commonly organized as private partnerships and thus not subject to many SEC regulations. They typically are open only to wealthy or institutional investors.
Hedge funds touch on virtually every issue discussed in the earlier chapters of the text, including liquidity, security analysis, market efficiency, portfolio analysis, hedging, and option pricing. For example, these funds often bet on relative mispricing of specific securities but hedge broad market exposure. This sort of pure "alpha-seeking" behavior requires a procedure for optimally mixing a hedge fund position with a more traditional portfolio. Other funds engage in aggressive market timing; their risk profiles can shift rapidly and substantially, raising difficult questions for performance evaluation. Many hedge funds take extensive derivatives positions. Even those funds that do not trade derivatives charge incentive fees that resemble the payoff to a call option; an option-pricing background therefore is necessary to interpret both hedge fund strategies and costs. In short, hedge funds raise the full range of issues that oneregulation ofK0 bond  against might confront in active portfolio management.
We begin with a survey of various hedge fund orientations. We devote considerable attention to the classic "market-neutral" or hedged strategies that historically gave hedge funds their name. We move on to evidence on hedge fund performance, and the difficulties in evaluating that performance. Finally, we consider the implications of their unusual fee structure for investors in and managers of such funds.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

20.1   HEDGE FUNDS VERSUS MUTUAL FUNDS
Like mutual funds, the basic idea behind hedge funds is investment pooling. Investors buy shares in these funds, which then invest the pooled assets on their behalf. The net asset value of each share represents the value of the investor's stake in the portfolio. In this regard, hedge funds operate much like mutual funds. However, there are important differences between the two.








hedge fund
A private investment pool, open to wealthy or institutional investors, that is largely exempt from SEC regulation and therefore can pursue more speculative policies than mutual funds.

Transparency Mutual funds are subject to the Securities Act of 1933 and the Investment Company Act of 1940 (designed to protect unsophisticated investors), which require transparency and predictability of strategy. They periodically must provide the public with information on portfolio composition. In contrast, hedge funds usually are set up as limited liability partnerships and provide minimal information about portfolio composition and strategy to their investors only.
Investors Hedge funds traditionally have no more than 100 "sophisticated" investors, in practice usually defined by minimum net worth and income requirements. They do not advertise to the general public, although the recent trend is to market as well to ever-smaller and less sophisticated investors. Minimum investments for some new funds are as low as $25,000, compared to traditional $250,000 to $1 million minimums.
Investment strategies Mutual funds lay out their general investment approach (e.g., large, value stock orientation versus small-cap growth orientation) in their prospectus. They face pressure to avoid style drift (departures from their stated investment orientation), especially given the importance of retirement funds such as 401(k) plans to the industry and the demand of such plans for predictable strategies. Most mutual funds promise to limit their use of short-selling and leverage, and their use of derivatives is highly restricted. In recent years, some so-called 130/30 funds have opened, primarily for institutional clients, with prospectuses?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00assets@font-face {
	font-family: "Adobe Caslon Pro";
	font-style : italic ;
	font-weight : normal;
	src : url(XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX);
}
@font-face {
	font-family: "Adobe Caslon Pro";
	font-style : normal;
	font-weight : bold;
	src : url(XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX);
}
@font-face {
	font-family: "Adobe Caslon Pro";
	font-style : italic ;
	font-weight : bold;
	src : url(XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX);
}
@font-face {
	font-family: "Adobe Caslon Pro";
	font-style : normal;
	font-weight : normal;
	src : url(XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX);
}
 that explicitly allow for more active short-selling and derivatives positions, but even these have less flexibility than hedge funds.1 In contrast, hedge funds may effectively partake in any investment strategy and may act opportunistically as conditions evolve. For this reason, it would be a mistake to view hedge funds as anything remotely like a uniform asset class. Hedge funds by design are empowered to invest in a wide range of investments, with various funds focusing on derivatives, distressed firms, currency speculation, convertible bonds, emerging markets, merger arbitrage, and so on. Other funds may jump from one asset class to another as perceived investment opportunities shift.
Liquidity Hedge funds often impose lock-up periods, that is, periods as long as several years in which investments cannot be withdrawn. Many also employ redemption notices that require investors to provide notice weeks or months in advance of their desire to redeem funds. These restrictions limit the liquidity of investors but in turn enable the funds to invest in illiquid assets where returns may be higher, without worrying about meeting unanticipated demands for redemptions.

lock-up period
Period in which investors cannot redeem investments in the hedge fund.

Compensation structure Hedge funds also differ from mutual funds in their fee structure. Whereas mutual funds assess management fees equal to a fixed percentage of assets, for example, between .5% and 1.5% annually for typical equity funds, hedge funds charge a management fee, usually between 1% and 2% of assets, plus a substantial incentive fee equal to a fraction of any investment profits beyond some benchmark. The incentive fee is often 20%. The threshold return to earn the incentive fee is often a money market rate such as LIBOR. Indeed, some observers only half-jokingly characterize hedge funds as "a compensation scheme masquerading as an asset class."
20.2   HEDGE FUND STRATEGIES
Table 20.1 presents a list of most of the common investment themes found in the hedge fund industry. The list contains a wide diversity of styles and suggests how hard it can be to speak generically about hedge funds as a group. We can, however, divide hedge fund strategies into two general categories: directional and nondirectional.


TABLE 20.1   Hedge fund styles*



regulation of compar Sharpe ratioDirectional and Nondirectional Strategies Directional strategies are easy to understand. They are simply bets that one sector or another will outperform other sectors of the market.








directional strategy
Speculation that one market sector will outperform other sectors.

In contrast, nondirectional strategies are usually designed to exploit temporary misalignments in security valuations. For example, if the yield on corporate bonds seems abnormally high compared to that on Treasury bonds, the hedge fund would buy corporates and short-sell Treasury securities. Notice that the fund is not betting on broad movements in the entire bond market: It buys one type of bond and sells another. By taking a long corporate-short Treasury position, the fund hedges its interest rate exposure while making a bet on the relative valuation across the two sectors. The idea is that when yield spreads converge back to their "normal" relationship, the fund will profit from the realignment regardless of the general trend in the level of interest rates. In this respect, it strives to be market neutral, or hedged with respect to the direction of interest rates, which gives rise to the term hedge fund.








nondirectional strategy
A position designed to exploit temporary misalignments in relative pricing; typically involves a long position in one security hedged with a short position in a related security.









market neutral
A strategy designed to exploit relative mispricing within a market, but which is hedged to avoid taking a stance on the direction of the broad market.

Nondirectional strategies are sometimes further divided into convergence or relative value positions. The difference between convergence and relative value is a time horizon at which one can say with confidence that any mispricing ought to be resolved. An example of a convergence strategy would entail mispricing of a futures contract that must be corrected by the time the contract matures. In contrast, the corporate versus Treasury spread we just discussed would be a relative value strategy, because there is no obvious horizon during which the yield spread would "correct" from unusual levels.


EXAMPLE 20.1


Market-Neutral Positions We can illustrate a market-neutral position with a strategy used extensively by several hedge funds, which observed that newly issued or "on-the-run" 30-year Treasury bonds regularly sell at higher prices (lower yields) than 29½-year bonds with almost identical duration. The yield spread presumably is a premium due to the greater liquidity of the on-the-run bonds. Hedge funds, which have relatively low liquidity needs, therefore buy the 29½-year bond and sell the 30-year bond. This is a hedged, or market-neutral, position that will generate a profit when the yields on the two bonds converge, as typically happens when the 30-year bonds age, are no longer the most liquid on-the-run bond, and are no longer priced at a premium.
Notice that this strategy should generate profits regardless of the general direction of interest rates. The long-short position will return a profit as long as the 30-year bonds underperform the 29½-year bonds, as they should when the liquidity premium dissipates. Because the pricing discrepancies between these two securities almost necessarily must disappear at a given date, this strategy is an example of convergence arbitrage. While the convergence date in this application is not quite as definite as the maturity of a futures contract, one can be sure that the currently on-the-run T-bonds will lose that status by the time the Treasury next issues 30-year bonds.


Long-short positions such as in Example 20.1 are characteristic of hedged strategies. They are designed to isolate a bet on some mispricing without taking on market exposure. Profits are made regardless of broad market movements once prices "converge" or return to their "proper" levels. Hence, use of short positions and derivatives is part and parcel of the industry.
A more complex long-short strategy is convertible bond arbitrage, one of the more prominent sectors of the hedge fund universe. Noting that a convertible bond may be viewed as a straight bond plus a call option on the underlying stock, the market-neutral strategy in this case involves a position in the bond offset by an opposite position in the stock. For example, if the convertible is viewed as underpriced, the fund will buy it and offset its resultant exposure to declines in the stock price by shorting the stock.
Although these market-neutral positions are hedged, they are not risk-free arbitrage strategies. Rather they should be viewed as pure plays, that is, bets on particular (perceived) mispricing between two sectors or securities, with extraneous sources of risk such as general market exposure hedged away. Moreover, because the funds often operate with considerable leverage, returns can be quite volatile.








pure plays
Bets on particular mispricing across two or more securities, with extraneous sources of risk such as general market exposure hedged away.

 

CONCEPT   check20.1
 
Classify each of the following strategies as directional or nondirectional.
a. The fund buys shares in the India Investment Fund, a closed-end fund that is selling at a discount to net asset value, and sells the MSCI India Index Swap.
b. The fund buys shares in Petrie Stores and sells Toys "R" Us, which is a major component of Petrie's balance sheet.
c. The fund buys shares in Generic Pharmaceuticals, betting that it will be acquired at a premium by Pfizer.

Statistical Arbitrage
Statistical arbitrage is a version of a market-neutral strategy, but one that merits its own discussion. It differs from pure arbitrage in that it does not seek out risk-free positions based on unambiguous mispricing (such as index arbitrage). Instead, it uses quantitative and often automated trading systems that seek out many temporary and modest misalignments in prices among securities. By taking relatively small positions in many of these opportunities, the law of averages would make the probability of profiting from the collection of ostensibly positive-value bets very high, ideally almost a "statistical certainty." Of course, this strategy presumes that the fund's modeling techniques can actually identify reliable, if small, market inefficiencies. The law of averages will work for the fund only if the expected return is positive!








statistical arbitrage
Use of quantitative systems to uncover many perceived misalignments in relative pricing and ensure profit by averaging over all of these small bets.

Statistical arbitrage often involves trading in hundreds of securities a day with holding periods that can be measured in minutes or less. Such rapid and heavy trading requires extensive use of quantitative tools such as automated trading and mathematical algorithms to identify profit opportunities and efficient diversification across positions. These strategies try to profit from the smallest of perceived mispricing international diversificationAT1Ms . opportunities and require the fastest trading technology and the lowest possible trading costs. They would not be possible without the algorithmic trading tools discussed in Chapter 3.
A particular form of statistical arbitrage is pairs trading, in which stocks are paired up based on an analysis of either fundamental similarities or market exposures (betas). The general approach is to pair up similar companies whose returns are highly correlated but where one company seems to be priced more aggressively than the other.2 Market-neutral positions can be formed by buying the relatively cheap firm and selling the expensive one. Many such pairs comprise the hedge fund's overall portfolio. Each pair may have an uncertain outcome, but with many such matched pairs, the presumption is that the large number of long-short bets will provide a very high probability of a positive abnormal return. More general versions of pairs trading allow for positions in clusters of stocks that may be relatively mispriced.








pairs trading
Stocks are paired up based on underlying similarities, and long-short positions are established to exploit any relative mispricing between each pair.

Statistical arbitrage is commonly associated with data mining, which refers to sorting through huge amounts of historical data to uncover systematic patterns in returns that can be exploited by traders. The risk of data mining, and statistical arbitrage in general, is that historical relationships may break down when fundamental economic conditions change or, indeed, that the apparent patterns in the data may be due to pure chance. Enough analysis applied to enough data is sure to produce apparent patterns that do not reflect real relationships that can be counted on to persist in the future.








data mining
Sorting through large amounts of historical data to uncover systematic patterns that can be exploited.

20.3   PORTABLE ALPHA An important implication of the market-neutral pure play is the notion of portable alpha. Suppose that you wish to speculate on a stock that you think is underpriced, but you think that the market is about to fall. Even if you are right about the stock being relatively underpriced, it still might decline in response to declines in the broad market. You would like to separate the stock-specific bet from the implicit asset allocation bet on market performance that arises because the stock's beta is positive. The solution is to buy the stock and eliminate the resultant market exposure by selling enough index futures to drive beta international diversificationital-bompute thes . to zero. This long stock-short futures strategy gives you a pure play or, equivalently, a market-neutral position on the stock.








portable alpha or alpha transfer
A strategy in which you invest in positive alpha positions, then hedge the systematic risk of that investment, and, finally, establish market exposure where you want it using passive indexes.

More generally, you might wish to separate asset allocation from security selection. The idea is to invest wherever you can "find alpha." You would then hedge the systematic risk of that investment to isolate its alpha from the asset market where it was found. Finally, you establish exposure to desired market sectors by using passive products such as indexed mutual funds or ETFs. In other words, you have created portable alpha that can be mixed with an exposure to whatever sector of the market you choose. This procedure is also called alpha transfer, because you transfer alpha from the sector where you find it to the asset class in which you ultimately establish exposure. Finding alpha requires tion is possible as stock markets were not skill. By contrast, beta, or market exposure, is a "commodity" that can be supplied cheaply through index funds or ETFs and offers little value added.
An Example of a Pure Play
Suppose you manage a $1.5 million portfolio. You believe that the alpha of the portfolio is positive, α > 0, but also that the market is about to fall, that is, that rM < 0. You would therefore try to establish a pure play on the perceived mispricing.
The return on portfolio over the next month may be described by Equation 20.1, which states that the portfolio return will equal its "fair" CAPM return (the first two terms on the right-hand side), plus firm-specific risk reflected in the "residual," e, plus an alpha that reflects perceived mispricing: 
To be concrete, suppose that β = 1.20, α = .02, rf = .01, the current value of the S&P 500 Index is S0 = 1,200, and, for simplicity, the portfolio pays no dividends. You want to capture the positive alpha of 2% per month, but you don't want the positive beta that the stock entails because you are worried about a market decline. So you choose to hedge your exposure by selling S&P 500 futures contracts.
Because the S&P contracts have a multiplier of $250, and the portfolio has a beta of 1.20, your stock position can be hedged for one month by selling six futures contracts:3

The dollar value of your portfolio after one month will be 
The dollar proceeds from your futures position will be:

The total value of the stock plus futures position at month's end will be the sum of the portfolio value plus the futures proceeds, which equals 
Notice that the dollar exposure to the market from your futures position precisely offsets your exposure from the stock portfolio. In other words, you have reduced beta to zero. Your investment is $1.5 million, so your total monthly rate of return is 3% plus the remaining nonsystematic risk (the second term of Equation 20.2). The fair or equilibrium expected rate of return on such a zero-beta position is the risk-free rate, 1%, so you have preserved your alpha of 2%, while eliminating the market exposure of the stock portfolio.
This is an idealized example of a pure play. In particular, it simplifies by assuming a known and fixed portfolio beta, but it illustrates that the goal is to speculate on the stock while hedging out the undesired market exposure. Once this is accomplished, you can establish any desired exposure to other sources of systematic risk by buying indexes or entering index futures contracts in those markets. Thus, you have made alpha portable.
Figure 20.1 is a graphical analysis of this pure play. Panel A shows the excess returns to betting on a positive-alpha stock portfolio "naked," that is, unhedged. Your expected return is better than an equilibrium return given your risk, but because of your market exposure you still can lose if the market declines. Panel B shows the characteristic line for the position with systematic risk hedged out. There is no market exposure.


FIGURE 20.1









A pure play
Panel A: unhedged position
Panel B: hedged position

A warning: Even market-neutral positions are still bets, and they can go wrong. This is not true arbitrage because your profits still depend on whether your analysis (your perceived alpha) is correct. Moreover, you can be done in by simple bad luck, that is, your analysis may be correct but a bad realization of idiosyncratic risk (negative values of e international diversificationital-bompute thes . in Equation 20.1 or 20.2) can still result in losses.
 

CONCEPT   check20.2
 
What would be the dollar value and rate of return on the market-neutral position if the value of the residual turns out to be -4%? If the market return in that month is 5%, where would the plot of the strategy return lie in each panel of Figure 20.1?



EXAMPLE 20.2


The Risks of Pure Plays An apparently market-neutral bet misfired badly in 1998. While the 30-versus 29½-year maturity T-bond strategy (see Example 20.1) worked well over several years, it backfired badly when Russia defaulted on its debt, triggering massive investment demand for the safest, most liquid assets that drove up the price of the 30-year Treasury relative to its 29½-year counterpart. The big losses that ensued illustrate that even the safest bet—one based on convergence arbitrage—carries risks. Although the T-bond spread had to converge eventually, and in fact it did several weeks later, Long Term Capital Management (LTCM) and other hedge funds suffered large losses on their positions when the spread widened temporarily. The ultimate convergence came too late for LTCM, which was also facing massive losses on its other positions and had to be bailed out.4


Even market-neutral bets can result in considerable volatility because most hedge funds use considerable leverage. Most incidents of relative mispricing are fairly minor, and the hedged nature of long-short strategies makes overall volatility low. The hedge funds respond by scaling up their bets. This amplifies gains when their bets work out, but also amplifies losses. In the end, the volatility of the funds is not small.
20.4   STYLE ANALYSIS FOR HEDGE FUNDS
While the classic hedge fund strategy may have focused on market-neutral opportunities, as the market has evolved, the freedom to use derivatives contracts and short positions means that hedge funds can in effect follow any investment strategy. While many hedge funds pursue market-neutral strategies, a quick glance at the range of investment styles in Table 20.1 should convince you that many, if not most, funds pursue directional strategies. In these cases, the fund makes an outright bet, for example, on currency movements, the outcome of a takeover attempt, or the performance of an investment sector. These funds are most certainly no international diversificationnd.
 
In Chapter 18, we introduced you to style analysis, which uses regression analysis to measure the exposure of a portfolio to various factors or asset classes. The analysis thus measures the implicit asset class exposure of a portfolio. The betas on a series of factors measure the fund's exposure to each source of systematic risk. A market-neutral fund will have no sensitivity to an index for that market. In contrast, directional funds will exhibit significant betas, often called loadings in this context, on whatever factors the fund tends to bet on. Observers attempting to measure investment style can use these factor loadings to impute exposures to a range of variables.
We present a simple style analysis for the hedge fund indexes in Table 20.2. The four systematic factors we consider are 
  TABLE 20.2   Style analysis for a sample of hedge fund indexes 
•  Interest rates—the return on long-term U.S. Treasury bonds.
•  Equity markets—the return on the S&P 500.
•  Credit conditions—the difference in the return on Baa-rated bonds over Treasury bonds.
•  Foreign exchange—the percentage change in the value of the U.S. dollar against a basket of foreign currencies.
The excess returns on hedge fund index i in month t may be statistically described by 
The betas (equivalently, factor loadings) measure the sensitivity to each factor. As usual, the residual, eit, measures "nonsystematic" risk that is uncorrelated with the set of explanatory factors, and the intercept, αi, measures average performance of fund i net of the impact of these systematic factors.
 at the expiration date of the options.assets@font-face {
	font-family: "Adobe Caslon Pro";
	font-style : italic ;
	font-weight : normal;
	src : url(XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX);
}
@font-face {
	font-family: "Adobe Caslon Pro";
	font-style : normal;
	font-weight : bold;
	src : url(XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX);
}
@font-face {
	font-family: "Adobe Caslon Pro";
	font-style : italic ;
	font-weight : bold;
	src : url(XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX);
}
@font-face {
	font-family: "Adobe Caslon Pro";
	font-style : normal;
	font-weight : normal;
	src : url(XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX);
}
Table 20.2 presents factor exposure estimates for 13 hedge fund indexes. The results confirm that most funds are in fact directional with very clear exposures to one or more of the four factors. Moreover, the estimated factor betas seem reasonable in terms of the funds' stated style. For example: •  The equity market-neutral funds have uniformly low and statistically insignificant factor betas, as one would expect of a market-neutral posture.
•  Dedicated short bias funds exhibit substantial negative betas on the S&P index.
•  Distressed-firm funds have significant exposure to credit conditions (more positive credit spreads in this table indicate better economic conditions) as well as to the S&P 500. This exposure arises because restructuring activities often depend on access to borrowing, and successful restructuring depends on the state of the economy.
•  Global macro funds show negative exposure to a stronger U.S. dollar, which would make the dollar value of foreign investments less valuable.
We conclude that, by and large, most hedge funds are making very explicit directional bets on a wide array of economic factors.
 

CONCEPT   check20.3
 
Analyze the betas of the fixed-income arbitrage index in Table 20.2. Based on these results, are these funds typically market neutral? If not, do their factor exposures make sense in terms of the markets in which they operate?

20.5   PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT FOR HEDGE FUNDS
Table 20.3 shows basic performance data for a collection of hedge fund indexes computed from the standard index model with the S&P 500 used as the market benchmark. The model is estimated using monthly excess returns over the period January 2005 through November 2011. We report for each index the beta relative to the S&P 500, the serial correlation of returns, the Sharpe ratio, and the alpha. Betas tend to be considerably less than 1; not surprisingly, the beta of the short bias index is large and negative. The market-neutral index has a beta near zero.


  TABLE 20.3   Index-model regressions for hedge fund indexes*



By and large, hedge fund performance is impressive. Most of the alpha estimates are positive, and the average alpha is substantial, .17% per month. Similarly, most Sharpe ratios exceed that of the S&P 500, and the average Sharpe ratio across hedge fund groups, .123, is four times that of the S&P 500. What might be the source of such performance?
One possibility, of course, is the obvious one: these results may reflect a high degree of skill among hedge fund managers. Another possibility is that funds maintain some exposure to omitted risk factors that convey a positive risk premium. One likely candidate for such a factor would be liquidity, and we will see shortly that liquidity and liquidity risk are associated with average returns. Moreover, several other factors make hedge fund performance difficult to evaluate, and these also are worth considering.







Liquidity and Hedge Fund Performance
One explanation for apparently attractive hedge fund performance is liquidity. Recall that one of the more important extensions of the CAPM is a version that allows for the possibility of a return premium for investors willing to hold less liquid assets. Hedge funds tend to hold more illiquid assets than other institutional investors such as mutual funds. They can do so because of restrictions such as the lock-up provisions that commit investors to keep their investment in the fund for some period of time. Therefore, it is important to control for liquidity when evaluating performance. If it is ignored, what may be no more than compensation for illiquidity may appear to be true alpha, that is, risk-adjusted abnormal returns.
Aragon (2007) demonstrates that hedge funds with lock-up restrictions do tend to hold less liquid portfolios. Moreover, once he controlled for lock-ups or other share restrictions (such as redemption notice periods), the apparently positive average alpha of those funds turned insignificant. Aragon's work suggests that the typical "alpha" exhibited by hedge funds may be better interpreted as an equilibrium liquidity premium rather than a sign of stock-picking ability, in other words as a "fair" reward for providing liquidity to other investors.
Whereas Aragon focuses on the average level of liquidity, Sadka (2009) addresses the liquidity risk of hedge funds. He shows that exposure to unexpected declines in market liquidity is an important determinant of hedge fund returns, and that the spread in average returns across the funds with the highest and lowest liquidity exposure may be as much as 6% annually. Hedge fund performance may therefore reflect significant compensation for liquidity risk. Figure 20.2, constructed from data reported in his study, is a scatter diagram relating average return for the hedge funds in each style group of Table 20.2 to the liquidity-risk beta for that group.5 Average return clearly rises with exposure to changes in market liquidity.


FIGURE 20.2
regulation of compar Sharpe ratioAverage hedge fund returns as a function of liquidity risk Source: Reprinted from Journal of Financial Economics, Vol. 98, Issue 1, Ronnie Sadka, "Liquidity Risk and the Cross-Section of HedgeFund Returns," pp. 54-71, copyright October 2010, with permission from Elsevier.



One symptom of illiquid assets is serial correlation in returns. Positive serial correlation means that positive returns are more likely to be followed by positive than by negative returns. Such a pattern is often taken as an indicator of less liquid markets for the following reason: When accurate and timely prices are not available because an asset is not actively traded, the hedge fund must estimate its value to calculate net asset value and rates of return. But such procedures are at best imperfect and, as demonstrated by Getmansky, Lo, and Makarov (2004), tend to result in serial correlation in prices as firms either smooth out their value estimates or only gradually mark prices to true market values. Positive serial correlation is therefore often interpreted as evidence of liquidity problems; in nearly efficient markets with frictionless trading, we would expect serial correlation or other predictable patterns in prices to be minimal. Most mutual funds show almost no evidence of such correlation in their returns, and the serial correlation of the S&P 500 in most periods is just about zero.6
Hasanhodzic and Lo (2007) find that hedge fund returns in fact exhibit significant serial correlation. This symptom of smoothed prices has two important implications. First, it lends further support to the hypothesis that hedge funds are holding less liquid assets and that their apparent alphas may in fact be liquidity premiums. Second, it implies that their performance measures are upward-biased, because any smoothing in the estimates of portfolio value will reduce total volatility (increasing the Sharpe ratio) as well as covariances and therefore betas with systematic factors (increasing risk-adjusted alphas).
In fact, Figure 20.3 shows that both the alphas and the Sharpe ratios of the hedge fund indexes in Table 20.3 increase with the serial correlation of returns. These results are consistent with the fund-specific results of Hasanhodzic and Lo and suggest that price smoothing may account for some part of the apparently superior hedge fund performance.


FIGURE 20.3
Hedge funds with higher serial correlation in returns, an indicator of illiquid portfolio holdings, exhibit both higher alphas (Panel A) and higher Sharpe ratios (Panel B).
Source: Prepared using data in Table 20.3.




Returns can be even more difficult to interpret if a hedge fund takes advantage of illiquid markets to manipulate returns by purposely misvaluing illiquid assets. In this regard, it is worth noting that, on average, hedge funds report average returns in December that are substantially greater than their average returns in other months (Agarwal, Daniel, and Naik, 2011). The pattern is stronger for lower-liquidity funds and for funds that are near or beyond the threshold return at which performance incentive fees kick in. It appears that funds use their discretion in valuing assets to move returns to December when that will enhance their annual incentive fees. If funds take advantage of illiquid markets to manage returns, then accurate performance measurement becomes almost impossible.
Hedge Fund Performance and Survivorship Bias
We already know that survivorship bias (when only successful funds remain in a database) can affect the estimated performance of a sample of mutual funds. The same problems, as well as related ones, apply to hedge funds. Backfill bias arises because hedge funds report returns to database publishers only if they choose to. Funds started with seed capital will open to the public and therefore enter standard databases only if their past performance is deemed sufficiently successful to attract clients. Therefore, the prior performance of funds that are eventually included in the sample may not be representative of typical performance. Survivorship bias arises when unsuccessful funds that cease operation stop reporting returns and leave a database, leaving behind only the successful funds. Malkiel and Saha (2005) find that attrition rates for hedge funds are far higher than for mutual funds—in fact, commonly more than double the attrition rate of mutual funds—making this an important issue to address. Estimates of survivorship bias in various studies are typically substantial, in the range of 2%-4%.7








backfill bias
Bias in the average returns of a sample of funds induced by including past returns on funds that entered the sample only if they happened to be successful.









survivorship bias
Bias in the average returns of a sample of funds induced by excluding past returns on funds that left the sample because they happened to be unsuccessful.

Hedge Fund Performance and Changing Factor Loadings
In Chapter 18, we pointed out that an important assumption underlying conventional performance evaluation is that the portfolio manager maintains a reasonably stable risk profile over time. But hedge funds are designed to be opportunistic and have considerable flexibility to change that profile. This too can make performance evaluation tricky. If risk is not constant, then estimated alphas will be biased if we use a international diversificationnd.
 
To see why, look at Figure 20.4, which illustrates the characteristic line of a perfect market timer (see Chapter 18, Section 18.6) who engages in no security selection but moves funds from T-bills into the market portfolio only when the market will outperform bills. The characteristic line is nonlinear, with a slope of 0 when the market underperforms T-bills, and a slope of 1 when it outperforms. But a naïve attempt to estimate a regression equation from this pattern would result in a fitted line with a slope between 0 and 1 and a positive alpha. Neither statistic accurately describes the fund.


FIGURE 20.4
Characteristic line of a perfect market timer. The true characteristic line is kinked, with a shape like that of a call option. Fitting a straight line to the relationship wilated slope and intercept.



As we noted in Chapter 18, and as is evident from Figure 20.4, an ability to conduct perfect market timing is much like obtaining a call option on the underlying portfolio without having to pay for it. Similar nonlinearities would arise if the fund actually buys or writes options. Figure 20.5, Panel A, illustrates the case of a fund that holds a stock portfolio and writes put options on it, and Panel B illustrates the case of a fund that holds a stock portfolio and writes call options. In both cases, the characteristic line is steeper when portfolio returns are poor—in other words, the fund has greater sensitivity to the market when it is falling than when it is rising. This is the opposite profile that would arise from timing ability, which is much like acquiring rather than writing options, and therefore would give the fund greater sensitivity to market advances.8


FIGURE 20.5
Characteristic lines of stock portfolio with written options
Panel A: Buy stock, write put. Here, the fund writes fewer puts than the number of shares it holds.
Panel B: Buy stock, write calls. Here, the fund writes fewer calls than the number of shares it holds.



Figure 20.6 presents evidence on these sorts of nonlinearities. A nonlinear regression line is fitted to the scatter diagram of returns on hedge funds plotted against returns on the S&P 500. The fitted lines in each panelregulation of compar Sharpe ratio suggest that these funds have higher down-market betas (higher slopes) than up-market betas.9 The curvature in the line is subtle for the composite index of all hedge funds but is far more obvious for some subindexes, for example, the event-driven distressed index and the fixed-income corporate index.


FIGURE 20.6
Monthly returns on hedge fund indexes versus return on S&P 500, January 2005-November 2011
Source: Constructed from data downloaded from www.hedgefundresearch.com and finance.yahoo.com.





This is precisely what investors presumably do not want: higher market sensitivity when the market is weak. This is evidence that these funds may be writing options, either explicitly or implicitly through dynamic trading strategies (see Chapter 16, Section 16.4, for a discussion of such dynamic strategies).
Tail Events and Hedge Fund Performance
Imagine a hedge fund whose entire investment strategy is to hold an S&P 500 Index fund and write deep out-of-the-money put options on the index. Clearly the fund manager brings no skill to his job. But if you knew only his investment results over limited periods, and not his underlying strategy, you might be fooled into thinking that he is extremely talented. For if the p






Chapter







21

Taxes, Inflation, and Investment Strategy

Learning Objectives:

LO21-1 Analyze and design lifetime savings plans.
LO21-2 Account for inflation in formulating savings and investment plans.
LO21-3 Account for taxes in formulating savings and investment plans.
LO21-4 Understand tax shelters.
LO21-5 Show how adverse selection and moral hazard affect markets such as those for insurance or annuity products.


A good deal of investment management in practice revolves around the individual's lifetime savings and investment plan. We all confront many real-world complications such as taxes and tax shelters, Social Security, insurance, and inflation. In this chapter, we introduce the principles of managing personal savings in a complex environment in which taxes and inflation interact, rather than provide a detailed analysis of the (ever-changing) tax code.
Retirement, purchase of a home, and financing the education of children are the major objectives of saving in most households. Inflation and taxes make the task of gearing investment to accomplish these objectives complex. The long-term nature of savings intertwines the power of compounding with inflation and tax effects. Only experienced investors integrate these issues into their investment strategies. Appropriate investment strategy also must address adequate insurance coverage for contingencies such as death, disability, and property damage.
We start with the long-term goal of formulating a retirement plan. We investigate the effect of inflation on the savings plan and examine how tax shelters may be integrated into it. (Readers outside the U.S. will find it easy to adapt the analysis to the tax code of their own country.) Next we incorporate Social Security and show how to generalize the savings plan to meet other objectives such as owning a home and financing children's education. Finally, we discuss uncertainty about longevity and other contingencies. Understanding the spreadsheets we develop along the way will enable you to devise savings/investment plans for yourself and others and adapt them to a changing environment.
Related websites for this chapter are available at www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/ textbooks/bodie.

21.1   SAVING FOR THE LONG RUN
Our objective in this chapter is to quantify the essentials of savings/investment plans and adapt them to the presence of both inflation and taxes. In the next chapter we describe the framework that the CFA Institute has established to help financial advisers communicate with and involve client households in structuring their savings/investment plans.1 As a first step, we set up a spreadsheet for a simple retirement plan, ignoring saving for other objectives.
Before we dive in, a brief word on what we mean by saving. Economists think of saving as a way to smooth out the lifetime consumption stream; you save when you have high earnings in order to support consumption in low-income years. In a "global" sense, the concept implies that you save for retirement so that consumption during the retirement years will not be too low relative to consumption during the saving years. In a "local" sense, smoothing consumption implies that you might finance a large purchase such as a car, rather than buy it for cash. Clearly, local consumption smoothing is of second-order importance; that is, how you purchase durable goods has little effect on the overall savings plan, except, perhaps, for very large expenditures such as buying a home or sending children to college. We begin?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00assets straight debt therefore with a savings plan that ignores even large expenditures and later discuss how to integrate these needs.
A Hypothetical Household
Imagine you are now 30 years old and have already completed your formal education, accumulated some work experience, and settled down to plan the rest of your economic life. Your plan is to retire at age 65 with a remaining life expectancy of an additional 25 years. Later on, we will further assume that you have two small children and plan to finance their college education.
For starters, we assume you intend to obtain a (level) annuity for your 25-year retirement period; we postpone discussion of planning for the uncertain time of death. (You may well live to over 100 years; what then?) Suppose your gross income this year was $50,000, and you expect annual income to increase at a rate of 7% per year. In this section, we assume that you ignore the impact of inflation and taxes. You intend to steadily save 15% of income and invest in safe government bonds that will yield 6% over the entire period. Proceeds from your investments will be automatically reinvested at the same 6% until retirement. Upon retirement, your funds in the retirement account will be used to purchase a 25-year annuity (using the same 6% interest rate) to finance a steady consumption annuity. Let's examine the consequences of this framework.
The Retirement Annuity
We can easily obtain your retirement annuity from Spreadsheet 21.1, where we have hidden some age lines. You can obtain all the spreadsheets in this chapter from the web page for the text: www.mcgraw-hill.co.uk/textbooks/bodie.

retirement annuity
Stream of level cash flows available for consumption during one's retirement years.



SPREADSHEET 21.1
The savings plan





Let's see how this spreadsheet was constructed. To view the formulas of all cells in an Excel spreadsheet, click on the "Formulas" tab on the command ribbon and choose "Show Formulas." The formula view of Spreadsheet 21.1 is shown in the lower panel (numbers are user inputs).
Inputs in row 2 include retirement years (cell A2 = 25); income growth rate (cell B2 = .07); age (column A); and income at age 30 (B4 = 50,000). Column B computes income in future years using the growth rate in cell B2; column C computes annual savings by applying the  at the expiration date of the options.assets straight debtsavings rate (cell C2) to income; and column E computes consumption as the difference between income and savings: column B - column C. Cumulative savings appear in column D. To obtain the value in D6, for example, multiply cell D5 by 1 plus the assumed rate of return in cell D2 (the ROR) and then add current savings from column C. Finally, C40 shows the sum of dollars saved over the lifetime, and E40 converts cumulative savings (including interest) at age 65 to a 25-year annuity using the financial function PMT from Excel's function menu: PMT(rate, nper, PV, FV).
We observe that your retirement fund will accumulate approximately $2.5 million (cell D39) by age 65. This hefty sum shows the power of compounding, since your contributions to the savings account were only $1.1 million (C40). This fund will yield an annuity of $192,244 per year (E40) for your 25-year retirement, which seems quite attractive, except that the standard of living you'll have to get accustomed to in your retirement years is much lower than your consumption at age 65 (E39). In fact, if you unhide the hidden lines, you'll see that upon retirement, you'll have to make do with what you used to consume at age 51. This may not worry you much since, with your children having flown the coop and the mortgage paid up, you may be able to maintain the luxury to which you recently became accustomed. But your projected well-being is deceptive: Get ready to account for inflation and taxes.
 

CONCEPT   check21.1
 
If you project an ROR of only 5%, what savings rate would you need to provide the same retirement annuity?

21.2   ACCOUNTING FOR INFLATION
Inflation puts a damper on your plans in two ways: First, it erodes the purchasing power of the cumulative dollars you have so far saved. Second, the real dollars you earn on your portfolio each year depend on the real interest rate, which is approximately equal to the nominal rate minus inflation. Since an appropriate savings plan must generate a decent real annuity, we must recast the entire plan in real dollars. We will assume your income still is forecast to grow at a 7% rate, but now you recognize that part of income growth is due to inflation, which is running at 3% per year.
A Real Savings Plan
To convert nominal dollars to real dollars we need to calculate the price level in future years relative to today's prices. The "deflator" (or relative price level) for a given year is that year's price level divided by today's. It equals the dollars needed at that future dat accessed on September 4 2012  assetsnvestment decisions, tae to provide the same purchasing power as $1 today (at age 30). For an inflation rate of i = 3%, the deflator for age 35 is (1 + i)5, or in Excel notation, (1 + i)^5 = 1.03^5 = 1.16. By age 65, the deflator is 2.81. Thus, even with a moderate rate of inflation (3% is below the historical average), nominal dollars will lose a lot of purchasing power over long horizons. We also can compute the real rate of return (rROR) from the nominal ROR of 6%: rROR = (ROR - i)/(1 + i) = 3/1.03 = 2.91%.
Spreadsheet 21.2, with the formula view below it, is the reworked Spreadsheet 21.1 adjusted for inflation. In addition to the rate of inflation (cell C2) and the real rate of return (F2), the major addition to this sheet is the price level deflator (column C). Instead of nominal consumption, we present real consumption (column F), calculated by dividing nominal consumption (column B - column D) by the price deflator, column C.

real consumption
Nominal consumption divided by the price deflator.



SPREADSHEET 21.2
A real retirement plan





The numbers have changed considerably. Gone is the luxurious retirement we anticipated earlier. At age 65 and beyond, with a real annuity of $49,668, you will have to revert to a standard of living equal to that you attained at age 34; this is less than a third of your real consumption in your last working year, at age 65. The reason is that the retirement fund of $2.5 million (E39) is worth only $873,631 in today's purchasing power (E39/C39). Such is the effect of inflation. If you wish to do better than that, you must save more.
In our initial plan (Spreadsheet 21.1), we envisioned consuming a level, nominal annuity for the retirement years. This is an inappropriate goal once we account for inflation, since it would imply a declining standard of living starting at age 65. Its purchas accessed on September 4 2012  assetsnvestment decisions, taing power at age 65 in terms of current dollars would be $68,320 (i.e., $192,244/1.0335), and at age 90 only $32,630. (Check this!)
It is tempting to contemplate solving the problem of an inadequate retirement annuity by increasing the assumed rate of return on investments. However, this can be accomplished only by putting your savings at risk. Much of this text elaborates on how to do so efficiently; yet it also emphasizes that while taking on risk will give you an expectation for a better retirement, it implies as well a nonzero probability of doing a lot worse. At the age of 30, you should be able to tolerate some risk to the retirement annuity for the simple reason that if things go wrong, you can change course, increase your savings rate, and work harder. As you get older, this option progressively fades, and increasing risk becomes less of a viable option. If you do choose to increase risk, you can set a "safety-first target" (i.e., a minimum acceptable goal) for the retirement annuity and continuously monitor your risky portfolio. If the portfolio does poorly and approaches the safety-first target, you progressively shift into risk-free bonds—you may recognize this strategy as a version of dynamic hedging.
The difficulty with this strategy is twofold: First, it requires monitoring, which is time-consuming and may be nerve-racking as well. Second, when decision time comes, it may be psychologically hard to withdraw. By shifting out of the risky portfolio if and when your portfolio is hammered, you give up any hope of recovery. This is hard to do, and many investors fail the test. For these investors, therefore, the right approach is to stick with the safe, lower ROR and make the effort to balance standard of living before and after retirement. Avoiding sleepless nights is ample reward.
Therefore, the only variable under your control in this spreadsheet is the rate of saving. To improve retirement lifestyle relative to the preretirement years, without jeopardizing its safety, you will have to reduce consumption during the saving years—there is no free lunch.
 

CONCEPT   check21.2
 
If you project a rate of inflation of 4%, what nominal ROR on investments would you need to maintain the same real retirement annuity as in Spreadsheet 21.2?

An Alternative Savings Plan
In Spreadsheet 21.2, we saved a constant fraction of income. But since real income grows over time (nominal income grows at 7% while inflation is only 3%), we might consider deferring our savings toward future years when real income is higher. By applying a higher savings rate to future (higher) real income, we can afford to reduce the current savings rate. In Spreadsheet 21.3, we use a base savings rate of 10% (lower than the savings rate in the previous spreadsheet), but we increase it by 3% per year. Savregulation of compars available toing in each year therefore equals a fixed savings rate times annual income (column B), times the exponential growth factor 1.03t. By saving a larger fraction of income in later years, when real income is larger, you create a smoother profile of real consumption.


SPREADSHEET 21.3
Backloading the real savings plan





Spreadsheet 21.3 shows that with an initial savings rate of 10%, compared with the unchanging 15% rate in the previous spreadsheet, you can achieve a retirement annuity of $59,918, larger than the $49,668 annuity in the previous plan.
Notice that real consumption in the early years is greater than with the previous plan. What you have done is to postpone some saving until your income is higher. At first blush, this plan is preferable: It allows for a more comfortable consumption of 90% of income at the outset and a consistent increase in standard of living during your earning years, all without significantly affecting the retirement annuity. But this program has one serious downside: By postponing the bulk of your savings to a later age, you come to depend on your health, longevity, and, more ominously (and without possibility of insurance), on a successful future career. Put differently, this plan achieves comfort by increasing risk, making this choice a matter of risk tolerance.
 

CONCEPT   check21.3
 
Suppose you like the plan of tilting saving toward later years, but worry about the increased risk of postponing the bulk of your saving to later years. Is there anything you can do to mitigate the risk?

21.3   ACCOUNTING FOR TAXES
To initiate a discussion of taxes, let's assume that you are subject to a flat tax rate of 25% on taxable income less one exemption of $15,000. This is similar to several proposals for a simplified U.S. tax code that have been floated by one presidential candidate or another prior to elections—at least when you add state taxes to the proposed flat rate. An important feature of this (and the existing) tax code is that the tax rate is levied on nominal income and applies as well to investment income. (The tax on investment income is sometimes characterized as double taxation—you pay taxes when you eare that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. in the ompute the" aid="4Mn income and then you pay taxes again when your savings earn interest.) Some relief from the effect of taxing nominal dollars both in this proposal and the current U.S. code is provided by raising the exemption, annually, by the rate of inflation. To adapt our spreadsheet to this simple tax code, we must add columns for taxes and after-tax income. The tax-adjusted plan is shown in Spreadsheet 21.4. It adapts the savings plan of Spreadsheet 21.2, that is, saving 15% of nominal income.

flat tax
A tax code that taxes all income above some exemption at a fixed rate.



SPREADSHEET 21.4
Saving with a simple tax code





The top panel of the sheet deals with the earning years. Column D adjusts the exemption (D2) by the price level (column C). Column E applies the tax rate (cell E2) to taxable income (column B - column D). The savings rate (F2) is applied to after-tax income (column B - column E), allowing us to calculate cumulative savings (column G) and real consumption (column H). The formula view shows the detailed construction.
As you might have expected, real consumption is lower in the presence of taxes, as are savings and the retirement fund. The retirement fund provides for a real, before-tax annuity of only $37,882, compared with $49,668 absent taxes in Spreadsheet 21.2.
The bottom panel of the sheet shows the further reduction in real consumption due to taxes paid during the retirement years. While you do not pay taxes on the cumulative savings in the retirement plan (you did that already as the savings accrued interest), you do pay taxes on interest earned by the fund while you are drawing it down. These taxes are quite significant and further deplete the fund and its net-of-tax earning power. For this reason, your consumption annuity is lower in the early years when your fund has not yet been depleted and taxable interest income is higher.
In the end, despite a handsome income that grows at a real rate of almost 4%, an aggressive savings rate of 15%, a modest rate of inflation, and a realistic tax, you will be able to achieve only a modest (but at least low-risk) real retirement income. This is a reality with which most people must struggle. Whether to sacrifice more of today's standard of living through an increased rate of saving, or take some risk in the form of saving a real annuity and/or invest in a risky portfolio with a higher expected return, is a question of preference and risk tolerance.
One often hears complaints about the double taxation resulting from taxing income earned on savings from dollars on which taxes were already paid. It is interesting to see what effective tax rate is imposed on your lifetime earnings by double taxation. To do so, we use Spreadsheet 21.4 to set up your lifetime earnings, exemptions, and taxes:

Thus, double taxation is equivalent to raising the tax rate on taxable income to 32%. It creates a lifetime average tax rate (28%) that is higher than the prescribed marginal rate of 25%.
 

CONCEPT   check21.4
 
Would a 1% increase in the exemption compensate you for a 1% increase in the tax rate?

21.4   THE ECONOMICS OF TAX SHELTERS
Tax shelters range from the simple to the mind-bogglingly complex, yet they all have one common objective: to postpone payment of tax liabilities for as long as possible. We know already that this isn't small fry. Postponement implies a smaller present value of tax payment, and a tax paid with a long delay can have present value near zero. However, delay is necessarily beneficial only when the tax rate doesn't increase over time. If the tax rate on retirement income is higher than during earning years, the value of a tax deferral may be questionable; if the tax rate will decline, deferral is even more preferable.

tax shelters
Means by which to postpone payment of tax liabilities for as long as possible.

A Benchmark Tax Shelter
Postponing tax payments is the only attainable (legal) objective since, whenever you have taxable income, a tax liability is created that can (almost) never be erased.2 For this reason, a benchmark tax shelter postpones all taxes on savings and the income on those savings. In this case, taxes on your entire savings account will be paid during retirement, as you draw down the retirement fund. This sort of shelter is actually equivalent to the tax treatment of Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) which we discuss later, so we will describe this structure as having an "IRA style."
To examine the impact of an IRA-style structure (assuming you could shelter all your savings) in a situation comparable to the nonsheltered flat-tax case, we maintain the same consumption level as in Spreadsheet 21.4 (flat tax with no shelter) but now input the new, sheltered savings plan in Spreadsheet 21.5. This focuses the entire effect of the tax shelter onto retirementregulation of compars available to consumption.


SPREADSHEET 21.5
Saving with a flat tax and an IRA-style tax shelter





In this sheet, we input desired real consumption (column H, copied from Spreadsheet 21.4). Taxes (column E) are then calculated by applying the tax rate (E2) to nominal consumption less the exemption (H × C - D). Thus, savings are the residual from nominal income (B) minus taxes (E), minus nominal consumption (H × C). The retirement panel shows that you pay taxes on all withdrawals—all funds in the retirement account are subject to tax.
The results are interesting. Total lifetime taxes paid with the IRA tax shelter amount to $2.5 million, a lot more than $2.1 million without the shelter. The reason is that the tax shelter allows for larger savings that increase lifetime income to $3.7 million compared with only $1.9 million without the shelter. Since in this comparison income and consumption during the earnings years are as before, the entire net gain from the shelter is pushed to the retirement years. Thus, the real annuity (pretax) during retirement increases from $37,882 to $76,052.
 

CONCEPT   check21.5
 
With the IRA-style tax shelter, all your taxes are due during retirement. Is the trade-off between exemption and tax rate different from the circumstance where you have no shelter?

The Effect of the Progressive Nature of the Tax Code
Because of the exemption, the flat tax is somewhat progressive: Taxes as a fraction of income increase along with income. For very high incomes, the marginal tax rate (25%) is only slightly higher than the average rate. With income of $50,000 at the outset, the average tax rate is 17.5% (.25 × 35,000/50,000), and it grows steadily over time. In general, with a flat tax, the ratioarginal rate equals the ratio of taxable to gross income. This ratio becomes .89 at age 45, at which point the average tax rate is above 22%. The current U.S. tax code, with multiple income brackets, is much more progressive than our assumed structure.
In Spreadsheet 21.6 we work with a more progressive tax structure that is closer to the U.S. federal tax code augmented with an average state tax. Our hypothetical tax schedule is described in Table 21.1.

progressive tax
Taxes are an increasing fraction of income.



SPREADSHEET 21.6
Saving with a progressive tax







  TABLE 21.1   Income tax schedule used for the progressive tax



We have seen that taxes on income during the earning period have a greater effect because of the time value of money; early tax payments (during earning years) have a larger effect than later payments during retirement years. In a progressive tax environment, this effect is magnified if your retirement income (withdrawal from the retirement fund) is lower than income during the earning years. This has been the case in all the alternatives that we have analyzed so far.
Spreadsheet 21.6, which continues to maintain the same income and consumption during the earning years, differs from Spreadsheet 21.4 only in that column E replaces the flat tax with the schedule of Table 21.1. Surprisingly, the effect on consumption in both earning and retirement years is small. This is due to two offsetting effects. The higher tax rate applied to the high incomes of the later earning years increases the tax bite. At the same time, the lower income and corresponding lower tax bracket during both early earning and retirement years dampen that effect. The bottom line is that a roughly middle-class life cycle of earnings mitigates the difference between flat and progressive tax schedules. This is an important point in favor of a flat tax that is simpler and reduces the incentive to devote resources to avoiding taxation.
Spreadsheet 21.7 augments the progressive tax code with our benchmark (IRA-style) tax shelter that allows you to pay taxes on consumption (minus an exemption) and accumulate tax liability to be paid during your retirement years. The construction of this spreadsheet is identical to Spreadsheet 21.5, with the only difference being the tax structure built into column E. We copied the real preretirement consumption stream from Spreadsheet 21.6 to focus the effect of the tax shelter on the standard of living during the retirement years. Spreadsheet 21.7 shows that the lower tax bracket during the retirement years allows you to pay lower taxes over the life of the plan and significantly increases retirement consumption. The use of the IRA-style tax shelter increases the retirement annuity by an average of $32,000 a year, a better improvement than we obtained from the shelter with the flat tax.


SPREADSHEET 21.7
The benchmark (IRA) tax shelter with a progressive tax code at the expiration date of the options.assets straight debt





The effectiveness of the shelter also has a sort of hedge quality. If you become fortunate and strike it rich, the tax shelter will be less effective, since your tax bracket will be higher at retirement. However, mediocre or worse outcomes will result in low marginal rates upon retirement, making the shelter more effective and the tax bite lower.
 

CONCEPT   check21.6
 
Are you indifferent between an increase in the low-income-bracket tax rate versus an equal increase in the high-bracket tax rates?

21.5   A MENU OF TAX SHELTERS
Defined Benefit Plans
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) of 1974 sets out rules that govern the management of one of two types of employee pension funds: a "defined benefit" retirement plan, or a "defined contribution" retirement plan, to be discussed later.
An employer that offers a defined benefit plan must dedicate and manage a stand-alone fund that promises to pay vested retired employees (those who have served the required number of years to qualify for pension payouts) a specified (or "defined") amount of income for their lifetimes. Corporations are responsible for investing sufficient funds in qualified capital and money market assets so that the projected cash flows from these investments will be sufficient to satisfy the payouts owed to vested employees. Thus, the corporation bears the risk that arises when the pension fund is invested in risky capital assets.

defined benefit plan
A pension fund that promises a specified level of income to vested retired employees.

The government plays a dual role in this pension coverage: First, it exempts from taxes contributions to defined benefit funds as well as earnings on pension fund assets. Second, the government has established the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) to guarantee at least a portion of the pension benefits promised to vested employees if the sponsoring firm defaults and has underfunded the pension plan. As you might guess from this arrangement, corporations may renege on their promises of benefits when filing for bankruptcy. Thus, the risk borne by corporations funding defined benefit plans is limited, while employees bear the potentially catastrophic risk of bankruptcy, mitigated by PBGC benefits that aree that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. in the ompute the" aid="4M often far smaller than promised defined benefits. This arrangement may encourage sponsoring corporations to opt for higher expected return but riskier investment strategies in the pension fund, as they are able to off-load a good portion of investment risk onto their employees and the government; the ensuing conflict of interest leads many economists to argue for the elimination of defined benefit plans in favor of defined contribution ones. Indeed, the market seems to be coming around to this judgment; the popularity of defined benefit plans, once the vast majority of pension funds, has waned to less than 25% of all pension plans.
Defined benefit plans vary in their particulars, but in general they amount to an annuity that replaces a certain percentage of employee income upon retirement. When the benefit is indexed to inflation, as is sometimes the case, it is a real annuity. Employees expecting a defined benefit annuity (that is taxable) can easily incorporate it into their retirement planning as in Spreadsheets 21.1 to 21.7, with the caveat that they are not risk-free. When a company files for bankruptcy, the PBGC's guarantee is usually quite a bit smaller than promised by defined benefit plans.
Employee Defined Contribution Plans
Defined contribution plans are better known as 401k (private-sector) plans or 403b (not-for-profit) plans from the relevant paragraphs of the ERISA legislation that enabled them (the two are identical and we will refer to all of them as 401k plans).
In a 401k plan, the employer sets up an account for each employee with an administrator, usually a management company such as Fidelity or Vanguard. The employee contributes a fraction of wages, and the employer likewise contributes a fraction of wages to the account. Like wages, this type of compensation is tax deductible to the firm. It is a tax-efficient form of employee compensation since the contributed funds (and investment earnings) are shielded from individual taxes until later in life. To limit the cost to the government in terms of lost tax revenue, annual contributions by employees are limited to $17,000 until the age of 50 and to $22,000 for those aged 50 and over. Combined annual contributions by employer and employee are limited to the minimum of either 100% of wages or $49,000.








401k plans
Defined contribution pension plans wherein the employer matches the employee's contribution up to a set percentage.

An immediate implication of the employer match is that 401k employees should contribute, at a minimum, the amount that maximizes the employer's matching contributions, even if this calls for borrowing to pay for consumption needs.
Individual Retirement Accounts
Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) were set up by Congress in 1984 to further increase the incentives to save for retirement. The limited scope of these accounts is an important feature. Currently, annual contributions are limited to $5,000. Workers 50 years of age and older can increase annual contributions by up to another $1,000. IRAs are somewhatregulation of compars available to illiquid (as are most shelters), in that there is a 10% penalty on withdrawals prior to age 59½. However, allowances for early withdrawal with no penalty for qualified reasons such as (one-time) purchase of a home or higher education expenses substantially mitigate the problem.
As far as retirees are concerned, 401k plans and IRAs are in most respects identical; employees can use both, combining the benefits from each. Hence, from this point on, we refer to them both simply as retirement "accounts" or retirement "plans."
The IRS allows you to choose two very different schedules of tax shelters for your retirement accounts: one is called traditional (introduced first) and the other, Roth (after the congressman who proposed it). The choice between them is not trivial.
Traditional retirement plans Contributions to traditional retirement accounts are tax deductible, as are the earnings in the account until retirement. In principle, if you were able to contribute all your savings to a traditional account, your savings plan would be identical to our benchmark tax shelter (Spreadsheets 21.5 and 21.7), with the effectiveness of tax mitigation depending on your marginal tax rate upon retirement.

traditional retirement account
Contributions to the account and investment earnings are tax sheltered until retirement.

Roth retirement plans A Roth account is a variation on the traditional tax shelter, with both a drawback and an advantage. Contributions to Roth plans are not tax deductible. However, earnings on the accumulating funds in the Roth account are tax-free, and unlike a traditional plan, no taxes are paid upon withdrawals of savings during retirement. The trade-off is not easy to evaluate. To gain insight and illustrate how to analyze the trade-off, we contrast Roth with traditional plans under the currently more realistic, progressive tax code.

Roth account
Contributions are not tax sheltered, but investment earnings are tax free.

Roth Accounts with the Progressive Tax Code
As we have noted, a traditional plan is identical to the benchmark tax shelter set up under two alternative tax codes in Spreadsheets 21.5 and 21.7. We saw that, as a general rule, the effectiveness of a tax shelter depends on the progressivity of the tax code: Lower tax rates during retirement favor the postponement of tax obligations until one's retirement years. However, with a Roth plan, you pay no taxes at all on withdrawals during the retirement phase. In this case, t international diversificationnd.
To evaluate the trade-off, Spreadsheet 21.8 modifies Spreadsheet 21.7 (progressive tax) to conform to the features of a Roth plan; that is, we eliminate deductibility of contributions and taxes during the retirement phase. We keep consumption during the earning years the same as they were in the benchmark (traditional) tax shelter to compare the standard of living in retirement afforded by a Roth tax shelter.


SPREADSHEET 21.8
Roth plan with a progressive tax





Table 21.2 demonstrates the difference between the two types of shelters. In both cases, lifetime income and real consumption during the earning years, as well as the progressive tax scheme, are identical. The only difference is which plan you choose, traditional or Roth. Hence the first line of Table 21.2, lifetime labor income, is fixed at $7.4 million. But the shelter works differently in each case. The traditional plan shelters more income during the earning years, resulting in total taxes of only $879,430, compared with $1.75 million under the Roth plan. In the retirement years, however, the Roth plan entails no taxes, while the traditional plan results in taxes of just under $1.8 million. Lifetime taxes are $2.7 million using the traditional account compared with only $1.75 million for the Roth plan. Despite this, the larger accumulation in the traditional IRA account results in a larger retirement fund ($4.1 million compared with $2.4 million) and a larger real after-tax retirement annuity of $66,366. The bottom line is that the traditional plan is more effective for the middle-income family we examine here.


TABLE 21.2   Traditional vs. Roth plan tax shelters under a progressive tax code



The explanation of why the traditional plan is better for a middle-income family also indicates when the Roth plan may be preferred. If earnings are sharply back-loaded, that is, most of your earnings are close to retirement, then tax-free accumulation of investment income is less important, and the Roth plan may dominate. This can happen if you start with fewer years to retirement and your income grows faster. Without changing the number of years to retirement, you would need to change nominal income growth in both spreadsheets from 7% to an extreme 40% for the Roth plan to dominate. (The website scrs.schwab.com/tools/schwab_roth_401k_calc.htm allows you to make the comparison for your own circumstances.)
international diversificationAT1M" aid="4MNotice in Table 21.2 that the lifetime average tax rate for saving with a traditional plan is 35.96%. This is a result of large accumulation of earnings on savings that are taxed on retirement and shows the importance of early accumulation. Despite the higher lifetime taxes, this tax shelter ends up with larger after-tax real consumption during retirement. The lifetime average tax rate is not a good measure of the effect of taxes on lifetime consumption, because it does not fully account for the timing of tax collections. In the circumstances we postulated (a long period with middle-class earnings levels) the tax savings with Roth trumps the traditional plan.
 

CONCEPT   check21.7
 
Suppose all taxpayers were like you, and the IRS wished to raise a fixed tax revenue. Is the traditional or Roth plan the better choice?

Risky Investments and Capital Gains as Tax Shelters
So far we have limited our discussion to safe investments that yield a sure 6%. This number, coupled with the inflation assumption (3%), determined the results of various savings rules given the appropriate tax configuration. Clearly, the 6% return and 3% inflation assumptions are not hard numbers, and you must consider the implications of other possible scenarios over the life of the savings plan. The spreadsheets we developed make scenario analysis quite easy. Once you set up a spreadsheet with a contemplated savings plan, you simnputs for ROR (the nominal rate of return) and inflation and record the implications for each scenario. The probabilities of possible deviations from the expected numbers and your risk tolerance will dictate which savings plan provides you with sufficient security of obtaining your goals. This sensitivity analysis will be even more important when you consider risky investments.
The tax shelters we described allow you to invest in a broad array of securities and mutual funds, and you can invest your nonsheltered savings in any asset. Which portfolio to choose is a matter of risk versus return. That said, taxes lend importance to the otherwise largely irrelevant aspect of cash dividends and interest income versus capital gains.
According to current U.S. tax law, there are two applicable capital gains rates for most investments: 15% if your marginal tax rate is higher than 25%, and 5%3 if you are in a lower tax bracket. More important, you pay the applicable rate only when you sell the security. Thus, investing in nondividend-paying securities is an implicit partial tax shelter with no restrictions on contributions or withdrawals. Because this investment is not tax deductible, it is similar to a Roth plan, but somewhat inferior in that you do pay a tax on withdrawal, however low. Still, such investments can be more effective than traditional plans, as we discussed earlier. Since annual con international diversificationAT1M" aid="4Mtributions to all plans are quite limited, investment in a low-or no-dividend portfolio may be the efficient shelter for many investors who wish to exceed the contribution limit. Another advantage of such portfolios is that you can sell securities that have lost value to realize capital losses and thereby reduce your tax bill in any given year. This virtue of risky securities is called the tax-timing option. Managing a portfolio with efficient utilization of the tax-timing option requires expert attention, however, and may not be appropriate for many savers.
The average dividend yield on the S&P 500 stocks is on the order of 2%, and other indexes (such as NASDAQ) bear an even lower yield. This means that you can easily construct a well-diversified portfolio with a very low dividend yield. Such a portfolio allows you to utilize the tax advantage of capital gains versus dividends. Spreadsheet 21.9 adapts Spreadsheet 21.6 (progressive tax with no shelter) to a no-dividend portfolio of stocks, maintaining the same preretirement consumption stream, holding the ROR at 6%, and assuming 15% capital gains tax. Real retirement consumption, averaging $45,105, is almost identical to that supported by a Roth plan (Spreadsheet 21.8).4


SPREADSHEET 21.9
Saving with no-dividend stocks under a progressive tax





Sheltered versus Unsheltered Savings
Suppose your desired level of savings is double the amount you are able to shelter. At the same time you wish to invest equal amounts in stocks and bonds. Where should you keep the stocks and where the bonds? You will be surprised by how many investors make the costly mistake of holding the stocks in a tax-protected account and the bonds in an unsheltered account. Most of the return from bonds is in the form of taxable interest payments, while stocks already provide some tax shelter.
Recall that tax shelters enhance the retirement annuity with two elements: (1) tax deferral on contributions and (2) tax deferral on income earned on savings. The effectiveness of each element depends on the tax rate on withdrawals. Of the two types of tax shelters we analyzed, traditional plans contain both elements, while Roth plans provide only the second, but with the advantage that the tax rate on withdrawals is zero. Therefore, we need to analyze the stock-bond shelter question separately for each type of retirement plan. Table 21.3 shows the hierarchy of this analysis when a Roth plan is used. The difference is apparent by comparing the taxes in each column. With stocks inside and bonds outside the shelter you pay taxes early and at the ordinary income rate. When you remove stocks from and move bonds into the shelter, you pay taxes later at the lower capital gains rate.


TABLE 21.3   Investing Roth plan contributions  international diversificationnd.



















Appendix A

References
Affleck-Graves, John, and Richard R. Mendenhall. "The Relation between the Value Line Enigma and Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift." Journal of Financial Economics 31 (February 1992), pp. 75-96.
Agarwal, Vikas; Naveen D. Daniel; and Narayan Y. Naik. "Why Is Santa So Kind to Hedge Funds? The December Return Puzzle!" March 29, 2007, http://ssrn.com/abstract=891169.
Alexander, C. Market Models. Chichester, England: Wiley, 2001.
Alexander, Sidney. "Price Movements in Speculative Markets: Trends or Random Walks, No. 2." In The Random Character of Stock Market Prices, ed. Paul Cootner. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1964.
Amihud, Yakov, and Haim Mendelson. "Asset Pricing and the Bid-Ask Spread." Journal of Financial Economics 17 (December 1986), pp. 223-50.
———. "Liquidity, Asset Prices, and Financial Policy." Financial Analysts Journal 47 (November-December 1991), pp. 56-66.
Amin, G., and H. Kat. "Stocks, Bonds and Hedge Funds: Not a Free Lunch!" Journal of Portfolio Management 29 (Summer 2003), pp. 113-20.
Aragon, George O. "Share Restrictions and Asset Pricing: Evidence from the Hedge Fund Industry." Journal of Financial Economics 83 (2007), pp. 33-58.
Arbel, Avner. "Generic Stocks: An Old Product in a New Package." Journal of Portfolio Management, Summer 1985, pp. 4-13.
Arbel, Avner, and Paul J. Strebel. "Pay Attention to Neglected Firms." Journal of Portfolio Management, Winter 1983, pp. 37-42.
Arnott, Robert. "Orthodoxy Overwrought." Institutional Investor, December 18, 2006.
Asness, Cliff. "The Value of Fundamental Indexing." Institutional Investor, October 16, 2006, pp. 94-99.
Atkins, Ralph and Ajay Makan. Europe's money market funds future in focus, Financial Times, (2012) accessed on September 4 2012 (http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/c6455d4a-f69a-11e1-9dff-00144feabdc0.html#axzz29T3EqlGy)
Au, T. P. A modern approach to Graham & Dodd Investing, John Wiley & Sons (2004), pp. 61.
Ball, R., and P. Brown. "An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers." Journal of Accounting Research 9 (1968), pp. 159-78.
Baker, A. Reasons not to ban naked sovereign CDS - Talking head, The Financial Times, October 10 2011.
Bakk-Simon, Klára, Stefano Borgioli, Celestino Girón, Hannah Hempell, Angela Maddaloni, Fabio Recine and Simonetta Rosati. Shadow banking in the Euro area: an overview, European Central Bank Occasional Paper, (2012).
Banz, Rolf. "The Relationship between Return and Market Value of Common Stocks." Journal of Financial Economics 9 (March 1981), pp. 3-18.
Barber, B.; R. Lehavy; M. McNichols; and B. Trueman. "Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Security Analysts Recommendations and Stock Returns." Journal of Finance 56 (April 2001), pp. 531regulation of7Nmba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html-63.
Barber, Brad, and Terrance Odean. "Trading Is Hazardous to Your Wealth: The Common Stock Investment Performance of Individual Investors." Journal of Finance 55 (2000), pp. 773-806.
———. "Boys Will Be Boys: Gender, Overconfidence, and Common Stock Investment." Quarterly Journal of Economics 16 (2001), pp. 262-92.
Barberis, Nicholas, and Richard Thaler. "A Survey of Behavioral Finance." In The Handbook of the Economics of Finance, ed. G. M. Constantinides, M. Harris, and R. Stulz. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2003.
Basu, Sanjoy. "The Investment Performance of Common Stocks in Relation to Their Price-Earnings Ratios: A Test of the Efficient Market Hypothesis." Journal of Finance 32 (June 1977), pp. 663-82.
———. "The Relationship between Earnings Yield, Market Value, and Return for NYSE Common Stocks: Further Evidence." Journal of Financial Economics 12 (June 1983), pp. 129-56.
Battalio, R. H., and R. Mendenhall. "Earnings Expectation, Investor Trade Size, and Anomalous Returns around Earnings Announcements." Journal of Financial Economics 77 (2005), pp. 289-319.
Benveniste, Lawrence, and William Wilhelm. "Initial Public Offerings: Going by the Book." Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 10 (March 1997), pp. 98-108.
Bergstresser, D.; M. Desai; and J. Rauh. "Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions, and Managerial Investment Decisions." Quarterly Journal of Economics 121 (2006), pp. 157-95.
Berkshire Hathaway Annual Reports (2008-2011).
Berk, J. B., and R. C. Green. "Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets." Journal of Political Economy 112 (2004), pp. 1269-95.
Bernard, Victor L., and Jacob K. Thomas. "Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift: Delayed Price Response or Risk Premium?" Journal of Accounting Research 27 (1989), pp. 1-36.
Bernard, V., and J. Thomas. "Evidence That Stock Prices Do Not Fully Reflect the Implications of Current Earnings for Future Earnings." e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. stockow the18Journal of Accounting and Economics 13 (1990), pp. 305-40.
Bernhard, Arnold. Value Line Methods of Evaluating Common Stocks. New York: Arnold Bernhard, 1979.
Black, Fischer. "Yes, Virginia, There Is Hope: Tests of the Value Line Ranking System." Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago, 1971.
Black, Fischer; Michael C. Jensen; and Myron Scholes. "The Capital Asset Pricing Model: Some Empirical Tests." In Studies in the Theory of Capital Markets, ed. Michael C. Jensen. New York: Praeger, 1972.
Black, Fischer, and Myron Scholes. "The Pricing of Options and Corporate Liabilities." Journal of Political Economy 81 (May-June 1973), pp. 637-59.
"From Black-Scholes to Black Holes: New Frontiers in Options." London: Risk Magazine, 1992.
Blake, Christopher; Edwin J. Elton; and Martin J. Gruber. "The Performance of Bond Mutual Funds." Journal of Business 66 (July 1993), pp. 371-404.
Blume, Marshall E., and Robert F. Stambaugh. "Biases in Computed Returns: An Application to the Size Effect." Journal of Finance Economics, 1983, pp. 387-404.
Bogle, John C. "Investing in the 1990s: Remembrance of Things Past, and Things Yet to Come." Journal of Portfolio Management, Spring 1991, pp. 5-14.
———. Bogle on Mutual Funds. Burr Ridg







Bollen, Nicolas P. B., and Jeffrey A. Busse. "Short-Term Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance." Review of Financial Studies 19 (2004), pp. 569-97.
Brav, Alon; Christopher Geczy; and Paul A. Gompers. "Is the Abnormal Return Following Equity Issuances Anomalous?" Journal of Financial EconomicsBrennan, Michael. "Taxes, Market Valuation and Corporate Financial Policy." National Tax Journal, 1970.e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium. stockow the18
Brinson, G.; C. R. Hood; and G. Beebower. "Determinants of Portfolio Performance." Financial Analysts Journal, July-August 1986.
Brinson, Gary; Brian Singer; and Gilbert Beebower. "Determinants of Portfolio Performance." Financial Analysts Journal, May-June 1991.
Brock, William; Josef Lakonishok; and Blake LeBaron. "Simple Technical Trading Rules and the Stochastic Properties of Stock Returns." Journal of Finance 47 (December 1992), pp. 1731-64.
Brown, David, and Robert H. Jennings. "On Technical Analysis." Review of Financial Studies 2 (1989), pp. 527-52.
Brown, Lawrence D., and Michael Rozeff. "The Superiority of Analysts' Forecasts as Measures of Expectations: Evidence from Earnings." Journal of Finance, March 1978.
Brown, S. J.; W. N. Goetzmann; and B. Liang. "Fees on Fees in Funds of Funds." Journal of Investment Management 2 (2004), pp. 39-56.
Busse, J. A., and T. C. Green. "Market Efficiency in Real Time." Journal of Financial Economics 65 (2002), pp. 415-37.
Buttonwood. 'Should we give equal weight to equal-weighted indices?', The Economist, December 5 2011.
Campbell, John Y., and Robert Shiller. "Stock Prices, Earnings and Expected Dividends." Journal of Finance 43 (July 1988), pp. 661-76.
Carhart, Mark. "On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance." Journal of Finance 52 (1997), pp. 57-82.
Chen, Nai-fu; Richard Roll; and Stephen Ross. "Economic Forces and the Stock Market." Journal of Business 59 (1986), pp. 383-403.
Chen, Y.; W. E. Ferson; and H. Peters. "Measuring the Timing Ability and Performance of Bond Mutual Funds." Journal of Financial Economics 98 (2010), pp. 72-89.
Chopra, Navin; Josef Lakonishok; and Jay R. Ritter. accessed on September 4 2012  returnlls 4M "Measuring Abnormal Performance: Do Stocks Overreact?" Journal of Financial Economics 31 (1992), pp. 235-68.
Clarke, Roger, and Mark P. Kritzman. Currency Management: Concepts and Practices. Charlottesville: Research Foundation of the Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts, 1996.
Clayman, Michelle. "In Search of Excellence: The Investor's Viewpoint." Financial Analysts Journal, May-June 1987.
Coelho, Jeff. "EIB says to sell CO2 permits on exchanges soon", Reuters News, March 22 2012. "Emissions trading", Jet Fuel Intelligence, February 13 2012.
Connolly, Robert. "An Examination of the Robustness of the Weekend Effect." Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 24 (June 1989), pp. 133-69.
Conrad, Jennifer, and Gautam Kaul. "Time-Variation in Expected Returns." Journal of Business 61 (October 1988), pp. 409-25.
Copeland, Thomas E., and David Mayers. "The Value Line Enigma (1965-1978): A Case Study of Performance Evaluation Issues." Journal of Financial Economics, November 1982.
Coval, Joshua D., and Tyler Shumway. "Do Behavioral Biases Affect Prices?" Journal of Finance 60 (February 2005), pp. 1-34.
Cremers, Martijn; Antti Petajisto; and Eric Zitzewitz. "Should Benchmark Indices Have Alpha? Revisiting Performance Evaluation." 2010, available at SSRN, http://ssrn.com/abstract=1108856.
Davis, James L.; Eugene F. Fama; and Kenneth R. French. "Characteristics, Covariances, and Average Returns, 1929 to 1997." Journal of Finance 55 (2000), pp. 389-406.
De Bondt, W.F.M., and R. H. Thaler. "Does the Stock Market Overreact?" Journal of Finance 40 (1985), pp. 793-805.
———. "Further Evidence on Investor Overreaction and Stock Market Seasonality." Journal of Finance 42 (1987), pp.  international diversification.  aid="mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html557-81.
———. "Do Security Analysts Overreact?" American Economic Review 80 (1990), pp. 52-57.
———. "Financial Decision Making in Markets and Firms." In Handbooks in Operations Research and Management Science, Vol. 9: Finance, ed. R. A. Jarrow, V. Maksimovic, and W. T. Ziemba. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 1995.
DeLong, J. Bradford; Andrei Schleifer; Lawrence Summers; and Robert Waldmann. "Noise Trader Risk in Financial Markets." Journal of Political Economy 98 (August 1990), pp. 704-38.
DeMarzo, Peter M.; Ron Kaniel; and Ilan Kremer. "Diversification as a Public Good: Community Effects in Portfolio Choice." Journal of Finance 59 (August 2004), pp. 1677-1716.
de Soto, Hernando. The Mystery of Capital: Why Capitalism Triumphs in the West and Fails Everywhere Else. New York: Basic Books, 2000.
De Vincentiis P. 'Banking risk perception before and after the subprime crisis. A comparison between Europe and the US', GSTF Business Review, (2012). pp. 32-37.
Dimson, E.; P. R. Marsh; and M. Staunton. Millennium Book II: 101 Years of Investment Returns. London: ABN-Amro and London Business School, 2001.
Dimson, Elroy, P. Marsh and M. Staunton, Global evidence on the equity risk premium, Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 15(4), (2003).
Douglas, George W. "Risk in Equity Markets: An Empirical Appraisal of Market Efficiency." Yale Economic Essays IX (Spring 1969).
Dunn, Patricia, and Rolf D. Theisen. "How Consistently Do Active Managers Win?" Journal of Portfolio Management 9 (Summer 1983), pp. 47-53.
Duyn, A. V. Derivatives transparency is key battleground, The Financial Times, March 11 2010.
Duyn, A. V. Derivatives transparency is key battleground, The Financial Times, March 11 2010.
Duyn, A. V. European companies in derivatives protest, The Financial Times, August 27 2009.
Duyn, A. V. European companies in derivatives protest, The Financial Times, August 27 2009.
Eling, Martin and Roger Faust, The Performance of Hedge Funds and Mutual Funds in Emerging Markets, Journal of Banking and Finance (2010), 34(8), 1993-2009.
"Emissions trading", Jet Fuel Intelligence, February 13 2012.
Errunza, Vihang, and Etienne Losq. "International Asset Pricing under Mild Segmentation: Theory and Test." Journal of Finance 40 (March 1985), pp. 105-24.
Fama, Eugene. "The Behavior of Stock Market Prices." Journal of Business 38 (January 1965), pp. 34-105.
———. "Market Efficiencies, Long-Term Returns, and Behavioral Finance." Journal of Financial Economics 49 (September 1998), pp. 283-306.
Fama, Eugene, and Marshall Blume. "Filter Rules and Stock Market Trading Profits." Journal of Business 39 (Supplement, January 1966), pp. 226-41.
Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French. "Permanent and Temporary Components of Stock Prices." Journal of Political Economy 96 (1988), pp. 246-73.
———. "Dividend Yields and Expected Stock Returns." Journal of Financial Economics 22 (October 1988), pp. 3-25.
———. "Business Conditions and Expected Returns on Stocks and Bonds." Journal of Financial Economics 25 (November 1989), pp. 3-22.
———. "The Cross Section of Expected Stock Returns." Journal of Finance 47 (June 1992), pp. 427-65.
———. "Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stocks and Bonds." Journal of Financial Economics international diversificationRL0o  of Equ 33 (1993), pp. 3-56.
———. "Multifactor Explanations of Asset Pricing Anomalies." Journal of Finance 51 (1996), pp. 55-84.
———. "The Equity Premium." Journal of Finance 57 (April 2002), pp. 637-60.
———. "Luck versus Skill in the Cross-Section of Mutual Fund Returns." Journal of Finance 65 (2010), pp. 1915-47.
Fama, Eugene, and James MacBeth. "Risk, Return and Equilibrium: Empirical Tests." Journal of Political Economy 81 (March 1973).
Fisher, Irving. The Theory of Interest: As Determined by Impatience to Spend Income and Opportunity to Invest It. New York: Augustus M. Kelley, 1965, originally published in 1930.
Flannery, Mark J., and Christopher M. James. "The Effect of Interest Rate Changes on the Common Stock Returns of Financial Institutions." Journal of Finance 39 (September 1984), pp. 1141-54.
Flood, C. Investors advised to focus on asset allocation, The Financial Times, (December 6, 2011).
Foster, George; Chris Olsen; and Terry Shevlin. "Earnings Releases, Anomalies, and the Behavior of Security Returns." The Accounting Review 59 (October 1984).
French, Kenneth. "Stock Returns and the Weekend Effect." Journal of Financial Economics 8 (March 1980), pp. 55-69.
Froot, K. A., and E. M. Dabora. "How Are Stock Prices Affected by the Location of Trade?"  56 (2







Appendix B

References to CFA Questions
Each end-of-chapter CFA question is reprinted with permission from the CFA Institute, Charlottesville, Virginia.1regulation ofSV bond VE Following is a list of the CFA questions in the end-of-chapter material and the exams/study guides from which they were taken and updated.







Chapter 2
CFA 1.   1986 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1986.







Chapter 3
CFA 1-2.   1986 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1986.







Chapter 5
CFA 1-3.   1998 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1998.
CFA 4-6.   1991 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1991.
CFA 7-11.   1993 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1993.







Chapter 6
CFA 1.   1998 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1998.
CFA 2.   2001 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 2001.
CFA 3.   2001 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2001.
CFA 4-6.   1982 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1982.
CFA 7.   2000 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2000.







Chapter 7
CFA 1.   1998 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1998.
CFA 2.   2000 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2000.
CFA 3.   2002 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2002.
CFA 4.   2001 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2001.
CFA 5-14.   Various CFA exams.







Chapter 8
CFA 1-5.   1993 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1993.
CFA 6.   1998 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1998.
CFA 7.   1981 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1981.
CFA 8.   1989 Level II international diversification.  aid=";
	color : #ffffff;
        padding-top:0.I CFA Study Guide, © 1989.
CFA 9.   1996 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1996.
CFA 10.   1996 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1996.
CFA 11.   1996 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1996.







Chapter 9
CFA 1.   2000 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 2000.
CFA 2.   2001 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 2001.
CFA 3.   2004 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 2004.
CFA 4.   2003 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 2003.
CFA 5.   2002 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 2002.







Chapter 10
CFA 1.   From various CFA exams.
CFA 2.   1999 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1999.
CFA 3.   1992 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1992.
CFA 4.   1993 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1993.
CFA 5.   1994 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1994.







Chapter 11
CFA 1.   1985 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1985.
CFA 2.   1985 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1985.
CFA 3.   1992 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1992.
CFA 4.   1983 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1983.
CFA 5.   2001 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2001.
CFA 6.   2003 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2003.
CFA 7.   2004 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2004.
CFA 8-9.  international diversification benefityou4  1983 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1983.
CFA 10.   From various CFA exams.
CFA 11-12.   1983 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1983.







Chapter 12
CFA 1.   1995 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1995.
CFA 2.   1993 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1993.
CFA 3.   1993 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1993.
CFA 4.   1998 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1998.
CFA 5.   From various CFA exams.







Chapter 13
CFA 1.   1995 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1995.
CFA 2.   1987 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1987.
CFA 3.   2001 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2001.
CFA 4.   1994 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1994.
CFA 5.   2003 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 2003.
CFA 6.   2003 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 2003.
CFA 7.   2003 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2003.
CFA 8.   2001 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2001.
CFA 9.   2001 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2001.
CFA 10.   2001 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2001.







Chapter 14
CFA 1.   2002 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2002.
CFA 2.   1988 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1988.
CFA 3.   1998 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1998.
 at the expiration date of the options.vi-356
 
CFA 5.   1998 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1998.
CFA 6.   1999 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1999.
CFA 7.   1998 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1998.







Chapter 15
CFA 1.   1984 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1984.
CFA 2.   2000 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2000.
CFA 3.   1984 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1984.
CFA 4.   2001 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2001.
CFA 5.   2002 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2002.







Chapter 16
CFA 1.   2000 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 2000.
CFA 2.   2000 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 2000.
CFA 3.   2000 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2000.







Chapter 17
CFA 1-3.   1998 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1998.
CFA 4.   1982 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1982.
CFA 5.   1986 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1986.
CFA 6.   2000 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2000.
CFA 7.   1993 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1993.
CFA 8.   2000 Level III Study Guide, © 2000.
CFA 9.   2004 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 2004.







Chapter 18
CFA 1.   From various CFA exams.
?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00vi-356
 
CFA 3.   1981 Level I Study Guide, © 1981.
CFA 4.   2000 Level I Study Guide, © 2000.







Chapter 19
CFA 1.   1986 Level III Study Guide, © 1986.
CFA 2.   1986 Level III Study Guide, © 1986.
CFA 3.   1991 Level II Study Guide, © 1991.
CFA 4.   1998 Level II Study Guide, © 1998.







Chapter 22
CFA 1.   1988 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1988.
CFA 2.   1988 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1988.
CFA 3.   From various CFA exams.
CFA 4.   From various CFA exams.
CFA 5.   1981 Level II CFA Study Guide, © 1981.
CFA 6.   1985 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1985.
CFA 7.   1988 Level I CFA Study Guide, © 1988.
CFA 8.   1982 Level III CFA Study Guide, © 1982.
CFA 9-10.   From various CFA exams.
1The CFA Institute does not endorse, promote, review, or warrant the accuracy of the product or services offered by The McGraw-Hill Companies.

Essentials of Investments, Ninth Edition






?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00vi-353
Index

Note: Boldface entries indicate key terms and the page numbers where they are defined. Page numbers followed by n indicate notes; f, figures; t, tables.
A
Accenture, 67
Access International Advisors, 682
Accounting earnings, 425, 426,  448, 468
Accounting practices
and corporate scandals, 9
for depreciation, 467-468
European Union vs. U.S., 472
fair value, 468-469
inflation and interest expense, 468
international, 471-472
inventory valuation, 467
mark-to-market accounting, 469, 470
for quality of earnings, 469-471
revenue recognition, 470
for savings plans
inflation, 691-694
taxes, 694-695
Accrued dividends, 295n
Accrued interest, 293-294, 303
Acid-test ratio; see Quick ratio
Active management, 11, 109, 597; see also Hedge funds; International investing; Investors; Portfolio performance evaluation; Savings and retirement plans bond portfolio
example, 358-359
horizon analysis, 358
sources of potential profit, 356-357
taxonomy of, 357
costs of, 139-140
and international diversification, 656-657
in international investment, 631
as investment policy, 727-728
men vs. women, 267
versus passive management, 595, 597
versus passive strategies, 241-242
tools of, 265-266
Active portfolio, 177
Actual returns, 172
Adjustable rate mortgages, 18-19
Adjustable-rate preferred stock, 40
Adjusted R-square, 206
Adobe, 389
Adverse selection, 709
After-tax returns, 95, 312
Agency problems, 8, 38
in financial crisis of 2008, 19
Aggregate stock market, 433-434
Agricultural commodities, 562, 571
Alexander, C., 540n
Algorithmic trading, 65, 66
in flash crash of 2010, 67
Allen, F., 274n
Allowance for bad debt, 469
Alpha, 171, 200
and ETFs, 202-203
and performance, 254-255
and performance evaluation, 609
and performance measures, 603-604
portable, 670-673
positive or negative, 194
Alpha capture, 604
Alpha transfer, 604-605, 670
Alpha transport, 604-605
Alternative asset investment, 202
Alternative Trading Systems, 63
American Depository Receipts, 40, 417n, 644, 645
American Finance Association, 210
American International Group, 20, 21, 321, 485
American option, 490
American Stock Exchange, 65, 68, 126, 645
America Online, 407, 448n
Ameritrade, 69
Amihaud, Yakov, 211, 248, 249
Amin, G., 678n
Analysis of variance, 206
Angel, James J., 64
Angel investors, 15
Annual coupon bonds, 340t
Annual percentage yield, 114
Annuities, 690-691
and adverse selection, 709
defined benefit plans, 699
effect of inflation, 692-693
life annuity, 709
safety-first target, 693
Annuity factor, 299-300
Anomalies, 247
closed-end fund discounts, 273
interpreting, 251-253
types of, 246-251
Anomalies literature, 265-266, 275
Antitrust law
in European Union, 68
and NASDAQ, 63
Apple Inc., 46-47, 55, 56, 67, 218t, 393
APT; see Arbitrage pricing theory
Aragon, George O, 675
Arbel, Avner, 247, 248
Arbitrage, 217
convergence property, 570
convertible bond, 669
covered interest, 638-639
cross-market, 66
fixed-income, 668
futures market strategy,  at the expiration date of the options.uro 576-577
index, 581
limits to, 272-273
fundamental risk, 269-270
implementation costs, 271
law of one price, 271-273
model risk, 271
and parity relationship, 541
statistical, 670
Arbitrage portfolio, 219
constructing, 222
marginal risk, 220
well-diversified portfolio converted to, 217t
zero-investment, 219
Arbitrage pricing theory, 109, 193-194, 217
arbitrage portfolio, 218
and capital asset pricing model, 220-221
equations, 220
multifactor generalization of, 221-222
and well-diversified portfolio, 217-220
ARCH (autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity) models, 210, 540
Archipelago Exchange, 63, 65, 68
Arithmetic average, 112
Arthur Andersen, 9
Ascot Partners, 682
Asian options, 510
Ask(ed) price, 27, 59
Asset international diversificationbchpq-tx1) allocation, 9-10, 133-134
and capital allocation, 134
categories, 725
changes over time, 728
decisions on, 614, 615
for institutional investors, 726f
and risk aversion, 137
with risk-free assets, 134, 161-164
and risk tolerance, 137
with two risky assets
covariance and correlation, 151-154
historical data usage, 154-156
mean-variance criterion, 158-161
risk-return trade-off, 157-158
there rules for, 156-157
variability of returns, 607-608
Asset allocation funds, 90
Asset-backed bonds, 297-298
Asset-backed commercial paper, 28-29
Asset beta, 208n
Asset classes and financial instruments
bond market, 31-37
derivative market, 46-48
equity securities, 37-40
exchange-traded funds, 94-98
financial assets, 3-4
indexes
bond market indicators, 45-46
Dow Jones Industrial Average, 40-42
equally weighted, 44-45regulation ofAQED
international, 45
market value, 44
Standard and Poor's, 42-44
stock market, 40
investment assets, 9-10
money market, 27-31
mortgage-backed securities, 17-19
mutual funds, 89-91
portfolio construction, 26
real assets, 3-4
Asset plays, 395
Asset risk, 200
Assets; see also Risky assets or portfolios
available to investors, 110
fixed, 448
illiquid, 20n
off-balance-sheet, 470-471
real vs. financial, 243
safe, 109
Asset universe, 726
Asset utilization, 458-460
Atlantic Richfield, 278-279
AT&T, 455t
At the money, 488
Attribution analysis; see Performance attribution
Auction market, 59
Auditors, 9
Autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity; see ARCH
Average collection period, 460
Average Indexed Monthly Earnings, 704, 705
Ae that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.su}
verage returns, 597
dollar-weighted, 113
in emerging markets, 646-647
on equity funds, 100
hedge funds, 676f
time-weighted, 112-113
unexpected, 654
Average tax rate, 695
Average trading error, 609
Average wage index, 705
B
Back-end load, 92
Backfill bias, 677-678
Baker, Craig, 202
Balanced funds, 89-90
Balance sheet, 448
commercial banks, 13t
General Electric, 7
households, 3-4
nonfinancial corporations, 13t
Balance sheet restructuring, 585-586
Ball, R., 249
Ballmer, Steve, 548
Banco Santander, 682, 683
Bank discount method, 27-28
Bankers' acceptance, 29
Bank holding companies, 14
Bank market in currencies, 582
Bank of America, 14, 21, 68, 461
Bank regulation, 121n
Bankruptcyregulation ofAQED
and corporate scandals, 9
effect on pension funds, 709-710
Lehman Brothers, 21, 321
Banks
credit risk, 17
deposits at Federal Reserve, 30
Dodd-Frank Reform Act, 21
in financial crisis of 2008, 21
investment objectives, 721
maturities-liabilities mismatch, 345-347
risk-based capital guidelines, 346
universal, 14
Banz, Rolf, 247
Barber, Brad, 253, 254, 267
Barberis, Nicholas, 266n
Barclays, 45
Barclays Aggregate Bond Index, 358
Barclays Capital Aggregate Bond Index, 727
Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, 241
Barclay's Global Investors, 96
Barclay's Long-Term Treasury Bond Index, 126
Bargaining power
of buyers, 395
of suppliers, 395-396
Barings Bank, 485
Barriers to entry, 395
Barron's, 281
Basis, 574
Basis risk, 574
Basu, Sanjoy, 247
BATS, 64, 65
Battalio, R. H., 249n
Bear markets, 654, 655
Bear Stearns, 75, 291
Behavioral bias, 268-269, 275
Behavioral biases
framing, 268
mental accounting, 268
prospect theory, 269-270
regret avoidance, 268-269
Behavioral finance, 266
critique of EMH, 266-274
behavioral biases, 268-269
information processing errors, 267-268
law of one price and arbitrage limits, 269-273
speculative bubbles, 273-274
disposition effect, 275
and efficient markets, 266
evaluation of EMH critique, 274-275
and technical analysis, 275-283
sentiment indicators, 280-281
trends and corrections, 276-280
warning of stock price patterns, 281-283
Benchmark
for international investments, 658
and money managers, 613
mutual fund performance, 254-256
performance attribution, 612-614
for ratio analysis, 462-464
Benchmark portfolio, 600t
Benchmark rate of return, 193
Benchmark tax shelter, 696-697
Bequests, 710
Bergstresser, D., 469
Berkshire Hathaway, 257
Bernard, V., 249n
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities, 683
Beta, 170
and capital asset pricing model, 194
contrasted with alpha, 202
equity vs. asset, 208n
and hedge funds, 673
and index models, 210-211
measure of risk, 199, 247
negative, 173
predicting, 209-210
and systemic risk, 172-173
for U.S. and local currencies, 651
Beta coefficient, 195
Bid-ask(ed) spread, 27,  59, 61, 62-63, 66, 69
Bid price, 27, 28, 59
Binary options, 511
Binomial model, 530
generalizing two-state approach, 528-529
made practical, 529-532
two-state pricing, 525-528
Black, Fischer, 176, 210, 533
Blackrock iShares, 96
Black-Scholes option pricing model
accuracy of parameters, 537
assumptions underlying, 537
cumulative normal distribution, 536
dynamic hedging, 546
empirical evidence, 549-550
in financial crisis of 2008, 548-549
formula and overview, 532-540
hedge ratio, 543-544
implied volatility, 537-540
option elasticity, 544
portfolio insurance, 545-548
put-call parity relationship, 540-542
put option valuation, 542-543
spreadsheet for, 537-538
in stock market crash of 1987, 547
Black-Scholes pricing formula, 523-524, 619
Blake, Christopher, 257
Block houses, 67
Blocks, 67
Blue Cross, 709
Blue sky laws, 75
Blume, Marshall E., 247
Boards of directors, 8, 38
Bogey, 612
Bogle, John C., 133-134
Bollenregulation ofAQED, Nicolas P. B., 255-256
Bond-equivalent yield, 28, 305
Bond floor, 506
Bond fund managers, 257
Bond funds, 88, 89, 90
during recessions, 153
Bond indenture, 293
Bond market, 31
confidence index, 281
Eurodollar market, 297
in financial crisis of 2008, 291
innovation in, 297-299
liquidity risk, 68
United States, 46
Bond market indicators, 45-46
Bond market instruments, 3
asset-backed bonds, 297-298
asset-backed securities outstanding, 37
callable bonds, 36, 295, 306-307, 505-506
catastrophe bonds, 298
collateral trust bonds, 317
compared to preferred stock, 39, 296-297
convertible bonds, 36, 296, 506-508
corporate bonds, 36, 295-296
coupon payments, 31-32
coupon rate, 293
default-free, 134
default risk, 5
discount bonds, 306
equipment obligation bonds, 317
face value, 293
federal agency debt, 32-33
floating-rate, 5
floating-rate bonds, 296
indexed bonds, 298-299
inflation-protected treasury securities, 32
international bonds, 33, 297
inverse floaters, 297
investment grade bonds, 314
mortgage-backed securities, 36-37
mortgage bonds, 317
mortgages, 36-37
municipal bonds, 33-35, 297
packaged with warrants, 508
par value, 293
pay-in-kind bonds, 298
in portfolio construction, 9-10
premium bonds, 306
put bonds, 296
in retirement plans, 703t
secured vs. unsecured bonds, 36
serial bond issue, 317
speculative grade bonds, 314
summary of, 27
taxable vs. tax-exempt, 33-35
Treasury bonds and notes, 31-32, 293-295
yield spread, 246
zero-coupon bonds,  international diversificationorsprocess293
Bond portfolio management
active strategies
example, 358-359
horizon analysis, 357
potential profit sources, 356-357
convexity, 353-356
historical returns, 126-130
interest rate risk
determinants of duration, 344-346
duration, 340-344
interest rate sensitivity, 337-340
passive strategies
cash flow matching, 351-353
dedication strategy, 351-353
immunization, 346-351
Bond prices
and accrued interest, 294-295
convexity, 301
corporate bonds, 301
between coupon dates, 302-303
and default risk, 314-316
collateral, 317
credit default swaps, 319-322
determinants of safety, 314-316
dividend restriction, 317
indentures, 316-317
junk bonds, 314
rating agencies, 314
sinking funds, 316-317
subordination of further debt, 313
yield to maturity and, 317-319
at different interest rates, 301
discount rate, 299-300
and financial ratios, 314-316
flat prices, 303
future value calculation, 300-301
interest rate fluctuations and, 302
interest rate sensitivity, 332-340
invoice price, 303
over time
after-tax returns, 312-313
coupon rate vs. interest rate, 310-311
Treasury strips, 312
yield to maturity vs. holding-period returns, 311-312
zero-coupon bonds, 312
present value calculation, 299-300
quoted, 293-294
spreadsheet for, 303-304
and time value of money, 300
Treasury bonds and notes, 294
and yield curve, 322-327
yield relationship, 302
Bond rating agencies, 295, 314
Bond ratings, 315
Bonds, 293
Bond safety, 314-316
Bond swaps, 357
Bond trading, 67-68
Book/Bookbuilding, 57
Book-to-market effect, 248-249
Book-to-market ratio, 213, 248-249, 252
Book value, 406, 461
limitations of, 406-407
Borsa Italiana, 63
Boston Stock Exchange, 68
Bottom-up portfolio construction, 10
BP (British Petroleum), 415
Bradshaw, Mark, 458
Brand loyalty, 395
Brand-name firms, 248
Brane v. Roth, 497
Breadth, 279
Break-even inflation, 132
Break-even investment opportunities, 422
Brealey, R. A., 274n
Brennan, Michael, 198
BRIC countries, 374, 631
Brinson, Gray, 607
Brokered markets, 58
Brokers
mutual fund sales, 91
SEC registration, 61
trading costs, 68=69
Broker's call loans, 69
Brown, Alan, 202
Brown, P., 249
Brown, S. J., 682
Bubbles; see Speculative bubbles
Budget deficit, 376-377, 380, 381
Budget surplus, 380
Buffett, Warren, 257
Bulldog bonds, 297
Bullish spread, 502
Business cycle, 382
and cyclical industries, 382-384
and defensive industries, 382-384
and earnings, 448
economic indicators, 384-387
industry sensitivity to, 390-391
and sector rotation, 391-392
stages, 382
Business loans, 721
Business risks, 6
Busse, Jeffrey A., 236, 255-256
Buyers, bargaining power, 395
Buying on margin, 69-72
C
California Public Employees Retirement System, 602
Callable bonds, 36,  295, 306-307, 505-506
Call options, 5n, 46-47, 281, 487
bullish strategy, 494
covered, 500-501
determinants of value, 523-525
implicit, 505
intrinsic value, 523
market timing as, 618-619
need to purchase, 48
origin of, 486
time value, 523
value at expiration, 491-492
and warrants, 608
Call price, 295
Call protection, 295, 307
Campbell, John, 211, 246
Capacity utilization, 376
Capital
demanders of, 11
government borrowing and lending, 12
suppliers of, 11
Capital allocation, 6, 134
long-term investments, 180-181
and risk aversion, 137
Capital allocation line, 136, 167, 168t, 195
for risk-free assets, 161-163
Capital asset pricing model, 109, 194-195, 408, 419, 430, 462
adjustment for risk, 247
applications, 200-201
arbitrage pricing theory and, 217-222
assumptions and implications, 194-195
critique of, 210-211
estimation
conclusions, 207-209
data collection and processing, 203-204
results, 204-207
expected returns-beta relationship, 198-199
expected returns on individual securities, 197-198
and international investment, 655
limitations, 201
market portfolio, 195-197
mean-beta relationship, 198
multifactor generalization of, 221-222
multifactor models and, 211-217
mutual fund theorem, 196
origin and development, 194
passive strategies and, 196-197
and performance evaluation, 598-599
predicting betas, 209-210
purpose, 193
realized returns & mean-beta equation, 201-203
real-world evidence, 210-211
security characteristic line, 204-207
security market line, 199-200
validity of, 216-217
Capital budgeting decisions, 200
Capital gains, 39, 89
as tax shelter, 702
Capital gains taxes, 95, 98, 702
Capital International Indexes, 658
Capitalization weighting, 658
Capital market line, 138, 195, 196
historical evidence on, 138-139 international diversificationorsprocess
passive strategies, 138-140
and security market line, 199
Capital markets, 5
and APT, 217
efficiency of, 6
inefficient, 243
international, 33
segments of, 26
Capital market theory, 193-194
CAPM; see Capital asset pricing model
Carhart, Mark M., 255, 256
Case-Shiller index of housing prices, 17, 708n
Cash, 597
Cash/bond selection, 660
Cash cows, 393, 394, 415
Cash equivalents, 26
Cash flow, 428
from bonds, 299
from financing, 450
from investing, 450
from operations, 450
Cash flow matching, 351-353
Cash flow-to-debt ratio, 316
Cash ratio, 461
Cash settlement, 571
Catastrophe bonds, 298
CDA/Wiesenberger, 91
CEO compensation, 8
clawback provisions, 22
Certificates of deposit, 5, 28
in Eurodollars, 29
CFA Institute, 76, 77, 690, 714-715, 717, 725
Channel stuffing, 470
Charles Schwab, 69
Chartered Financial Analyst, 76, 714-715, 717
Chartists, 239
Chase Manhattan Bank, 14
Chen, Nai-fu, 257
Chicago Board of Trade, 6, 47-48, 68, 563, 567
Chicago Board Options Exchange, 486, 488, 490, 494, 511, 538, 565
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, 68, 490, 565, 567, 581-582
Children's education plans, 707-708
China, 373
Chopra, Navin, 268
Chordia, Tarun, 63
Chrysler Corporation, 394
Churchill, Winston, 6
Churning, 69
Citigroup, 14, 45, regulation ofAQED68, 319, 407, 461, 470
Clawback provisions, 22
Clearinghouse, 567-569
Clements, Jonathan, 151, 271
Closed-end fund, 86-87
limits to arbitrage, 273
Closely-held corporations, 38
CME Group, 567
Coca-Cola Company, 394, 432
Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct (CFA Institute), 717
Coincident indicators, 384-385
Colgate-Palmolive, 394
Collars, 502-505
Collateral, 317
Collateralized debt obligations, 19-20
Collateralized loans, 508
Collateral trust bond, 317
College costs, 707-708
Co-location, 66-67
Commercial banks
balance sheet, 13t
leverage ratio, 14n
Commercial paper, 21, 28-29
Commingled funds, 87-88
Commodities, actual delivery of, 571
Commodities futures, 562
Commodities market, 6
accessed on September 4 2012 alOPCommodity Futures Trading Commission, 75, 571
Common-size income statement, 447
Common stock, 37-38
and agency problems, 38
limited liability, 38
stock market listings, 38-39
voting rights, 37n
Comparability problems for financial statements, 466-472
depreciation, 467-468
fair value accounting, 468-469
inflation and interest expense, 468
international accounting conventions, 471-472
inventory valuation, 467
quality of earnings and accounting practices, 469-471
Comparables, valuation by, 406-407
Comparison universe, 597-598
Competition
determinants of, 395-396
and market efficiency, 237
Complete portfolio, 122-123,  134, 163
capital allocation, 134
preferred, 167
risk premium, 135-136
standard deviation, 135-136
Complete portfolio risk, 123
Compounding, 139
Computer Associates, 389
Conference Board, 384
Confidence index, 281
Conforming mortgages, 18, 19, 36
Congestion area, 278
Conrad, Jennifer, 245
Conservatism bias, 267
Consolidated Edison, 421, 426
Consolidation stage of industry life cycle, 394
Constant-growth DDM, 410-411, 410-413, 411
simplifying assumption, 416
Constantinides, G. M., 266n
Constraints on investors, 722-723
Consumer price index, 32, 130
Consumption smoothing, 690
Consumption timing, 7
Contingent liability, 470
Continuous compounding, 114, 119
Convergence property, 570
Conversion premium, 296
Conversion ratio, 40, 296, 506
Convertible arbitrage, 668
Convertible bond arbitrage, 669
Convertible bonds, 36,  296, 506-508
Convertible preferred stock, 506-508
Convexity, 301, 354
and duration, 353-354
and investors, 355-356
Cooper, M., 274
Copernicus, N., 210, 211
Core and satellite model, 202
Corporate bonds, 5, 36
callable, 505-506
call premiums, 295
convertible, 296
default risk, 314-322
floating-rate, 296
issued at par value, 301
listings, 295
puttable, 296
Corporate ethics, 8-9
Corporate governance, 8-9
Corporate scandals, 9, 75
Freddie Mac, 470
and Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 76-78
Corporations
agency problems, 8
balance sheet, 13t
boards of directors, 38
closely-held, 38
and commercial paper, 28-29
on DJIA, 43
privately held, 55
publicly owned, 55
separation of ownership and management, 7-8
Correlation, 154
negative, 160 international diversificationbchpq-tx1)
perfect, 173
perfect positive, 159
Correlation coefficient, 154, 173, 245
Correlation matrix, 168t
Cost-of-carry relationship, 577-578
Cost of goods sold, 447
Costs
of active strategies, 139-140
fixed, 391
of investing in mutual funds
back-end load, 92
front-end load, 92
operating expenses, 91-92
and returns, 93-94
soft dollars, 94
12b-1 charges, 92-93
of passive strategies, 139
variable, 391
Counterparty risk, 321
Country-index portfolios, 645t, 646t
Country risk
composite forecasts, 643t
ratings, 641t, 642t
Country selection, 660
Country-specific risk, 640-642
Coupon dates, bond prices between, 302-303
Coupon payments, 31-32, 293
Coupon rate, 293, 339
ad current yield, 306
corporate bonds, 301
Coval, Joshua D., 269
Covariance, 151-154
calculation of, 153
estimating, 154-155
Coverage ratios, 314-315
Covered call, 500-501
Covered interest arbitrage relationship, 638-639
Covering the short position, 71-72
Cox, John C., 532n
Craigslist, 58
Credit crisis, 321
Credit default swaps, 20,  20, 319-322
in financial crisis of 2008, 321-322
prices of, 320
Credit market freeze-up, 21
Creditors, 509
Credit rating agencies, 19, 22, 295, 314
Credit risk, 17
Credit Suisse First Boston, 14, 658
Credit unions, 12
Cremers, Martijn, 606
Cross-hedging, 574, 584
Cross-market arbitrage, 66
Cumulative dividends, 39
Cumulative normal distribution, 536
Currency futures,  accessed on September 4 2012 alOP581-582
Currency options, 491
Currency selection, 658-660
Currency-translated options, 510-511
Current assets, 448
Current earnings, 421, 461
Current liabilities, 448
Current ratio, 315
Current ratio, 460
Current yield, 305
CUSIP number, 312
Cyclical industries, 382, 382-384, 390, 392, 394
Cyclical stocks, 171, 207
D
Dabora, E. M., 272n
Daniel, Naveen D., 677
Dark pools, 66, 67
Das, S., 254n
Data mining, 216n, 253
Data mining, 670
David Bowie bonds, 297-298
DAX index, 45
Days' sales in receivables, 460
DDM; see Dividend discount models
Dealer markets, 58-59, 61-62
Dealer's bid-ask spread, 69
Debenture, 36, 317
De Bondt, W. F. M., 246, 267
Debt, risky, 509
Debt (fixed-income) securities; see Fixed-income (debt) securities
Debt-to-equity ratio, 315
Decline stage of industry life cycle, 394-395
Decomposition of ROE, 455-457
Dedicated short bias, 668
Dedication strategy, 352
Deep not-in-the-money puts, 550
Deep out of the money, 506
Default-free bonds, 134
Default premium, 319
Default risk
bond indenture, 316-317
and bond prices, 314-322
for bonds, 5
bond safety determinants, 314-316
collateralized debt obligations, 19-20
corporate bonds, 36
credit default swaps, 319-322
junk bonds, 314
mortgage-backed securities, 18
yield to maturity and, 317-319
Defensive industries, 382-384
Defensive stocks, 171
Deferred callable bonds, 295
Defined benefit plans, 699, regulation ofAQED719-720
Defined contribution plans, 699, 719
Deflator, 692
Degrees of freedom, 206
Dell Inc., 149, 171-172, 177, 198
De Long, J. B., 269n
Delta, 543, 543-544
Demand shock, 378-379
Demand-side management, 379-380
Dendreon Corporation, 538, 539
Department of Commerce, 463
Depreciation
accounting practices, 467-468
economic definition, 467-468
Depreciation expense, 450, 468
Derivative asset, 46
Derivative securities, 5-6; see also Futures contracts; Options mortgages, 19
weather derivatives, 565
Derivatives market, 21
disasters in, 485
futures contracts, 47-48
innovations in, 510-511
options, 46-47
for risk management, 497-499
role in financial markets, 486
summary of, 27
Desai, M., 469
Designated Order Turnaround, 65
Detachable warrant, 608
Deutsche Bank, 14
Deutsche Börse, 63, 567
Developed countries
international investment in, 631
market capitalization of exchanges, 632
Diamonds (DIA), 95
Digital options, 511
Dimitrov, O., 274
Dimson, Elroy, 139
Direct Edge, 64, 65
Direct exchange rate quotes, 639-640
Directional strategy, 668-669
Direct-marketed funds, 91
Directory of Mutual Funds (ICI), 101
Direct +, 65
Direct search markets, 58
Discount bonds, 306
Discount brokers, 69
Discounted cash flow formula, 412
Discount rate, 380
in bond pricing, 300-301
Discretionary account, 69
Disposition effect, 275
Diversifiable risk, 149
Diversification, 11, 148-182
and arbitrage pricing theory, 217-220
asset allocation with two risky assets international diversificationRIOP
covariance and correlation, 151-154
historical data use, 154-156
mean-variance criterion, 158-161
risk-return trade-off, 157-158
three rules of, 156-157
and efficient markets, 242
and exchange rate risk, 637
and futures contracts, 562
international, 167-170
international investments, 642-658
active management, 656
average returns in emerging markets, 648-649
in bear markets, 655-656
benefits, 652-653
correlation with U.S. returns, 653f
exchange rate risk, 649-652
misleading representation, 653-654
portfolio choices, 644
portfolio standard deviation, 653f
realistic expectations, 654-655
risk and return statistics, 644-647
risks in emerging markets, 647-648
by investment companies, 85
long-term investment risks, 179-181
with many risky assets
choosing optimal risky portfolio, 167
constructing optimal risky portfolio, 167-170
efficient frontier, 164-167
preferred complete portfolio, 167
separation property, 167
neutral approach, 138
optimal risky portfolio with a risk-free asset, 161-164
and portfolio risk, 149-150
to reduce nonsystematic risk, 198
single-index stock market
alpha, 171
beta, 170-171
excess return, 170
firm-specific/residual risk, 171
index model, 170
optimal portfolio construction, 178t
in practice, 173-176
security analysis use, 176-177
security characteristic line, 172-173
statistical and graphical representation, 171-173
time diversification strategy, 179-181
Dividend costs, 414
Dividend discount models, 410
aggregate version, 434
combined with P/E analysis, 428
constant-growth, 410-413
life cycles and multistage growth models, 416-420
multistage growth models, 420
overview, 409-410
stock prices and investment opportunities, 413-416
three-stage, 420
two-stage, 417
Dividend growth, 420
Dividend payout ratio, 413, 417 at the expiration date of the options.uro Dividends, 5
common stock, 39
expectations of, 434
preferred stock, 39, 296-297
Dividend yield, 39, 111, 166, 246, 578, 702
Divisibility, 85
DJIA; see Dow Jones Industrial Average
Dodd, David, 472
Dodd-Frank Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, 21-22, 321
Dollar-weighted average returns, 112, 113
Dollar-weighted return, 113
Domestic macroeconomy
budget deficits, 376-377
consumer and producer sentiment, 377
employment, 376
gross domestic product, 376
inflation, 376
interest rates, 376
investment performance, 375-376
Domestic net worth, 4
Dot-com boom, 250n, 251, 274
Dot-com bubble, 6, 243, 270
Double taxation, 694-695
Doubling option, 316
Dow Jones, 659
Dow Jones Composite Average, 42
at the expiration date of the options.uro Dow Jones Industrial Average, 95, 282, 283, 490, 565, 580
companies included 1928-2011, 43
in flash crash of 2010, 66, 67, 98
in market crash of 1987, 548
moving averages, 277
Dow Jones Public Utility Average, 42
Dow Jones Transportation Average, 42
Drexel Burnham Lambert, 314
Dreyfus, 88
Dreyfus Equity Growth Fund, 92
Dun & Bradstreet, 463
DuPont system, 455-456, 464t Duration, 337-338
and convexity, 252-354
and interest rate changes, 343
and interest rate sensitivity, 343
Macaulay's, 340-342
modified, 342-344
of perpetuity, 343-344
reasons for using, 342
rules determining, 344-346
spreadsheet for, 341-342
Duration matching, 348-350
Dynamic hedging, 532, 546
Dynamic process, 728
E
EAFE; see  international diversificationbchpq-tx1)European, Australian, Far East (EAFE) Index Earnings, 240
accounting, 425, 426
backloaded, 701
current, 421, 461
operating, 425
pro forma, 425-426
quality of, 469-471
Earnings announcements, 249-250
Earnings before interest and taxes, 430, 447, 452, 456
Earnings management, 425
Earnings multiplier, 376, 433-434
Earnings per share, fully diluted, 508
Earnings retention ratio, 413
Earnings smoothing, 470
Earnings yield, 433-434
eBay, 424
Economic calendar, 385-386
Economic conditions, 30-31; see also Business cycles; Financial crisis of 2008; Recession entries bear markets, 655-656
covariance and correlation, 151-154
effect on floating-rate bonds, 296
Elliot wave theory, 276-277
and international diversification, 654
Kondratieff waves, 276-277
and market timing, 617
source of uncertainty, 149
international diversificationorsprocessspeculative bubbles, 250-251
Economic definition of depreciation, 467-468
Economic depreciation, 376
Economic earnings, 447, 470
Economic indicators
coincident, 384-385
index of, 384
lagging, 384-385
leading, 384-386
useful, 387
Economic profit, 433
Economic risk, 212
Economic risk variables, 642
Economics
Keynesian, 381
supply-side, 381-382
Economic value added, 454
comparisons, 455t
Effective annual rate, 114
versus continuously compounded rate, 119
Effective annual yield, 305
Effective spread, 60, 63
Efficient diversification; see Diversification
Efficient frontier, 165, 654
of country portfolios, 656
for international diversification, 168t
of market portfolio, 195
risky assets, 164-167
Efficient market hypothesis, 234-258,  235, 644
behavioral critique, 266-275
and competition, 237
conclusions on, 257
implications
active vs. passive strategies, 241-242
fundamental analysis, 240-241
technical analysis, 239-240
and inside information, 231
interpreting anomalies
data mining, 253
risk premium as inefficiency, 251-252
issues in
lucky event, 244
magnitude, 243
selection bias, 243-244
joint testing of, 247
mutual fund and analyst performance
mutual fund managers, 254-257
stock market analysts, 253-254
portfolio management role, 242
prediction problems, 265
predictors of broad market returns, 246
random walks, 235-237
resource allocation, 242-243
semistrong-form, 238-239
semistrong tests, 246-251
anomalies, 247
book-to-market ratios, 248-249
neglected firm/liquidity effects, 247-248
P/E effect, 247
post-earnings announcement price shift, 249-250
small-firm-in January effect, 247
speculative bubbles, 250-251
strong-form, 238-239
strong-form tests, 251
weak form, 238-239
weak-form tests
returns over long horizons, 245-246
returns over short horizons, 245
Efficient markets, 11, 266
Electronic communication networks, 62, 64, 65, 66
Electronic futures market, 565
Electronic trading, 1, 62-64
Elliott wave theory, 276-277
Elton, E. J., 254n, 257
Emerging-market funds, 89
Emerging markets, 237, 642
average return, 646-647
GDP, 631, 633
hedge funds, 668
international investment in, 631-635
market capitalization of exchanges, 633
per capita GDP, 633
risk levels, 647-648
EMH; see Efficient market hypothesis
Employee Retirement Income Security Act, 699, 724
Employment, 376
Endowment funds, 721
Engel, Robert F., 211.
Enron Corporation, 9, 75, 709
Equally weighted index, 44-45
Equilibrium real interest rate, 378
Equilibrium risk premium, 197
Equipment obligation bond, 317
Equity, 5
allure of, 211
leveraged, 509
levered, 540-541
Equity beta, 208n
Equity carve-outs, 272-273
Equity fund managers, 254-257
Equity funds, 89, 90
average returns, 100
Equity market, 27
Equity market neutral, 668
Equity risk premium, 138-139
Equity securities
American Depository Receipts, 40
common stock, 37-38
preferred stock, 39-40
seasoned equity offering, 56
stock market listings, 38-39
Equity trusts, 88
Equity valuation, 405-434
aggregate stock market, 433-434
by comparables, 406-407
comparison of models, 432
dividend discount models
constant-growth, 410-413
l international diversificationorsprocessife cycles and multistage growth models, 416-419
multistage growth models, 430
overview, 409-410
stock price and investment opportunities, 413-416
Facebook, 424
free cash flow approaches, 428-431
Internet data sources, 406
intrinsic value vs. market value, 408-409
limitations of book value, 406-407
and liquidation value, 407
market value, 4n
Microsoft, 407t
price-earnings multiplier, 420-421
price-earnings ratio
combined with DDM, 428
growth opportunities, 420-424
pitfalls of analysis, 425-428
stock risk, 424-425
price-to-book ratio, 428
price-to-cash ratio, 428
price-to-sales ratio, 428
problem with DDM, 432-433
and replacement cost of assets, 407
Tobin's q, 407
Equivalent taxable yield, 34
ETF; see Exchange-traded funds
E*Trade, 69
Eurex, 567
Euro, 33
Eurobonds, 33, 297
Euro crisis, 134n
Eurodollar bonds, 33
Eurodollar market, 297
Eurodollars, 29
Euronext, 68, 567
European, Australian, Far East (EAFE) Index, 658
European Interbank Offered Rate, 30
European money market, 30, 241
European options, 490, 542-543
Black-Scholes formula, 533-534
European Union
antitrust law, 68
average initial public offering returns, 58
economic problems, 373-374
euro crisis, 134n
principles-based accounting, 472
Eurosterling bonds, 297
Euroyen bonds, 33, 297
Evans, Richard, 255
Excel spreadsheet
backloading real savings plan, 693
Black-Scholes calculations, 537-538
bond pricing functions, 303-304
duration computation, 343-344
financing children's education, 708
international portfolio, 661
performance attribution, 616
performance measures, 606
real retirement plan, 692
Roth plan, 701
savings and taxes, 695, regulation ofAQED696, 697, 698
savings plan, 690-691
saving with no-dividend stock, 703
Excess return, 122, 168t, 170
Standard and Poor's 500 Index, 138
variance of, 171
Exchange rate, 374
Exchange rate fluctuations, 37t, 374-375, 581
Exchange rate risk, 636
direct or indirect quotes, 639-640
diversifiable, 637
illustration of, 637-638
and imperfect hedging, 640
and interest rate parity relationship, 638-639
national comparison of returns on stock, 636
rates of exchange in major currencies, 637
Exchange-traded funds, 565
Exchange-traded funds, 44,  95, 202
assets in, 97
in flash crash of 2010, 67
for international investment, 644
as market indexes, 241-242
overview, 95-98
sponsors and products, 96t
Ex-dividend day, 295n
Execution in investment management, 715-717
Exercise price, 46-47, 487
Exotic options, 510-511
Expansionary monetary policy, 380, 385
Expectations hypothesis, 322-324, 323
Expected return, 115, 597, 644
and CAPM, 197-199, 408
and portfolio risk, 134-136
risk premium, 165-166
and risk-return trade-off, 10-11
and scenario analysis, 152
and stock prices, 199
Expected return-beta relationship, 199
Expected return (mean return beta relationship), 198
Expenses, classes of, 447
Expert-network firms, 237, 238
Ex-post efficient frontier, 654, 655
Ex-post portfolio returns, 603
Extendable bonds, 296
ExxonMobil, 149, 218t, 455t, 726-727, 728
F
Facebook, 55, 424
Face value, 293 accessed on September 4 2012 alOP
Factor portfolios, 221-222
Fads hypothesis, 245
Fairfield Greenwich Advisors, 682
Fair value accounting, 468-469, 470
Fama, Eugene, 139, 210, 211, 213, 245, 246, 248, 252, 254-255, 275
Fama-French Three-Factor model, 605
on anomalies, 252
conclusions, 216
data collection and processing, 214-215
definition, 213-214
estimation results, 215-216
Fannie Mae; see Federal National Mortgage Association
Farm Credit agencies, 297
Fast growers, 394
Fat tail risk, 121
Feasibility constraint, 166
Federal agency debt, 32-33
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 28, 31, 75
Federal Express, 59
Federal funds, 30
Federal funds rate, 30, 380
Federal government policy
budget deficits, 376-377
demand-side management, 379-380
effect of Keynes on, 381
fiscal policy, 379-380
monetary policy, 378, 380-381
supply-side policies, 381-382
Federal Home Loan Bank, 32
Federal Home Loan Bank Board, 297
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, 33, 297
mortgage-backed securities, 17-18, 36-37
scandal at, 470
Federal National Mortgage Association, 32, 297
mortgage-backed securities, 17-18, 36-37
Federal Reserve System, 29, 75
Board of Governors, 70
interest rate forecasting, 377
interest rate reductions, 15-17
monetary policy, 380-381
monetary tools, 380
Feedback in investment management, 715-717
Feeder funds, 682
Fees, hedge funds, 668, 681-684
Fertility rates, 706n
Fidelity Magellan Fund, 257, 607-608, 613
Fidelity Management and Research Group, 86, 88, 89, 389, 644, 699
Financial Accounting Standards Board accessed on September 4 2012 alOP
Statement 157, 469
on write-downs, 470
Financial Analysts Federation, 717
Financial assets, 3-5, 243
derivative securities, 5-6
equity, 5
fixed-income (debt) securities, 5
mortgage-backed securities, 17-19
versus real assets, 4-5
Financial calculators, 300
Financial crisis of 2008, 33
antecedents, 15-17
and bank portfolios, 121n
credit default swaps, 20
credit market freeze-up, 21
and Dodd-Frank Reform Act, 21-22
effect on investment bankers, 14
effect on money market, 21
and fair value accounting, 469
housing finance, 17-19
impact on bond market, 291
impact on developed countries, 631
impact on Lehman Brothers, 242
investment company failures, 21
junk bonds in, 314
mark-to-market accounting, 470
and money market funds, 31
mortgage derivatives, 19
and option price models, 548-549
rise of systemic risk,  accessed on September 4 2012 alOP20
subprime mortgage crisis, 20-21, 36-37
and systemic risk, 15
Financial futures, 562
foreign exchange futures, 581-582
index arbitrage, 581
innovation in, 565
interest rate futures, 582-584
settlement, 571
stock-index futures, 579-580
synthetic stock positions, 580-581
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, 76
Financial intermediaries, 12-14
commingled funds, 87-88
hedge funds, 88
real estate investment trusts, 88
Financial leverage, 391, 457
and return on equity, 452-454
Financial markets; see also Bond market instruments; Capital markets; Securities markets; Stock market competition in, 10-11
consumption timing, 7
and corporate governance, 8-9
Dodd-Frank Reform Act, 21-22
efficient, 11
in financial crisis of 2008, 15-22
financial intermediaries, 12-14
idea of derivatives, 486
informational role, 6
investment bankers, 14-15
investment companies, ?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00uro 12-14
major players, 11-12
overconfidence in, 267
private equity, 15
risk allocation, 7
segmentation of, 26, 27
and separation of ownership and management, 7-8
transparency, 8
venture capital, 15
Financial planning; see Savings and retirement plans
Financial risk variables, 642
Financial Services Authority (UK), 75
Financial statement analysis, 446-473
balance sheet, 448
comparability problems
depreciation, 467-468
fair value accounting, 468-469
inflation and interest expense, 468
international accounting conventions, 471-472
inventory valuation, 467
quality of earnings and accounting practices, 469-471
economic vs. accounting earnings, 447-448
illustration of, 464-466
income statement, 447-448, 449
measuring firm's performance, 451
profitability measures
economic value added, 454-455
financial leverage and ROE, 452-454
return on assets, 452
return on capital, 452
return on equity, 452
ratio analysis
benchmark choice, 462-464
decomposition of ROE, 455-458
liquidity ratios, 460-461
market price ratio, 461-462
summary of, 463
turnover and asset utilization, 458-460
statement of cash flow, 448-450
value investing, 472-473
Financial supermarkets, 69, 91
Financial Times Share Exchange, 490, 644
Financing decision, 451
Firm commitment, 56
Firms
classes of expenses, 447
impact of global economy, 373
liquidation value, 407
measuring performance, 451
replacement costs, 407
Firm-specific risk, 149, 171, 173, 175-176
First-in, first-out method, 465
Fiscal policy, 379-380
Fiscal stimulus policy, 381
Fisher, Irving, 131
Fisher equation, 131-132
Fitch Investors Service, 19, 295, 314
529 higher education plan, 708
Fixed assets, 448
Fixed-charge coverage ratio, 314
Fixed costs, 391, 395
Fixed-income arbitrage, 668
Fixed-income capital market, 5, 31
Fixed-income (debt) securities, 5; see also Bond entries; Money market instruments characteristics and types, 293-296
federal agency debt, 32-33
in financial crisis of 2008, 291
preferred stock as, 296-297
Fixed-rate debt, 586
Flash crash of May 2010, 66, 67
effect on ETFs, 98
Flat prices, 303
Flat tax, 694, 697
Flexible funds, 90
Floating-rate bonds, 5, 296
Floating-rate debt, 586
Floating-rate preferred stock, 296
Food and Drug Administration, 538, 539
Ford Motor Company, 318
Forecasting, 597
errors in, 267
imperfect, 619-620
stock market, 433-434
Foreign bonds, 297
Foreign currency options, 491
Foreign exchange futures, 566, 581-582, 583f, 638
Foreign exchange market, 6
Foreign exchange swap, 584
Forward contract, 562, 565; see also Futures contracts; Futures markets compared to futures contracts, 562
compared to options, 561
in foreign exchange, 638
marking to market, 569
types of, 565-567
Forward market
in foreign exchange, 566
in forward exchange, 582
modern, 561
Forward prices, in foreign exchange, 583
Forward rate, 324, 325
Four-factor model, 255
499 investor restriction, 55
401k plans, 699, 700
403b plans, 699
Framing, 268
Freddie Mac, 21; see Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Free cash flow for the firm, 429, 431
Free cash flow to equity, 429-430, 431
Free cash flow valuation approaches
to equity, 429-430, 431
for firms, 429
spreadsheet for, 430-431
terminal value, 430
weighted average cost of capital, 430
Free float, 43n
French, Kenneth R., 132, 139, 210, 211, 213, 245, 246, 248, 249, 252, 254-255
Front-end load, 92
Froot, K. A., 272n
FTSE (Financial Times Share Exchange) index, 45, 644
FTSE International, 659
Fuchs, Thomas, 386n
Full-service brokers, 69
Fully diluted earnings per share, 508
Fundamental analysis, 240-241, 372
purpose of, 406
range of information from, 246-247
Fundamental risk, 269-270, 273
Fund(s) of funds, 90, 202, 601-602, 668, 682
for spreading risk, 684
Fung, William, regulation ofAQED609, 678n
Futures contracts, 5, 47-48
basics of, 562-565
compared to forward contracts, 562
compared to options, 561, 563, 565
existing types, 565-567
futures price, 562-565
minis, 579n
open interest, 568-569
settlement, 571
single stock futures, 565
zero-sum game, 563
Futures markets
contracts, 47-48, 562-567
financial futures, 579-584
operation of, 563
prediction market, 566
prices
spot-futures parity, 575-578
spreads, 579
regulation of, 571
roots of, 561
standardization of forward contracting, 562
strategies
basis risk and hedging, 574
hedging vs. speculation, 572-574
swaps, 584-587
tax issues, 571
trading
cash vs. actual delivery, 571
clearinghouse and open interest, 567-569
one that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.su}
 electronic networks, 567
margin account, 569-570
marking to market, 569-570
reversing trade, 568
Futures options, 491
Futures prices, 47, 491, 562-565, 565
limits on, 571
long position, 563
on maturity date, 569-570
short position, 563
Future value
in bond pricing, 299-300
expected, 408
and immunization, 349-350
G
Gabelli, Mario, 257
Galleon Group, 237
Gallup Organization, 271
GAMCO, 257
Garber, Peter, 251n
Garwal, Vikas, 677
Gaskins, Francis, 424
Gateway Investment Advisors, 494
General and administrative expenses, 447
General Electric, 7, 38-39, 726
Generally accepted accounting principles, 426, 467, 470
versus international accounting practices, 472
General obligation bonds, 33
Geometric average, 112-113 international diversificationbchpq-tx1) Gerson Lehman Group, 238
Gervais, S., 275
Getmansky, Mila, 676
Ghysels, E., 539n
Gingrich, Newt, 566
Givaly, Dan, 251
Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, 14
GlaxoSmithKline, 455t
Global Crossing, 9
Global economy
exchange rates, 374-375
impact on firms, 373
political risks, 374
variations in performance, 373-374
Global funds, 89
Global macro, 668
Global minimum variance, 165
Global minimum variance portfolio, 169
Globex, 567
Goetzmann, W., 682
Goldgar, Anne, 251n
Goldman Sachs, 14, 15, 68, 658
Goodwill, 448
Google Inc., 176-177, 196, 203-209, 215-216, 393, 424, 455t Gordon, Myron J., 411
Gordon model, 411
Government bailout of AIG, 485
Government debt, 134n
Government National Mortgage Association, 32- accessed on September 4 2012 alOP33, 297
Government policy; see Federal government policy
Government spending, 379-380
Graham, Benjamin, 472
Graham, J. R., 139, 600n
Graham technique, 472-473
Great Depression, 617
Greek economy, 373
Green, T. C., 236
Greenspan, Alan, 274
Grinblatt, Mark, 275
Gross domestic product, 376
versus capitalization weighting, 658
developed countries, 631, 632
emerging markets, 631, 633
and market capitalization, 634-635
Grossman, Sanford J., 237
Groupon, 57
Growth firms, 214
Growth funds, 89
Growth opportunities, 421, 433
Growth stocks, 103, 253
Gruber, M. J., 254n, 257
Guaranteed investment contract, 347-349
Gulf War, 538
H
H. B. Shaine, 494
Han, Bing, 275
Hang Seng Index, 45
Harris, Lawrence E., 64
Harris, M., 216n
Harrow, Elizabeth, 538
Harvey, A., 539n
Harvey, Campbell R., 139, 600n, 653
Hasanhodzic, Jasmine, 676, 677
Health care costs, 709
Health maintenance organizations, 709
HealthSouth, 9
Hedge funds, 14,  88, 139, 202, 666-684, 667
alpha-seeking behavior, 666
attrition rates, 678
fee structure, 681-684
in financial crisis of 2008, 291
fund of funds, 601-602, 682-684
growth 1997-2012, 666
incentive fees, 666
index model regressions, 675
Madoff scandal, 683, 684
versus mutual funds, 667-668
performance measurement, 674-681
changing factor loadings, 678-679
liquidity, 675-677
returns, 674-675
survivorship bias, 677-678
tail events, 679-681
portable alpha, 670-673
as privatee that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.su}
 partnerships, 666
seven-factor performance model, 609
versus Standard and Poor's 500 returns, 680f strategies
directional or nondirectional, 668-669
statistical arbitrage, 670
style analysis, 668t, 673-674
Hedge ratios, 525-527, 543-544, 546, 584
Hedging
cross-hedging, 574, 584
currency risk, 650-561
exchange rate risk, 638
with foreign exchange futures, 581
in futures markets
basis risk, 574
speculation issues, 572-574
imperfect exchange rates, 640
interest rate changes, 583-584
labor income, 709-710
long hedge, 573
short hedge, 573
Hedging strategies
and binomial option pricing, 526-532
with derivatives, 5-6
Henderson Global Investors, 202
Henriksson, Roy D., 621
Heston, S. L., 539n
Hewlett-Packard, 67, 455t
High-frequency trading, 65, 66-67
High P/E firms, 267
High water mark, 682
High-yield bonds, 314
Hlavka, M., 254n
Holding-period return, 111, 201, 202, 408
deviation from normality, 119
mean of the distribution, 115
probability distribution, 115
scenario analysis, 115-116
versus yield to maturity, 311-312
Home country bias, 635
Home Depot, 447, 449, 450, 462, 464
Home ownership vs. renting, 708-709
Homer, Sidney, 339, 351, 357
Homer-Liebowitz bond swap taxonomy, 585n
Homogeneous expectations, 195
Honda Motors, 3, 357, 374-375, 418-420, 430-432, 455t Horizon analysis, 309, 358
Households
income and savings goals, 690
investment decisions, 714
suppliers of capital, 11-12
wealth of, e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.su}
3-4
Housing prices; see also Financial crisis of 2008
Case-Shiller index, 17
changing in financing, 17-19
and low interest rates, 17
HSBC, 14
Hsieh, David, 678n
Hull, J. C., 539n
Human capital, 717
Hurdle rate, 200
Hutchison Whampoa Limited, 454
Hybrid funds, 90
I
IBExchange Group, 565
IBM, 71, 269, 487, 542, 726
Icahn, Carl, 8
Immunization, 346-350
concept, 346-347
duration matching, 348-350
interest rate risk, 348
present vs. future values, 349-350
rebalancing, 350-351
Imperfect exchange rate hedging, 640
Implementation costs, 271
Implied volat537-540, 550
Inc. magazine, 386
Incentive fee, 668, 681-682
on funds of funds, 683
Income allocation, 3
Income funds, 89
Income replacement rate, 705
Income statement, 447
common-size, 447
Indentures, 316
collateral, 317
dividend restriction, 317
doubling option, 317
sinking funds, 316-317
subordination of further debt, 317
Index arbitrage, 581
Indexed bonds, 298-299
Indexes, summary of, 27
Index fund, 44, 90, 241
foreign, 645
Index futures, 562
Indexing, 138, 595
Indexing factor series, 704-705
Index models, 170; see also Capital asset pricing model advantages, 201
estimating
conclusions, 207-209
data collection and processing, 203-204
equations, 203
results, 204-207
expected return-beta relationship, 198
Fama-French Three-Factor model, 213-216, 605
four-factor model, 255
m international diversificationRIOPean-beta equation, 201-203
multifactor model, 605-606
and multifactor models, 211-212
optimal portfolio construction using, 178t
and performance evaluation, 598-599
predicting betas, 209-210
realized returns and, 201-203
security analysis with, 176-177
seven-factor, 609
single, 209-210
Index options, 490-491
and stock market crash of 1987, 494
Indirect exchange rate quotes, 639-640
Individual-asset risk, 200
Individual investor decisions, 717-718
Individual retirement accounts, 696-697
origin of, 700
Roth, 700-701
traditional, 700
Industrial development bonds, 33
Industrial production, 376
Industry analysis, 372; see also Macroeconomic analysis cyclical or defensive industries, 382-384
defining industry, 389-390
determinants of competition, 395-396
effect of business cycles, 382-384
industry life cycle, 392-395
Lynch's classification
asset plays, 395
cyclicals, 394
fast growers, 394
slow growers, 394
stalwarts, 394
turnarounds, 395
return on equity 2011, 388
sector rotation, 391-392
sensitivity to business cycles, 390-391
stock price performance 2011, 388
structure and performance
bargaining power of buyers, 395
bargaining power of suppliers, 395-396
rivalry, 395
substitute products, 395
threat of entry, 395
Industry life cycle, 392-395, 393
characteristics, 393
consolidation stage, 394
maturity stage, 394
relative decline, 395-396
start-up stage, 393
INET, 68
Inflation, 376
break-even, 132
defined benefit plan indexed for, 699
and depreciation, 468
effect of demand or supply shocks, 379
effect on savings plans, 691-694
and interest expense, 468
and real rates of return, 130-133
in U.S. history, 132-133
Inflation-adjusted exchange rates, 375
Inflation rate, 130-131
variability, 132
Inflation risk, 32
Information
value for investors, 235-238
and versions of EMH, 238-239
Information age, 238
Informational efficiency, deviations from, 243
Information processing, 6
Information processing errors
conservatism, 267
in forecasting, 267
overconfidence, 267
sample-size neglect and representativeness, 267-268
Information ratio, 176-177, 602
developed and emerging markets, 650f
Initial public offerings, 56
average returns, 58
bookbuilding, 57
cost of, 57
Facebook in 2012, 55, 424
pricing, 57
roadshows, 57
underpricing, 57
Inside information, 78, 237, 238, 251
Inside quotes, 60
Insider trading, 78, 237
defining, 239
example, 238
Instinet, 63, 68
Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts, 717
Institutional investors, 14, 714
active management, 597
active vs. passive management, 727-728
option strategies, 500
regulation of, 723
and short positions, 169
top-down policies, 725-727
Insurance companies, 12, 347
Insurance principle, 149
Intangible fixed assets, 448
Intel Corporation, 5, 59, 60, 421, 426, 433, 455t Interest, accrued, 294-295, 303
Interest-burden ratio, 456
Interest coverage ratio, 456-457
Interest expense, 447, 468
Interest rate forecasting, 356-357
Interest rate futures, 582-584
Interest rate options, 491
Interest rate parity relationship, 638-639
Interest rate risk, 346
determinants of duration, 344-346
duration, 340 international diversificationorsprocess-344
and immunization, 346-351
interest rate sensitivity, 338-340
types of, 348
Interest rates
annual percentage rate, 113-114
annuity factor, 299-300
at banks, 12
on bonds, 5
in domestic macroeconomy, 376
effective annual rate, 114
effect of demand or supply shocks, 379
equilibrium nominal rate, 131-132
equivalent taxable, 35
Federal funds rate, 30
fluctuating, 302
forward rate, 324, 325
and inflation in U.S. history, 132-133
and insurance policies, 720-721
macroeconomic analysis
difficulty in forecasting, 377
effect of government on, 378
real, 377
supply and demand analysis, 377-378
in monetary policy, 380
nominal, 131, 378
real, 131, 377-378
reduced by Fed, 15-17
risk-free, 299, 526
and strategy formulation, 337-338
teaser, 18-19
Interest rate sensitivityregulation ofAQED, 332-340
and duration, 342-343
Interest rate spread, 721
Interest rate swaps, 585
Interest rate volatility, 291
Intergenerational transfers, 710
Intermarket spread swap, 357
Internal rate of return, 113, 200
Internal Revenue Service, 312
International accounting conventions
depreciation, 471
differences from U.S., 472
intangibles, 471
reserving practice, 471
International Basel accord, 121n
International bonds, 33, 297
International capital market, 33
International Country Risk Guide (PRS), 641-642
International diversification, 167-170
International financial reporting standards, 472
International funds, 89
International investing
characteristics, 630
in developed countries, 631-632
diversification
active management, 656
American Depository Receipts, 644
average returns in emerging markets, 648-649
in bear markets, 655-656
emerging markets, 647-648
international diversificationbchpq-tx1)exchange rate risk, 649-652
exchange-traded funds, 644
misleading representation, 653-654
mutual funds, 644
realistic expectations, 644-645
risk and return statistics, 644-647
summary of benefits, 652-653
diversification benefits, 642-657
in emerging markets
active vs. passive strategy, 631
average returns, 648-649
home-country bias, 635
market capitalization of exchanges, 633-635
percent of world Gross domestic product, 631
risk levels, 635-642, 647-648
foreign index funds, 645
performance attribution, 658-660
risk factors
country-specific risk, 640-642
exchange rate risk, 635-640, 649-652
International Monetary Market, 581-582
International Securities Exchange, 68, 488, 539
International stock market indexes, 45
Internet, data source for valuation, 406
In the money, 488, 523
Intrade, 566
Intrinsic value, 408, 432,  accessed on September 4 2012 alOP523
versus market price, 408-409
Intuit, 389
Inventory turnover ratio, 460
Inventory valuation, 467
Inverse floaters, 297
Investment, 2-3
Investment bankers, 14-15
firm commitment, 56
initial public offerings, 57
and repeal of Glass-Steagall Act, 14
underwriters, 56
Investment committee, 725-726
Investment companies, 12-14, 85
assets of, 97
managed, 86-87, 88-89
open-end companies, 86
unit investment trusts, 86
Investment Company Act of 1940, 86, 667
Investment Company Institute, 101
Investment decisions, 451
Investment environment, 1
Investment grade bonds, 314
Investment horizon, 309, 723
reasons for choosing, 179n
Investment management; see Active management; Alpha entries; Passive management; Savings and retirement plans at the expiration date of the options.uro Investment opportunities
stock price and, 413-416
Investment opportunity set, 157-158
long-term investments, 179
many risky assets, 164-167
Investment policies
active vs. passive, 727-728
asset allocation categories, 725
top-down, 725-727
Investment policy statement, 716t, 725
Investment process
asset allocation, 9-10
capital asset pricing model in, 200
and efficient markets, 11
mutual funds, 88-91
players
financial intermediaries, 12-14
households and firms, 11-12
investment bankers, 14-15
private equity, 15
venture capital, 15
private equity, 15
risk-return trade-off, 10-11
securities selection, 9-10
security analysis, 10
Investment risk, sources of, 115
Investment strategies, 109, 617-618; see also Savings and retirement plans Investors
active management, 11
active vs. passive strategies, 241-242
analytic services available to, 14
angel investors, e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.su}
15
assets available to, 110
behavioral biases, 268-269
in behavioral finance, 266
buying on margin, 71
competition among, 597
constraints on
circumstances, 722
investment horizon, 723
liquidity, 722-723
matrix of, 724t
regulations, 723
tax considerations, 723
unique needs, 723-724
and convexity, 355-356
costs of mutual funds, 91-94
disposition effect, 275
expectations theory, 322-324
expected returns, 10-11
499 restriction, 55
and functions of investment companies, 85
in hedge funds, 88, 667
holding market portfolios, 195-196
homogeneous expectations, 195
insider trading, 78
interest rate risk, 346
investment management process, 715-717
investment policies
active vs. passive, 727-728
asset allocation categories, 725
top-down policies, 725-727
irrational, 266
issues p international diversificationRIOPeculiar to, 714
limited liability protection, 509
liquidity preference theory, 324-325
market timing, 617-621
monitoring and revising portfolios, 728
mutual fund theorem, 196-197
objectives of
banks, 721
endowment funds, 721
individuals, 717
life insurance companies, 720-721
matrix of, 722t
non-life insurance companies, 721
in performance evaluation, 597
professional investors, 718-720
passive management, 11, 595
portfolio construction, 9-10
portfolio management, 242
returns on mutual funds, 93-94
risk averse, 122-123, 163, 269, 270
risk-return trade-off, 10-11
risk tolerance, 137
security selection, 9-10
similarity of, 195
time horizon, 179-181
value at risk, 118, 119-121
value of information, 235-238
Invoice price, 303
Iowa Electronic Markets, 566
IPOdesktop.com,  international diversificationorsprocess424
Irrational exuberance, 249n, 274
iShares, 388-389
iShares Russell 100 Value Fund, 67
J
J. P. Morgan, 14, 414, 548, 549
Jacquier, Eric, 565
Jaffe, Jeffrey F., 78, 251, 315
Jagadeesh, N., 245, 253
Jagannathan, Ravi, 139, 211
Japan, Keynesianism in, 381
JCPenney, 389
Jensen, Michael, 210, 603
Jensen measure, 603
Jiau, Winifred, 238
Johnson & Johnson, 218t
Joint-normal distribution, 170n
Joint tests, 247
Jones, C. P., 75n, 249, 250
Joseph II, 609
Journal of Finance, 210
JPMorgan Chase, 14
Junior debtholders, 317
Junk bonds, 5, 314
K
Kahneman, Daniel, 267, 269n
Karebell, Zachary, 499
Kat, H., 678n
Kaul, Gautam, 245
Keim, Donald B., 246, 247
Kellogg Company, 426
Kendall, Maurice, 234, 235
Keown, Arthur, 236
Keynes, John Maynard, 270, 381
Kim, J., 253
Kitts, Amo, 202
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, 212
Kondratieff waves, 276-277
Kosouska, R., 257
Kothari, S. P., 248n
Kotlikoff, Lawrence J., 710
Krushe. S. D., 253
Kurtosis, 121
L
Labor unions, 396
Lagging indicators, 384-385
Lakonishok, Josef, 246, 252, 268
Lamont, O. A., 75n, 272
Landus Growth Investors, 101-103
La Porta, Raphael, 252
Last-in, first-out method, 465
Latané, H. A., 249, 250
Latency, 65, 66
Law of large numbers, 149
Law of one price
definition, 271 international diversificationbchpq-tx1)
limits to arbitrage
closed-end funds, 273
equity carve-outs, 272-273
Siamese twin companies, 272
Leading economic indicators, 384-386, 434
LEAPS; see Long-Term Equity AnticiPation Securities
Lee, C. M., 253, 273
Lehavy, R., 253, 254
Lehman Brothers, 9, 14, 15, 21, 45, 75, 






P
Pacific Basin equity market, 241
Pairs trading, 66, 670
Palm, 272-273
Palmon, Dan, 251e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.su}

Parity, 540-542
Parity relationships, 578-579, 581
Parmalat, 9
Par value, 293
corporate bonds, 301
Passive management, 11, 595, 597
versus active management, 595, 597
as investment policy, 727-728
Passive strategies, 109, 138, 241, 337
versus active strategies, 241-242
bond management
cash flow matching, 351-353
dedication strategy, 351-353
immunization, 346-351
and capital market line, 138-140
costs and benefits, 139-140
efficiency of, 196-197
in international investment, 631
Pass-throughs, private-label, 18
Pass-through securities, 36-37
Pass-through status, 94-95
Patel, Jayenda M., 236
Patent protection, 395
Paulson, John, 321
Pay-in-kind bonds, 298
Peak, 382
P/E effect, 247
PEG ratio, 406, 423
Penn Square Bank, 31
Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation, 699
Pension funds
and cash flow matching, 352-353
and corporate bankruptcies, 709-710
defined benefit plans, 699, 719-720
defined contribution plans, 699, 719
interest rate sensitivity, 346-347
losing ground, 347
passive strategies, 346
rates of return, 720
sponsors, 720
Per capita gross domestic product
international diversificationRIOPdeveloped countries, 632
emerging markets, 633
and market capitalization, 634-635
Perfect correlation, 173
Performance attribution
asset allocation decisions, 614
benchmark, 612-614
international investing
benchmark, 658
cash/bond selection, 660
country selection, 660
currency selection, 658-660
example, 660
stock selection, 660
sector/security selection decisions, 614-616
summary, 616
Performance benchmark, 254-255
Performance evaluation statistics, 598-599
Performance manipulation, 611-612
Perpetuity, duration of, 343-344
Personal trust, 718
Petajisto, Antti, 606
Pfizer, Inc., 10
Pierallni, Fabrizio,  international diversificationRIOP582
Pinkerton, John, 236
Pink sheets, 61
Pinto, Jerald E., 716
Planned liquidation date, 723
Planning in investment management, 715-717
Plant and equipment valuation, 4n
Plowback ratio, 413-414, 422
Point and figure charts, 278-279
Political risk, 374, 640-641, 643t Political Risk Services Group, 640-642
Political risk variables, 642
Pontiff, Jeffery, 87, 273
Ponzi, Charles, 683
Ponzi scheme, 682, 683
Portable alpha, 670
Porter, Michael E., 395
Portfolio construction, 9-10
arbitrage portfolio, 222
asset allocation needs, 151
computerized optimization technique,  accessed on September 4 2012 alOP167
optimal risky portfolio, 167-170
and separation property, 167
Portfolio dividend yield, 166
Portfolio insurance, 545-548 
Portfolio management; see also Bond portfolio management active vs. passive, 241-242
asset allocation, 133-137
determination of policies, 716t
and efficient markets, 242
Fama-French Three-Factor model, 213-216
Graham technique, 472
hedge ratios for, 543-544
long-term investments, 179-181
managed investment companies, 86-87
mental mistakes, 271
options vs. stock, 494-497
by program trading, 581
regressive analysis for, 208-209
unit investment trusts, 86
Portfolio performance evaluation
active management, 11
active vs. passive management,  international diversificationRIOP585, 597
adjustments with composition change, 610-612
after crisis of 2008, 139
alpha capture and alpha transport, 604-605
alpha relation to, 603-604
basic statistics, 598-599
comparison universe, 597-598
of fund of funds, 601-602
hedge funds, 674-681
information ratio, 602
Jensen measure, 603-604
market timing, 617-621
measurement of, 620-621
value as call option, 618-619
value of imperfect forecasting, 619-620
Morningstar ratings, 101-103
Morningstar's risk-adjusted rating, 608-610
multi-index model, 605-606
mutual funds, 98-101
passive management, 11
performance attribution
asset allocation decisions, 614
benchmark, 612-614
sector and security selection, 614-615
summary, 616
performance manipulation, 611-612
selection bias, 611
semistrong-form tests, 246-251
Sharpe ratio and M-square, 599-600
and stock market indexes, 44
strong-form tests, 252
style analysis, 607-608
survivorship bias, 611
e, 601-602
weak-form tests, 245-246
world and U.S. risky portfolios, 126-130
Portfolio risk, 11; see also Diversification adjusting for, 247
asset allocation, 133-137
and asset allocation, 133-137
bond management, 346
and CAPM, 197-199, 599
complete, 123
and diversification, 149-150 accessed on September 4 2012 alOP
and expected return, 134-136
measuring, 99
scenario analysis for, 151-154
Sharpe ratio and, 123-125
and standard deviation, 199
Portfolios, 159
asset classes for, 26
assets available for, 110
composition changes, 610-612
country-index, 646t, 654t diversification, 11
losers or winners, 246
minimum variance, 151
monitoring and revising, 728
net assets value, 85
rebalancing, 9
regional-index, 645t
risk premium, 123
risky and risk-free, 133-137
style-matched, 57
turnover, 95
Portfolio standard deviation, 159
Portfolio theory; see Arbitrage pricing theory; Behavioral finance; Capital asset pricing model; Diversification; Efficient market hypothesis; Risk and return; Technical analysis Portfolio weights, 165-166
Positive-alpha stocks, 194
Positive correlation, 159
Positive serial correlation, 676
Post-earnings announcement price shift, 249-250
Posted price quotes, 59
Poterba, James M., 245
Preferred stock, 39-40
compared to bonds, 296-297
convertible, 506-508
floating-rate, 296
Premium, 48, 487
Premium bonds, 306
callable, 307
Present value
of bond payments, 506
in bond pricing, 299-300
of economic profit, 433
and immunization, 349-350
Present value of growth opportunity, 414-415, 421
Presidential futures market,  international diversificationbchpq-tx1)566
Price changes, 235
Price-contingent orders, 59-61
Price discovery, 75
Priced risk factors, 213
Price-earnings multiple, 420
Price-earnings multiplier, 424-425
Price-earnings ratio, 39, 406, 462
adjusted vs. reported, 471t
combined with DDM, 426
forecasting, 433-434
growth opportunities, 420-424
industry comparisons, 425
pitfalls of analysis, 425-426
and stock risk, 424-425
Price levels, 235
and inflation, 692
Price of risk, 123, 137
Price risk, 348
Prices
arbitrage pricing theory, 194
for resource allocation, 266
international diversificationorsprocessuncovering trends in, 276-280
Price-to-book ratio, 428
Price-to-cash ratio, 428
Price-to-earnings ratio, 376
Price-to-sales ratio, 428
Price value of a basis point, 584
Price-weighted average, 40-42, 44
Primary Global Research, 238
Primary Insurance Amount, 704, 705-707
Primary market, 15, 55, 58
Principles-based accounting, 472
Principles-based regulations, 78
Private equity, 15
Private-label issuers, 36
Private-label pass-throughs, 18
Privately held firms, 55
Private placements, 55
Probability distribution, 115
Procter & Gamble, 218t
Professional investors
objectives
mutual funds, 718-719
pension funds, 719-720
personal trusts, 718
regulation of, 723
Professional management, 85
Profitability measures
on balance sheet, 448
economic value added, 454-455
financial leverage and ROE, 452-454
on income statement, 447-448
return on assets, 452
return on capital, 452
return on equity, 452
Profitability ratios, 315-316
Profit margin, 456
Profit opportunities, 266
Profit potential, 356-357
Pro forma earnings, 425-426
Program trading, 581
Progressive tax, 697-698
and Roth accounts, 700-701
traditional vs. Roth plans under, 701t Property and casualty insurance companies, 721, 724
Proprietary knowledge, 395
Prospect theory, 268, 269
Prospectus, 56, 101
Protective put, 497, 500, 545-546
Proxy contests, 8
Proxy voting, 38
Prudent investor rule, 718, 723
Public companies, 55
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, 77
Publicly listed firms, 55
Publicly owned firms, 55
Publicly traded companies, 56
Publicly traded firms, 55
Purchasing power, 374-375
Pure plays, 669
example, 671-673
Pure yield pickup swap, 357
Put bonds, 296
Put-call parity relationship, 540-542,  international diversificationorsprocess541
Put-call ratio, 281
Putman's Prime Money Market Fund, 31
Putnam, 88
Put options, 46-47, 281, 487-488
bearish strategy, 494
compared to futures position, 48
in stock market crash of 1987, 494
valuation of, 542-543
value at expiration, 492-493
Pyykkonen, Martin, 424







Q
Quality of earnings, 469
accounting practices, 469-471
Quantos, 510-511
Qubes, 95
Quick ratio, 315, 460-461
Quoted bond prices, 293-294
Qwest Communications, 9







R
Rajanatman, Raj, 237
Random walk, 235
Rapoport, Michael, regulation ofAQED472n Rate anticipation swap, 357
Rates of return, 388
annual, 130
benchmark, 193
conventions for annualizing, 113-114
effect of information processing errors, 267-268
forecasting, 597
holding-period returns, 111
internal, 113
joint-normally distributed, 170n monthly statistics, 214t
options vs. stock, 496
ordinary, 235
over multiple periods, 111-113
pension funds, 720
with perfect market timing, 619f and scenario analysis, 152-153
on T-bills 1926-2010, 133
total variance, 171
two-risky-asset portfolios, 156-157
Ratio analysis
benchmark choice, 462-464
cash flow-to-debt ratio, 316
coverage ratios, 314-315
days' sales in receivables, 460
decomposition of ROE, 455-457
interest-burden ratio, 456
inventory turnover ratio, 460
leverage ratios, 315
liquidity ratios, 315, 460-461
major industry groups, 464t
market price ratio, 461-462
price-earnings ratio, 462
profitability ratios, 315-316
summary of, 463
tax-burden ratio, 456
turnover and asset utilization, 458-460
in two industries, 416t
for valuation, 424-428
Rau, P. R., 274
Rauh, J., 469
Reagan, Ronald W., 381
Real assets, 3-5, 243
Real consumption, 692
Real Estate Investment Trusts, 88, 708
Real exchange rate, 375
Real interest rate, 131, 377-378, 468
historical record, 132
and inflation, 691-692
in U.S. history, 132-133
Realized compound return, 308-309
Realized return, 201-203
Real rates of return, 130-133
Real savings plan, 692-693
Rebalancing, 9, 350-351, 357
Recession of 2000-2002, 15-16
Recession of 2008, 2008
Recessions, 109, 617
Reddy, Sudeep, 381
Redeemable preferred stock, 40
Redeemable trust certificates, 86
Redington, F. M., 347
Reference price, 67
Refunding, 295
international diversificationbchpq-tx1)Regional funds, 89
Regional-index portfolios, 645t
Registration statement, 56
Regression analysis
Fama-French Three-Factor model, 213-216
single-index model, 203-209
Regression coefficient, 172
Regression equation, 171-172, 203, 207t Regression statistics, 215t
Standard and Poor's 500 Index portfolio, 219t Regret avoidance, 269
Regulation; see also Securities and Exchange Commission of futures markets, 571
as investor constraint, 723
principles-based, 78
rules-based, 78
of securities market
blue sky laws, 75
on insider trading, 78
legislation 1933-1970, 74-75
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 76-78
self-regulation, 76
?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00uro Regulator shopping, 22
Reinganum, Marc R., 247
Reinvestment rate, 308-309, 413-414
Reinvestment rate risk, 309, 348
REIT; see Real Estate Investment Trusts Relative strength, 239, 280
Renault, E., 539n
Rendleman, P. J., 249, 250
Rent vs. buy decision, 708-709
Replacement cost, 4n, 407
Replication, 526
Representativeness bias, 267-268
Repurchase agreements (repos), 29
Required return, 408
Reserve Primary Fund, 31, 89n Reserve requirements, 380
Residual claim, 38
Residual claimants, 407
Residual income, 454
Residual risk, 171, 599, 602
SP 500 Index, 219
Residual standard deviation, 203, 219
Residual standard equation, 205-206
Resistance levels, 239
Resource allocation
and EMH, 242-243
by financial markets, 6
by prices, 266
Restructuring charge, 426
Retirement annuity, 690-692 
Retirement plans, see also Pension funds; Savings and retirement plans annuities, 690-691
defined benefit plans, 699
defined contribution plans, 699
IRAs, 700-701
and Social Security, 704-707
target date retirement funds, 710n Return in equity, 422
Return on assets, 315, 452, 454
at the expiration date of the options.uro industry comparisons, 458
Return on capital, 416-417, 452
Return on equity, 414, 417, 433, 452, 462
decomposition of, 455-457
industry comparisons, 387-388
software firms, 389
Return on investment, 199
Return on sales, 456
Returns; see also Actual return; Excess return; Expected return; Rates of return after-tax, 95
conventions for analyzing, 113-114
definition, 111
DJIA as measure of, 40
expected, 10-11
expected vs. required, 408
on hedge funds, 674-675
hedge funds vs. Standard and Poor's, 680f holding-period, 111
in illiquid markets, 677
on initial public offerings, 58 international diversificationorsprocess from insider trading, 78
on mutual funds, 93-94
normally distributed, 117
over long horizons, 245-246
over multiple periods
arithmetic average, 112
dollar-weighted, 113
geometric average, 112-113
over short horizons, 245
predicting, 246
realized, 201-203
risk-adjusted, 247, 254
serial correlation, 245, 676
SP 500 Index, 16
theory-based approach, 213
Returns by construction, 282
Revealed preference, 123
Revenue bonds, 33
Revenue recognition, 470
Revenue sharing, 91
Reversal effect, 246
Reverse repo, 29
Reversingregulation ofAQED trade, 568
Reward-to-volatility ratio; see Sharpe (reward-to-volatility) ratio Risk
allocation of, 7
in bond markets, 291
of buying on margin, 71
defined by speculation, 122-123
firm-specific/residual, 171
insurance principle, 149
in international investment
country-specific risks, 640-642
exchange rates, 635-640
in long term, 179-181
money market funds, 31
quantifying, 115-116
types of, 149-150
Risk Adjusted Rating (Morningstar), 608-610
Risk-adjusted returns, 247, 254
active vs. passive management, 597
alpha and, 603-604
alpha capture and alpha transport, 604-605
basic statistics, 598-599
and changing portfolio composition, 610-612
comparison universe, 597-598
information ratio, 602
Jensen measure, 603-604
Morningstar ratings, 608-610
M-square (M2), 600-601
multi-index model, 605-606
Sharpe ratio, 599-600
Treynor measure, 601-602
Risk and return, 110-140
annual rates of return statistics 1926-2010, 124t-125t
asset allocation
capital allocation line, 136-137
portfolio expected return and risk, 134-136
risk aversion and capital allocation, 137
risk-free assets, 134
historical means and standard deviation, 122
historical record, 126-130
inflation and real rates of return
equilibrium normal rate of interest, 131-132
in U.S. history, 132-133
international investment statistics, 645t, 647t long-term investments, 179-181
multifactor models, 193-194
passive strategy and capital market line
costs and benefits, 139-140
historical evidence, 138-139
portfolio risk, 133-137
rates of return, 111-114
relationship between, 109
risk and risk premium
deviation from normality and value at risk, 119-121
normal distribution, 116-118
normality over time, 119
risk aversion and, 122-123
scenario analysis and probability distribution, 115-116
Sharpe ratio, 123-125
time series of return, 121
Risk aversion, 109, 122-123, 163, 717
and capital allocation, 137
and prospect theory, 269-270
quantifying, 123
Risk-based capital guidelines, 346
Risk estim?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00uro ation, 597
Risk-free assets or portfolios
asset allocation, 133-137
optimal risky portfolio with, 161-164
risk premium, 125
Risk-free rate, 110, 122, 299, 526, 644
Risk management, 6, 497-498
with derivatives, 485
derivatives for, 499
Risk Management Association, 463
Risk premium, 122, 129
and anomalies, 251-252
complete portfolio, 135-136
equity, 138-139
expected return and, 165-166
long-term investments, 181
market portfolio, 195
optimal risky portfolio, 162
and portfolio management, 242
ration to systemic risk, 198e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.su}

risk-free assets, 125
during speculative bubbles, 250
and stock prices, 245-246
Risk profile, 678
Risk questionnaire, 718-719
Risk-return opportunity set, 165
Risk-return trade-off, 10-11
and time diversification, 181
two-risky assets/portfolios, 157-158
Risk tolerance, 137, 717
Risky assets or portfolios, 109; see also Market portfolio asset allocation, 156-161
efficient diversification with, 164-170
in international investment, 644
long-term investments, 179-181
optimal, 162-164, 167-170
with risk-free assets, 151-164
as tax shelter, 702
Risky debt, 509
Rite Aid, 9
Ritter, Jay, 57, 58, 246, 268
Rivalry between competitors, 395
Road shows, 57
ROE; see Return on equity Roll, Richard, 63, 210, 655-656, 657
Romney, Mitt, 566
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 381
Ross, Stephen A., 217, 273, 315, 532n Roth account, 700
invested in stocks and bonds, 703t Royal Dutch Petroleum, 272
Rubinstein, Mark, 550
Rules-based accounting, 472
Rules-based regulations, 78
Russell 1000 Index, 102
Russell 2000 Index, 59, 60, 580







S
SAC Capital Advisors, 238
Sadka, Ronnie, 675-676
Saha, Atanu, 678
Sales sensitivity, 391regulation ofAQED
Salomon Brothers, 658
Salomon Smith Barney, 14, 45, 68
Samuelson, Paul, 257, 434
Samurai bonds, 33, 297
Sanford Bernstein & Company, 358-359
SAP, 389
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 9
provisions, 76-78
Savings and loan associations, 721
Savings and retirement plans
bequests and intergenerational transfers, 710
children's education, 707-708
effect of taxes, 694-695
effects of inflation, 691-694
global sense, 690
local sense, 690
for the long run, 690-691
major objectives, 689
marriage, 710
rent vs. buy decision, 708-709
Social Security, 704-707
tax shelters?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00uro 
benchmark, 695-696
defined benefit plans, 699
defined contribution plans, 699
economics of, 695-696
IRAs, 700-701
risky assets or capital gains, 702
versus unsheltered savings, 702-704
uncertain liquidity, 709-710
Scatter diagram, 171-172, 174
Scenario analysis, 115
for country risk, 642
for portfolio risk, 151-154
tax shelters, 702
Schaeffder's Volatility Index, 539
Scherbina, A., 139
Schleifer, Andrei, 252, 269n, 273
Scholes, Myron, 210, 533
Scudder Kemper Investment, Inc., 718
Seasoned equity offering, 56
Secondary market, 15, 55
Sector at the expiration date of the options.uro  allocation, 614-616
Sector funds, 89
Sector rotation, 391-392
Secured bonds, 36
Securities Act of 1933, 74-75, 667
Securities and Exchange Commission, 22, 63-64
ban on short sales, 75
broker registration, 61
creation of, 75
as equity data source, 406
and flash crash of 2010, 67
on foreign securities in U.S., 472
on inside information, 238
on insider trading, 78
National Market System, 62
new order-handling rules, 63
new securities offerings, 55, 56
Official Summary of Securities Transactions and Holdings, 78, 251
registration of foreign bonds, 297
Regulation ATS, 63
Regulation NMS, 63-64, 65regulation ofAQED
regulation of mutual funds, 92, 94, 95, 101
Rule 425, 56
Rule 144A, 55
rules-based regulations, 78
Rule 10b-5, 238
trading regulations, 251
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 62, 74-75, 238
Securities Investor Protection Act of 1976, 75
Securities Investor Protection Corporation, 75
Securities issuance and trading
buying on margin, 69-72
costs of, 68-69
exchange-traded funds, 98
in futures markets, 567-571
initial public offerings, 57
and insider trading, 78
latency, 65
mutual funds, 91
new strategies
algorithmic trading, 65, 66
at the expiration date of the options.uro bond trading, 67-68
dark pools, 66, 67
high-frequency trading, 65, 66-67
pairs trading, 670
private placements, 55
program trading, 581
Securities and Exchange Commission registration, 251
shelf registration, 56
short sales, 72-74, 75, 76
by stock exchanges, 55
trading mechanisms
dealer markets, 61-62
electronic, 62
specialist markets, 62-64
types of markets, 58-59
types of orders, 59&#span>
Securities markets, 54-79, 63f-64f
buying on margin, 69-72
competition in, 1
efficient, 11
globalization and consolidation, 68
 at the expiration date of the options.uro initial public offerings, 57
market makers, 66
market orders, 59
mortgage-backed securities, 17-18
NASDAQ, 62-65
National Market System, 62
new trading strategies
algorithmic trading, 65, 66
bond trading, 67-68
dark pools, 66, 67
high-frequency trading, 65, 66-67
New York Stock Exchange, 65
online trading, 1
over-the-counter markets, 61-62
perfectly competitive, 195
price-contingent orders, 59-61
primary, 15, 55
private placements, 55
publicly traded companies, 56
regulation of
on insider trading, 78
legislation 1933-1970, 74-75
 international diversificationbchpq-tx1)Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 76-78
by SEC, 63-64
self-regulation, 76
secondary, 15, 55
shelf registration, 56
short sales, 72-74, 75, 76
trading costs, 68-69
trading mechanisms
dealer markets, 61-62
electronic communication networks, 62, 65
specialist markets, 62
types of markets
auction markets, 59
brokered markets, 58
dealer markets, 58-59
dealer search markets, 58
Securitization, 18, 37
Security analysis, 10; see also Equity valuation; Financial statement analysis; Industry analysis; Macroeconomic analysis and corporate scandals, 9
single-index stock model, 176-177
 international diversificationorsprocessskills needed for, 371
Security Analysis (Graham & Dodd), 472
Security characteristic line, 172, 204-205
for Google Inc., 207t
Security market line, 199-200
multifactor, 212-213
Security mispricing, 595
Security selection, 614-616
Security selection, 9-10
Selection bias, 611, 613
Selection bias issue of EMH, 243-244
Self-destructing price patterns, 240
Self-imposed regulations, 723
Self-regulation, 76, 77
Sell signals, 278
Semistrong-form EMH, 238
Semistrong tests, 246-251
book-to-market ratios, 248-249
bubbles and market efficiency, 250-251
neglected-firm and liquidity effects, 247-248
P/E effect, 247
at the expiration date of the options.uro post-earnings announcement price shift, 249-250
small-firm-in-January effect, 247
Sentiment indicators
confidence index, 281
put/call ratio, 281
short interest, 281
trin statistic, 280-281
Separation of ownership and management, 7-8, 38
Separation property, 167, 196
Serial bond issue, 317
Serial correlation, 676
Serial correlation returns, 245
Seven-factor model, 609
70% exclusion, 39
Seyham, H. Nejati, 251
Shanken, Jay, 248n
Sharpe, William F., 136, 170, 193, 194, 210, 607-608, 609
Sharpe (reward-to-volatility) ratio, 123-125, 125, 130, 136, 138, 161-162, 166, 169, 176, 179-180, 201, 599-600, 602, 603-604, 612, 652
for performance evaluation, 599-601
Shelf registration, 56
Shell Oil, 272
Shiller, Robert, 246
Short hedge, 573
Short interest, 281
Short position, 48, 169, 563
Short sales, 60, 72-74, 168t, 281, 603
opposition to, 75
and price discovery, 75
Short-sales restriction, 165-166
Shumway, Tyler, 269
Siamese twin companies, 272
Single-index model, 209-210
Single-index stock market
e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.su}
alpha, 171
beta, 170-171
diversification in, 173-176
excess return, 170
firm-specific/residual risk, 171
index model, 170
optimal portfolio construction, 178t security analysis with, 176-177
security characteristic line, 172
statistical and graphical representation, 171-173
Single stock futures, 565
Sinking fund, 316-317
Skew, 121
Sloan, Richard G., 248n
Slow-growers, 394
Slow market, 64
Small-firm effect, 247
Small-firm-in-January effect, 247
Smith, Randall, 424
Social Security, 379-380, 704
average indexed monthly earnings, 705
benefit allocation, 704
e that prices only gradually close in on intrinsic value. As fundamentals shift, astute traders can exploit the adjustment to a new equilibrium.su}
benefit calculation, 704
income replacement rate, 705
indexing factor series, 704-705
primary insurance amount, 705-707
privatization suggestion, 707
solvency threat, 706-707
Société Générale, 485
Soft dollars, 94
Solnik, Bruno H., 653, 655-656
Sotheby's, 424
South Sea bubble, 250
Southwest Airlines, 196
Sovereign debt, 321
Spatt, Chester, 64
SPDR (Standard and Poor's Depository Receipts), 95
Specialist markets, 62
Specialists, 62, 65
Speculation
to define risk, 122-123
in futures markets, 572-574
Speculative bubbles, 250-251
and behavioral economics, 273-274
Speculative grade bonds, 314
Sperling, Gene, 386n
Spivack, Avia, 710
Spot-futures parity, 575-578
Spot-futures parity theorem, 577-578
Spot prices, 569-570
in foreign exchange, 583
Spread, 502-503
CDs vs. Treasury bill rates, 30
Spread (futures), 574, 579
Sprint/Nextel, 407
Squared deviation from the mean, 116
Squared weights, 175-176
Stagflation, 126
Stakeholders, 714
Stalwarts, 394
Stambaugh, Robert F., 246, 247
Standard and Poor's, 19, 28, 126, 295, 314, 316, 389, 659
bond ratings, 315
downgrade of regulation ofAQEDTreasury debt, 291
Outlook, 473
ratios compiled by, 316
Stock Guide, 472
Standard and Poor's Depository Receipts, 95
Standard and Poor's Financial Index, 44
Standard and Poor's 100 Index, 490
Standard and Poor's 500 Index, 10, 42-44, 59, 60, 90, 102-103, 123, 197, 241, 242, 375-376, 490, 511, 565, 571, 598, 727
cumulative returns 1980-2012, 16
forecasts, 434t
implied volatility, 539
and index models, 201
largest capitalization stocks, 218t limitations, 630
monthly return statistics, 204t, 205
Standard and Poor's Industrial Index, 44
Standard and Poor's Transportation Index, 44
Standard and Poor's Utility Index, 44
Standard deviation, 116
annual, 219t
arbitrage portfolio, 219-220
of complete portfolio, 135-136
of diversified portfolio, 153
excess returns, 647f
of excess returns, 650f
and historical means, 122
long-term investments, 181
and normal distribution, 116-118
portfolio, 159
and portfolio risk, 199
residual, 203
and Sharpe ratio, 123-125
stock and bond portfolios, 126-130
and time series of return, 121
value at risk and, 118
Standard deviation score, 117
Standard error of the regression, 206, 219
Standard Industry Classification codes, 389n ?mime=image/jpg" alt="equ_p457_un00uro Start-up companies, 428
venture capital for, 15
Start-up stage, 393
Statement of cash flows, 448-451, 449, 466t State Street/Merrill Lynch, 96
Statistical arbitrage, 670
Statman, Meir, 150, 268, 271
Staunton, Mike, 139
Stern Stevens, 454
Stiglitz, Joseph E., 237
Stochastic volatility models, 540
Stock exchanges, 65
globalization of, 68
market capitalization, 69
United States, 64-65
Stock funds
during recessions, 153
types of, 89
Stock Guide (Standard and Poor's), 472
Stockholders, 38
proxy contests, 8
residual accessed on September 4 2012 alOP claimants, 407
and separation of ownership and management, 7-8
Stockholders' equity, 407, 448
Stock-index futures, 579-580
Stock market
aggregate, 433-434
capital allocation by, 6
crash of 1987, 31, 494, 547-548, 550, 655-656, 657f, 679, 681
crash of 2008, 656
gain in value 1933, 10
loss in value 1931, 10
NASDAQ, 55
national comparisons, 373t
New York Stock Exchange, 55
in recession of 2000-2002, 16
Stock market analysts, 253-254
and corporate scandals, 9
Stock market indexes
bond market indicators, 45-46
coordination among, 580
and crash of 1987, 657f international diversificationorsprocess Dow Jones, 40-42
equally weighted, 44-45
and index models, 201
index options, 490-491
international, 45
market-value weighted, 42-44
NASDAQ, 44
New York Stock Exchange, 44
Nikkei Index, 490
price-weighted average, 40-42
Standard and Poor's, 42-44
Wilshire 5000, 44, 99
Stock market listings, 38-39
Stock prices
after earnings announcement, 249-250
in behavioral finance, 266
and binomial option pricing model, 525-532
and convertible securities, 506-508
discerning trends in, 245
and expectation of dividends, 434
and expected return, 199
floor, 407
forecasting, 235
function of, 6
fundamental analysis, 240-241
and hedge ratios, 543-544, 546
history of, 278t
industry comparisons, 388
and insider trading, 78
and investment opportunities, 413-416
lack of predictable patterns, 234-235
and mental accounting, 268
moving averages, 276-277
and options, 46-47
and option strategies, 497-500
and option value, 523, 524</






randomly evolving, 235
and risk premium, 245-246
235-237
role of inf














