







Focus
 
Improving Your Concentration and
Improving Your Learning











 
Table of Contents
 
Introduction
Chapter 1: Techniques to Improve Concentration
Chapter 2: Mental Exercises to Boost Concentration
Chapter 3: Tips for Better Concentration
Chapter 4: Methods for Improving Learning Capacity
Chapter 5: Various Techniques to Improve Your Learning
Chapter 6: The Science behind Concentration
Chapter 7: What Causes Distraction and How to Break Away
Chapter 8: The Multitasking Myth
Chapter 9: No Worries
Chapter 10: Read Books
Chapter 11: Meditate
Chapter 12: Physical Fitness
Chapter 13: Try Martial Arts
Chapter 14: Recovery: Rest and Sleep
Chapter 15: Get a Hobby
Conclusion
FREE BONUS












 
Introduction
 
We would all have done this at some
point or other during our childhood. Back home after school, with the wonders
of science lab still fresh in the mind, we would have  picked up our
grandpa's reading glasses and held it in the sunlight in such a fashion that
the light is trained on a piece of paper. Chest swelling with the sense of
accomplishment, we watched in gleeful amazement, as the object of our little
impromptu experiment started smoking, then smoldered and is finally set aflame.
The implications of this action and
its result are lost on us at the larger scale. There is an analogy to be found
here between the rays of the sun and our mind. Let the rays be scattered and
you feel nothing, and yet the very same rays, when concentrated through a
reading glass, is capable of burning through matter. Similarly, let your
thoughts wander and the results are non-existent or at best ordinary.
However, focus and concentrate your
thoughts and the results shall be nothing short of extra-ordinary. And this can
be considered as the biggest strength as well as weakness of the human race.
Someone who cannot reign in his thoughts and focus can never achieve anything
he wants. On the other hand, a man who has the ability to align his thoughts
and devote complete focus and concentration on the task at hand can realize
anything that he aspires to.
This applies to everyone,
irrespective of their age, demography or profession. To excel in any walk of
life, any stage of life, you need to have the two traits of focus and
concentration to compliment your determination and ability to work hard.
In this eBook, I have covered two
broad topics; namely "improvement in concentration" and "improvement
in learning".
I want to thank you for downloading
this book and hope it turns out to be an informative and interesting read that
will help you focus and train your thought process, thereby leading to success
in your chosen field or profession.
So, without much ado, let us get on
with it.











Chapter 1: Techniques to Improve Concentration
 
In this chapter we shall cover some
methods and techniques to help you improve your concentration. These are simple
but effective steps that will go a long way to aid you focus on the tasks at
hand without being taxing or difficult to put into effect. However, please
understand that improving your concentration is not something that will happen
overnight, you have to be consistent and regular in the application of the
methods given below, for them to bear fruit.
What is concentration?
In order to improve anything, you
must first have a clear understanding of what it is. What is concentration? In
the simplest form of explaining, it is nothing but the ability to take your
mind off multiple things and devote your complete focus and attention to the
singular task at hand.
What do you want to concentrate on?
As mentioned
earlier, it is very important to decide and finalize the matter on which you
wish to concentrate. The decision making part has to be done properly. You may
be faced with a lot of issues that require your attention, but out of such
issues you have to prioritize and select the one that is the most urgent.
Rule out the distractions
Now there are some
people who can focus and work despite having loud music playing in the
background or with the television on, but for the vast majority of others who
cannot do so, it is very important to make sure that there are no external
factors to distract you. The principle here is to avoid what is called the
"sensory overload".  It has been showed in many researches that
the average human being can concentrate better when the number of sensory
inputs is minimal. And if you can't get to a quiet place, learn to shut your
mind towards the distraction.
Give it your full
The key to attaining
focus is to elevate the particular task in front of you to the most important
status, and thereby give it your full. This sense of priority that you attach
to anything will involuntarily help you concentrating better.
Don't panic, be calm
Concentration stems
from a calm mind. Don't be jittery when face with a task.  And this has
more to do with the principles of good and bad energy.  When you stay
calm, positive and creative energy flows through you, whereas, when you panic,
the distractive negative energy deters you from being focused on the job at
hand.
Time-outs
You may have heard
this countless times before, that you should take a break at regular intervals
to be more productive. And let's just reinstate that fact here. It is actually
true and holds good especially for people who have trouble in concentrating.
Medical research has proved it beyond doubt that the attention span of an
average person does not exceed an hour and a half at a stretch.  
 
Take frequent breaks, go out or walk
to the window and take a breath of fresh air to rejuvenate your senses. Have a
coffee or some light snack and think about something completely unrelated to
the work you were doing prior to the break. This is very important, if you keep
thinking over the same issue over and over again, even during the break time,
the very idea of taking the break is made redundant.
Energy flow
Learn to control the
flow of energy through your body. The concept here is  simple, as mentioned
earlier, positive energy helps you focus and concentrate more while negative
energy does the opposite to you. This flow of energy can be controlled by you
to a large extent. It does take a lot of time to figure this out and master it,
but it is by no way unattainable. The key here is to understand what makes you
feel positive and content and then making sure that you are, in some way, in
the presence of that factor when working. Similarly stay away from the
variables that give a sense of foreboding or make you feel unhappy.
Meditation
We have saved the
best for the last. Meditation can be the most effective tool to help you focus
better and concentrate. Consider it as the most powerful weapon in your
arsenal. Learn at least a few meditation techniques and make sure that you
practice them daily for a minimum of half an hour to one hour.
 
And when you do meditation, watch
the breathing. Many half-baked theories suggest that you should take conscious
effort to control your breathing while meditating.  But is not so, in
fact, instead of controlling it, just let it be. Simply observe the way you are
breathing. This helps you to focus as well.
The following five tips can help you
to learn how to concentrate, no matter what environment you are working in:
F = Five More
There are two different types of
people - those who have learnt how to get round frustration and those who
dearly wish that they had.  This one is for you - if you are halfway
through doing something and you fell like throwing in the towel, do just five
more.
Five more minutes, read five more
pages, finish five more letters, whatever it is just do five more before you
give up and give in. This is a technique used by many different people in
different walks of life. Athletes use it to push themselves past exhaustion
point or through the pain barrier and you can use it to build up your
concentration and focus by pushing past frustration.
Give it a go - you'll find that,
once you get past a certain point, your brain will kick into gear again and your
focus will come back.
O - One Think at a Time
"If I look confused, it's because
I'm thinking" - Samuel Goldwyn
Do you feel as though you are
completely disorganized and cannot concentrate?  Is it because your mind
is usually on several other things at once, leaving you no room to focus on
what really needs to be done?  Use the Godfather plan to overcome it and
make your mind a deal it simply can't refuse.
Believe it or not, your mind can be
bribed. When you tell yourself (or your mind) not to worry about something,
especially if it is not a high priority, you will automatically focus on it.
Instead tell your mind to do something with a time limit. For example, you need
to pay off a credit card debt and, to do that, you need to work out what your
disposable income is. Tell your mind that you will do it tonight when you get
home but, for the next 30 minutes, you need to concentrate on a presentation
you are preparing for a high-powered client. That should clear your mind and
allow you to focus on what's important.
If you can't clear your mind, write
everything down on a to-do list. That way, you will find you forget about them
until you come against them on your list.  A to-do list means that you are
not having to use up your brain as a mental to-do list, thus freeing it up for
bigger and better things.
C - Conquer Procrastination
Procrastinators are people who put
off doing something especially things that should be done in a timely manner.
 Next time you feel like putting off doing something, ask yourself three
questions:

Do I
     really have to do this job?
Should
     I get it done so it isn't constantly playing on my mind?
Will
     the job be any easier if I leave it to later?

Asking yourself those questions can
push your mind into concentrating on a specific task because they make you
actually think about the task. They make you face up to the fact that it isn't
going away and that putting it off constantly will just make you feel more
guilty; that will lead to the task taking up much more of your time than is
necessary.
U = Use your hands as a form of
blinkers
Imagine your mind is a camera and
that your eyes are the aperture.  Most of the time, your eyes take in
what's going on and your brain is acting as a kind of wide-angle focus. We are
actually capable of thinking about several things at once and still operating
efficiently.
So, let's imagine that you want to
switch your mind to telephoto focus.  You need to focus 100% of your
concentration on one thing to get it done, say, a difficult letter that you
need to write. Cup your hands around the sides of your eyes, thus blocking out
everything around you - in effect, they are out of sight, thus they are out of
your mind.  Cupping your hand around your eyes focuses your concentration
on one thing at a time and you can actually train your brain in this way.
It's called classical conditioning
and it was first discovered in the 1890's by Pavlov, a Russian psychologist. He
noticed that his dogs salivated when they were fed and eventually began to
salivate whenever he walked into a room - because they associated him with
food. He conducted an experiment whereby he rang a bell and gave his dog food
at the same time.  After a number of times repeating this, the dogs would
salivate just at the sound of the bell. In the same way, by cupping your hands
around your eyes and repeating it you can train your brain into learning that
this makes you focus and concentrate on the task at hand.
S = Seeing as if it is for the first
or the last time
Have you ever heard the saying, "in
the here and now"?  How often can you truly say that you are present
mentally?  By that I mean that, more often than not, when you are, let's
say sitting at your desk, your mind is more than likely elsewhere.  Next
time you find your mind wandering away from you are and what you are doing,
take a good look around you and open your eyes to what you see.  Study
your surroundings, truly see it and concentrate on it and your mind will snap
back to attention.











Chapter
2: Mental Exercises to Boost Concentration
 
As with all other kinds of
exercises, mental exercises can be very monotonous. They require you to
patiently stick with the routine and persevere. But once you do, the results
can be astonishing. When it comes to exercises, our mind, or to be more
specific, our brain is just like, our limbs. You work out your arms regularly
and they become more and more strong. Similarly, these mental exercises can
make your mind sharper and the level of concentration shall go up. Listed
herein below are some of the most effective mind exercises for you.  But
first....
 
Think of Your Mind as a Muscle
This is important when it comes to
strengthening up your focus and concentration.  You mind is an "attention"
muscle in much the same way as you have physical muscles in the rest of your body.
 Both types of muscle are limited in the amount of strength they have at a
given time - if they are used regularly, they will strengthen up, f not used
regularly, they will atrophy and, when they are used, they need rest and
recuperation afterwards.
Just before you begin a good workout
at the gym, you may get a feeling of doubt that you can actually do it. The
same goes for your mind when you are about to tackle a difficult piece of work.
 You have to set your mind to the job and buckle down to doing it.
Your mind will probably start to
wander halfway through the work something else will grab your attention
probably, something that seems much more exciting and, nine times out of ten,
you will allow yourself to be distracted. But, if you tell yourself that you
have to get on, you have dig in deeper, you'll be surprised at just how much
more your mind has to give.
The following exercises are designed
as a kind of brain workout to strengthen up your attention.  Let's face
it, you won't build up muscle strength by sitting around all day and you
certainly won't build up mental strength if you limit your focus. Your mind
needs exercise and it needs resistive exercise in much the same way as your
body needs resistive exercise.  Your mind needs to be challenged in order
to stretch it and, in the process, your mind muscle will grow focus fibers.
 These exercises are designed to increase your focus so that you are able
to take on heavier mental limits:
 
Increase your focus gradually
You don't throw yourself into a heavy
physical training program without building up to it and the same goes for your
mind.  You need to gradually increase the strength of your mind muscle so
that it is able to take on more.  This is where the "pomodoro" method
comes into play. This is a method where you set yourself a timer, say for 45
minutes, and you work until the timer goes off. Then you can take a 15 minute
break. But, if your focus isn't up to scratch, you don't want to be diving
straight into it. So, set yourself a 5 minute timer. Focus completely on your
work for those 5 minutes and then have a 2 minute break.  Do another 5
minutes, followed by another 2 minute break.   Each day, add another
5 minutes to the timer and another 2 minutes to your break.  By the time 9
days is up, you should be focused enough to work for that 45 minutes without
stopping, before rewarding yourself with an 18 minute break.  Once you get
settled in to that routine, you can work on lengthening the time you work and
reducing the time of your breaks - but not to the extent where they disappear
altogether.
 
Write a to-do list for your distractions
The internet is a wonderful thing
but, because we can find out just about anything we want on it, we have a
tendency to look something up the minute we think of it.  Consequently,
our focus and attention is drawn away from what we are doing. That might sound
ok, because you only want to check the weather, it'll only take 2 minutes,
right? Wring. Not only do you run the run the risk of being tempted to just
check your Facebook page or your email while you are online, it also takes, on
average, 25 minutes to get back into your work. Plus, the fact that your
attention is shifting backwards and forwards really does drain your mind of its
strength.
So, when you think of something you
might want to check on the internet, right it down on a piece of paper and push
it to one side until you are on a break or you get home.
 
Build up your willpower
Willpower is a wonderful thing -
when you've got it. It allows you to ignore those distractions, to push on with
your task until it's finished and not get sidetracked at all.
 Strengthening your willpower takes time but the best way to do it is to
tackle large goals and use the pomodoro method we talked about earlier,
gradually building up the time you spend on that goal.  Another method
that has been proven to work is to switch hands. If you are right-handed
person, switch to using your left hand for a while and vice versa.
 
Practice being mindful all day
You should get into the habit of dedicating
between 10 and 20 minutes of each day to meditation, as a way of clearing your
mind and opening it up for the day ahead or closing it down after work.
 On top of that, practice being mindful all day as well. All that is, is
concentrating your entire focus on one task at a time, slowing down and
thinking about all of the emotions you feel while you are doing that task -
physically and mentally.  This will work to strengthen your attention span
for those times when it is really needed and it can help you to push away
unwanted distractions.
 
Exercise your body
Physical exercise has been shown to
have a beneficial effect on mental strength and health. People who get involved
in moderate exercise before they take a test or buckle down to a task have much
better attention spans than those who don't.  This is because exercise
boosts your brain's ability to ignore any distractions and increases your
willpower as well.
 
Take your time reading
With so many people using tablets,
smartphones and e-readers these days, it's created a culture of people not
finishing what they start. Let me explain that - a recent research showed that
only around 5% of people who start reading an article or a book on one of these
devices will never finish it. And 38% will never get beyond the first couple of
paragraphs. So, the fact that studies show, with all these electronic devices,
reading has gone up by 40%, means nothing. In real terms, there is less reading
going on and more scrolling through pages instead.   
That' a real shame because reading
long articles or books can really strengthen the mind. Long articles may not
automatically mean that they are better, sometimes there is a great deal of
information, complex information that must be stretched over a long article or
a book. To skip something because it looks too long is a definite no-no and can
result in you missing out on a ton of useful information and brain stretching
as well. Pick up a book tonight and really try to get into it - it will do you
the power of good.
As well as that, try to find the
time to read two or three long informative articles a week. They will really
broaden your mind, and you'll be surprised at what you can learn along the way
as well!
 
Be curious - always
The more curiosity you have about
the world and about things around you, the better your concentration will be.
 Try this little experiment to test out how being curious about something
can make your ability to focus on it last longer:

Draw
     a dot on a piece of paper and put it in front of you or pin it to a wall.
     Now concentrate on it. One of two things will happen - your field of
     vision will blur so that you will not really see anything or you will find
     yourself looking at anything but the dot.   However, ask
     yourself some questions about the dot - how big is it, what shape, what
     color, etc., while you are looking at it, successive questions in your
     mind and you will find that you concentrate on it for much longer.

Charles Darwin was one of the
biggest masters of this - he could spend all day just staring at flowers,
plants or animals. He had a curiosity about things that never dies and, by
looking at something for hours, he could learn more and more about it, simply
by asking himself questions about it and by looking at it from different angles
and perspectives.
 
Practice attentive listening
Focus isn't just about your working
habits, it's also an essential life skill.  To be able to concentrate your
attention on family or friends without your mind wandering is a useful skill to
learn and, while you are focusing, you are strengthening up your mind muscles.
 When you are talking with people in future, practice really listening to
them, focusing all of your attention on them and not on your phone or the game
on the TV.
In a short while, we are going to look
at some concentration exercises that you should make a point of practicing. In
order to get the most out of these, follow these tips:

Find
     somewhere quiet where you can be by yourself and not be disturbed.
Be
     comfortable - most people find it easier to sit on a chair or you could
     sit cross-legged on the floor. You must sit with your spine erect though
Take
     some deep calm breaths and relax your entire body, bit by bit, by pointing
     your direction to each muscle in turn, starting from your feet and working
     up to your head
Practice
     all of the exercises for 10 minutes to start with. After a few weeks you
     can start increasing the time to 15 minutes and so on
Do
     the exercises in the order they are listed in.
Start
     with the first exercise and practice it every single day until you can do
     it without being distracted and without your mind wandering elsewhere for
     at least three minutes continuously
If
     you do get distracted, start again until the 10 minutes has passed
Be
     very honest with yourself - only move on to exercise two when you are
     happy that you have mastered the first one properly and have practiced it
     without being distracted
Do
     not set yourself a timetable as this will just end up frustrating you.
      If you set yourself a task of practicing a specific exercise for,
     let's say 5 days. Two things are likely to happen - first you will be
     disappointed if you can't master it within those 5 days and second, you
     will move on to the next exercise before you already to.
Remember
     that mastering these exercises can take days, sometimes weeks or months
Focus
     your whole attention on the exercises and do not allow yourself to think
     about anything else. Make sure you do not fall asleep or go off into a
     daydream. If you do find your mind wandering onto something else, stop and
     start again.  Once you are proficient, carry on with the same
     exercise but for a longer time and try to do two sessions in one day
Never
     do too much to start with and certainly do not try and do all the
     exercises at once. Take it easy and don't overdo it
Don't
     be disheartened if you do find it difficult to concentrate or are easily
     distracted. Nobody gets it first time around; all you need to do is
     persevere and never, ever give up.  Remember this - even those who
     have powerful concentration skills had to start at the beginning and learn
     how to exercise their minds as well.

It really doesn't matter if you have
a low level of focus and concentration to start with. Just like your body, when
you go to the gym, your mind muscles can be exercised and strengthened as well
- it just takes effort and training.
Given time, you will find that your
concentration skills are much better, that you will be able to focus on your
given tasks and will be able to concentrate, no matter where you are.
 Even in circumstances that are trying, you will be able to focus and
concentrate your thinking while staying calm and collected as well as fully
relaxed.  
To get the full benefit of these
exercises you should practice each one for an extra week after you feel you
have mastered it:
 
Count the words
This is one of the simplest mind
exercises ever. Take the newspaper, pick an article and start counting the
number of word in the first paragraph of the article. Redo it once again to
ensure the figure is correct. Go on to the next paragraph. In this fashion,
cover the entire page. You can also use a book or magazine for this purpose.
There is only thing that you should ensure; do not count with your fingers. The
whole exercise should be done with the eyes alone.
 
Count backwards
This one may sound simple, but only
deceptively so. In your mind, without saying the numbers out aloud, start
counting backwards. Easy? Then try this, start counting again from 100, but
skip the 4 digits in between, for example 100, 96, 92 etc.
 
Fruity technique
Sit down on a chair, pick a fruit of
your choice, and hold it out in your palm. Now completely concentrate on the
fruit. Run your eyes over it, think about its smell, visualize in your mind its
taste, the texture, the sensation of biting into it etc. Do not think about the
ancillary matters like the price, the store from which you bought it etc.
 The idea is to block out every other thought from your mind and think
about the fruit at the most elementary level.
 
Glass of water
Take a medium sized glass of water
and sit down on a chair. Extend an arm outwards and place the glass on the
outstretched palm. Any tremors or shaking shall be visible by the ripples on
the surface of the water. Now concentrate hard by looking at the glass. When
you do this, your arms will steady themselves. Shift the glass into the other
hand and repeat the procedure.
 
Look but don't think
This is a slight variation of the
"Fruity technique" given above. In this case, pick up a small object
such as pen, pencil or paper clip and look at it, concentrating hard. But do
not think about it. Just keep looking at the object without thinking anything
about it. It may be a bit tough in the beginning, but you will improve with
time.  Keep doing again and again and it will work wonders to the level of
concentration.
 
To color or not
This exercise is on a higher level
and will work out only if you have mastered the ones given above. What you have
to do here is, draw a geometrical figure on a sheet of paper. It can be circle,
triangle or rectangle. But whatever it is, make sure it is small and not
overtly huge.  Now fill the inside of the figure with a bright and
contrasting color such as red or yellow or black.
Then comes the tough part, look at
the picture in front of you and visualize the figure alone. Ignore the color,
ignore your surroundings and completely block out any thoughts from your mind.
Simply look at the paper and imaging the figure or outline of the picture.
 
 
The Chair exercise
Okay, now here it
is, just sit. That's all there is, just pick a straight back, comfortable chair
and sit. Well a bit more actually, make sure that while sitting, you are not
moving a muscle. Your body shouldn't move a millimeter except your
chest and nostrils, for breathing. This may sound effortless to you, but it is
actually a tough one. You may not be able to do it for more than five minutes
at a stretch, but practice hard and fix a target of fifteen minutes. It is a
kind of compound exercise because if done properly, it can relax your complete
body.
 
Breathing in and out
You may already know of this but its
effectiveness warrants it a place in any list of mental exercises to improve
concentration. Sit upright on a chair or on the ground, with your head and back
in a straight line. Press your index finger against your right nostril and
breathe in gently through your left, mentally ticking off ten seconds. Now
remove your finger and exhale through your right nostril, again taking ten
seconds to do so. Now repeat the whole procedure with the other finger and left
nostril. This exercise should be done a minimum of 20 times at a stretch.
 
Noise cancellation
Noise is one of the
biggest reasons why we cannot concentrate and focus properly.  So let us
tackle it head on. The ideal place to do this will be on a park next to the
road. Close your eyes and take a stock of all the sounds around you. Now, pick
a sound and concentrate on it, blocking out everything else. After two or three
minutes, switch your focus to another sound and concentrate on it, ignoring
everything else in turn.
 
Blank out
We have kept the most difficult one
for the last. Intentionally blank yourself out. Do not think of anything for a
minute. Completely block out everything from your mind. This may prove to be
extremely tough in the beginning, but don't give up. Keep working on it and
gradually increase the time period to five minutes and from there to ten and so
on. There is only one principle to this exercise, your mind should be
completely free, and not even a single thought should invade your mind. The
time of the day, where you are, what you are doing, what you have to do etc.
are all thoughts that tend to barge into our mind when we try to blank out. But
resist such thoughts by gaining mastery over your thought process.











Chapter
3: Tips for Better Concentration
 
Now that
we have covered the various methods and techniques for improving focus and
concentration, it is time to give the final touch. Once you are well versed
with the mental exercises, you can keep these tips in mind to round it off
properly.
 
Push through frustration
This is all about pushing your
limits. When you feel saturated and think that you cannot sustain your level of
concentration for another minute, convince yourself to give in five more
minutes. Force yourself to read a couple of more pages. Tackle two more
problems and so on.
Right when the temptation to give up
hits you, push for another five minutes. Those five minutes count a lot. This
is akin to athletes and bodybuilders who train to go past the point of
exhaustion and develop their strength and stamina. Similarly, push your mind
and heighten the concentration levels.
 
Prioritize
Prioritize your tasks. If faced with
multiple problems, make a mental list and take up the problem that ranks the
highest and leave the rest for the moment. For this you have to analyze the
different problems and plan the execution. And while doing the task at hand,
don't worry about the ones that you have kept aside. Just focus on the work on
hand and concentrate on that alone.
 
Tunnel vision
You are reading a book and find that
beyond a point, you can't concentrate? Here is a quick tip, cup your face with
your hands in such a manner that your vision is restricted to just the book
alone. Create a sort of tunnel vision in which you cannot see anything other
than the page you are reading. This helps in focusing on the task on hand
better, as this brings into your thought process under your command.
 
The first and last glance
This tip comes in handy when you
have to concentrate while looking at figures or patterns. Confront the pattern
or figure as if it is the first and last time you will be looking at it. Create
this sense of self urgency and your concentration will involuntarily go up in
learning that fact. It is the normal human tendency to procrastinate and put
off difficult things for later. This frame of mind is not conducive in
improving your levels of concentration, even if you want to.
 
Decide what is best for you
Throughout the last three chapters
we have listed out various techniques and methods for improving your
concentration and various tips to be used in conjecture with them. Do not
doubt, even for a moment the efficacy of the methods, but you have to
understand the simple fact that not everyone is alike and a method which may
prove to work for one may not be fruitful for the other.
And this is precisely the reason why
we reckoned we should add this little tip - decide what is best for you. The
human mind is an enigma, the intricacies of which have never been completely
understood in its entirety. Hence instead of going by the textbook, try out and
experiment the different methods and techniques that have been outlined and
explained herein and ascertain which works for you the best.
 
10 Tips Specifically for Concentration at Work
You may think that you are organized
because you keep a schedule and you write a to-do lists but are these really
helping you to get more done or is all of your focus being taken up by actually
completing these rather than on your work?  Organization is one of the
more important things but, for it to work effectively, you need to be able to
focus.  You need to be able to sit and focus intently on your tasks for a
couple of hours or more - believe it or not, even focusing for half an hour can
result in more being done that if you send all day fighting off distractions
and trying to do several things at once.
The following tips are designed to
help you get yourself into a state of concentration in the workplace:
 
Cut the noise out
While you know that the noise around
you is a serious distraction, do you actually do anything about cutting it out?
 Yes, it can be tempting to have your email alerts switched on, your
instant messaging activated and your phone on but you don't need to deal with
all of them every time they ping to life. Turn them off, at least while you are
trying to concentrate and only put them on when you are on a break. It can take
around 15 - 25 minutes for you to actually get into a real state of
concentration and if you are being distracted every few minutes by an email
coming in, your mum texting you or your mate popping up on IM then you cannot
possibly get yourself into that state of concentration.  Stick to
answering your emails only at set times and ask that people don't contact you
unless it is an emergency and request aht you are not disturbed. If part of
your job is to answer the phones and see to customers when they come in,
schedule big projects for when things aren't so busy.
 
Structure your environment
Where you are working has a huge
impact on how you focus on your work. Try and position yourself so you are
facing distractions, such as windows or doors, even the phone. That way, you
and glance up to assess any sound that might truly break your distraction and
then put it out of your mind. If you have your back to the door and someone
comes in, you will automatically look up and away from your work and your
concentration is broken.
 
Know your goals
Before you start work, make a list
of your goals so that you are clear on exactly what is expected.  If you
don't you will simply get confused and that will make focus impossible.
 
Divide a job into blobs
Big jobs can sometimes look daunting
so break larger tasks down into smaller one, making each one a job of its own.
 For each one, clearly identify the objectives and the path you will take
to get working on it.  Each blob, or section, should be clearly linked to
the others in a proper sequence so make sure you plan the whole job out in
steps, in a logical manner
 
Know the task rules
Be clear on the rules for the task
you are going to tackle.  What standard of quality is required? Are there
any constraints that you need to be aware of? How long does it need to be, what
style must it be written in? If your guidelines are flexible then mark out how
you are going to complete the job before you start. That way, you will not find
yourself losing concentration as you try to work out what needs to be done.
 
Have a deadline
Deadlines can be advantageous as
well as a problem when you are trying to concentrate.  Deadlines can make
it very easy to forget about things that are not essential and to help you
speed up. Give yourself a set time for each part of the job; that way you will
find it simpler and you won't keep messing around trying to make it complicated
or over-extravagant.
Deadlines become disadvantageous
when you start worrying about how much - or little - time you have left instead
of focusing on the task itself. Use a deadline when:

You
     have only a limited amount of time to complete the task in.  Split
     the task into specific deadlines and get rid of any nonessential work
If
     you think you are losing sight of the big picture, I.e., it's easy to
     expand what you are doing to fit in new ideas and you run the risk of
     going way over target. Deadlines will help keep a modicum of control.
If
     you are a procrastinator! Tight deadlines stop you form not doing the work
     and from worrying about getting it done

Use deadlines wisely - setting one
for every job will only serve to get you stressed out and that will cause your
focus to shift.
 
Get round the roadblocks
Roadblocks happen when you run out
of ideas or you find your focus wavering. Get round these by planning things
out on paper or brainstorming it, either with yourself work with a colleague.
Writing things down can help keep your focus in check.
 
Isolate yourself
Stay away from people if you relay
want to get your work done.  Unless you need them to complete your work,
they will only serve to distract you. Set aside a set time where you can shut
yourself away in an empty office to work. If you can't do that, put a sign up
asking people to leave you alone until a set time and divert your phone
elsewhere.
 
Be healthy
You already know that a healthy body
equals a sharp mind. What you eat and drink has an effect on the way you think
and concentrate,  Make sure you get plenty of sleep, don't use stimulants
such as caffeine, don't eat too any fatty foods. Just try cutting out one
unhealthy habit for one month and see what the effect on your concentration
levels is.
 
Be patient
Sit and think about your work for
several minutes before you actually start. You will feel an urge to get up and
go do something else but, if you sit patiently, that urge will pass, and your
workflow will come naturally. You will be able to clearly think out your work
and go with that flow.











Chapter
4: Methods for Improving Learning Capacity
 
In this chapter we shall look at
some of the most effective methods for improving your learning capacity. These
are a set of pointers that take a wholesome approach rather than being fixated
on any singular concept or technique. Before we go into those, let's take a
closer look at how to improve your memory, one of the most important parts
about learning.
Improving your memory isn't as
difficult as you may think. The biggest problem is overcoming the thought that
memory is static, that it doesn't change. It does and it can be improved in
much the same way as you would improve any skill - by practice.
We all know that there are two kinds
of memory - short and long-term.  We use our short-term memory to hold
pieces of information that we might need straight away, like a name. According
to research, short-term memory is capable of holding on to about 7 pieces of
information and, once it's full, something has to drop off.
Long-term memory is to hold
information that we don't need to know right away.  When you study for
exams, that's where the information goes, into your long-term memory. Memorable
events are stored there too.
So, how do you improve your memory?
Your memory lives in your brain
You might think that I am stating
the obvious here but not everyone realizes that memory is formed inside the
brain. So, it should go without saying that, if something improves the health
of your brain, it automatically improves your memory.  Two methods that
are proven to keep the brain stimulated are physical exercise an activities
that stimulate the brain, such as crossword puzzles or Sudoku puzzles.
But, there's something else that
helps enormously and that is keeping your body healthy. Watching what you eat
and ruling stress out of your life are two important factors in helping your
brain to focus properly.  Getting enough sleep is important and, it must
be said, taking vitamin and herbal supplements do not have the same effect on
your body as getting the same vitamins through a healthy diet, so eating
properly is the number one thing you should focus on.
 
How to Improve your Memory
The following tips will help you to
learn how to focus your attention and concentrate:

Focus
     on what you are doing. Multitasking may be the in buzzword of the day but,
     spending too much time on juggling multiple tasks will have one result -
     you will not focus on the task at hand.  Your brain needs to be able
     to take in the information you are reading and it needs time to do that.
     If you are constantly flicking your focus between multiple tasks, that is
     not going to happen. Stop multitasking, start focusing.
Smell,
     taste, touch, hear and see it. Use your senses, all of them, when you need
     to encode information into your memory.  The more senses you use, the
     easier it will be to ingrain something on your memory.  If you need
     to remember a name, look the person in the eye when you are meeting them
     for the first time and repeat their name, shake their hand. You have now
     used four out of the five senses and you will remember their name much
     easier.
Repeat
     things to yourself. Repetition works; the more you repeat something the
     more likely you are to remember it. Don't do it continuously though,
     repeat the information you want to remember over a spaced out period of
     time
Put
     long information into chunks.  Think about a 10-digit phone number.
     Despite the fact that our short-term memory can only hold 7 pieces of
     information, you can remember those 10 digits, because you break them into
     chunks.  Instead of seeing 10 separate numbers you see it as a couple
     of pieces of information - area ode, prefix and number. You can do this
     with any information - simply divide a large amount into smaller chunks
     and focus on memorizing each separate chunk.
Organize
     information that you need to memorize.  Brains like organization and,
     in much the same way as a book is broken into chapters, you can break down
     your information.
Use
     mnemonics. These devices can help you to remember complicated information
     by using acronyms, imagery, songs or rhyme.  Think about a medical
     student - they will often memorize bones and symptoms of illnesses by
     coming up with sentences where the first letter of each word will
     correspond to a specific symptom or bones. Think about this one, something
     we were all taught at school - how to remember the colors of the rainbow:


Richard
Of
York
Gave
Battle
In
Vain

The first letter of each word is the
first letter of the corresponding color and the order they go in the rainbow -
red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet. That's how easy it is
·       
Find your own way of learning. There isn't a "one
size fits all" mentality when it comes to learning, everyone is different.
 Find the style that works for you, even if it is completely different
from the way everyone else learns.  Some people learn by writing things
down, others learn by recording a session and some people learn by doing rather
than listening.
·       
Connect the dots. Try to learn associations, that
way you are likely to remember things much easier.  When you first take in
a piece of information, think about how it relates to something - you will have
more chance of remembering both things that way. Connect the dots between new
information and the information that is already in your brain.
As we get older, we tend to think
that our memory just gets worse. It doesn't have to though. By following the
above tips, you can keep the edge on your memory for as long as you want to.
Now, onto those pointers we talked
about at the beginning of this chapter:
 
Don't stop learning
The best way to improve your
learning capacity is to simply keep learning more. It has been proved in
countless researches by scientists that the more you stimulate the brain by
learning, the more will be your ability to learn further.  This capacity
of the human brain to imbibe more when it is constantly stimulated is called
"pruning".  Moreover this increases your retention ability as
well.
The simplest example of this
phenomenon is learning a new language. Learn a few key words and stop there and
you would never master the language. However keep learning new words and
phrases every day and one day it will not just be your expertise over the
language that will improve but also the quantum of new things that you can
learn.
 
Multi-pronged approach
This is the tried and tested method
of using multiple approaches to learn the same thing. For instance, to learn a
concept, read it, write what you have read on a paper, listen to a recording of
the concept and visualize it. Each method involves a different region of the
brain. The principle is to simply involve the maximum number of regions so
that, all taken together a complete picture will be created. This process
ensures that you have actually learned a concept rather than simply mugging it
up.
 
Take up teaching
It is time honored concept that, the
most effective way to learn something and to make sure that it stays in your
head is to teach it to someone. The whole process of teaching involves jogging
your own memory and reproducing what you have stored there. When you explain a
concept to another person, your brain has to gather up all the loose snippets
and bind them together into a set of coherent facts.  This also includes
translating the facts into verbal information which again cements your
knowledge.
 
Relate and learn
This is a method that is highly
effective in learning difficult and novel concepts. Relate the fact to
completely different and unrelated things such as a picture or a set of
numerals or a piece of music or a jingle. When you do so, your brain stores the
fact in conjunction with the related matter. This differentiates the particular
concept form other similar ones that you would have learned earlier.
This technique is particularly
useful in learning scientific concepts that differ from each other in very
minute aspects.
 
Hands on approach
There is huge amount of difference
between learning something, keeping it in a part of your brain and actually
putting that learned knowledge into practice. When you do so, it completely
solidifies that concept in your brain. Practice what you have learned on a
regular basis and you become thorough in that and it frees up "space"
in your brain to learn more. Let us take the earlier given example of learning
a new language. Just going to classes will only teach you the theoretical
aspects of the language. But at the same time, if you watch movies in the
language and converse with native speakers of the language, it helps you
acquire a whole new level of mastery over it.
 
Refer rather than remember
There is a big misconception that
when you have learned something and when you try to reproduce it or say it
aloud, you should not refer to the source material, if you cannot retrieve it
from memory. This is not true, have no qualms in opening the book and
referring. A cursory glance is all that it may take for you to completely bring
it out. This also improves your retention capacity and helps you learn more.
 
Test yourself
Test yourself frequently on what you
have learned in the past. Take a conscious effort to step out of your comfort
zone and subject yourself to self-examination on your knowledge. This not only
improves your clarity on the concepts, but also increases your recalling
ability. Frequent tests also make you more comfortable with reproducing on
demand what you have learned.
 
Say no to multitasking
Generally, the ability to multitask
is regarded as something to be revered. But recent research studies have shown
that multitasking can have adverse effects on your capacity to learn further.
Instead of hopping between tasks, take one at a time, fix a target time and
finish it with utmost concentration. This way your clarity on the subject will
be better, the concept will stay in your mind for a longer period and your efficiency
in reproducing it on a later day will also be better.











Chapter
5: Various Techniques to Improve Your Learning
 
In this
chapter, let us look at the various techniques one can employ to improving
their learning skills.
 
Elaborative Interrogation
Under this technique, we question
the rationale behind something instead of question what it is all about. In
other words, the question that one asks under this method is why and not what.
For example, when you are given a theory to read, instead of just reading the
theory again and again to memorize the postulates of it, you could start
questioning why the theory was formulated in the first place.
This way, the logic stays in your
mind for a longer time thereby making it easier for you to understand the
theory in totality. However, it might not be as simple as it sounds when you
actually put the technique into practice. Prior knowledge of the subject is
sometimes required to even understand the answer behind the "why" question.
Keeping that aside, it is an effective way learning technique. It can produce
great results with some practice.
 
Distributed practice
This technique addresses the issue
of retention of data studied over a long period of time. We often have to
remember things that we studied in the beginning of an academic year during the
final exams. How is it possible for the brain to remember something you studied
almost a year back completely?
Instead of studying it all in haste
during the week before the final exams, what one could do is study the topic every
month. This way, it should not be a problem when you are preparing for the
final exams. The longer you wish to remember things, the more even should be
the gap between two reading sessions of the concerned topic. Distributed
practice helps in increasing the memory power and longer retention rates.
 
Self-Explanation
Often we just read things and expect
to remember it after sometime. When we try to recollect stuff and explain
ourselves the concept, we find it difficult. This is because we push off the explanation
part to a later time. Under this technique, the explanation follows the reading
session immediately. We often understand things when we try to explain it to
ourselves out loud.
For example, you have been
struggling to learn an important event associated with the Civil war. What you
could do after reading the passage is, explain the chain of events to yourself
loudly. This way, you would be able to understand and learn the topic quickly.
Also, it is easier to mark out the areas where you are not clear when you try
explaining yourself. Otherwise, it would prima facie look like you understood
everything. You would be in for a rude shock later when the text you had read a
few days back looks absolutely alien to you.
 
Summarizing
Under this technique, all one has to
do is read a passage, summarize it in few short lines. This exercise reflects
how much one has understood the passage. It is not possible to summarize a text
without understanding what it is about. This is probably one of the reasons why
some professors insist on the students taking notes during a lecture.
When one summarizes a passage or a
lecture in their own words, they would be able to remember it well the next
time they look at their notes. Writing notes have another advantage. You would be
in a position to brush up the entire topic in a matter of minutes by just
looking at your notes instead of having to go through the entire text again.
 
Highlighting and underlining
This technique could turn out to be
quite redundant if not applied cautiously. Under this technique, the important
points or phrases are highlighted or underlined for easy reference. Now it is
not easier to figure out the key points in a passage unless you read it with
utmost concentration and understand it. However, this could be the drawback of
this method as well. Students often might just highlight random sentences and
the entire process becomes futile. If utilized properly, highlighting only
important sentences will help in revising the passage again.
 
Creating Mock Tests
We often look at exams and tests as
something scary. We fail to understand that the fear for these exams is
probably arising from lack of sufficient knowledge about the subject. How to
overcome this fear? Well, ask a friend to set you some mock question papers for
you to write. When you give these mock tests, you will be in a better position
to analyze how much you have actually learnt and understood. You can reread the
portions you did not answer well in the mock question paper. This way, you will
remember the answer forever.
 
Making up Key Words
Sometimes we remember stuff when it
is associated with fun. Why not make learning a fun exercise as well? Learn to
associate key words with any important concept to understand as well as
remember it. Mnemonics (we talked about it earlier) can help you memorize a
passage better. Still don't get the drift of it? Remember the
way we were taught the nine planets when we were kids?
"My Very Elegant Mother Just Showed
Us Nine Planets" - the starting letter of each word in
this phrase represents a planet.
So the idea is to find key words
associated with the passage and use it to study. This way learning becomes fun,
creative and easy.
 
Associating Images
Have you wondered as to why we
remember a story we read eons ago better than a passage we read the day before?
Well, the answer is simple. When we read or listen to a story, we picture it
inside our heads. That is the reason why we vividly remember the story even
after ages. When we try extending this principle to learning other things, the
results could actually work in your favor.
You have trouble remembering a
physics experiment? Try visualizing the whole process inside your head as you
read it. That way, the image stays in your mind longer than you can imagine. It
is easier to retrieve the image from your memory instead of the entire text.
This will also improve your memory power.
 
Rereading
Rereading is one of the most
effective learning techniques. The difference between reading and rereading is
sometimes the difference between hearing and listening. We often read something
without really focusing on it. When you reread it, it makes more sense and
stays inside your head. Whenever you read something for the first time, make
sure you reread it immediately so as to ensure that you have understood it
completely. This can also help you remember things easily because your brain is
processing something again.
 
Interleaved Practice
Sometimes, reading all the topics
under a single unit might be monotonous and boring. The pace of reading also
will come down once monotony sets in. How to deal with it? Interleaving does
not focus on studying topics in whole blocks. It instead focuses on studying
problems in a haphazard fashion. However, if employed loosely, this technique
might actually backfire on the person. They might end up wasting time on
reading up topics in a haphazard way and not remembering anything at the end of
the session. If used properly, this technique can improve one's
retention rate.











Chapter
6: The Science behind Concentration
 
Do you
ever find yourself stuck in a routine? Most of us do at one time or another
yet, at the time, we feel as though we simply can't get out of it.  Many
of us fall into a routine because it's easier and it's the same principle with
focus and concentration. You may find it easier to juggle several tasks or deal
with distractions than you do to focus on one particular task until it's
finished.  
In fact,
we have had it drummed into us that multitasking is the best way to get things
done.  How right is that? Well, recent studies have shown that
multitasking does have a drastic effect on our work - the wrong effect. Not
only does it make your work 50% worse than it should be, it also increases the
time it takes to finish it by 50%. Plus, believe it or not, it is actually
impossible, physiologically speaking, for the brain to multitask.
Instead
of multitasking, what you are actually doing is constantly moving your
attention which kills your focus.  In fact, your brain moves through three
distinct phases when you multitask:

Phase
     1 - blood rush.  When you start on a task, the blood rushed into your
     anterior prefrontal cortex. In that part of your brain is a switchboard, a
     neurological one and that tells the brain that it is about to shift its
     focus
Phase
     2 - find/execute. That alert is an electrical charge that is made up of
     two separate parts - a search query which is looking for the right neurons
     in your brain to cope with the task, and a command, which tells that
     neuron what it needs to do.  
Phase 3 - disengagement.  Let's say you
     are writing a letter and your email alert goes. Your brain will very
     quickly disengage from the task it is on and back you go to phase 1 - the
     blood rush - and you start all over again.  

This
process always works in that order and in sequence, never simultaneously. That
is simply not possible. Believe it or not, your brain can go through these
phases in on-tenth of a second. That tells us that, first, we should focus only
on one thing at a time and, second, you must master something called selective
attention.
 
Selective Attention
What
makes a person intelligent?  Surprisingly, intelligence is not a measure
of what is stored in your memory. Instead, it is a measure of how well you
control selective attention. It is the ability to have complete control over
the three phases mentioned above.
Improving
your ability to allocate your attention selectively results in your brain
improving. Your mind will learn to rewire itself to work with your new habits.
When you concentrate hard, you get better at it but many people believe that,
the older we get, the less likely we are to be able to selectively allocate our
attention. That is simply not true.  By doing brain exercises on a daily
basis, you can sharpen your mind and improve your concentration and focus
skills, no matter what age you are. Let's look at 8 ways to help you build up
short-term focus, or concentration:
 
To start concentrating you must stop getting distracted
That
really is self-explanatory, don't you think? But, despite that, it really is
most amazing how many different excuses you hear from people as to why they
can't concentrate. Back in the 1980's, two researchers asked themselves, "what
came first - distraction or boredom?"  Now you could be forgiven for
thinking that you get distracted when you are bored. But, in actual fact, it is
the other way around.  Those that are prone to allowing themselves to be
distracted are more likely to become bored and this means, if you want to be
able to focus and concentrate, you have to cut out those distractions.
 
Just one important job every day
It's
also been found through scientific study that we really can only focus on one
thing at a time. But, how many of us actually do that? How many of us are
juggling several different jobs, have all their tasks on their to-so list down
as important, must be done today? When you are in that situation, when you have
piles of paper on your desk, do whatever it takes to get rid of them. Put them
in a drawer, out of sight. Then, put your feet up, shut your eyes, and
daydream.
I can
see jaws dropping everywhere but I'm deadly serious.  Shut your eyes and
ask yourself one question - what is the single most important task that I must
get done today.  Once you have determined that job, do it. Do it straight
away while it's fresh in your mind.  And do this every day.
Believe
it or not, you will find it much easier to focus and concentrate if you set
yourself a goal of just one important task every day, instead of rushing around
like a headless chicken, trying to do everything and actually achieving nothing
except for a mountain of stress and a thumping headache.
Think of
this quote whenever you find yourself struggling to break away from
multitasking! - "Don't mistake activity for achievement" - John Wooden
 
Break tasks into chunks of three
Nine
times out of ten, your one important task is going to need more than one action
on it.  More than likely it will need several so the best thing to do is
write down everything that you need to do to achieve it, in a logical order and
then group them in three chunks. Having a plan is the only way you will
successfully complete your important task and, without one, your work be just
as ineffective as if you were running around trying to do everything and
achieving nothing.
Use a
planner or to-do list to outline your three separate steps, with all their
separate parts, and you will succeed in your goal.
 
Ask questions to stop yourself from procrastinating
When you
are asked to do something important, your brain will process the meaning before
it processes the detail of the job.  This is why we procrastinate -
getting on with an important job without understanding what you are doing or
why you are doing it will be frustrating and fruitless task.  When you
find yourself procrastinating about something, ask these two questions:
 
Question
1 - Does this job really have to be done?
No
matter what your environment, be it in school, at work, even at home, if you
can't think of a good reason why a job needs to be done, ask yourself that very
question.  If your boss has asked you to do a job, ask them to explain it
to you, why it's so important that it be done right now. In that scenario, one
of four things will likely happen:

Your
     boss will realize that it's just work that's keeping you busy for no
     reason and you won't need to do it
He
     or she will attempt to convince you that it must be done immediately. If
     s, set yourself a short deadline and get the job done
They
     will give you a highly compelling reason why it is vital the job is done
     and, because you understand the meaning and the value of the job, you will
     be able to complete it easily
He or she will lose their temper with you for
     asking the question. This could indicate that you are working in a place
     where purpose and innovation have no place and, if you are happy to work
     for that kind of organization, carry on. If not, find the nearest exit!
 

Question
2 - Can I pass this on to someone else to do?
If the
task you are given has a real meaning and a real purpose and you really don't
want to do it or simply don't have the time, find someone else who can.
 Trying to do a job you hate or rushing it to fit it in with the rest of
your schedule is a lose-lose situation, for you and for your boss, because your
work is not likely to be up to standard.
 
Use your time smartly
Have you
ever heard of the Pareto Principle? Sometimes known as the 80/20 principle, it
works on the premise that 80% of your effectiveness is driven by just 20% of
your actions.  It could even be higher than that, especially when you sit
back and think about how many mundane tasks you do in a day.  However,
what I don't want you to do is look for those 20% of meaningful actions and
concentrate on them - it won't work and your mind will simply get in a muddle
and you will still end up taking on way too much.  Instead, as we talked
about earlier, stick with your one important task per day and learn to say no
to everything - or everyone- else.
There
are three different types of people in each business - which one are you?

The busy person

This is
the one you see running around with paper in their hands all day, working
through their breaks and their vacations and constantly checking their email.
These are the people who are stressed beyond belief, people who look as though
they are workaholics but who, in real terms, actually get very little done.
  These are the people who will lash out for no reason, who most
often end up with corporate burn-out.
Why does
this happen? Simple - because they look busy all the time, managers, or other
people, assume that they are the most capable, the hardest workers. Because of
that, they get more work assigned to them. The busy person really doesn't have
time to do an effective job and so they end up turning in sub-standard work.
 Busy people and workaholics are not good for a business because they are
the least effective worker on the payroll.

The lazy person

The lazy
person will blame their external environment on their inability to do their
work.  In their dreams they just know that one day they will succeed but,
in the meantime, they do nothing bit watch TV, eat junk food, and play video
games, all activities that release dopamine into the body.  At work, they
will send their time routing through the internet for mundane pieces of information,
achieving precisely nothing.  This is not the state you want to be in.

The sage

The sage
is very selective about the jobs they do. They constantly ask themselves
questions that most of us don't have time to ask. They look for meaningful
assumptions and question every activity they are assigned.  If they turn
down work, it's through a logical process, not because their emotions got in
the way.  
To
become a sage, you must be completely indispensable - this means that, wherever
you go, you can generate the money, whether it's for your organization or for
you. The sage is the person who will get numerous job offers, even when they
are not actively seeking a job.  

Build
     mind maps

Whenever
you find yourself getting a little overwhelmed and don't know where to start,
it is vital that you allow you mind to untangle itself.  You do this by
building mind maps on paper. There are two types - PS and Fear:

PS Map

PS
stands for problem solution and this is a helpful map to build when you know
you need to get something done but your mind tends to head towards a problem
that you think you have.  PS maps are vital if you are restless and your
mind keeps on racing. This is when you start to pace, constantly mulling a
problem over in your head.  When you get to this state, get a piece of
paper and write a heading at the top - "problem".
Now
write down all the details of the problem, including the nature of it.
 Halfway down the paper, write another heading - "solution".  Now
write down all of the solutions you can think of to the problem. This is a very
simple exercise but it allows your mind to slow down and helps you to put
perceived problems into perspective - suddenly the solution to that problem
will become as clear as anything.

Fear Map

Every
now and again, negative thoughts get into our minds and these thoughts will
very easily generate fear. The solution to this is to write down what the
consequences of that fear are and, by writing it down it will soon become clear
just how insignificant that fear really is.  And, even if the fear does
still seem significant to you, you will know what the worst you can face is.
Sometimes, what you think is the absolute worst outcome really isn't that bad
at all.
Fear
maps are very simple and they force you into applying a logical formula to your
fear. Get your piece of paper and write down the following formula on it:
"If x,
then y". X is your fear and y is the consequence, your estimate of what the
result of that fear will be.  Through doing this, your mind will begin to
slow down and allow you to focus on the real task at hand.
 
Find something to blame
Sometimes,
when you it down to concentrate, you can easily blame your inability to do so
on an inanimate object. Remember, we talked about this above, with lazy people.
 This is not a good solution, it certainly isn't a long-term one and you
can't keep on blaming something else for your failings.  However,
sometimes it's hard to get excited enough about a task to get that blood
pumping to the prefrontal cortex and, in those cases, an object can actually
help you.  
Perhaps
it is a cup of your favorite coffee, going for a walk or buying that lovely
Bonsai tree you saw last weekend. Reward your mind - say to it, to yourself,
that, as you can't concentrate, you'll go get your coffee, that tree or go for
a short walk. Surprisingly, you will find that this is often motivation enough
to get going on your work.
 
Get interested
Researchers
will tell you that concentration should not be treated as a gift; it isn't
anything to do with intelligence and it isn't about being a prodigy, born with
a gift for being able to concentrate on anything.  And, it really isn't
about having the ability to pull a stupid number of facts from your brain
either - that's what the internet is for!  Instead, concentration is
almost purely driven by an interest in the work or the subject.  That
interest is driven by your attitude and, if you are interested in the subject
you are writing about or that task you have to do, then you really will find it
much easier to concentrate.











 
Chapter
7: What Causes Distraction and How to Break Away
 
When you
finally manage to immerse yourself in your work, it's called focus or
concentration. This is the point where you are able to shut out the rest of the
world and focus all of your attention on the task in front of you. It's what
you've been aiming for, the point in your working day when things get done.
Let's
face it; we can never be like this all of the time. We all get distracted
occasionally no matter how much we try to fight it and it's these distractions
that stop the brain from focusing on what needs to be done, whether it's at
home or work.  But, do you know what is actually going in inside your
brain when you are concentrating? Do you know how to train your brain to get
into that state of focus?
This
chapter is all about understanding focus and concentration and, perhaps more
importantly, distractions.  To understand why you get distracted, you need
to know how your brain works and, once you understand that, you can work on
cutting those distractions out and training your brain to concentrate better.
At the end of the day, concentration is a skill and its one that takes time and
practice to develop.
What
happens in your brain when you are both focused and distracted?
We talked about this briefly before
but now I want to go into more detail about what happens in your brain and I'm
going to start with when you are concentrating or focusing on something and
then what happens when that focus is broken. As you will see, both of the
processes are somewhat intertwined.
 
What happens when you focus:
When you focus on a task, your brain
goes through two main steps.   This is pretty much the same whether
the focus is voluntary or involuntary. Selective focus comes under the control
of the top-down attention system.  This is completely under your control
and contains one simple question - "what is it you want to focus on?" When you
make the decision that you are going to focus on a specific thing, the brain
needs to sort and then understand the information and it does it in these two
steps:
·       
In a visual manner, i.e. through the eyes, you see
the information in front of you and you start to process it. You do this to try
and determine what you need to pay the most attention to. Imagine it as a
photograph or a picture that is blurred and that begins to clear and come into
focus.
·       
The second part of the process involves your focus
on one aspect - the bit you need to pay attention to. Think back to that burry
phot - as it comes into focus, your attention will pick one part of the picture
for you to focus on
When you are in your focused zone,
your entire perception of what's going on around you changes and you find that
your ability to block out and ignore things is a lot sharper.  This is
called being "in the zone" and it's when you are so focused that nothing around
you enters your world unless soothing tips the balance and kicks off your
bottom-up attention system. We'll talk more about that in a moment but first,
let's look at what just happened in your brain from a psychological viewpoint.
When you are focused, both sides of
your brain are working together, quite happily and quite efficiently and are
able to block out what's going on around you.  Your sense of time
disappears and you seem to become at one with the task you are concentrating
on.  This is similar to a trance-like state.
 
What happens when you break focus?
The idea of breaking your focus is
one that is based on an ages-old system that is designed to keep you safe.
 Selective focus relies on the top-down attention system where breaking
your focus relies on the bottom-up system.  Where you control top-down,
you cannot control bottom-up because it is hard-wired to your brain and is a
completely passive process.  Bottom-up attention asks the question - "what
is going on that requires my attention?"
There are two main events that will
cause you to break your focus - loud sounds and bright colors or bright lights.
 Your focus is automatically drawn towards anything that could be
rewarding or dangerous - think about an animal growling, a police siren or the
sounds of a carnival passing your window.
As soon as your top-down focus has
been broken it can take you upwards of 25 minutes to regain it. Every time it
gets broken, you have to start over again and, in the process, your brain's
resources are used up.  Effectively, you are becoming exhausted.
 Picture a glass of water - this is your attention system.
When it is undisturbed you can see
straight through it and you can concentrate on one task.  Hit or knock it
and it becomes disturbed and then it takes some time to calm down again enough
for you to see through it again. As time goes by, that water evaporated and by
the time the end of the day comes, there's nothing left. This brings us to the
next subject - how to determine what those distractions are and get rid of the
triggers so that you can point your focus where it needs to be.
 
What breaks your focus and how do you get round it?
We are all different and it's highly
likely that, at some point during your life, you have met someone who is able
to concentrate on reading a book while the TV is on or who can concentrate on
their work with the music going full pelt.  When it comes to your own
focus, you must pinpoint those triggers that cause it to break and learn how to
remove them for long blocks of time.  Let's take a closer look at the two
distraction causes we talked about earlier.
 
How to minimize external distractions
We know that there are just two
types of distraction that will cause you to break your focus - light and sound.
 Being able to minimize these distractions is a good way of making sure
that nothing can get to your focus and break it.  There are lots of ways
to block out external sources of distraction and, if you look around the web,
you'll find loads of different businesses and apps that are built on this idea.
 Here I have a few simple suggestions that can help you to block out a
good deal of the external distractions:

Wear
     a pair of headphones or some earplugs

If your biggest trigger for
distraction is loud noises, pop a pair of headphones on ar some earplugs.
 That will remove them from your area of focus; try the noise cancelling
versions as they work the best.  Do remember that these loud noises are
not always directed at you. Sometimes, the noise could be completely external
and not involving you at all. Any noise that is loud is sufficient to break
your focus but, if you can't exactly pinpoint what the problem is, take a
recorder in and record your entire day. Play it back when you get home and you
should be able to hear what the distractions are and if they come at specific
times of the day. If they are things that are scheduled such as the furnace
coming on, you can work your schedule around them. If it is just general noise,
get the headphones on for when you need to focus without any distractions.

Use
     digital blinders

Of course you can't put real
blinders on when you are focusing because you wouldn't be able to see but you
can get rid of visual cues that are around you that you may find distracting.
This means you need to block out both visual and audio notifications.
Notifications are distracting, there is no two ways about it. Turn your
smartphone onto silent and urn off vibrate; many smartphones allow you to set
timers on notifications these days so if yours does, use them.  Turn off
your email so you don't keep getting pinged when one comes in. In fact turn off
anything that sends you notifications and turn off the ringer on your desk
phone - you can always divert it to someone else for a while and they can come
get you if it's urgent. Do be clear on your meaning of urgent though!
 
How to minimize internal distractions
Most, if not all of us, are
distracted at some point during the day by internal thoughts. Perhaps it might
be that you suddenly wonder what to have for dinner; you wonder why you said
what you did to your boss this morning or why the girl in the coffee shop was
in a bad mood.  Whatever it is, you can do things to limit these mind
wanderings whenever you need your focus on a particular task.
It's easy enough to set your
environment up so that you don't get disturbed by external distractions but
it's going to take real commitment to shut out your internal thought processes.
 It isn't easy but it is possible.
First you need to be completely
aware of your thought processes and try to catch hold of the impulse to think
about something else, before you actually do.  Timing really is everything
in this case - once you have started to do something, it really is very difficult
to break that loop. Let's say you think to yourself, I'm just going to see if
that important business email has come in. You open your email and it hasn't
but, hey, you have three new messages from friends. Once you see them it's very
hard to take the decision that you are not going to look at them but that's
exactly what you must do. Perhaps you decide that you are going to get up and
move - the minute that decision is made, things start to happen - regions of
your brain start working, blood starts pumping in anticipation of you moving
and, believe me, it's much harder to stop yourself from getting up than it is
to go with the flow.  In order to stop yourself from becoming distracted,
you need to learn how to stop those habits from forming in the first place.
While it's a good thing to learn to
deal with all the distractions you face, an even better thing, especially in
the long term, is to train your brain how to focus more efficiently.
 
Use the Power of Science to Focus
It takes a good deal of training to
learn how to focus properly.  If you change your environment to suit and
train your brain, you will find that it becomes increasingly easier to focus
when you need to.  As well as the above examples I gave you to creating a
good environment, I have a few more ideas to help train your brain to slip into
focus mode without any real effort on your behalf:

Make
     the task you have to complete more relevant

This is actually a very simple idea.
 We know that when we are focused we are using the top-down attention system
and this is the key system in any to-do list.  Simply put the most
important thing at the top of the list and the least important all the way down
the bottom.  Take the job you know you have to focus on today - put it
straight to the top of the list and give it a short deadline. At the same time,
offer yourself a reward for completing it by the deadline. With a to-do list,
you place all your focus on the task at the top of the list and to make
yourself focus better, place more importance on that particular task.

Use
     meditation

Scientific studies have indicated
that meditation is good for building up the brain tissue around the parts of
the brain that are associated with attention.  The studies were looking at
the long-term effects but they do show that the brain is trainable and that
meditation can be used to train the brain how to focus better,
Before you get hung up on having to
learn all those difficult things you have read about meditation, there are
easier ways to do it.  The first step is to learn how to concentrate on
your breathing and blocking your thoughts out. This is one of the key points in
learning how to stop your thoughts from wandering, how to keep yourself
focused.  These are the very first steps in meditation, the first things you
will learn in any class or from any website.  Even if you can't see your
way clear to going all the way with meditation, make sure you at least learn
that.

Easy
     brain training - read a good book

When you focus your mind on
something that is productive, it triggers off the same areas of the brain that
you use to focus on something that is entertaining.  So, turn this around.
In order to learn how to focus on important tasks, use entertainment as a form
of training.  One of the best ways to do this is to lose yourself in a
good book, to the extent that you are unaware of the word around you - that is
true focus.
At the end of the day, there really
isn't any differentiation in the types of things you focus on. Whether it is
work, a good film or book, or that picture you've been planning to paint, the
end goal is the same - focus.  In any activity you undertake, there is the
potential to go from being totally engaged, to bored and having a wandering
mind.  We all know when we are focusing on something fully because it
takes no effort to do it.
It doesn't really matter what form
of entertainment you use. Not everyone reads but the point is, whatever you do
it must be challenging and you must be doing it actively.  TV isn't so
good because of the constant ad breaks but if you watch a movie, play a game or
read a book, they are good ways of bringing escapism into your life as a way of
training your brain how to focus.  The key point is, you must be actively
focused on whatever you are doing. That means no putting the book down to check
your Facebook page, no pausing the movie to look at your emails.  Shut out
the lights and all distractions and enjoy your form of entertainment wholly.
Let me just get one thing clear.
Running through these exercises is not going to make it possible for you to
immediately run off and concentrate fully on a large project.  Instead
they are designed to get you into the feeling of focus and concentration, of
how to ignore distractions and how to transfer that to all that you do, when
you need to.
Understanding how your brain focuses
is the key to learning how to train it to focus and set aside those
distractions.  Once you've learnt it, never let it get away from you
again.











Chapter
8: The Multitasking Myth
 
Definition of Multitasking
Multitasking originates from
computer language. The term refers to the ability of programs and operating
systems to simultaneously execute different tasks. This computer ability
results in exponential efficiency and high productivity. An example of this is
when several browser tabs are open yet all are active at the same time albeit
some are running in the background. The computer will be able to keep track of
the user's current activity while executing data and other processes for other
activity.
Even though this means that the
computer can run multiple tasks, it is still limited by the computer's hardware
capabilities. New innovations are slowly pushing the bounds for this limitation
further.
In the context of human
multitasking, we are emulating the inherent mechanical ability of computers in
an attempt to make ourselves more productive specially at the workplace. From
the contrast of the physical ability of machines and humans, we can already see
a fundamental flaw with the application of multitasking in human terms.
 
Multitasking and the Modern World
Technological advancement paved the
way for rapid industrialization and globalization. Labor intensive work is now
mostly done using machine. Information processing are now delegated to software
specifically designed to do the tasks that will require significantly more time
for their human counterparts to process. Machines are designed to do just that.
They are created and programmed to carry out algorithms that follow human
thought process and decision making for faster solutions.
Inadvertently, humans subconsciously
feel compelled to compensate for the maintenance of the technology that were
designed to make things easier in the first place. Out of the rapid
industrialization comes the concept of somehow copying the efficacy of
multitasking offered by technology. Here lies the flaw where mankind likens
themselves to machinery and pushes the limits of human capabilities.
 
The Importance of Being Productive
In the workplace, we are oftentimes
required to accomplish a multitude of tasks. These tasks take up time from the
very start when we begin label their order in importance and subsequently
prioritize them. Most of the time however, their order of importance overlap
and we are forced to do them simultaneously in order to get results.
The frantic need to cope with the
workplace environment becomes the norm because everyone believes that the
expectations set for them are reasonable. Thus, we begin to succumb and adapt
the mechanical ability of computers to multitask as close and as humanly
possible. The term 'multitasking' then evolved from the context of computers to
human multitasking. In the contemporary society that we live in, multitasking
is now accepted as a norm and humans have set the bar higher for themselves once
again.
 
The Misconception
From the aforementioned
sub-chapters, we can see where multitasking is fundamentally wrong. Humans are
not automatons that can compartmentalize different tasks in different memory
storage.
When people claim to be
multitasking, it's actually just an illusion. When we are doing more that one
task that require even the slightest thought process, the brain doesn't really
accommodate them simultaneously. What happens is that the brain rapidly
switches back and forth from one task to another. Analogous to frames used in
cartoon animation, it may seem to look and feel smooth but in reality they are
separate frames just sequenced rapidly. The argument that if it feels
simultaneous, then it must be multitasking is wrong because the rapid switching
in the brain's attention makes it physiologically difficult to focus on two or
more at the same time.
Insisting on utilizing human
multitasking will develop an attention span that is relatively short and will
make it increasingly difficult to focus. It is inaptly named because instead of
referring to it as multitasking, it should be called rapid task shifting. I
essence, work can still be done with the illusion that multitasking was
implemented. However, the quality of work will deteriorate in comparison to a
task that is given full concentration.
 
Risks of Multitasking
In the context of workplace
environment, multitasking seem harmless. Some people actually know of its
downside but choose to do it nonetheless, even with the knowledge of their
resulting tasks being sub-optimal.
Outside the context of workplace
productivity, the risks become more apparent. Once we take a deeper look into
the different applications of human multitasking, we begin to understand that
it poses danger of different magnitudes. Innocent mistakes that result in mild
mishaps can be shrugged off with an 'oops' and a simple cleanup afterward. An
example of this is when a person is making coffee while engaged in a phone
call. The constant shifting of attention may lead to miscalculating creamer,
sugar and coffee proportions, pouring too much hot water, etc. No matter how
minuscule and seemingly insignificant the mishap, we should make a conscious
effort not to adapt multitasking in our day to day lives to avoid carrying it
over to situations where it will pose health and safety risks to ourselves and
to other people.
There is no counter-argument to the
legal prohibition of typing text messages while driving. It's reckless and
irresponsible to say or do otherwise because it will expose the driver, other
drivers and pedestrians to needless danger. Looking at the road while tapping
away on the phone does not make it any less dangerous. In high risk situations
like the given example, it becomes apparent that human multitasking is unreliable,
impractical and potentially life-threatening.
 
A More Productive Alternative
Modern society is breathing down our
necks, demanding results and expecting humankind to be as prolific as machines.
With the bars set high by the subconscious need to cope with industrialization,
how does a person meet the set expectations? Does society need a paradigm shift
and accept that we are not as efficient as machines? How do we fit in with an
alternative when society imposes us with utilizing a technique that was meant
for machines?
The key is to actually practice and
eventually master focus. You can start with the minuscule things that we do
everyday and gradually integrate it to other aspects that need to do away with
multitasking.
When presented with a task or a situation
that seem to require multitasking, you should acknowledge that the steps can be
done separately and in order of priority. Once you have set the priorities, you
can focus on one task at a time with minimal shifting of attention. Getting
accustomed to this technique will greatly improve your focus. It may not be as
productive initially because of being so used to the short attention developed
from years of utilizing human multitasking. A person who is not used to
focusing on priorities one by one will find it very difficult at first but will
soon develop good concentration and lose the nagging instinct to drift away to
another task. Naturally, this means that it will take a lot of effort to get
used to. Breaking away from bad habits is never easy.
 
Prioritize
When the habit of multitasking has
been ingrained in your system for too long, it becomes very hard to focus.
Setting priorities will help ease you into a better habit of applying focus in
everyday tasks. Having clear priorities will compartmentalize the tasks and
specific tests. A mental note on the order of priority usually does not suffice
especially to someone who is still trying to ease into the technique. It is
advisable to write down the list of priority in paper or in a digital notepad
to help with reminding you that you are doing things step by step. Although
shifting of attention from one priority to another is inevitable because of
some tasks being connected to one another, it will be done only if necessary
and not in quick successions similar to multitasking.











 
Chapter
9: No Worries
 
What Is Worrying?
Worry is defined as the creation of
mental thoughts and images that are negative in nature. It is the result of
thought process that prepares an individual for an imagined or real scenario
that might pose a threat. Although it may sound like a good thing, worrying
goes hand in hand with anxiety. And oftentimes, people's worries are baseless
and even illogical. This poses a problem as it adds undue mental and physical
stress.
 
Worries, Stress and Concentration
It's a given that most daily
activities go hand in hand with stress. Whether it's petty nuances like
cleaning up after pets, dealing with spilled dairy in the refrigerator to those
that really push your patience to its limit like being stuck in a traffic jam
for two hours, high tension confrontations, death of loved ones and the like.
The levels of stress brought about by these kinds of situations differ greatly.
The problem is that worrying adds even more stress to the existing problems at
hand. We dwell too much on 'what ifs', what might happen and other concerns
brought about by our imagination that are sometimes reasonable and sometimes
border on ridiculous. By then we will have spent too much time stressed out
from worrying that we can no longer concentrate on resolving and acting on
matters that need actual attention.
 
Other Negative Effects Of Worrying
The accumulation of stress which
hinder our ability to focus is only one of several negative effects of too much
worrying. The influence of excessive worrying extends from mental and
psychological to physical. When it comes to the point where the volume of
stress brought about by worrying becomes critical, the body releases a hormone
called cortisol. This hormone is released when the body reaches a threshold of
physical or mental stress. Cortisol hinders several immune system functions and
physical recovery.
For perspective, the said hormone is
avoided by bodybuilders and athletes during their training. Their activities
are very taxing to the human physiology yet they are careful not to reach the
point where their bodies begin to release the hormone. It hinders muscle repair
and bone recovery which is vital for bodybuilders and athletes to develop. The
release of cortisol will make their workouts irrelevant or even detrimental to
their goals.
To a regular human being, this also
holds true. Although non-athletes do not need high level tissue recovery, it is
nonetheless important because there will be times when we might tear our
muscles or cut ourselves.
 
 
Stress and Lack of Focus
Concentration is very hard to come
by in the context of our contemporary society. There are too many things to be
concerned about. There are political issues, spiteful neighbors, a very manic
workplace, family problems, etc. You can't blame yourself for spending some
time worrying about these things. The conception of a worrisome thought is
brought about by the collective experiences and information that you absorb in
your daily life. It then formulates different scenarios that might happen so
that you may be prepared if it does happen. Most of the time, your worries are
unwarranted. They are usually not worth getting worked up about because most
are unrealistic. As previously mentioned, it simply adds undue stress to your
system.
In order to achieve and stay on
focus, you have to eliminate unnecessary and imaginary worries that bring about
stress. Once unsubstantial stress is eliminated, you can begin to confront the
tangible issues that need to be addressed to further lessen the level of
stress.
If the reason of your worries can be
fixed, then why should you worry? If it can't be fixed then what's the point in
worrying?
 
How to Stop Too Much Worrying
We have established that worrying
gets in the way of focus. Most of it is excess baggage that we can do better
without. But how does one actually make the first and subsequent steps to
eliminate them from our mind?
Like most things that need to be
changed in an individual, eliminating worries begins from oneself. There must be
a conscious effort to keep away worries that are unsubstantial and only keep
those that are realistic and need actual attention.
You can do this by consciously
scrutinizing worries if they are worth your attention or not. Those that you
deem unnecessary should be filtered out by telling yourself that giving it
further attention is a waste of time. Those negative thoughts are simply going
to hinder your ability to concentrate. Sure, you can't shake all of your
worries off. At least now you can tackle those that deserve your focus.
 
Make Worries Work for You
A regular person will never be
worry-free. Life is too complex for humans that you can not simply brush off
all things that bother you. However, these emotions exist for a good reason.
The inherent instinct that makes you human does not exist solely to hold you
back. Fears and worries have their purpose. It is what prepares us for problems
that we may encounter or any impending danger. The key to channeling them
positively is to assess whether the fear and worry that you are feeling is
rational or irrational. Once you have set aside your irrational worries, you
can begin to evaluate the necessary actions to resolve those that are rational.
Knowing that you are tackling ones that merit your time, you have effectively
eliminated many hindrances that prevent you from achieving excellent focus.











 
Chapter
10: Read Books
 
What Makes Book Reading Essential
In order to move improve your life
as you age, you must invest in yourself. Be it learning new things, acquiring
new skills, improving physical well-being, etc. Society expects your
contribution thus it is imperative that you and every other individual should
strive to improve in different areas. Otherwise, becoming stagnant will make
you a burden to society. If it bothers you that you may become a parasite to
society by letting yourself remain in status quo, then start racking up those
books and learn new things every day. Who knows, it might lead you to a new
career option that you never would have thought you'd really be happy with.
 
Training Focus through Reading
Another great benefit of reading
aside from absorbing knowledge is that it develops your ability focus on a
specific task at hand. For someone who is not a book-reading enthusiast,
reading books are only seen at face value. They might get the impression that
an individual reading a book only benefits from the actual contents of the
book. Whether the said books are about an organized collection of particular
subjects or novels, you can't really appreciate the actual worth of the book
until you have become an avid reader yourself.
The new learning from educational
books and insights from novels are good enough as it is. Depending on how you
value self-improvement, you may consider it from slightly beneficial to
priceless. Nonetheless, it is generally not a waste of time to read one.
However, it's actually not the only benefit you are getting from the activity.
Reading has a side benefit of improving your discipline and focus.
Discipline is developed because once
you pick up a book, you inadvertently have to know when to take a break and
when to pick it up again. Knowing when to put down a book is essential so that
it won't disrupt activities and chores that you need to do in your life.
Forgetting when to prepare food, eat, wash plates, etc. may sound adorable for
a book reader who simply wants to show off and announce their book-reading
lapses to social media. However, it is indicative of bad discipline. Doing so
effectively means that you just want to show off that you are so engrossed with
a reading material to the point of forgetting to take care of yourself. You are
flaunting about having weak self-discipline, but this is an ironic way to show
off. A book-reading enthusiast must know how to balance necessary daily
activities with the time spent from reading. Like most things pertaining to
self-improvement, self-discipline begins within you. The book is simply a tool
that will help you to gradually and eventually come upon this insight and take
action.
However, if your inherent
self-regulation fall short compared to other people, the ability to
self-discipline will take a longer time to develop. Realization will eventually
come but at a higher cost. You will find yourself in a cluttered and dirty
house. You will start to notice your deteriorating mental and physical health
due to forgetting to eat or settling for instant food. Before these things
happen, you must realize that book reading may become an addiction and should
be addressed to by a conscious effort to exercise self-discipline. So once in a
while, remind yourself to put down that book, tend to your responsibilities,
pick up where you left off and read.
Developing focus is inherent with
reading anything. The nature of reading books however, is more advantageous
because it is comprised of significantly more pages than other reading
materials. Unlike fliers, newspapers and the like, books hold your attention
longer by simply containing more engaging content.
Picking up a book with the intention
of reading it from beginning to the end is not easy. Some people just want to
skim the pages or start reading the first few chapters out of boredom. When you
decide to pick up a book that caught your attention, you are making some kind
of commitment. Albeit subconsciously, the mental note to commit to reading a
thick book is present when you did not pick one up out of boredom but genuine
interest. Although some books will hook you in once you start reading because
of its interesting content, sometimes it gets brushed aside because of the
preconceived lack of intent to spend time on it. But once y9u give in and the
book figuratively reels you in, then you have already made a commitment to
finish it even without the intention to do so in the beginning.
The ability to focus is developed
and improved through hours spent on reading different books. The obvious side
benefit is due to you becoming increasingly engrossed to what you are reading
that your mind filters out distractions that prevent you from getting the most
out of your reading material. Even without conscious effort of improving focus,
book reading definitely ensures that you gradually develop the ability.
 
Pick a Good Book
One pitfall of book reading is
wasting time on a book that fails to deliver quality content. Some of these
books are easily recognized at a glance. They might have a niche subject that
very few have an interest in. These kinds of books contain knowledge or
instructions for topics that are very specific that you may never find an
interest in unless your work depended on it. Rarely are they ever novels
because you can never automatically tell from the book cover itself if it is a
complete waste of time or not. Not even if you have read reviews of it from
other users over the internet.
Picking up a good book to start
reading is not that difficult at any rate. Generally, major publishers are
picky about the books that they print. Most of their books went through
sufficient scrutiny before even getting to the proofreading step. Although some
books are given the green light even if the publishing company knows that
seasoned readers and critics will find the piece shallow and not very engaging.
This is because they still want to cater to a certain audience demographic that
will grab their book, spread the word and bring in the money. Sometimes, the
hype for a book that you may deem mediocre gets out of hand. This should not
deter you from reading though. This only indicates that there are plenty of
readers who share the same interest, much to your dislike.
To really filter out the books that
you will find worthwhile, be a little bit more diligent in checking the title.
Are you looking for a specific book that teaches a specific field you have an
interest in? Are you looking for a novel that would make you feel emotions
through moving stories? Pick one title from the chosen category and look for
reviews on the internet. Do not be tempted to read lengthy synopsis if you are
picking a novel as it will spoil your reading experience. Whether the review is
high or low, do a quick check on the people who rave about it. Are they
credible? Do their profiles say a lot about their personality and how they
might have been biased about their written review?
At the end of the day, you can
choose to leave out the intricacies of filtering books. Surprise yourself. Pick
one, read a few pages. If it catches your interest then keep reading. If it
isn't as interesting but would give you new insights and knowledge, give it a
chance. Doing so will train you to focus even more because of your attention
trying to move away from the book. Try fighting the urge to put the book down
and keep reading. It's a rare instance, but when you do encounter a worthless
piece, set it down and move on to another.
 
Books That Are Outside Of Your Interests
An enthusiast knows that you should
sometimes move out of your comfort zone and read a field of interest or a genre
that you have remote interest in. As stated before, you may never know what new
things you might learn and discover that you may actually have an interest in.
The point is to further develop ourselves in different ways. Reading up on
unfamiliar topics will open new doors and widen your knowledge base rather than
steadily reinforcing the existing information you have accumulated.
Though advised, do not neglect to
keep reading books that are related to subject matters that you already know
about. Steadily reinforcing existing information is not a bad thing. Both are
tools for self-improvement that everyone should utilize. A minor issue that
readers may encounter with reading up on the same topics over and over again is
stagnation. Books that specialize on chosen subject matters become difficult to
come by. When you have already reached the point where you have to pick books
that specialize on a specific subject, you will have already developed a keen
eye for picking books that will serve you well.
 
What to Do When Attention Is Drifting Away
When a book catches your attention,
you should give the few pages a good read. If it catches your interest, read it
through and through. If the book fails to engage you however, the challenge to
finish it becomes a chore. Thus you may begin to drift away and find it hard to
concentrate. It becomes a test of your concentration. If you can, try and focus
on absorbing the book. You may be drifting away not because of the lackluster
content but because of distraction. Find a way to get back on track and make
the best of the reading material at hand. Eventually, you will have exercised
your ability to focus even more in doing so. The mediocrity of the book will
still have given you benefits aside from the words in it. Also remember the
fact that you are essentially training your focus even more in such situations.
However, at times you may find that
no matter how hard you tune out distractions in order to concentrate. By your
own judgment, know when to set the book down and take a rest. Your body might
need actual rest, thus focus becomes impossible to come by.
 
Question Contents
A book may teach you a lot of things.
It may transport you to unfamiliar worlds born our of your own imaginations.
There is no doubt that there are countless benefits that book reading imbibes
you with. However, you should keep in mind that ultimately they are still made
by fellow human beings. As with anything man-made, it is rarely a piece of
perfection.
When stumbling upon dubious content
or questionable ideals, you should take the initiative to remind yourself that
not everything in the book is to be internalized. It falls upon you to scrutinize
the validity of the content in question. Additional external research may be
necessary but it will surely be worth your while.
Scrutinizing content trains your
critical thinking skills. You develop a good mindset where you don't
automatically take things at face value and begin looking at things from
another perspective. This skill is more commonly known as 'thinking outside the
box'.
 
E-book Vs. Physical Books
There is an ongoing war being waged
by die-hard book readers. They insist that e-books are inferior to physical
books. They have organized bullet points that unfairly juxtapose e-books
against physical. You will notice that most of those who go out of their way to
destroy e-books are the type of people who wants to tell the world that they are
book enthusiasts. They are those types of people that has a need to post in
social media what they are reading as much as they are reading the book itself.
For a level-headed individual, this
unjust vilification of electronic reading materials (e-books) is unnecessary
and harmful to some extent. People who are rallying against electronic media
simply want to stick with their printed materials. There is nothing inherently
wrong with that. The problem arises when they start shoving their preference
down other people's throat.
Don't be dragged down by their
arguments. Pick a reading material and spend time absorbing it. The only
disadvantage of e-books is the battery life of your device. Also, depending on
your reading platform you may be distracted by other applications installed.
This is where you can further train your focus by tuning out the urge to switch
out the reading material for other apps that are usually serving no other
purpose than provide you with a fleeting sense of achievement and wasted time.
As much as possible, try to minimize unproductive time with installed games and
get back to reading.
Imagine that you have already
established book reading as a hobby. Now picture yourself in a career where you
have to spend a huge amount of your time traveling or commuting. What better
way to spend travel time than to read a book right? The problem is that you
can't bring your physical collections without sacrificing convenience. This is
one situation where e-book clearly trumps over physical books. On the advantage
of physical books however, there is an undeniable sense of accomplishment when
you have accumulated a large collection of books that they now occupy a room in
your home that serves as a library. Practicality, fulfilment and preference.
Consider those factors and try not to linger with someone who wants to argue
otherwise.
Whether you prefer digital or
physical, you have to respect other people's preferences and let them learn new
things on their own terms. Focus on how you want to improve yourself and what
media type fits your own goals.
 
The Price Tag
For a book enthusiast who is tight
on the budget, it is a fairly common experience coming upon a book that comes
with a hefty price tag. Oftentimes and with a heavy heart, the book is placed
back on the shelf and would either be attempted to be forgotten or written in a
book checklist. For the more resourceful enthusiasts who still plan on
purchasing the book for later, they place the book at the very back of the
shelf to prevent another individual from seeing it. It's an advantage that
e-book readers don't have to deal with. There is no competition with other
readers to who gets to check out the book at the cashier.
If you have self-assessed yourself
as a book enthusiast, you know that most of the time the books are worth the
investment. Rather than splurge of excess food, a level-headed reader knows
that the resources would be better off spent on a good book with a relatively
expensive price tag.
Of course, you should also apply
your own judgment if the book you're interested in is worth the price. Books
are generally worth the price but there may be similar ones that can deliver as
much content as the one you are checking out.











 
Chapter
11: Meditate
 
Meditation, Attention and Focus
The fast-paced nature of today's
world sets a new way of life for humankind. It robs you of an important factor
that will benefit your mental fortitude to varying degrees: peace of mind. We
rarely spend time for ourselves and take our mental state for granted. The world
we live in demands a lot from our time in order for our actions to become
relevant. It becomes a lot worse if loved ones depend on you for sustenance.
Whether you like it or not, your sense of responsibility has to compensate for
the actual responsibilities. Like clockwork, you set in to what seems like a
preset routine that you have to comply day after day. The gist of it all is
that you will find less and less time to take a step back and reflect on your
situation.
Living life in a chaotic fashion is
all too common. You only have to check your acquaintances and chances are, they
are too caught up with the heavy implications of expectations and
responsibilities. If you too are living life in the fast lane, you may be
hurting yourself in the long run. For starters, your attention span gradually
lessens. You might not notice when at times you become irritable for unknown
reasons. This is partly because we are subconsciously frustrated with ourselves
for not being able to take things slowly and focus on one issue at a time.
It doesn't take drastic measures to
fix this issue. You don't have to spend a lot of time and research to slowly
improve your attention span and concentration. However, it doesn't happen
overnight either. To get back in tune with yourself and take the first step to
achieving peace of mind, spend a few minutes a day meditating. Even fifteen
minutes of your day set for meditation is more than sufficient into getting you
back on track to a sound mental state. Fifteen minutes sound very long specially
if you have a very hectic schedule and are planning almost all of your day to
day activities by the hour. In another perspective however, fifteen minutes is
just about one percent of your day. Let that sink in to make you start and
appreciate how such a small time spent could bring you countless benefits.
If in case one percent of your day
still is a little hard to squeeze into your daily schedule, don't worry. The
beauty of meditation is that you should not really be aiming for a specific
duration. The fifteen minute time frame is a generous allowance to how much
meditation you actually need. One way to squeeze in your meditation session is
when you are about to sleep or have just woken up. Office lunch break is fine
but you'll find that the focus needed for meditation is more difficult than
usual. This is because you are still in the middle of the day's hustle-bustle
of activities and it will be very difficult to relax as a result. Before
settling into your bed for the night, try staying awake for just a few more
minutes and meditate. The added effect of this schedule is that you will have
better sleep and will feel more active upon waking up. If your daily routine
has drained you too much and meditation before sleep becomes literally
impossible, try doing it when you wake up instead. Upon rising from your bed,
set aside your routine for a few minutes, get into meditation and achieve that
coveted peace of mind. Establishing this early morning routine will be
difficult at first because of the slight awkwardness from moving away from your
usual schedule. Exert the conscious effort push out the usual activities from
your mind. Forget your worries for a while and spend some time taking care of
your mental health. Keep doing it until the activity is rote and will become
part of your usual schedule. The awkward feeling of trying out something new
will fade in time and you will be on your way to a mind that can clear
distractions to achieve focus when needed.
 
Other Benefits of Meditation
The benefits on the mental aspect of
meditation are considerably large that you are already getting a lot more from
the time invested. However, there are a lot of other benefits of meditation
that are noteworthy. It will establish meditation as a key part of your day
once you begin to master it and start to reap the benefits.
Meditation clears your mind of
thought to some degree. Whether it be negative or positive thoughts, you will
begin to understand that you have to attempt to let go of both. Ideally,
negative thoughts have to go first. This primes your mind from very chaotic
into euphoric. However good the state of a euphoric mind feels, you will have
to let go of even positive thoughts in an attempt to empty your mind. The
effort that it entails to set aside positive thoughts is usually harder than
the negative counterpart. Things that make us feel bad can be shunned due to
our inherent desire to do away with them. Those that make us feel good on the
other hand just wants to stick around. Achieving the feat of unloading the mind
of all thoughts as much as possible simply means that you have developed good
mental strength through constant meditation.
You will consequently develop
discipline and presence of mind through the acquired skill. Discipline becomes
a side benefit to meditation because of the sheer will to integrate them into
your routine. You will have mastered your self-control through the constant
effort to empty the mind from both negative and positive thoughts. When
presented with choices that would test your self-discipline, you will notice
that it became easier to choose and execute the more prudent option presented.
You will have mastered your self control that you no longer make decisions
based heavily on emotions.
Presence of mind is another notable
benefit of meditation. Stressful situations become easier to deal with because
you are not as easily affected by the tension that goes along with it. The
reduced stress or even absence of it makes it easier to analyze a particular
situation with ease and objectivity. The chances of making rash decisions
become minimal just because you can suppress your impulses then assess the
situation with calmness and clarity of mind.
Without a doubt, your mental
fortitude will not be left unnoticed. People are going to be aware of your
level-headed attitude. You will garner the respect of your peers. Your mere
presence will be noticed and appreciated. Becoming a shining example that
others want to follow is a very important asset that you can have. A workplace
acknowledges a good decision maker who will direct them to reasonable ideas. A
family needs a member who can think with a sound mind when problems arise.
Such are few of the many benefits
that you get from practicing meditation. The benefits far outweigh the very
little time that you will have invested in it. Therefore, as soon as you
possibly can, make meditation a part of your daily activities.
 
Basic Meditation
There are various roots of proper
meditation techniques. They mostly vary depending on the different religions
that adopted it. Some do it without a sense of spiritual objective. Some may
integrate mysticism and spiritualism to their meditations. Sometimes the
differences are indistinguishable and sometimes they are very minuscule. There
is no single consensus to how an individual should meditate. However, there are
common guidelines that you can follow and still achieve your objective to a
clearer and calmer mind.
First, mentally commit to the
activity once you decide to begin. This is an important step because once you are
not committed, you may be easily distracted by things that may come up during
the session. This is where the previous advice of doing it before or after
sleeping becomes essential. Before you sleep, you are already resigned to the
idea that the day has already ended. You go to bed with the mindset that you
have already done what you could have done today. Any other objectives left
undone are set aside for tomorrow or on another date. This mindset is ideal
because you are set to commit to the meditation. If you prefer to do it upon
waking up, it will not be as ideal but is still more preferable compared to any
other time of the day. It's not as ideal as when you do it before sleeping
because when you wake up in the morning, your mind is absorbing and processing
the activities that should be done for the day. It's not an optical mindset of
meditation but still very doable.
Next is how to get into the pose.
The consensus on sitting for meditation is to sit cross-legged on the ground or
on a bed that's not too soft. A soft bed will make it difficult to stabilize
your position specially once the mind starts drifting away from conscious
thought. Once the legs are crossed comfortably, sit straight and avoid arching
of the torso forward. A good meditation requires good posture. Arching forward
will squeeze your lungs and stomach which then compromises proper breathing. It
also places undue stress on the spinal column because it is being forced in an
unnatural position. A lifetime of bad posture may make this a very difficult
part of the session. You should dutifully observe proper posture even outside
of meditation. Lift your chest up to make breathing optimal. If you have been
adapting a bad posture by arching or drooping forward, you may also have been
shrugging your shoulders. These indicators of bad posture usually go hand in
hand to compensate for one another. Drop your shoulders down into a relaxes
position.
The part of the pose where most
don't have a common ground on is the hand position. Depending on the religious
influence, the variation will range from interlacing the fingers of both hands,
connecting both index fingers and thumbs, or resting them on the thighs with
the thumbs connecting to either the middle or index finger. The commonality of
the different hand placements is the influence of the flow of energy. Almost
all of them establishes a circular form to facilitate the manipulation of
energy. Adopt whichever hand position that you are comfortable with or one that
you prefer. Or if you are affiliated with a religion that has meditation as its
core teaching, then feel free to adopt the related hand position.
Keep these general guidelines in
mind but don't think too much of it. Being too meticulous with your posture may
as well distract you from actually clearing your mind, which is the ultimate
objective of meditation.
Close your eyes gently. Refrain from
doing it forcefully as tensing the eyelids will irradiate the action and cause
other muscles to contract. Avoid tensing muscles in general because it will
prevent you from achieving a totally relaxed state.
Breathing during meditation is very
simple by concept. There should be no conscious effort for inhaling and
exhaling just like how you normally breathe. However, meditating usually makes
an individual remember about breathing. Thereafter, they begin spacing their
inhales and exhales evenly to facilitate the meditation. It is understandable
if your initial breathing pattern is going to be deliberate. You need to do it
anyway in order to establish a subconscious breathing pattern. This can be done
by consciously maintaining a good and sustainable breathing pattern in the
beginning. Make sure you are comfortable with the established breathing. Later
on, you will have to eliminate any thought about inhaling and exhaling. Like
previously stated, the objective of meditation is to clear the mind of any
thoughts and concerns as much as possible.
Start drifting into a clear mental
state. The first things you should rid from your mind are problems and worries.
Negative thoughts are the first ones you should eliminate because they cause a
lot of stress which greatly hinder deeper meditation. Thinking of positive
things is not a bad thing. In fact, it is advisable to do this part of the
meditation a bit longer or even separately. However, the point of meditation is
to totally clear the mind of any conscious thoughts. This does not come easily
for most people. Do not be disappointed if it would seem impossible in the
beginning. Clearing the mind is not analogous to a switch that you can simply
turn on and off. It is a skill that you have to practice repeatedly in order to
understand. And to practice even more to fully master.
 
Constant Improvement
As mentioned, the initial attempts
at meditation may be futile. The mind has been very accustomed to constantly
absorbing and processing information that the concept of an empty mind seems
like an impossibility. It is possible but with thorough and constant practice.
Do not compare your progress with other people because each individual has
different mental and emotional states. The ability to concentrate also differs
greatly between every individual. Don't be discouraged by slow progress. It is
still progress nonetheless.
If possible, try not to have mental
notes on your progress. Once you stop thinking about improvements on the
different aspects of meditation as something that can be quantified, you start
to ease off the pressure from yourself. When you begin to understand the true
nature of meditation, it will become very easy to do.
Do not get discouraged if it takes
time to achieve. This is where your focus is tested. Once the obstacles are
cleared out and the way to a complete meditation becomes clear, you will have
also developed great focus.











 
Chapter
12: Physical Fitness
 
The Benefits of a Healthy Physique
The modern world has presented the human
race with technology that provides a wide range of conveniences that make life
easier. The conception of an invention is usually because a problem that needs
to be solved exists. The problem in this context is the continuous attempts at
minimizing human effort in doing work. From household appliances, consumer
electronics and industrial machinery, these modern inventions have become
integral to almost all functions of the society. Whether we like to admit it or
not, the fact is that we are steadily becoming dependent on technology.
Depending on each person's perspective, some may even consider that our
dependence on modern technology has become absolute.
This dependence on technology presents an
issue that most people fail to notice. That issue is the steady increase in the
percentage of obese individuals in the human population. The advantages of
making things easier came with a price. However, the blame does not fall on the
gadgets, machinery and equipments. Not even to those who invented them. The one
to blame is the fundamental flaw of human beings to adjust to the rapid
evolution of technology. Essentially, we are evolving inversely in comparison
to technological advancement. With the direction that humans are on, we may
soon evolve into an entirely different species. The sad part is that that new
species will have very short life spans due to easily contracting diseases from
having too much fat tissues.
Imagine a future where everyone is going
about their daily activities on a mobile personal couch where controls that
serve different functions can be easily pressed by stubby fingers. We might not
even need buttons to press eventually. Our constant pursuit of an easier life
might lead inventors to discover how to distinguish brain activity in
conjunction with the related emotion or issued commands.
A bleak future awaits our race unless the
majority understands the importance of keeping physical fitness in check.
 
Fitness and Focus
Granted, it is going to be the future of
humankind and we have learned to accept that notion. Why should physical
fitness be relevant if technology will have made everything available with very
little effort on our part? By then we might already have new advancements in
medical technology where health risks of obesity will no longer be an issue. So
why should we bother with physical fitness?
For one, we are still unsure of any
medical breakthroughs that would alleviate obesity-related diseases. And common
sense will tell you that even with numerous medical breakthroughs, a physically
fit individual will naturally have better use of it than an unhealthy one due
to having less health risks to begin with.
And if that future is just around the
corner, there will be a demand for fit individual. It may seem derogatory to
refer to fit individuals as commodity but being able to do a lot of things that
the general public cannot rake in a hefty rate.
Another essential reason to strive for a
health physique is mental health. A body that has excessive stores of adipose
tissues (fat) are pushing their bodies to do more work than usual. The heart
for example, has to pump harder in order to deliver oxygen to the gasping
organs that get easily worked up from the added weight and volume.
Our brain is no exception. It has to have
oxygen to function as well. The nerves that are connected to it will not
function as well as a fit person's would. Deprivation of the brain's demand of
oxygen will result in less mental fortitude in contrast to healthy individuals.
This leads us to the relevance of physical
well-being in relation to developing focus. When the vessel that encases the
brain is in good condition, the brain performs better. The sufficient supply of
oxygen and nutrients to what's considered as the core of the body, the brain,
ensures that our mental capacity performs at an optimal level. Otherwise, we
have essentially handicapped ourselves by neglecting to take care of our
bodies.
The previous chapter which discussed
meditation for developing focus has a breathing component. Technically, a
person with excessive adipose tissues will have breathing that's shallower than
the usual person. This is indicative of their heart struggling to do extra work
to compensate for their added mass. Needless to say, a shallow and gasp-like
breathing will make it more difficult to do a good meditation session. Thus,
the ability to focus is going to be hard to come by for a physically unfit
individual.
 
Basic Fitness Guidelines
Becoming physically fit does not demand a
large portion of your time to be spent at the gym. Becoming a fitness
enthusiast is not a prerequisite to have a body that houses a brain optimally.
Even without extensive research and instructions you can start taking the basic
steps to a healthier you. Unless you want to specialize in a specific athletic
field and compete, basic exercises are sufficient.
There are two main categories of exercise.
One is aerobic and the other is anaerobic. Aerobic exercises are those that you
can sustain for minutes at a time. Examples are running, swimming, cycling and
the like. These types of exercise focus on improving the cardiovascular system.
Most people refer to it simply as 'cardio'. Engaging in these kinds of
activities will increase your lung capacity and efficiency. It also makes your
heart more efficient in distributing oxygen to all parts of your body. As
mentioned previously, efficient and sufficient flow of oxygen is essential for
your brain to function properly and at a notable advantage over the general
population. The increased efficiency of the pathways of your nerves and blood
vessels will help you concentrate a lot better than you previously could. Your
cardiovascular system eventually catches up to the intensity of your exercises.
You may choose to make the exercise more difficult by increasing the intensity
or increasing the time, or both. If you feel that your cardiovascular system
has reached a point where you are satisfied, you may opt to stop increasing the
difficulty. This does not mean that you should stop doing your exercise but
keep doing it at status quo. It's a welcome idea to challenge yourself
sometimes.
The other exercise category is anaerobic.
Although it does not really improve the efficiency of oxygen distribution
directly, it is still advisable to integrate into your workout routine. The
name itself, anaerobic, means the absence of air. The exercises belonging in
this category are done without processing oxygen. Unlike the aerobic
counterpart that uses oxygen to fuel the activity, anaerobic uses glucose.
These are exercises that make use of movements that can only be done for less
than ten to fifteen repetitions. If the movement can be done more than the said
set of numbers then the movement can categorically be labelled as aerobic.
These are exercises that improve strength and muscular definition. Anaerobic
workouts really test a person's mettle. The indirect effect of this type of
workout in the context of concentration and focus is a side benefit. Having
great mental capacity to push through a high stress movement is not something
to brush aside. The nature of anaerobic workout trains the Central Nervous
System (CNS) to become more efficient by recruiting more muscle fibers that are
otherwise dormant. If it trains your concentration and focus, grab the
opportunity to utilize it.
 
From Motivation to Habit
Like every good habit that needs to be
enforced, working out is the most infamous for being very difficult to
maintain. The first few days of establishing a workout schedule are the ones
that are really challenging. You have to have a very compelling motivation to
push yourself for a few days or weeks. Have that motivation carry you every day
until you no longer have to depend on it to convince yourself to get up and move.
Once the schedule has been established in your daily routine, it becomes a
habit. By then you get up to do it just because you should.











Chapter
13: Try Martial Arts
 
Managing the Physical Demands of
Exercise and Martial Arts
The preceding chapter has pointed out the
importance of physical fitness not only on how it improves the mental capacity
to focus but also in improving our day to day activities. In itself, exercising
is sufficient for the goal of having a well-functioning body. However, martial
arts is a skill that goes very well in conjunction with exercising as both of
them work together in achieving a body that's significantly better than the
average. Anaerobic workouts usually cause micro tears in the muscle tissue
which the body duly repairs and overcompensates to make subsequent activities
of similar movement easier. Engaging in too much anaerobic activity will do
more harm than good once the volume gets to a certain point. Aerobic activities
also has a point where it becomes detrimental but is more forgiving as it does
not cause muscle tears that would require protein synthesis. The physical
demands of martial arts can sometimes be as high as your exercise routine.
However, the nature of the activity is closer to the likes of aerobic workouts
because the constant practice of stances and proper striking requires up to a
hundred repetitions every session and collectively several thousands to master.
To be safe, you can reduce your aerobic activity to accommodate the physical
demands of pursuing martial arts. Your anaerobic workout routine can be kept at
the same intensity.
 
Is Martial Arts Still Relevant?
"Do not bring a knife to a gunfight." This
statement simply means that you should not deliberately handicap yourself in a
fight. The technological advancements in our modern world has hypothetically
made hand to hand combat obsolete. However, this is not true in all conflicts
that arise. If you are not allowed to bring firearms everywhere you go, what
chance do you have if confronted with an unexpected altercation? Also, there is
no question as to who would have an advantage when both are carrying guns but
only one has been doing physical training. Excellent reflexes and situational
awareness are good to have in such situations. Even in non-combative situations,
having developed these abilities is a great advantage.
Physical benefits aside, practicing
martial arts is also beneficial to our mental health. Most martial art
disciplines even teach focus as one of their core skills. If you stumble upon a
martial art that teaches focus by explaining what it is and how to achieve it,
chances are it's one that would be worth your while.
In order to move up through the ranks,
martial artists drill specific movements for countless repetitions and
countless hours. In order to sustain this training frequency, the martial
artist has to be very focused. Without focus, the drills become mundane and
will eventually make you quit out of sheer boredom. When you are completely
focused during training, it follows that you have a clear understanding of your
objective and what you need to do to achieve it.
Most martial art disciplines implement a
belt or a similar ranking system. This aspect of martial arts promotes a strong
sense of desire for self-improvement. Practitioners will be encouraged to rise
through the ranks through dedication and skill mastery. To be able to achieve
that incremental goal, an aspiring martial artist must work their way one rank
at a time. To become deserving of a belt promotion, the practitioner must first
understand the requirements and qualifications of their next rank.
Understanding the required objectives and narrowing it down is the next step.
At all times during training, unwavering focus is required so that no time is
wasted.
Another reason that martial arts will
increase your ability to focus is when you spar with your fellow martial
artists or when joining a competition. You and your opponent know that you are
both fighting not to maim one another or fight with the intent to totally
subdue. Martial artists usually do not participate in sparring out of vendetta
or preconceived rage. Naturally, they have to control the power behind their
strikes and grapples so that they would not inflict substantial injury to their
sparring partners or tournament opponents. The effort to focus needed to exert
power is just as much as the effort needed for holding back. Sometimes it even
takes more effort especially when you have been training effectively and
frequently. The temptation to go all out on an opponent will present itself
eventually. Martial artists know that when they lose focus and give in to that
urge, they will regret it in the end. They will have a fleeting sense of
fulfillment upon dominating their opponents. The lingering feeling of regret
follows thereafter twofold. Sometimes, sparring and competitive fighting will
expose inherent negative traits in a martial artist. Their integrity will be
tested when they are flooded with overwhelming emotions. Disappointment turns
to anger, dormant bloodlust tendencies become apparent, culminating into a
blind rage. In such cases, the ability to focus becomes misused and all the
rage building up is funnelled into the one you currently deem as an enemy: your
sparring partner or tournament opponent. The dangerous build up of the
cumulative negative emotions and the misused focus becomes a dangerous recipe
for injury, regret and a chain reaction of more negative implications. To avert
from such situations, you have to recognize the first signs of anger fuelled
aggression. When you feel that anger is starting to build up, take a step back
and analyze the situation. Most of the time, you don't really have anything to
be angry about your opponent. The root of the anger building up is usually your
own frustrations and disappointments at your own shortcomings from not training
hard enough or not as hard as your opponent did. When you realize that your
anger comes from within yourself, the next step to subduing it will come into
light. Upon acknowledging that you are feeling emotions that are unreasonable,
the next thing you should do is to concentrate on getting back on track and try
to end the match with minimal injury inflicted to your opponent.
Outside of the dojo and the arena however,
you may encounter situations where you have to defend yourself or your loved
ones from an assailant. Unlike the dojo or the ring where fight is regulated,
assailants outside of controlled environments have real intent to inflict harm
and other similar malicious intentions. This is where the time spent training
will help you conquer the assailant and the unwelcome encounter. The time spent
in training your ability to concentrate in sparring sessions will have
developed your focus in stressful encounters that present themselves
unexpectedly. The effort needed to call on your ability to focus becomes second
nature. Your actions and decision-making become rash and unreasonable due to
the release of adrenaline in your system. This often leads to undesirable
results. Instead of disarming the assailant and you getting away injury-free,
you might find that you have sustained unnecessary injuries. To properly deal
with the situation, a martial artist with a good focus knows that the situation
should be calmly assessed before any physical engagement. This might seem
unrealistic to an untrained individual but the very same focus needed to calm
the nerves is also responsible for the situational awareness and split-second
assessment of the encounter and subsequent split-second decision making. It
will become apparent that the hours invested into martial arts did not only
improve fighting skills but also the focus and concentration needed to properly
gauge and handle the situation. Sometimes dangerous encounters can be resolved
with exchange of words.
The practice of martial arts is still
relevant in the modern world. Even with the supposed advantages of hand carried
weapons such as guns and knives, good fighting technique still holds a lot of
benefits to a martial artist. Remember that not all aggravations and
altercations have weapons involved. Even so, the mental focus acquired through
rigorous and diligent training makes sure that stressful situations can be
handled calmly.
 
How to Pick A Discipline
The used to be very few martial art
disciplines in existence. The modifications, difference in philosophies and
commercialization has sprouted countless new ones and made branches out of
those that already exist. Some martial artists who deem a slight modification
enough reason to create a new one will create a school with a slightly
different name. This process repeats itself, resulting in a lot of martial art
discipline that exist with profit in mind. The changes in martial arts inspired
by money can't be spotted easily by gullible clients whose demography usually
comprises parents who did little research and only want their child to
participate in mainstream martial arts. One particular martial arts discipline
takes the cake for the most criticized by reasonable martial artists. To wit,
it is Tae Kwon Do. There has been an increase of dojos that are opened by
self-acclaimed high rank belters who can talk their way into convincing most
parents about their credentials. And since the regulating body for martial arts
is not as easy to inquire to especially for an obscure martial art, it gets all
the more difficult to verify the claims of founders and teachers.
To be safe, pick a martial arts discipline
that is already established for quite some time. This is not fool proof but at
least you can narrow down your prospects. Ask students around about their
classes. Check how easy or how fast students get promoted to the next belt or
rank if not using belt system. If the students boast about their relatively
quick climb up the ranks, then start becoming suspicious and dig into some
background checks on the martial arts institute and the founder. Assess if the
founder or teacher's credibility is worthy of your time and money. Keep
level-headed as anyone who knows how marketing for their business works know
how to smooth talk prospective clients well.
Not including the profit-centric martial
arts, there are still several disciplines that you could choose from. There are
definitely plenty of legitimate martial arts but some of them do not develop
your focus as much as the others. Some encourage the liberty to use extreme
aggression. Instead of eliminating the feeling of rage, the students are
instructed to channel it into mindful aggression. This also develops focus in
some way because they need to concentrate almost as hard as totally suppressing
the build-up of rage.
However, the kind martial art discipline
that encourages handling of confrontations in a completely calm manner are
better advised for those who want to focus more on improving mental fortitude.
Normally, these kinds of martial art disciplines promote peaceful resolution of
a confrontation and holding back physical aggression as much as possible. Here
are some specific disciplines you may want to look into if you want to work
more on your concentration and focus.
Aikido - A martial art that is a clear
epitome of peaceful resolution. The core teaching of this discipline is to
never initiate conflicts. Should the confrontation escalate into a physical
altercation, an aikidoka (this is what aikido practitioners are called). The
moves taught to students reinforce their non-combative philosophy very well. At
first glance, it is very apparent that moves initiating a fight or even
pre-emptive moves to stop the confrontation at the very first sign of it are
nonexistent. You will never find reputable aikidoka instructors and aikido
books that has one bit of instruction about making the first attack. In fact,
you will be told to set your mental state into making an effort to act
passively towards aggression. You will also notice that the moves being taught
only aim to pin down the opponent, the infliction of injury to
both you and the assailant. Pinning down an opponent entails different arm
locks, finger locks and other movements that exploit joint locking to subdue
the opponent. Another notable signature philosophy of aikido is the redirection
of the incoming force. The force exertion of the opponent is used against him
in toppling his balance and spatial orientation. This execution does not
require any amount of force from the aikidoka to counter. To accomplish the
objective of the discipline, it is imperative that aikidokas must have better
focus than their opponents. The demand for extreme focus and concentration is
required to perform the movements effectively. There isn't a doubt about
aikido's effectiveness in developing mental awareness and calmness under
pressure.
It is not without criticisms however. A
lot of people are under the impression that aikido is not an effective martial
arts for self-defense. Their stance is that most of aikido practices are with
partners who go along with the movements, not trying to oppose it. Hence,
aikidokas are said to be unfamiliar with conflicts where the opponent are
actually applying counteracting forces to the taught movements. This argument
is quite misleading because an aikidoka understand that practice is different
from a real fight. An aikidoka who has internalized the philosophies and
harmonized it with the movements unquestionably has an edge in subduing
opponents. Most critics also criticize the martial arts only on the fighting
aspect and not on the benefits of aikido in the general, peaceful outlook in
life.
Karate - Though considered a brash style
of martial arts, it is very effective in developing a mind that can easily tune
out all distractions in order to focus. The repetitive drills effectively
inculcate a sense of dedication within students. The dedication is reinforced
by their focus on their goals and how the mundane drills are required to
achieve it. Boredom rarely sets in because every little movement they practice
add up to their ultimate objective. To an outsider, a karateka's regular
training session will look very monotonous. Even with the forced exhalations
that accompany their strikes, the repetitive drills are sure to bore anyone who
doesn't understand their goals. Unbeknownst to onlookers, the karateka is
extremely focused with every strike. They are mindful in harmonizing each of
their strike's breathing pattern, accuracy and stance integrity. Anyone who is
only starting to try out karate will understand that a strike that is not
synchronized with the forced breathing and stance will feel very awkward and
weak. The desire to improve on this weakness will force a dedicated student to
exert more effort in making their strikes more effective and powerful. The time
it takes to achieve it differs from one individual to another. A beginner
karateka should set aside any desire to prove himself better to another so that
he wouldn't face disappointment and frustration should he compare himself to
another karateka with a higher aptitude on karate. Self-improvement should be
the main focus of aspiring karatekas. To do otherwise will increase the
likelihood of abandoning the discipline either because of frustration from
being less of an achiever or because of surpassing someone and subsequently
losing interest and motivation in improving. In a sparring match or a
competition however, a karateka will have to change their mindset to a slightly
different one. This change in mindset also requires great concentration and
focus. Although the usual self-improvement mindset should not be totally
switched off, the karateka must now acknowledge that he must overcome an
opponent. To become the victor, he must surmount his weaknesses while also
exploiting ones that the opponent has.
Should you consider karate as the martial
art discipline of choice, there is no doubt that you will be getting the
benefits of a sound mind and a skilled body that's ready to face confrontations
calmly but sternly. Do note however that karate is also one of the several
martial arts that is bastardized by profiteering individuals. As mentioned
before, credentials are hard to verify due to the very existence of dojos
established only to bring in money and teach very little. Always do background
checks on the institute and the instructors. You can generally tell which
karate dojos are reputable through their date of establishment. Albeit unfair
to legitimate dojos that are only recently established, this is one way of narrowing
down the choices.
Muay Thai - An extremely brutal martial
art discipline that rose in popularity in the last decade through movies that
showcase its sheer intensity and brutality. A regular Muay Thai movie will have
fight sequences that are significantly shorter than the average fight scenes in
other movies. The powerful knee and elbow strikes leave us in awe with how it
is portrayed. It was the bulldozer of martial arts.
Outside the movies however, Muay Thai
fights do not seem to be as overwhelmingly strong as shown in the big screen.
This is partly true because Muay Thai matches last longer than usual and it is
a battle of attrition. The general flow of fights will have the two fighters
almost alternate blows until one of them gives out. But there is one factor
that is overlooked by the audience in Muay Thai fights. And that is the fact
that both of them have been training their bodies to become inhumanly resilient
to blows. Had any untrained individual entered the ring and squared off with a
trained fighter, they'll realize that they can't deliver the required beating
and punishment to finally subdue the fighters. You can never underestimate the
intense training they have gone through. These are individuals who deliberately
cause micro fractures in their bones just to make them grow back stronger.
Now, how does this type of martial art
discipline develop focus you might ask. The sheer intensity of the training is
proof enough at how extreme dedication is required to even focus on the
training. How can you focus while you are tapping an empty soda bottle at your
shins? How can you focus when you are kicking a banana trunk until it gives
out, and then another? By unimaginable will and dedication, that's how.
There is also a test of their focus when
in the ring. The battle of attrition will hammer each one's will to fight until
one remains more resilient than the other. The focus needed to keep standing
and exchanging blows are unimaginable to an untrained mind.
Unlike the previous martial arts
disciplines previously mentioned, Muay Thai does not dabble that much in
philosophy or at all. It's designed for beating up an opponent and taking some
beating back in the process. Should you take interest in it, know that it will
probably sap your will much faster than other martial arts. Because unlike most
martial arts where sparring is controlled and only happens as frequent as once
or twice a week, Muay Thai will not only make you feel pain during fights, but
it also just as much as during training.
Tai Chi - Rarely is Tai Chi considered
martial arts. Most people consider it a meditation in motion. However, it's
worth mentioning not only because some people consider it a martial art but
because of its excellent benefits to one's well-being. The slow and deliberate
movements may seem easy at a glance but there are underlying factors that will
make the flow of newcomers look and feel awkward. The breathing that
accompanies the movements will is a huge factor in making the movements smooth.
It also makes balancing take less effort.
However, due to its non combative nature,
Tai Chi is hard pressed make any real arguments against critics who insist that
it isn't a martial art. Add in the eccentric people with bogus claims of
reaching the apex of Tai Chi mastery that they have somehow gained the ability
to release invisible, ranged projectiles. It then becomes increasingly
difficult to justify the effectiveness or even legitimacy of Tai Chi as a
martial art. However, it still has its place other than meditation in movement.
We should not discredit the coordination and muscle memory that Tai Chi
develops. Although drilled slowly, any repetitive movements are being set by
the brain into a more efficient network of neurons that need very little
conscious effort to initiate and go through the said movement. This will have
already given a Tai Chi practitioner an advantage over individuals with no
training at all. The efficiency of it against other martial arts however, is
still up for debate and testing.
At any rate, if your objective is to have
a healthy mind and to enjoy the art of the movement.  Try it out and see for yourself.
There are countless martial art
disciplines that will present itself when you do your research. New appealing
objectives and goals will present themselves. Do not lose sight of your
original goal of improving your ability to focus. Aside from choosing a martial
art discipline based on its effectiveness in combat and improving the ability
to focus, you should also factor yourself in the equation. You should be
familiar with your own abilities and how well or badly it might fit with a
discipline. Know your own threshold of pain and patience then gradually reduce
the choices accordingly until you arrive at a definite one. Whatever martial
art discipline you picked that's best for you in your own assessment, you
should give yourself a pat on the shoulder because you made a commitment to
improve yourself.
 
Try Not To Show Off
A certain comic book hero is very famous
for his profound words. He lives by his motto that with great power, comes with
great responsibility. Those are very important words to remember and live by.
In the context of martial arts, it basically means that when you have already
improved yourself that you are considered more skilled in fighting than the
average individual, you are expected to behave appropriately. You are will then
be expected to help those in need when the situation presents itself. The
failure to do so will weigh your conscience down for choosing to turn a blind
eye. Inversely, you are expected to behave properly and resist any urge to
abuse your new found skills. A martial arts practitioner who lavishes at his
advantage over untrained individuals are abandoning their sense of
responsibility.
Abraham Lincoln once said, "Nearly all men
can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man's character, give him
power." The true test of a man's character is when he gains an advantage over
the average people. A martial artist who has reached high levels of skills in
his selected field will have their inherent orientations tested. A person who
is inherently corrupted will make his true nature shown. A true altruist person
will remain so when faced with the same test.
Any man who wishes to learn the art of
fighting can learn it to some degree. The key is not to give in to urges to
initiate unprovoked altercations to those that you deem has lower skill levels
than you. Although giving in to your corrupt self will not be detrimental to
your acquired ability to focus, society will have lost another chance at making
the world a little bit better and safer through you.
 
A Pacifist's Mindset
Contrary to its namesake, martial art
which originates from the name of the Roman god of war, most disciplines teach
non-combative ways to deal with confrontations. This invaluable technique may
prove useful when applied first rather than going straight to fighting. You
might avoid sustaining unnecessary injuries or even empathize with the
aggressor. Understanding the opponent's point of view may help you deal with
the situation in a peaceful manner. To martial artists who are hungry for a
fight, the thought of peaceful resolution is a waste of time. They want to use
what they have learned rather than miss their chance and never encounter
another altercation all their life. Although with that kind of mindset, they'll
realize that their opportunities to fight will keep presenting itself.
As mentioned previously, your main
objective in learning martial art should be improving yourself. Keep this
mindset while you train. The development of your skill to focus and your sheer
will can help you stay on track. Keep at it and you have a chance at becoming a
martial arts expert so skilled that you can end a fight before it even begins.











Chapter
14: Recovery: Rest and Sleep
 
The Sleep Deprivation Trend
The previous chapters have highlighted the
negative effects of modernization to human behavior. We are forced to adapt to
the modern era in ways that are detrimental to our physical and mental health.
One of these negative compensations with the times is the neglect of sufficient
rest and sleep. The importance of sleeping has been greatly undermined. This is
partly because the ill effects of sleep deprivation are not immediately felt.
Once they do manifest, we usually blame other factors that are more obvious. We
usually fail to factor in the lack of recovery facilitating in the acquisition
of different illnesses.
The internet age is also one reason for
the prevalence of sleep deprivation. The availability of hundreds of information
are just a few clicks apart. Some people cascade one website over another once
they find links within links that pique their interests. This effect derails an
individual from the individual query. It will then take them from a few minutes
to several hours to actually get back to their original objective; sometimes
never at all. Games are also responsible for a big chunk of time wasted by
people on the internet. The nature of these games is technically designed to
keep users hooked with the help of exploiting human psychology. A lot of hours
are wasted in decimating digital enemies that reward digital currency that are
ultimately worthless especially when the time spent playing is factored in. One
day harsh reality will come knocking at the door to announce that the game will
be closing. Players will lament usually not for the time and resources wasted
but for not being able to waste more time at the game anymore. This is a sad
reality that will not be accepted nor even acknowledged by those who are dangerously
addicted to their respective games. Some justify it as being a lesser evil in
comparison to drug addiction. But really, how is it any different when it is
essentially wasting your life away at a volatile goal?
The habit of being immersed in the internet
will be so strong that there will be times that you know that you have nothing
else important to do on the computer but are still struggling to think of
something to do. All while fighting off the sleepiness telling you to get your
proper rest.
Ironically, some individuals are actually
proud of their sleep deprivation. This seemingly innocent mindset is actually a
legitimate concern that people should take seriously. They even collectively
came up with a title for people who adopt this dangerous lifestyle, 'night
owl'. The comparison itself is indicative of their misplaced pride since owls
are nocturnal by nature. They sleep in daylight comfortably unlike humans who
are undeniably affected by daylight and can not sleep as well as night time.
Interestingly, majority of the demography of the so-called night owls are
teenagers and young adults. They have reinforced their stance and bad habit
with list-type articles that glorify their kind through generalized traits.
This irresponsible mentality to live life in the moment will eventually haunt
them later in life especially when a family depends on them.
The detrimental effects on mental health
are well documented in several studies. If you have personally tried staying up
until the early morning hours, you can definitely attest to how sleeping very
late can make you cranky and disoriented. In the context of developing focus,
this is something that should be avoided. You cannot call on your ability to
focus with a groggy body and a groggy mind. To achieve focus, a healthy sleep
habit is imperative. There is no substitute to a good night's sleep in giving
the body recovery in preparation for the next day. Do not opt to use illegal
drugs to compensate. It may temporarily give you the effect of wakefulness but
the fleeting effect will add even more long term detrimental effects that you
can do without. For your general well-being, do the extra effort needed to
overcome the temptations presented by the modern world.
Another reason for the trend of sleep
deprivation is the legitimate need to crunch in more time to do office work at
home or attend to unfinished schoolwork and homework. Sometimes these things
are very hard to avoid. Such are few of the dilemmas presented by the rapid
modernization of our era. Ultimately, it is up to you to make the choice.
Should you sacrifice your school or office efficiency for your health, or the
other way around?
 
Beating the Hustle And Bustle
When you are accustomed to erratic
sleeping habits, it will be very difficult initially to settle into a regular
sleeping pattern. Our bodies have a built-in biological clock that under normal
circumstances, regulate your sleep pattern. It tracks your usual waking hour
and gives the body several minutes to snooze before fully waking up. It tracks your
usual sleeping hour and makes you drowsy appropriately.
With a heavily erratic sleeping habit, the
biological clock will have a difficulty in tracking your pattern. The effect of
this is constantly feeling tired and irritable. In order to establish a regular
sleeping pattern, there should be a commitment to stick to the sleep schedule
until the biological clock has settled in. It may take a while for some but it
will recalibrate eventually.
Upon establishing a good sleeping habit,
you will begin to feel a lot better than you used to. Your physical health will
improve and will be brimming with energy. Your mental state will become
significantly clearer, making it possible to focus on what you need to do. The
energized state will make you more efficient compared to your sleep-deprived
self. This may actually help you complete your objectives efficiently and
eliminate any need to stay up late into the night.
Depending on each individual's
predicaments, some may actually find it impossible to get regular sleep. They
may have jobs that require waking hours in the evening such as security
personnel, customer service representatives, and medical personnel, etc. The
choice to make the necessary adjustments depend on how much they value their
long term health. If you have the luxury of choice, take the chance and get
proper sleep when you can. Don't handicap yourself by deliberately compromising
your health for the sake of nonsensical games or websites.











Chapter
15: Get a Hobby
 
Hobbies for A Healthy Mind
Everybody needs a sense of purpose.
Although you might grow accustomed to the familiarity and comfort of your daily
routines, you will eventually come to a point in your life where you have not
really done anything worthwhile in your life. Some refer to this depressing
epiphany as 'middle crisis'. At this point in time you may begin to take
interest in different hobbies that help you deal with the issue. Pursuing an
interesting activity might give you a sense of purpose or renew it if you've
already found one prior to losing it through stagnation of routinely complying
with daily activities like clockwork.
Taking up a hobby is not exclusive to
people with midlife crisis. It is highly encouraged that you should start
pursuing hobbies at the younger stages of your life. Doing it early will give
you an established sense of identity. This sense of identity sets you apart
from the general population because you belong in a niche collective type of
individuals who live life with inspiration, sense of purpose and sense of fulfillment.
Should midlife crisis still creep up on
you, it will not be as burdensome in comparison to those who have no special
interests to speak of. Your hobbies will have kept your mental state more
active and well developed. The time and dedication spent on chosen hobbies are
worth the investment to your self-improvement. The sense of pride and
fulfillment are also great benefits and motivations to keep doing the chosen
hobby even through times when you begin to doubt your purpose in life.
 
Profitable Hobbies
Not all hobbies are cheap. There are some
that only the extremely wealthy have the luxury to do. Obviously, you have to
pick one that you can afford. If you insist on going through with an expensive
one then you might find yourself mismanaging your finances. A hobby should not
deprive you and your family of your basic needs.
Fortunately, there are hobbies that can be
done at very little to no cost at all. Some of these can even be sold for
profit. All while doing something that you truly enjoy. Pursuing a hobby that
has a potential to earn money is a very wise move that you can take. Here is a
list of some hobbies that may as well be a career once you have established a
good market.

            Music             - Music         is
     probably the most popular hobby around. Almost everyone wants to         learn how      to play musical instruments or sing. Needless       to say, the market for music is
     saturated. You have to be very             exceptional
     at           it and should be good at
     marketing yourself. Sometimes    even
     less talented individuals can find fame just because they know     how to get publicity. Researching             the target audience and
     adjusting             your type of
     music accordingly is also a good idea. When    you can't get the appeal of the general public, you may as
     well try             a niche group of
     audience where you have a chance to excel.
            
            Bonsai            -
     Not necessarily a cheap hobby. The capital needed to be invested           in this venture can really hurt
     your wallet at first. However,       when
     you have the passion for it you will definitely become better         at it. The             rewards of the invested resources in making bonsai
     is worth it. A            well-designed
     piece can be appraised with a hefty price tag. Put   in the capital, time, passion and patience and you may be on
     your          way to a financially
     sound career in bonsai-making.

 

            Photography  -
     Photography is another very             popular
              hobby. A        lot of people aspire to become
     photographers for a living. Only a             few
     actually put in the required work and research to truly become a             professional photographer.
     While           not as saturated as
     the music industry, photography has considerably  less marketability.           Music
     is enjoyed by everyone therefore it makes the whole world the  target customers. Photography on the other
     hand, can only provide  their
     services to specific     clients and
     events.

            

            Crafts  - Get  in touch with your   creative side and get into the           intricate             handicrafts
     that can be sold online or at a store. The      range of the products that can be made are virtually
     inexhaustible.  The market for
     handicrafts is healthy specially when sold over the             internet. The             advantage of selling online is
     that even though you may pick             what
     is considered a niche product,         you
     can still sell the crafted items easily. The             disadvantage            on
     the other hand is the             set-up
     needed for an online store in the form of a website. There is          also the issue of parcel             companies that disregard
     'fragile' stickers on the package entrusted         to them.

            

            Blogging        -
     For a writer, there is nothing more satisfying        that putting your day into words over a web log (blog).
     Simply        expressing your
     thoughts our narrating your day are sufficient             contents for a blog. However, getting publicity and
     genuinely      interested people is
     another thing. Blogs            that
     are created with the intention to make a profit should             specialize on an interesting subject
     and make posts           that are
     related to it. Additionally,       there
     are loads             of other items
     in blogging that need attending to. Using  words
     that are frequently used in search engines, requesting for  advertisement banners, etc. Blogging         may not be for you if your
     intention is primarily to make money.             Blogging
            has become too popular that
     most subjects overlap and vie to become             better
     than the rest.             Try it out
     as a hobby. Then  along the way, do
     the necessary steps to make it possible to earn             some cash without getting pressured to do so. You
     are likely to post    quality content
     if you don't think             about
     the blog as a prospective cash-cow.

 

            Baking            -
     Generally   regarded as business,
     baking can still be considered a hobby             especially
     if you are into homemade baked products. Easily       the hobby in the list where profit can be earned soonest.
     No  matter how difficult baking
     looks, an individual who considers             baking
     a hobby will understand the art and techniques applied. It         is more than just throwing ingredients
     together and putting the             resulting
     mixture in the oven. Understanding         how
     the ingredients affect one another through different proportions    and how specific mixing techniques
     result in different textures.        These
     are few of the intricacies of baking that can't be taught by a    simple cookbook. Experienced  bakers know that there       is so much more to learn and thus
     further improve their knowledge in            baking.

 
Enthusiast to Specialist
In time, an aspiring hobbyist will become
very proficient at their chosen field of interest. The understanding of the
basics becomes second nature. This is where learning may become slower but it
is perfectly understandable because that's when hobbyists begin to specialize
in their field. The resources of information for specialization is far and few
in between. Oftentimes they may even get to discover new things by themselves
in the process. These discoveries make hobbies all the more rewarding to
pursue.
 
Remember Self-control
Balance is key for good mental and
physical health. Having too much of a good thing can actually be a bad thing.
Too much time spent on hobbies for example, will cause you to neglect other
important things that you need to attend to. Becoming too engrossed in a hobby
may even make you forget about your basic needs. Remember that your reason for
doing the hobby is to improve your mental well-being. Forgoing sleep will
negatively affect you thus compromising your main goal. Forgetting to eat is
also another concern. The brain is fuelled by food. Keep it healthy by
providing it with the necessary nutrients to function well.
Remember that you should regulate
yourself when an overwhelming urge to sleep late presents itself. The dilemma
with hobbies is that it actually makes you totally focused on the activity because
it is one that you find very interesting. This effectively tunes out not just
distractions but also obligations. Breaking this focus will be admittedly
difficult but you have to remember why you started. Health is wealth. Whether
physical or mental, they are two sides of the same coin and must be tended to
accordingly.











Conclusion
 
"I would go without shirt or shoe
sooner than lose for a minute the two separate sides of my head." said the
great English poet and novelist Rudyard Kipling. This just goes to show how
much significance the great man attributed to focus and concentration. In fact,
these two qualities go a long way in deciding how successful you become in your
chosen profession.
Remember, improving focus and enhancing
your concentration skills is not something which you can acquire overnight. It
may take weeks and months of constant and diligent practice for you to start
noticing significant gains. So do not lose hope and keep practicing and sooner
than later you would find that your ability to concentrate on and learn new
things has increased by bounds.
We wish to thank you again for downloading
this e-book. We hope you shall benefit from this and it will help you chart
your own path of success with renewed focus and commitment.











 
FREE
BONUS
Free Bonus Video: How to Improve
Memory and Focus using these memorization techniques
 
Bonus Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TwcBTF-p_gI











 
© Copyright 2014 - All
rights reserved.
In no way is it legal to reproduce,
duplicate, or transmit any part of this document in either electronic means or
in printed format. Recording of this publication is strictly prohibited and any
storage of this document is not allowed unless with written permission from the
publisher. All rights reserved. 
 
The information provided herein is stated
to be truthful and consistent, in that any liability, in terms of inattention
or otherwise, by any usage or abuse of any policies, processes, or directions
contained within is the solitary and utter responsibility of the recipient
reader. Under no circumstances will any legal responsibility or blame be held
against the publisher for any reparation, damages, or monetary loss due to the
information herein, either directly or indirectly. 
Respective authors own all copyrights not
held by the publisher. 
 
Legal Notice:
This ebook is copyright protected. This is
only for personal use. You cannot amend, distribute, sell, use, quote or
paraphrase any part or the content within this ebook without the consent of the
author or copyright owner. Legal action will be pursued if this is breached. 
 
Disclaimer Notice:
Please note the information contained
within this document is for educational and entertainment purposes only. Every
attempt has been made to provide accurate, up to date and reliable complete
information. No warranties of any kind are expressed or implied. Readers
acknowledge that the author is not engaging in the rendering of legal,
financial, medical or professional advice.
By reading this document, the reader
agrees that under no circumstances are we responsible for any losses, direct or
indirect, which are incurred as a result of the use of information contained
within this document, including, but not limited to, —errors, omissions, or
inaccuracies.
















