





TABLE OF CONTENTS



  

PREFACE

DESTINATION BEIJING



FROM REDNECKS TO RED CHINA

SETTLING IN BEIJING

FLYING PIGEONS 



KEEPING WARM

CHINESE CUISINE



"WE ARE YOUR LOYAL RED GUARDS" 



CHINESE MEDICINE



BIG NOSE AND YELLOW HAIR



SUMMER PALACE AND PEKING DUCK 



BACK TO BASICS



WHEN THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A "WEI"



THE SHANGHAI EXPRESS



A CHINESE HOME IN THE FRENCH CONCESSION 



PROFESSOR PHEN



PARIS OF THE EAST



"LOVE CHINA, RESTORE THE GREAT WALL"



DESPERATELY SEEKING FOR PANDAS 



A WEEKEND IN THE COUNTRYSIDE



FAMILY LIFE IN THE COUNTRYSIDE



MEET MORE OF THE FAMILY



VISITORS FROM THE WEST



DINNER AT MAXIM'S



WATERMELONS AND AUBERGINES



TWO PARISIANS IN CHINA



CRUISING ON THE GRAND CANAL



XIAN AND THE TERRACOTTA SOLDIERS



FAREWELL TO BEIJING



WELCOME BACK TO THE WEST



狄安娜 : Anne DEPAULIS


















PREFACE

"FROM REDNECKS TO RED CHINA" is a collection of anecdotes related to my stay in Beijing, in 1986, as a student of Mandarin.  I started writing in the early 2000's, while living in Hong Kong, aware that China was rapidly changing.  The country I knew might disappear forever.  Added motivation came from joining a writing group whose comments and suggestions proved invaluable. 

Nearly fifteen years later, after reworking the stories on a few occasions, I sent a few of them to a young Chinese woman met in Paris. To my great surprise, she enjoyed them and asked for more. "This is a side of China I don't know," she wrote back.   That eventually prompted me to take advantage of today's self-publishing facilities, since my dealings with potential publishers were unsuccessful.  Next year, it will be 30 years since I was a student in China and changes are beyond what I ever imagined. 

When I arrived in Beijing, in 1986, I was reasonably well prepared for a new intercultural experience. I had studied the language, during my university days, although, by then, it was nearly all forgotten.  However, the best preparation for my stay in China was, again, that year in Texas, at the age of seventeen.  As tough as it was, that experience had made me extremely adaptable and helped me make adjustments in my life in Beijing. 

It is hard, if not impossible, to quantify what we gain out of intercultural experiences.  However, when I look back over the years, coming to grips with foreign cultures has been the most valuable part of my life.  It definitely helped me with my professional life and, on the personal level, it has meant rich encounters with wonderful people.  Other cultures are a source of inspiration and open the mind.  The Chinese are amazingly adaptable, resilient and move forward rather than indulge in self-pity.  I do my best to be Chinese at times. Their sense of hospitality is beyond what I have experienced, anywhere else in the world, and I try to remember that too. The recipe for intercultural success, not always an easy task, is a fine balance between absorbing a new culture, keeping your own and respect differences. 

Why the use of English?  My life in Beijing, in 1986, was either in Chinese or English but not in French.  When I started writing in Hong Kong, English was the dominant language and, besides, I knew I could reach more people that way.  Honni soit qui mal y pense!

Anne Depaulis
Paris, February 2015

Warmest thanks to Bruce, Désirée, Ellen, Harry, Lavinia, Leela, Liang, Marianne, Nora, and Vivian for their precious comments and suggestions over the years.  
Graphic Designer: Véronique Lassablière





 Translation of the Chinese characters: "We like peace" (photo A.D.)



狄安娜














DESTINATION BEIJING

I flew to China for the first time, in 1986, to be a student of Mandarin for six months in Beijing.  The cheapest flight I could find was with TAROM, the flag carrier of Romania, and the journey from London took a long thirty-six hours. It was a cold and miserable day, in late February, and the first leg of the trip was with an old and creaking Tupolev.  A tall strong-looking steward kicked the door shut and off we went for the most frightening flight ever.  We went up and down, like a yoyo, for about three hours but, fortunately, boarded a larger plane in Bucharest.  Before our final destination, we stopped in Karachi for a couple of hours.  There was just enough time for a hot cup of tea, the local style, with a strong taste of ginger and cardamom. 
Many hours later, I walked through the deserted airport of Beijing, holding my breath.  There was suddenly a feeling of time warp as everything looked bare and desolate.  I walked under a large banner; "Welcome to Beijing International", it said in Chinese.  I felt proud I could read as much as that.  I had studied Chinese in France, in the mid 70's, but it was long forgotten for lack of practice... I went through Immigration in record time, and then proceeded to the luggage section to find my suitcase already there. Shortly afterwards, a good-looking man walked towards me and introduced himself as Mr. Wang. "I am here on behalf of our college. Welcome to Beijing, Miss Anne", he said in a rehearsed manner.  Within no time, I was whisked away in a white "Shanghai", just like the car I remembered from The Blue Lotus (The Adventures of Tintin).
The trip from the airport to my college took about an hour. The Beijing Teachers' Training College was located in the north-western part of the capital, home to a lot of universities.  It was quite late in the day and staff at the reception immediately took me to my room, Spartan to say the least.  The floor was bare concrete, the bed extremely hard and the only piece of furniture was a shoddy-looking table. Communication proved difficult, as my Chinese was incredibly rusty and non-existent regarding daily life. I quickly discovered that Classical Chinese does not help much when your shower is not working.
A young American with "yellow hair" "huang toufa" came to my rescue and explained the situation.  "Things often break down here, so you'd better learn the word 'huai le' ", "it's broken" in Chinese.  
My new friend, John, added with a broad smile: "You'll find the conversation often goes like this... "Zenme ban?", the equivalent of "What shall we do?".  Then the Chinese will tell you with a shrug "Meiyou banfa" "Nothing can be done". 

狄安娜















FROM REDNECKS TO RED CHINA

In the early 70's, I was the odd one to study Chinese in France. In those days, what inspired me, besides Pearl Buck's novels and The Blue Lotus, was the challenge of a difficult language. I quickly became fascinated with Chinese characters and, most of all, I liked my classmates, a small group of fun and interesting people.  Among our teachers, one had lived in China in the early 60's and our Department Head, a Frenchman born in Japan, was a prominent Sinologist.  Another had to leave China in the middle of the Cultural Revolution, in the late 60's, when things got rough.  He was banned from playing the piano, a decadent pastime during that period, and hadn't quite recovered from the difficult time he had.  I was by far the youngest but this eclectic crowd quickly adopted me. 
The Cultural Revolution was then in full swing and our study books, printed in Beijing, were full of political jargon. To this day, I have not forgotten "useful" phrases such as "We must follow the path of Marxism Leninism"..." and "Long live Chairman Mao..." For three years, I learned political vocabulary and Classical Chinese but never learned how to say, "My shower is broken, can you please fix it?" 
One of the highlights of my university days was an extra curriculum activity initiated by one of our teachers.   Under Madame Gauthier's supervision, a few of us started translating Family by the famous writer Ba Jin. The novel is about the disintegration of a Chinese family with old-fashioned values and gives a detailed account of everyday life in the early 1900's.  I can still hear the shuffling of mah-jong tiles - the twittering of sparrows, as they say in Chinese - and the bickering of idle women.  We all enjoyed working on the translation of Family and, every time we finished a chapter, our teacher baked a cake to celebrate. Unfortunately, before we knew it, somebody else had published the French translation. This is how I found out that life is not always a piece of cake...
During that period at university, I went through a series of culture shocks and one of them was readjusting to France as well as learning Chinese.  I had just come back from living with an American family in Texas as an exchange student with AFS.  My time in Dallas was about learning another language and coping with cultural differences. Many people I met were conservative to an extreme, sometimes described as "rednecks" by other Americans, and yet could be warm and hospitable to an extreme as well.
Back in France, the transition from "Rednecks" to "Red China" was not an easy one but I knew that year in Texas had transformed my life and, somehow, paved the way to the success of my journey with China.  
After I graduated from university both in English and Chinese, the latter was on the back burner for many years, as it seemed doubtful I should ever go to China.  In 1980, I married an Englishman and went to live in London.  One day, David looked at me with a stern face and said in his usual collected manner "There is something about you that really upsets me".  I braced myself for the worst.  "You said you'd pick up Chinese again and you haven't done anything about it"... to which I laughed nervously, feeling relieved.  It was ironic that, shortly after my divorce, the chance to go to China should have come unexpectedly.



(source Internet)

In January 1986, on a grim rainy evening, I was on a London double-decker on my way home, reading my horoscope to pass the time.  I read that something really exciting was about to happen in my life.  I shrugged and decided to get off the bus and stop by the AFS office, as I was a volunteer for them.  The staff were frantic, as somebody had just pulled out of a new China programme for "mature students".  They did not want to disappoint the Chinese and had to find a replacement quickly.  They all suddenly looked at me as Bill, the National Director, was pointing his finger in my direction:  "How about going to China for six months?" he said in his broad Irish accent. "You've studied Chinese and, most of all, you have a British passport to fill our quota.  You have exactly two days to make up your mind."


Needless to say, my decision was made instantly.   As expected, my family and close friends were enormously supportive. The only hurdle I could see was my Bank Manager since I had a mortgage for my flat in London.  Against all odds, his reaction was tremendous.  "In all these years, you are my first customer going to China," he said proudly. "We will defer your repayments for as long as you're away."  
The following few weeks were busy resigning from my job, packing warm clothes for the winter in Beijing, getting a visa and saying good bye to friends and family.


狄安娜














SETTLING IN BEIJING

The day after my arrival in Beijing, my roommate flew in from the U.S. and, by coincidence, her name was also Anne.  That greatly puzzled our Chinese friends who undertook to give us different names in Mandarin. 
In China, for a given name, parents carefully select one or two words, each with a separate meaning and positive connotation.  A woman could be "Beautiful Flower" or "Plum Blossom", for example, and a man could be "Strong" or "Clever". However, during the Cultural Revolution, he could have been "Strong Country" or "Revolutionary Hero" reflecting the times.  Many changed their names later on.
For Western given names, the Chinese identify words close enough phonetically and usually flattering. This is how I was reincarnated as "An Na" meaning "Harmony" and "Beauty" respectively and I didn't mind at all. The written character for "Harmony", 安, pictures a woman at home, highly valued in traditional China.  This hardly suited me but I still liked my new name.  The other Anne became "He An Ning", "He" being the first syllable of her family name and also a Chinese surname. An Ning means calm and composed and was definitely the wrong choice for my roommate, I found out later.  Despite very different names in Chinese and opposite personalities we instantly struck a friendship.
The most interesting part of the Chinese language, apart from the beauty of characters, is how words are made up.  The Chinese create new words by combining characters that each has a meaning.  The Chinese word for "bicycle" is made of three characters "Zi Xing Che", "Zi" means "one's own", "Xing" "to travel" and "Che", "vehicle".  A telephone is an "electrical machine for words", and a train a "fire vehicle", dating to the days when trains were powered by burning coal.  The word "psychology" is the "study of the reasons of the heart", and "dissent" the "fact of not agreeing", definitely not a popular word in China then.   
There was also confusion about my origins as I came to Beijing on my British passport.  My teachers knew my roots were in France and couldn't understand how I could possibly be British as well.  The Chinese decided once and for all that I was a "Faguo Ren", "a person from the country of the Law", i.e. French.  Now that I had a meaningful name and definite origins, the foundation was laid for a harmonious life in the Middle Kingdom.
In our college, foreign students, fourteen in total and mostly Americans, were assigned to separate quarters. The Chinese told us that the lack of comfort in their dormitories made life too rough for the delicate outsiders we were. An obvious reason for this isolation was the fear of "spiritual pollution". Only a few years before, many Chinese students were sometimes severely punished for being too friendly to foreigners. Although these were better times for China, we all knew the old days of reporting on your friends and neighbours were not completely gone. It was only after the death of Mao Zedong, in 1976, and with Deng Xiaoping as a Leader, that China witnessed a radical change. The door finally opened to the rest of the world, in the early 80's, and we were fortunate enough to be right in the middle of this new era for the country. 





自行车 Zi Xing Che (photo A.D.)

In my college, for the first time ever, two Chinese students had recently moved to our quarters.  Our college wanted to show goodwill as some of our classmates complained about the lack of interaction.  There was no doubt the Communist Party had carefully selected our new neighbours.  Both were experts in Wushu, the Chinese Martial Art better known as Kung Fu.  It was a joy to watch them go back to their room in leaps and bounds, literally flying in the air as they went through their daily practice.  I knew one reason of their choice, besides political ones, was to show off excellence in a Chinese discipline and I could not blame them for that.
Our quarters were basic but we were aware of our privileges compared to Chinese students.  Besides a lot more space, we had better food and individual showers rather than communal ones, even if they often broke down. We only had two students per room when, in the Chinese quarters, they had eight students in a tiny space with bunk beds. 
狄安娜














FLYING PIGEONS 

Shortly after my arrival, I purchased a second-hand bicycle, which cost two hundred and fifty Renminbi, equivalent to two months' wages for many Chinese.  A brand new one, made by Flying Pigeon & Co. - the largest manufacturer in the country - cost three times as much.  In the mid 80's, everybody in China wanted a bicycle and, a few years before, it was a watch also worth two months' wages.  My newly purchased bicycle became my preferred mode of transport until it disappeared one day.  I then resorted to public transport, buses mostly as the underground only had one line.
In those days, the city was blessed with no traffic-jams but plagued with hordes of bicycles everywhere, all of them black.  They had no lights at night, and I often wondered why.  I asked Teacher Hu one day. "Mao said that China is more enlightened than Russia so the Chinese don't need lights on their bikes."  I tried hard to remain serious.  Apparently, that statement was made at the time of tensions between the two countries but still applied, it seemed. The quality of Chinese bicycles was not the greatest and repair stalls were a familiar sight at street corners.  Flat tyres were part of daily life. Another big hazard, when you rode a bicycle, was spitting.  It was a nasty habit still quite common despite government efforts to fight tradition.  Indeed, the Chinese believe that getting rid of your phlegm is healthy for the body.  Once, I was pedalling along, alert to the preceding clearing of the throat and managed to duck just in time. Unfortunately, the "other Anne" was on the same flight path and the resulting swearing was another proof of her proficiency in Chinese...One blessing owed to bicycles was the lack of pollution, compared to Western cities, and we often enjoyed clear blue skies. 



(Photo A.D.)

Beijing was a very spread out city and cabs were few and far between. However, buses were a cheap way to get you across town.  I got to know the route of Bus Number One, an old squeaky one, and rusty on the outside. It had two articulated carriages and moved like a caterpillar along the main roads of Beijing. Sometimes Bus Number One was so full that children were carried through the windows. Every time I boarded the bus, I felt intimidated by the high pitch and nasal voice of the bus conductor squealing "Mai Piao, Mai Piao", "buy ticket, buy ticket".  Bus conductors looked and acted as if they owned and ran the city, a bit like waiters in Parisian cafés. They could be bad-tempered so you made sure to buy a ticket as soon as you got on.  At least two stops before my destination, I would squeeze my way to the door and shout "Wo xia, wo xia..." "I'm getting off...". 



(Source Internet )

In Beijing, cabs were a rare breed but we normally could find them in front of the Western-style hotels, about half a dozen in total.  All were incredibly clean and drivers wore white gloves. Besides the prohibitive cost, the additional challenge was to tell the driver your destination in Mandarin.  A few days after my arrival in Beijing, I opted for the luxury of a cab after dinner with American friends in the downtown area. Once inside the cab, my mind went completely blank and I couldn't remember the name of my college in Chinese.  It was pitch black outside and my hands started to sweat. "Deng yi xia" "Wait a moment", I told the driver, a convenient phrase I often used. Suddenly, with a rush of adrenaline, the name came back. "Beijing Shi Fan Xue Yuan" (Beijing Teachers' Training College), I burst out in one breath and then sighed with relief.  At that point, I realized I couldn't even say "Please take me to the British Embassy or the French one, let alone the Police Station".  Fortunately, this driver knew where my college was. 



狄安娜














KEEPING WARM

In the 80's, Northern China was bitterly cold in the winter, outdoors as much as indoors, despite central heating.  In Beijing, the temperature could be as low as -10°C with strong winds.  When doing my homework, I often wore a pair of tights and two pairs of trousers on top to keep warm.  The Chinese advised us to wear many layers rather than just one set of clothes.  As the weather got warmer, we peeled off the layers, one by one, to make sure the body gradually adjusted.  To fight the harsh winter outdoors, we wore Chinese style padded jackets or coats and rather looked like Michelin men, the fatter version.  Before I left Europe, my mother generously gave me an old cashmere sweater she no longer wore.  I was not exactly sure what to make of this until she said "Make sure you wear this next to your skin, trust me..." I blessed my mother for that old blue sweater, in the midst of a Beijing winter. I wore it nearly every single day rather than the thermal underwear bought in England.
One day, I decided to keep my feet warm indoors and ventured into Wang Fu Jing, the main shopping area, to buy a pair of slippers.  Friends had advised me to go to the Beijing Department Store, considered the best in town.   There was not a single foreigner in sight and I instantly became the centre of attention. It suddenly came to mind that I didn't know how to say "slippers" in Chinese so I pointed at a pair of warm-looking bulky shoes made of felt.  Sizing is different in China so I then pointed at my feet.  The saleswoman came close to my face and screamed with astonishment, "You have blue eyes!"  She was mesmerised and stared at me for a long while. As embarrassed as I was, I could tell there was no animosity, just curiosity.  "Are you American?" she asked. In those days, most foreigners in China were from the U.S so that didn't come as a surprise.  "I am French and I am here to learn Chinese," I replied in my still hesitant Putonghua.  She then beamed with pride and said in one breath, "You can speak Chinese, I'll give you a discount then, we can be friends now."  There is no other place in the world where speaking the language can be so gratifying.  



The ubiquitous boiler (photo A.D.)

Besides my mother's old cashmere sweater and newly bought slippers, I kept my body temperature at reasonable levels by drinking cups of hot water but surprisingly seldom tea.   This commodity has been associated with China for centuries but, in the mid 80's, production was mostly exported and, for the locals, it was an expensive luxury.  In my dormitory, at the end of the corridor, there was the ubiquitous boiler, which we used to fill our thermos.  That hot water was not only precious to keep warm but also appreciated when our shower broke down, at least once a month.  When that happened, we filled an enamel basin in bright fluorescent colours and, with sponge and soap, managed to keep squeaky clean.

狄安娜














CHINESE CUISINE

The Chinese cuisine we ate everyday was not what we expected.  China was a poor country then, everything was basic and that included food.  Pork, the most common meat, was rationed as well as oil and yet, they used rather too much of the latter for my taste.   Refrigerated transport was not developed and that meant eating locally grown products. In Beijing, where the winter is long and extremely cold, there wasn't much variety for a few months and our diet mostly consisted of Chinese cabbage (baicai), rice, eggs, tomatoes and pork or chicken.   There was the odd spoon available at times but we soon learned the art of eating with chopsticks. Within a few weeks, most of us could pick up slippery peanuts without too much trouble.  At the college canteen, they gave us a wooden pair wrapped in paper at each meal, a favour for foreign guests.  However, in many restaurants, they were reusable and customers grabbed a pair from a big pot in the middle of the table. "You can't do that," scorned Teacher Hu once during lunch at a dumpling house.  She had just come back from Australia where she studied for a while and felt hygiene was non-existent in China. "It won't kill me," I laughed.  In defiance, I picked up a dumpling and gulped it down.



Street food vendor selling "baozi", steamed buns filled with meat (photo AD)


The one meal I found difficult to eat was breakfast as stir-fried rice or noodles with weak tea didn't appeal to me early in the morning.  For my breakfast, I slipped into "bourgeois decadence" and bought instant coffee at the Friendship Store, which carried imported products exclusively for foreigners. The one in Beijing was located at the other end of town, about an hour away by transport. It was the only place in the capital, besides a few hotels, where you could find the basic type of Nescafé.  Around the corner from our college, oddly enough, I could buy "Croissants". This was a welcome find even if they didn't taste like the real thing.  I found them in a tiny store behind our campus and, surprised, asked the shopkeeper, "What are they in Chinese?"  "Beef Horn Breads," I worked out. The shopkeeper carried on with great confidence.  "Deng Xiaoping lived in France when he was a young man, and liked them a lot." Apparently, Deng never failed to place an order whenever a government official made a trip to Paris.  
In those days, fruit was a rare commodity.  You could buy it at exorbitant prices even after some bargaining. The Chinese government had recently allowed farmers to come to the cities and sell their own products freely but they charged disproportionate prices.   Food markets were not the colourful places often found in poor countries but a depressing sight revealing that food was still scarce.   One day at the market, I saw a woman hold a piece of meat with two fingers making her way home to cook her dinner.  Even wrapping paper was a luxury in China.




狄安娜














"WE ARE YOUR LOYAL RED GUARDS" 

Chinese students were free to mingle with us but we were aware of being watched all the time.  We suspected, albeit without any proof, that this was the job of Wang Yi at the reception desk of our dorms. Foreigners were noticeable for obvious reasons, and since we weren't in large numbers, his task must have been easy.  
Quite early on, during my stay in Beijing, I met an interesting character called Liang, a student at my college, surprisingly very outspoken about the Communist Party.  He believed there should be radical changes.  "One day, people will be out in the streets rioting," he said. "We can't go on like this, the Party must change."  Liang told me his father once played a key role during the Cultural Revolution but never revealed his identity or occupation.  One day, he brought a large box of memorabilia left from the Cultural Revolution.  They included Mao badges, the famous little Red Book and other propaganda items.  "I can bring more, my parents still have many boxes at home," he said with a strained smile. 
There was no history class for us, at our college, a sensitive subject for the Communists.  I had read a lot on China, at university in France, but my American classmates were much younger and unprepared.  One day, I ventured, "Is it fair to say that, after 1949, when the Communists took over, things got better?"  I found it hard to convince my young friends that the early 50's were some of the best years China had in recent history.  "How can you say that?" said Richard.  "Communism is a bad thing." I somehow managed to convince Richard otherwise as the early Communists eradicated the evils of the time such as opium smoking, prostitution and gambling.  Unfortunately, the good things didn't last long.
During our many discussions about China, I once told Richard, "After the initial good years, one big mistake was Mao's appointment as President."  "Not too loud", said Richard with a smirk, "Wang Yi is behind the door..." We both laughed with Richard betting on the date of my arrest.   At the end of our discussion, we agreed that Mao initially played a crucial role in unifying China but the Great Leap Forward, in the late fifties, was a total failure leading to huge famines. When Richard heard the word "famine", he promised never to complain again about the college canteen...Mao wanted China to catch up with British industry and ordered the Chinese to make iron bars. I remember documentaries of that period, watching in disbelief a woman throw her kitchen utensils into a big fire. Dissent grew among Mao's close allies and many were arrested, thrown in jail and tortured until they died.   
The early part of the 60's saw a definite improvement in living conditions thanks to the efforts of Deng Xiaoping, then Secretary General of the Party.  His famous line "It doesn't matter if the cat is black or white as long as it catches mice" dates back to that period.  Regretfully, that period didn't last long and, as Mao felt isolated, he became increasingly paranoid.  In the mid 60's, he came back to the front line with the full support of his wife Jiang Qing.  Subsequently, Deng and his reforms were dismissed.  
In no time the Cultural Revolution was "launched" and orchestrated by the Gang of Four, which included Mao's wife.  Hordes of young fanatics, the Red Guards, were out to erase the past. They arrested, tortured and imprisoned anybody who didn't conform. People denounced their friends for being well educated or connected to foreigners. "I wonder who betrayed their friends, among the Chinese we know?" Richard once ventured.  





"好好学习，天天向上" in handwriting at the top "study well, make progress every day," a quote by Mao.  This is the cover of an elementary school textbook from Guangxi (1971) right in the midst of the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976).
(Source Internet) 

1976 was a crucial year for China with Mao's death, in September.  Then, the following month, the Gang of Four was arrested.  Fortunately for China, Deng Xiaoping survived those difficult years and resurfaced in 1977.  Richard agreed that these were better times for China even if discos were few and far between by his standards.  However, the 6 o'clock broadcast of Communist propaganda, each morning, was there to remind us that the Cultural Revolution was not that far away.

狄安娜














CHINESE MEDICINE

When I lived in Beijing in the 80's, my health was generally good except for colds of the worst kind. The lack of variety of nutrients and a harsh climate weakened our immunity system.  Most Americans found it difficult to cope with the food, most probably because of the great difference in hygiene standards with the U.S.  Europeans generally coped better as we seemed to have better antibodies.  I was absolutely fine with the food and seemed to digest just about everything.
I was a smoker in those days and that didn't help with my bad colds.  In early March of that year, I felt so bad that I had to stay in my room for a couple of days, something unusual for me. After keeping my roommate awake with a bad cough at night, one morning, she decided she'd had enough. "Go and see a doctor, for God's sake!" Angry, she snatched away the Chinese cigarettes I liked to smoke.  "These are Deng Xiaoping's favourites, the Panda brand," I said with tongue in cheek.  "It says on the packet they are good for your health." She didn't think that was funny. "This is just stupid propaganda!"  She snapped. 



Boiling medicinal herbs (photo A.D.)

The next morning, I reluctantly went to the doctor's on campus. Dr. Liang took a wooden spatula from a jar on his desk and stuck it in my throat.  I watched him put it back where it belonged, totally flabbergasted.   Later in the day, both my students and teachers came to visit me.  They brought fruit, a valuable commodity in those days, meant to bring sweetness in your life as per Chinese tradition. "You must wear warmer clothes, more layers." Teacher Hu said firmly. "And make sure you wear those slippers."  I was not used to so much concern and loved every minute of it.  A friend recommended a Chinese herbal doctor to get my health back.  Dr. Liang wrote a long list of ingredients for the chemist who, in turn, directed me to somebody to boil the herbs. The prescription said to drink the dark brew ("tang yao" or "medicinal soup" in Chinese) every day for two weeks.  Every evening, I made a trip to the small wooden hut where a lady greeted me, each time, with a reassuring smile. She boiled the herbs for me with great care.  The resulting brew tasted bitter and revolting but it was worth the effort as I stopped getting colds altogether.

狄安娜














BIG NOSE AND YELLOW HAIR

Mail was generally slow but my letters to Bordeaux, my hometown, only took four days to reach their destination, a record time. Besides, I could tell they were never opened in transit when American friends were usually not so fortunate.  At the time, France was not on the map for China and the only country worth mentioning was the U.S., either as a capitalist enemy or the place where many students wanted to go.
The post office on campus was a tiny place, about two square meters in total, in one of the main buildings.  There, you could buy stamps from an elderly man who also provided the glue.  He always looked happy to see me and liked to have a chat.  On one occasion, I noticed a little girl, no older than five.  She looked at me in the eye and, pointing her finger, said at the top of her voice "Ni da bizi, huang toufa", "You big nose and yellow hair".  Yellow hair, I didn't mind.  I knew that, in the Chinese culture, it meant good luck because of its association with the colour of Gold.   On the other hand, "big nose" was not exactly what I wanted to hear but I knew this little girl meant no harm.  Most likely, she had never seen a foreigner so closely before.
It reminded me of an episode with my younger brother. At age five, once during dinner, he banged on the table to keep everyone quiet. "Anne's nose is too big, you should operate, Dad", he said dead serious.  My older brother, a typical teenager, nearly fell off his chair - he was laughing so hard.   The Chinese aren't so personal; they just think all Westerners have a "da bizi".



1986 stamp (Year of the Tiger) (source Internet)

狄安娜














SUMMER PALACE AND PEKING DUCK 

When my birthday came at the end of March 1986, a couple of friends and I decided to go to the Summer Palace, not too far away from our college.  We agreed that dinner at the Chinese restaurant of the Beijing Hotel, afterwards, would be a welcome change from school cafeteria despite the high cost for our student budget.  Late March was the beginning of spring in Beijing. Trees were blossoming and the water lilies at the Summer Palace looked wonderful.  It was a truly enchanting place and there was something magic about it.  This was definitely my favourite outing in Beijing despite being reminded each time, by a Chinese friend, of the looting of the old palace by the French and the British.  Empress Cixi rebuilt what is now the current Summer Palace in a different location, a few miles away.  She made it her home and controlled China from there, until her death in the early1900's.  



The Summer Palace marble boat (rebuilt by Empress Cixi in 1893).  
 Made of wood but painted to imitate marble (photo A.D.)

At the Beijing Hotel, for ten Renminbi a head, you could have a feast and that included the famous Peking duck.  As often in China, in those days, the duck didn't live up to expectations but, in comparison to college food, this was real fine dining.  The hotel, a real institution in the city, was conveniently located in the downtown area, a few steps away from Tian An Men Square, where Mao Zedong proclaimed the People's Republic of China in 1949.  The hotel, the oldest in the capital, had its original structure completed in 1900 then rebuilt in 1917, funded by the French.  It then became "Grand Hôtel de Pékin" with 200 rooms and "dancing every night". In the 80's the whole place was dark and old-fashioned with a slight smell of musk however, there was a nostalgic feel about it.  Going to the Beijing Hotel was definitely stepping back in time and we often used it to meet friends in the downtown area. This was also one of the few places in the capital where we could buy camera films and have them developed.  Beijing, at the time, counted half a dozen large hotels where foreigners could stay and this was one of them.  The Chinese were not allowed into any of those hotels unless a Westerner accompanied them...how much more discriminating could you be ?

狄安娜














BACK TO BASICS

My life in China was "back to basics" and I greatly enjoyed it.  It was stress free, I had no responsibilities and, for once, I was looked after.  Besides, the lack of comfort in my college didn't bother me and I rather saw it as a challenge. We had one washing machine for the whole building, and that was considered a luxury. It struggled to do the job and broke down, on a regular basis, but nobody really minded or noticed that persistent stain on your clothes. With the 'White Cat" washing powder, the only brand available, we managed to keep our clothes reasonably clean.  There was no iron anywhere in sight but it didn't matter in the least. I hated ironing anyway.  
Like Chinese women, I wore trousers all the time and gave up on the little makeup I used to wear.  Lipstick was a luxury and could only be found at the Friendship Store. In those days, the majority of the Chinese, male or female, wore Mao style jackets and baggy trousers in black or navy.  Shoes were in thick corduroy or cheap leather with rubber soles and flat heels.   When spring came, we saw a few skirts and occasionally bright colours, a new trend it seemed.  Nylon knee socks with skirts were not the prettiest of sights, especially as women often sat with their legs apart, like men.  And yet, after a while, we stopped noticing.



(Source Internet)

There was only one type of soap at the supermarket and the same went for shampoo, which made shopping much easier.  Toilet paper, at our college, was made of old recycled newspapers and you could still find faded Chinese characters.  The thought of having an imprint of the People's Daily, the main national paper, on our bottoms was great cause for hilarity among foreign students.
Once in a while, when I felt decadent, I went to the Friendship Store to buy the only kind of cheese available in China.  It was made locally and tasted like an old piece of rubbery Gouda.  The Friendship Store was another place that barred the Chinese, unless escorted, and there you had to pay in Foreign Exchange Certificates commonly called FECs.  They were the bank notes (introduced in 1980) received in exchange of foreign currency.  Theoretically, foreigners could only use FECs unless they had special permission to use Renminbi, the local currency. Most of us broke the rule because we couldn't be bothered or simply didn't know about it.  The conversion rate was supposedly the same as for the local currency but, usually, the FEC fetched higher on the black market.  Besides the big hotels, the Bank of China branch in Tian An Men Square was the only place where we could officially change money.  A clerk would fill in a form, and then throw it with a small weight tied to it to another clerk.  The second clerk would fill in another form and repeat the procedure.  One day, by the time the fourth clerk threw the form with the small weight, a friend and I burst into hysterical laughter and had to leave the bank hurriedly.






Tiananmen square (photo A.D.)

狄安娜














WHEN THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A "WEI"

For the two-week break at the end of spring term, an American friend asked me if I would join her for a trip to Shanghai to visit an old family acquaintance, Professor Phen.  She had just received a letter from him asking to come and visit. I jumped at the opportunity to stay in a Chinese home, particularly in Shanghai, which I longed to see.  
Unexpectedly, there was a phone number on the letter from this Chinese gentleman.  In those days, very few people had a phone at home and making a call was a rare event, usually met with a lot of frustration. From my own observation, if the phone rang, you picked it up and said as loudly as possible 'wei', the equivalent of 'hello', to which the caller replied the same 'wei'. Then came another 'wei' and the conversation was something like "wei...wei...wei...wei...wei...wei....", for a while, until somebody picked up the courage to talk.   In those days, not only the Chinese were not used to talking on the phone but connections were bad at all times. This coupled with my insufficient Mandarin made the experience nerve-wracking. 
Our new friend in Shanghai, Professor Phen, had a phone at home, a true luxury. To reach him, we went to the college post-office, the only place for long-distance phone calls.  It took us two hours to get through but, in the end, we succeeded.   In impeccable English, Professor Phen said he was looking forward to our visit in Shanghai.




(Photos A.D. ) Student identity card

As domestic flights were not common and extremely expensive, trains were widely used by the Chinese.  Foreign students, on a tight budget, tended to use the railway as well, considered a true go native experience.   In those days, Chinese trains were from another era and we looked forward to our eighteen-hour train journey on the Shanghai Express.  We bought a one-way ticket knowing the norm was to buy your return at the other end.  The Chinese charged foreigners a lot more but students paid the same as the locals, provided they had an identity card. A ticket to Shanghai cost us thirty-eight Renminbi, practically a quarter of the average monthly salary in China.  
On departure day, we proceeded to the Beijing Railway Station, in the downtown area.  I insisted on staying in the main waiting room rather than going to the 'Foreign Guests' section.  I sat next to a young woman with a baby girl who took a look at me and started shrieking as if I were the devil. I quickly became aware that dozens of people were staring at me.  The baby girl's mother explained they had just arrived from the countryside.  "Where we live, there are no foreigners. My little girl has never seen anybody like you before."  She walked away, trying to pacify her daughter, then came back and sat next to me once more.  Within seconds, the waiting room echoed with the little girl's yelping.  At that stage, in utter embarrassment, I decided to move and join the 'Foreign Guests'.




狄安娜














THE SHANGHAI EXPRESS

From the 'Foreign Guests' waiting room, my roommate and I proceeded to board the train to Shanghai. We looked for our reserved "hard sleeper" allowing passengers to lie down.  Another option could have been a "hard seat", the cheapest type, which would have meant to sit through the journey or at best sleep on the floor. We decided a "hard sleeper" was the best deal for an eighteen-hour trip.  Besides, it was a good way to mingle with the Chinese without giving up comfort altogether.  On shorter journeys, you could also get a "soft seat" but it was usually difficult to get one.  Most of the time, government officials or wealthy foreign tourists snatched those.  The ultimate for long journeys was a "soft sleeper", far too expensive for students and too "bourgeois" and decadent, we thought.   In those days, most foreign students took pride in 'roughing it' and 'doing in Rome as the Romans do'.

    

Shanghai Express (photo A.D.)

Our carriage was open and divided into hard-sleepers, set up as bunk beds facing each other.  On Chinese trains, they always pooled foreigners together and that is how we ended up with two New Zealanders.  They only had a few words of Mandarin despite twelve months in the country as Foreign Experts, a special status granted by the government to help in different areas.  In the mid 80's, many Foreign Experts were teachers and, shortly after the train departed, we found out that Philip and Mary taught at the largest university in Beijing.   "Would you believe we've had to wash our vegetables with detergent?" said Mary. "They use human manure as fertiliser, did you know that?" I looked at her in disbelief and felt ignorance was bliss at times.  She carried on, "And that nasty habit of spitting...".  I had to agree with the spitting habit, a cultural difference hard to accept at the best of times. After twelve months of 'putting up' with the Chinese, Philip and Mary couldn't wait to fly home. 
Sometimes, I couldn't help reflecting back on my year in Dallas when I was seventeen.  I hated everybody and everything for a while as I became aware of huge cultural differences.  I had no choice but learn the language as nobody spoke French around me. As my English got better, I began to enjoy everything and feel more appreciated.  I knew the key to my stay in China would be learning Chinese, keep an open mind and accept differences. 
We started our journey to Shanghai to the whining of our two Foreign Experts. Fortunately, they soon fell asleep.  We left Beijing in the evening, most of the journey being overnight.  My friend and I soon became the centre of attention as some passengers realised we could speak Mandarin.  As soon as they heard a few words, they offered us tea and snacks of various sorts.  Many cups of tea later, we found it hard to sleep but were enjoying ourselves among the Chinese.



狄安娜














A CHINESE HOME IN THE FRENCH CONCESSION 

On the following day, we arrived at the Shanghai railway station in the midst of chaos with thousands of people milling around.  Women struggled with baskets full of cackling chicken and men, in their blue Mao suits, carried bulky bags. We opted for a cab to find our way to the former French Concession, Professor Phen's neighbourhood. In that part of town, houses looked like nineteenth century Parisian suburban villas. The Communists divided them into apartments and very little renovation, if any, had been carried out over the past fifty years.  Paint was flaking, walls crumbling in places and overall, houses once splendid, looked neglected.
As we got out of the cab, a soft-spoken elderly gentleman, with an engaging smile, greeted us in perfect English. "Welcome to Shanghai," he said, speaking slowly; we knew straightaway this was Professor Phen.   He had been waiting for us, outside his home, and looked thin and frail in his oversized Mao style jacket.  He then took us inside his apartment, by far the nicest home I saw in China in 1986.

 

Professor Phen's living-room (photo A.D.)

 The wooden floor, well looked after, shone like a mirror and contrasted with the bare concrete floors of homes I knew in Beijing. The apartment included a large living room, two decent sized bedrooms and a Western style bathroom. However, indoors like outdoors, paint was peeling off the walls in many places. In those days, a new coat of paint meant a lot of money for the Chinese. Another family living on the same floor shared the kitchen, where we met Professor Phen's young maid, Yang Ping.





Yang Ping in her kitchen (photo A.D.)

 I immediately noticed the walls covered with newspapers turned completely black.   "I'll soon finish cooking lunch for you," the young girl said with a broad smile. The Chinese always make sure that travellers are well fed, especially after a long journey. The living room was the most elegant room and I spotted two beautiful Chinese paintings. A few antiques and old leather bound books, on makeshift shelves, caught my eye as well.  So far, I had seen none of that in Chinese homes.  One of the key features of the apartment was a telephone, the first one I saw in a private home.  Professor Phen caught my astonished look and said with a grin, "I was recently rehabilitated by the Communists and this is to say 'sorry'."  I wondered if they had deliberately chosen the colour "red" for his telephone

狄安娜














PROFESSOR PHEN

Our host liked to eat well and had taught his young maid to cook the refined dishes of his youth. Yang Ping was from the countryside and basic cooking was all she knew when she started working for Professor Phen. During the daytime we explored Shanghai and, in the evening, had dinner with him while he described his fascinating life.  These dinners were, by far, the best meals I had in China.  
"I was born in one of the wealthiest families of Shanghai," Phen told us, one evening, almost apologetic.  "I was very spoilt and grew up in a huge Western-style villa, built in the early 1900's, with twenty servants". And yet, to have the one maid in the mid 80's was a rare privilege in China. "My father sent me to study in England and I read Law at Cambridge University," he pursued very slowly.  "I even practised as a barrister in London and, altogether, was in England for eight years in the early 1930's".  He still spoke perfect English with hardly any trace of a Chinese accent.  It was a miracle since China was isolated for decades with no opportunity for Phen to practise.   He was eighty-two, when we met him, but had kept very alert despite the hardship in his life. 
In the late 30's, Professor Phen decided to return to China at the time of the Japanese invasion, to support the Motherland as he described it.  Then, the late 40's saw the rise of Communism and anybody with money, education, and foreign connections was on the Party's blacklist.  In 1966, at the onset of the Cultural Revolution, the Red Guards arrested Professor Phen at his home. "Many of them were my students and I was heartbroken to see so much hatred in their eyes", he told us one evening, his voice shaking.  At that time, he taught history at Fudan, a prestigious university in Shanghai.  After his arrest, he remained in prison for six years. "So many times I thought I would die. What kept me alive was to remember the good times of my life."  On another occasion, I could see tears in his eyes as he spoke, "Would you believe that, for another six years, they assigned me to manual labour; I had to clean toilets at Fudan, my own university".  It was hard to imagine why he, or anybody, should have been subjected to such humiliation.
   Amazingly enough, our friend wasn't in the least bitter about his ordeal, ended only a few years ago.  "Now, I feel like being born again," he told us once with great excitement. Phen was now content with life and totally open about his dislike for the Communists.  One day, with a chuckle, he confided, "Six years in jail and my hair went completely white.  Once released, I started eating lots of yogurt and my hair grew black again".  We looked at him in disbelief.  However, at the age of 82, his hair was only just beginning to grey.
While we were in Shanghai, Phen's wife was in the U.S. as a visiting professor to the Ivy League Smith College, where she studied many years before.  "The college offered this job to my wife, thanks to a former classmate she met on Nanjing Road in the late 70's."  Phen knew how to create suspense.  He paused, looked at us with his usual smile and continued, "They recognised each other in a department store.  The American woman, from the Roosevelt family, was on a visit to China and they hadn't seen each other for a good forty years."  
One day, I asked Professor Phen "Why not leave China and settle down in the U.S.? You have amazing connections and your two sons now live there".  He looked at me straight in the eye and said, "I am Chinese and I want to die in China".  





Professor Phen (photo A.D.)

During one of our many discussions, we discovered that Phen's father was one of the biggest Art Collectors in China with a passion for antique books.  He decided, in the early days of Communism, to donate his book collection to the Beijing Library.  In retrospect, this proved to be the right decision as, during the Cultural Revolution, many valuable treasures were destroyed.  Millions of books were burned in those days, old and new.  When Phen was arrested in the early part of the Cultural Revolution, he owned a lot of antiques and artwork inherited from his family.  "The Red Guards confiscated everything I had, while I was in jail." His eyes flashed with anger at that point.  We were astonished to hear that he recovered most of his treasures, a few years later.  That included a small piece of jade dating back to the Shang dynasty (around 1000 years B.C.), a treasured gift from his father.  One evening, he waited until dark and pulled out a small pouch from underneath a cabinet in the living room.   With a sparkle in his eyes, he showed us the content. "See", he said "My father gave me this piece of jade when I was a young boy".  He looked transformed and I could tell that piece of jade held great value to him.  It was about one inch long and half an inch wide, translucent green with brown hues.  Tears filled his eyes as he held it close to his chest.  
Professor Phen had kept up the tradition of an English breakfast, as a reminder of his time in England.  Every morning, shortly after we got up, he trotted off to the kitchen to prepare this daily ritual.  The maid, according to him, had no credentials for this.  The bacon was not the crispy one you got in England but it made an interesting version of 'bacon and eggs'.  Each day we looked forward to our dinner to sample new Shanghai-style dishes and hear more fascinating stories.  Meals were served with the best rice in town, according to Phen, who used his connections to get his monthly supply.  We once had the famous Shanghai 'drunken chicken' for the first time, cooked in rice wine with lots of fresh ginger.  At that point, college food was only just a vague memory...

狄安娜














PARIS OF THE EAST

During our stay in Shanghai we explored the city and walked until our legs gave in.   Every time we stopped at a street corner, to check our map, the locals quickly formed a group around us to offer their help.  Even in the downtown area, we noticed very few foreigners and were inevitably the object of curiosity.  We visited all the landmarks of old Shanghai, ranging from an old synagogue to the Conservatory of Music and the Dongfeng Hotel, formerly the exclusive Shanghai Club, for white males only, with the longest bar in the world in the 1920's. While we visited the former International Settlement, we noticed many old buildings looking very damaged. It felt like time had stopped and the grime on the buildings was there to demonstrate it.  It was hard to believe Shanghai was once a cosmopolitan city nicknamed the "Paris of the East".  And yet, the place was growing on us.  Spring had already started and trees were in blossom everywhere.  Streets of the French Concession were lined with Plane Trees, a familiar sight to me. I found out from Professor Phen that the French planted them and the Chinese word is "Fa Guo Wu Tong", or "Trees from France".                    
I had often wondered about the Opium War but only had vague memories of a book I read many years before. Shanghai gave me the opportunity to delve into the past. In the 19th century, British merchants were active traders in Asia but the xenophobic Manchu Government of China imposed restrictions to trade. To compensate for their loss in income, British merchants started trading opium.  The "foreign dirt", as it was called in Chinese slang, sadly became a popular commodity among the locals, providing huge revenues to the British Crown.  Eventually, the Chinese Empire decided to stop this "infamous traffic", made opium imports illegal and kept the door closed to other trades.  This series of events escalated into the First Opium War; then a second one, as foreigners wanted to trade freely with China.  Both times the Chinese lost and were forced to open their territory.  Five ports, including Shanghai, became open to foreign trade and the same period saw the cession of Hong Kong Island to the British Crown. 
Because of its location near the sea, Shanghai attracted foreign traders and, before too long, business was thriving.  Foreign enclaves, namely the International Settlement and the French Concession, had their own banks and police force.  In those days, anybody could come to Shanghai freely and try one's luck.  In the 20's and 30's, Shanghai was the capital of style in the Far East but also known as "The Whore of the Orient".    Corruption was rife and the poor starved to death.  The Communists "cleaned up" the place, to some extent, but time stopped and we could see that  wandering around the streets.  If only somebody had a magic wand to bring Shanghai back to life...



Downtown Shanghai (photo A.D.)

One day, I ventured on my own to the former International Settlement, to explore the Peace Hotel, an Art Deco treasure according to my guide.  It was the playground of the Sassoon family, who built their empire on the opium trade. At the time, this was the best hotel in Asia, the rendezvous of both glitterati and literati.  Shanghai was "Life itself. Nothing more intensely living can be imagined," said Aldus Huxley during his stay. 
In the heydays of Shanghai, hotels displayed notices in English, French, German and Russian but, in the 80's, the only option was Chinese.  All I could afford, at the Peace Hotel, was a cup of coffee for ten Renminbi, a big expense for a student budget. I explored the hotel and could admire the Art Deco designs despite dim lights everywhere.  Later on, I spotted a hair salon with a pre-war look. A haircut was as expensive as a cup of coffee but worth a try, I decided.  The hairdresser shampooed my hair dry and, in seconds, a thick halo of foam surrounded my face.  Then my scalp was vigorously scratched and massaged; finally my hair was rinsed and impeccably cut.  Unlike some of my classmates, I had resisted the cheaper option at my college in Beijing.  For less than one Renminbi, students sat on a chair outside the rear gate and "snip, snip, snip"...off went the precious locks. 


With my new haircut, I left the Peace Hotel to have a closer look at buildings on the Bund, the famous waterfront of Shanghai.  The word Bund is Hindi for "pier" or "dock" and not a German word, as I thought.  One of those buildings, used to be the Head-Office of the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank, better known as HSBC. Built in the 1920's, it looked grandiose.  That evening, during dinner I mentioned that building to Professor Phen. "In the old days, a pair of crouching lions in cast iron sat at the entrance," he said, looking mysterious. "They were either melted down or hidden away, nobody is quite sure." However, he looked as if he knew.

狄安娜














"LOVE CHINA, RESTORE THE GREAT WALL"

Back in Beijing, the temperature was more bearable and gently warming up.  However, it was quite windy at times and the dust from Mongolia got into everything.  Chinese women covered their heads with a fine net, usually of red or orange colour, to protect their faces.  In this drab looking city, I enjoyed watching those bright spots of colour in motion at the speed of bicycles.  They looked like a modern version of Tang Dynasty Ladies with a mesh veil hanging from their hats.   
Shortly after our return from Shanghai, we found out about the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear plant in Russia and, in comparison, the dirt from Mongolia felt healthy.  We hoped that winds would not blow the lethal particles across China. The accident was reported in the China Daily, one of our few sources of information about life outside China.  No foreign newspapers were available except for a couple.  At our college, there was only one TV set for the whole building with two or three domestic TV channels broadcasting government propaganda. Besides the China Daily, letters from friends and family were a good source of information; otherwise we lived in blissful ignorance. 
Once in a while, our college organised outings, usually at very short notice.  We were impatient to go to the Great Wall but knew it was best to go during warmer weather. Finally, the harsh winter of Northern China came to an end and a visit to the Great Wall was scheduled.   Teacher Hu escorted our group, and gave us an overview during the one-hour bus trip. "It is the only man-made construction you can see from the moon." "It's hard to check but we believe you" I said.  She had a good sense of humour and I knew she wouldn't be offended.  "Chang Cheng", the "Long City Wall", as it is in Chinese, is some 2,500 miles long and stretches from East to West, North of Beijing. In the 80's, there was only one point of access, Badaling, an hour away from Beijing.  As soon as we arrived, Teacher Hu announced, "On your right, the easy part; on your left, the difficult part.  Please pick your choice". 



Teacher Hu climbing the Great Wall (photo A.D.)

I chose the "easy" part but quickly got out of breath.  However, the climb was worth the effort and, within a few minutes, I faced the most spectacular sight. I could see at distance large chunks of the Great Wall, meandering through hills, against a background of clear blue sky.  Here I was, admiring the Great Wall built to discourage invasions. Thousands of people toiled away to build it and many died of sheer exhaustion.  The first version was built by Emperor Qin Shi, around 200 BC, and was mostly made of wood.  Then brick and earth were used at a later stage. 
In 1984, Deng Xiaoping declared "Love China, restore the Great Wall". That statement marked the beginning of restoration work after a long period of neglect.   

狄安娜














DESPERATELY SEEKING FOR PANDAS 

One day, my friend Elizabeth and I ventured to the zoo to visit the famous panda bear, native to China, well known in the West because of Nixon's visit in the 70's.  The Chinese gave him two panda bears as a token of friendship between the two countries.  
The Beijing Zoo was located in the same part of town as our college and a short bicycle ride took us there.  Nobody was in sight except for a few attendants and the place looked dreary.  "Look, there is no spark of life among animals, here," remarked Lishasha - a Chinese version of 'Elizabeth' - "They look drugged."  Neither of us knew how to say "panda" in Chinese or could read the character. Every time we stopped somebody to ask for directions, we ended up in the wrong place.  Finally, thanks to a patient visitor who spoke a bit of English, we reached the "Bear Cat", or "Xiong Mao" in Chinese.  Mr. Panda looked sleepy and not in the least interested.  He went on munching bamboo shoots, his main diet, totally indifferent to us.



"Bon appétit!"  (Source Internet)

There were now more people in the zoo and, all of a sudden, we felt like "rare animals", being the only Westerners.  We decided to make a move and walked away towards the exit. Out of nowhere, two good-looking Chinese men came towards us with a smile.  They first spoke in English but we told them we were students and wanted to practise our Mandarin.  On this basis, Lishasha and I accepted their invitation for a Mongolian hotpot.  During dinner, we learned that Wu was a pianist for the People's Liberation Army and that Hu worked for the National Television Network, CCTV.  They were both friendly with engaging personalities.  "In the U.S. you have many TV channels, I hear." Hu said, looking at both of us.  Lishasha explained, "I am from the U.S. but Anne is French," and immediately became the centre of attention.  In those days, many Chinese students had in mind to study in the U.S. for a better life or so they thought...
狄安娜














A WEEKEND IN THE COUNTRYSIDE

By early summer, Cherry, a Chinese friend met in London, invited me to her parents' home in the countryside.  I knew living conditions of peasant farmers in China were harsh and looked forward to the challenge. Cherry told me with great pride, "This is the first time I bring a foreign friend to my parents'."  I felt touched and honoured.   
Beforehand, she described in great detail the toilet situation in her village, near Tianjin. "It isn't inside the house; it's in a separate shelter." She paused for a few seconds and said with great hesitation, "It's just a hole in the ground, you know." She wanted to make sure I knew what to expect. "Be reassured, I've used those before in the French countryside."  At that point, Cherry sighed with relief.
Cherry and her friend, Spring Blossom, met me at the Tianjin railway station.  Very few people in those days had a driving license but Spring Blossom wore white gloves, a sign of distinction for those who could drive.  "My job is driving a truck," she said beaming with pride.  She was short and delicate looking.  It was hard to imagine her behind the wheel of a big truck.  She had borrowed one from her company to drive me to Cherry's village, about fifty miles from Tianjin.  There were no private cars in China in the mid 80's, so a truck had to do.
An hour and a half later of a bumpy ride, we arrived at our destination.  Cherry introduced me to her parents who thanked me profusely for helping their daughter while she was in England.  I didn't feel I had done much but was appreciative of their kind words.  Within a few minutes of civilities, Cherry's mother exclaimed with a big smile, "Ni hen pang," "You are so fat." As she spoke, she pinched my arm as if to show evidence. To be "fat" or "chubby" equals prosperity in China, but I didn't expect such frankness.  The Chinese went through many famines over the centuries and perhaps that explained it.  It was refreshing to hear 'fat' was a good word. 



Cherry and her mother preparing dinner (photo A.D.)

In the evening, Cherry took me to visit her Grandmother at the other end of the village. As soon as we got out of the house, a simple brick construction on one level, we were followed by hordes of people.  "They haven't seen a foreigner in the village since the 1950's," Cherry said laughing.  I could see it was just curiosity and didn't mind. I remembered the son of a Zairian friend in the French countryside, where we had a family house.  The farmers had never seen an African so close before and 'le petit Honoré' had stirred a lot of curiosity.  
When we reached Grandma's house, a friendly looking old lady came out to greet us.  'Popo', Chinese for Grand-Ma, also remarked I was fat and obviously liked it.  There was something special about her and I felt as if we had met before. Popo oozed self-confidence and, in that, reminded me of my own grandmother. "Cherry was so lucky to go to England.  Now she can speak English like Princess Diana," Popo chuckled.  She had a heavy regional accent in Chinese, hard to follow but, somehow, we understood each other.  Later, in the conversation, she talked about the massive earthquake of 1976, which wiped out the entire city of Tangshan, East of Beijing.  "It killed half a million people," she said, "Many more than the official number".  I knew it was the most devastating earthquake in the world but the official account had given half the truth.  "We all felt it, in the village, and rushed out of our homes".  Popo added, "Nobody died here but there was a lot of damage".  1976 was The Year of the Dragon and a tough period for China.



狄安娜














FAMILY LIFE IN THE COUNTRYSIDE

Back from Grandma's house, we had dinner with Cherry's parents, a simple meal made of steamed pork dumplings with stir-fried green vegetables. "Ni chi fan, ni chi fan, eat, eat..." the mother insisted. In the Chinese tradition, you honour the food and show appreciation by eating until you nearly burst.  Shortly afterwards, we got ready for bed.  The parents slept on the 'Kang', the traditional Chinese bed, a platform from wall to wall made of bricks.  In the winter, pipes connected to the kitchen stove heated the 'Kang' from underneath.  Cherry, her two younger sisters and I shared the other bed in the house, in a separate room. They suggested lying across so we could all fit.  "I am quite short, like a lot of Chinese, it won't be a problem," I told Cherry who laughed. I unfolded the towel handed out, their version of a summer blanket, and hoped to fall asleep despite the hard mattress. 
I tossed and turned for a while, trying not to disturb the other girls and, finally, managed to get some sleep.  Before I knew it, it was daylight and I heard Cherry's voice next door. "Breakfast soon ready".  I got dressed and went to join the rest of the family. The mother greeted me with a beaming smile "We let you sleep late until 6 o'clock because we know Westerners have different customs. Every morning we get up at 5."  Breakfast was made of leftover dumplings with tea, more like tinted water.  I struggled with the fried dumplings and the weak brew so early in the morning. It was almost stomach turning.  Later, I heard the younger sister was awake a great part of the night.  "She's never met a foreigner before," Cherry explained.  "She was terrified next to you and couldn't sleep."  I felt so embarrassed I wanted to hide.
As I walked outside the house, I heard Cherry command "Get some wood for the fire." "Kuai yi dianr!" "Hurry up!" I turned around, saw a big German shepherd and wondered if I was totally awake.  David was no ordinary dog, his understanding of Mandarin was amazing and he could even smile. His name in Chinese sounded like " Da bi de" and he had several jobs in the house. One of them was to fetch wood in a shed for the outdoor stove. I was never a dog person but I definitely liked David.  I could see he was an important member of the family and would not end up on their plate for dinner.



Preparation of the 'jiaozi' filling (photo A.D.)

On the following day, Cherry had invited many of her friends, mostly English teachers like her, to celebrate my presence in the village.  In Northern China, they make dumplings, 'jiaozi', for special occasions, and guests usually get involved in the preparation.  Cherry's mother prepared the filling, made of finely chopped vegetables and pork with lots of garlic. She also cut out small pieces of dough, made the day before, for the wrapping.  After Cherry's friends arrived, we were invited to help with the preparation of 'jiaozi'.  "I can tell you're a beginner," Mr. Pang said with a laugh, "Your dumplings come out in funny shapes".  However, I got a lot of encouragements from everybody and there was a round of applause for my efforts. The last step was to throw them into boiling water, a job left to the Master of the house, Cherry's father.  Later on, we all savoured the dumplings dipped in sweet vinegar while we became acquainted. 





Filling 'jiaozi' (photo A.D.)

Cherry's friends all came from different villages, some quite far away, and most had to walk or ride their bicycles.  They were so eager to meet a Westerner that they were willing to travel long distances.  One friend named Gao took two hours by bicycle to get to the village.  When he found out I was French, he revealed he was very familiar with Zola and Victor Hugo.  "During the Cultural Revolution, their books were serialized over the loudspeaker in train stations and this is how I got to know some of your famous writers".  Zola and Victor Hugo describe in great detail the living conditions of the underprivileged classes in the nineteenth century.  That made them politically correct and about the only foreign writers allowed during the Cultural Revolution.

狄安娜














MEET MORE OF THE FAMILY

The following day, we went to visit Cherry's aunt, Liang, in a nearby village and stayed overnight.  She was a jovial and friendly woman who made me feel welcome. She pinched my arm a few times and, with a broad smile, remarked on how fat I was.  By then, I was looking forward to the compliment. I knew from Cherry this was Liang's first time welcoming a foreign guest and she was thrilled. After dinner, she gave me one of these bright coloured enamel basins to wash my feet.  Suddenly the whole family convened and proceeded to watch me.  I felt uncomfortable for a few minutes and could feel the red in my face.  Eventually I relaxed and worked out it was just curiosity on their part.  Then we had a joyful dinner with delicious bean curd marinated in soy sauce and ginger, stir-fried chicken with peanuts, a chance to demonstrate my skills with chopsticks.  As often in those days, the meal was served with a very light beer.



Cherry's relatives bringing a toast (photo A.D.)

For the night, Cherry's cousin gave me a bright red silk eiderdown and a pink one to Cherry, both wedding gifts.  The colour red, for the Chinese, equals good fortune and happiness.  For weddings, the bride will traditionally wear red, for example.  Associated colours such as pink and orange are also happy ones and prevail during the Chinese New Year.
Liang had recently given birth to a boy and the family was over the moon.  The baby was tightly wrapped in a small blanket and looked like he could not move.  I ventured, "Shufu ma?  "Is he comfortable?"  Cherry's cousin looked surprised.  "For some time after birth, babies should be kept tightly wrapped," she said and pursued, "That way, my little boy thinks he's still in my womb."  There must have been some truth in that as Weiwei looked happy. He didn't cry a single time during my visit.  However, Cherry had a different view on the subject.  "Chinese babies are taught at an early stage they should keep quiet and conform."  She went on, "Too much of a free spirit in a free moving body is not in line with Chinese culture". 




 Liang's bridal room (Photo A.D.)

The following morning, I was glad to get up from the hard mattress. I must have been a free spirit during the night because the bright red eiderdown had slipped away.  After a few fried dumplings and a glass of hot water, we said our good byes to Cherry's relatives.  It was time to return to Beijing.

狄安娜














VISITORS FROM THE WEST

At the beginning of June, I was excited by the prospect of my parents' arrival in China. What prompted their decision was interesting, to say the least. My grandmother had recently been burgled and lost a few valuables in the process including good bottles of Bordeaux wine. My mother then decided that money ought to be spent rather than stolen. What's better than more travelling? She thought. She had a preference for China but my father wanted to go to Mexico. There was some discussion, I heard afterwards.  My father was still a practicing surgeon but his great passion in life was music and playing the piano.  I asked him to prepare a few pieces to give a concert for friends, at my college, together with a couple of musicians I knew.  In those days, Beijing didn't have much in terms of Western classical music.  I had just seen 'Carmen" though, in Mandarin, with a Chinese cast and subtitles in Chinese characters on both sides of the stage.  I was still trying to work out 'L'amour est un oiseau rebelle" in Chinese.



(Photo A.D.)

Life with a group of tourists from France was high luxury compared to the Spartan conditions of my college.  Food was varied and plentiful and, most of all, I could have a decent cup of real coffee.  The group's Chinese guide impressed everybody with his perfect French although he had never been to France.  It was nearly impossible for the Chinese to leave their country, in the mid 80's, and very few had a passport.   
The Summer Palace won the hearts of these French tourists despite the shameful behaviour of our compatriots back in the 1800's.  Our guide often liked to mention French authors and, on this occasion, we remained silent for a few minutes after he spoke: "Victor Hugo wrote an open letter describing this barbarian act as one of the great tragedies of history."  Many of us had no idea.
My parents were in Beijing for three days only but we managed to bring my father to the college to take part in our planned concert.  Together with my friend Wu, a Chinese pianist from the PLA (the Chinese army) and an American clarinettist, a visiting Professor at my college, they delighted our audience with pieces of Debussy and Ravel.

狄安娜














DINNER AT MAXIM'S

Before I came to China, a friend had given me the name of an Englishman he knew in Beijing.  After several attempts, Rupert and I were able to speak on the phone. It was hard to get through, as usual, and the line cut off several times. "Since you're French, let's go to Maxim's for dinner with a couple of Chinese friends," Rupert suggested.  I initially declined, as going to a French restaurant was not what I had in mind in Beijing.   However, after a bit of persuasion, I agreed to dinner in the only French restaurant in town.  
Rupert was tall and thin and I knew straightaway from his accent that he came from an upper class family.  He was an Oxford graduate and knew my former husband, by coincidence.  I was dying to find out what brought him to China. 
"I recently set up a joint venture to produce and sell dairy products."  I looked at him in disbelief.  I knew the Chinese didn't eat dairy products, as many of them were allergic to lactose.  However, ice cream and yogurts were increasingly popular.  You could buy them from stalls at street corners and food markets.  Perhaps Rupert, the eccentric Englishman, had the right foresight.
Maxim's was the most expensive restaurant in Beijing at the time. You could easily spend a Chinese annual salary in one evening and we definitely did on that occasion.  "I hear you're from Bordeaux?" Rupert enquired. "I was born and raised there," I confirmed. "We must have Claret with our dinner then". He turned to the sommelier and ordered a bottle of Château Beychevelle, no less. I didn't have the heart to tell him that, in the last four months, I had been on boiled water - kai shui - or tea for special occasions, just like the Chinese.
We had an embarrassing moment when the waiter told us the restaurant had run out of eggs.  China was a poor country, in 1986, and some foods were rationed but nobody was ever short of eggs.  You had them under all forms including the famous preserved 'Century Egg', with a pungent smell, which I loved. 


'Century egg' (Source Internet)

Rupert was a real gentleman and took the incident with a sense of humour as the British would.  I hadn't had any Western food for months and the taste of butter in the white sauce made me feel queasy.  I barely touched my plate and apologized for being such a bad guest.  To complete the picture, my face turned bright red after a few sips of Beychevelle, a fine wine totally wasted on me. Fortunately, by the end of the meal, Rupert was quite merry and didn't pay much attention to my misery.   

狄安娜














WATERMELONS AND AUBERGINES

At the end of the term, in June, I decided to stay in Beijing to continue working on my Mandarin.  In the meantime, my classmates opted to do more travelling before going home.  Hong Kong was a popular destination but that didn't appeal to me, as in my view at the time, it was not the "real China". Instead I would study and prepare for the arrival of my two friends from Paris.  My teachers kindly invited me to join the summer classes but refused to take any money for it.  I was touched by this gesture as schools had very small budgets in those days.
The weather in July was not the best in Beijing and I often got drenched in sudden downpours of heavy rain. There was no such thing as weather forecast except for a comment in 'China Daily', the local English newspaper.  They often got it wrong but nobody cared.  During those torrential rains, people wore thin plastic raincoats, the poncho type in bright colours, a rare incidence of a colourful crowd.  July 1986 was not only characterised by heavy rain but also by an overproduction of watermelons.  Mountains of the culprits piled up at every street-corner at unbeatable prices.  



  Life in Dallas 1970-1971

I had watermelon for the first time in my life when I was an exchange student in Texas. I then lived with a wealthy Texan family in a house with four bathrooms, four dogs and two maids.  By contrast, here I was in Beijing, wearing a cheap and bright pink plastic raincoat, riding a bicycle through mountains of watermelons.  There was also an overproduction of aubergines that year and we had them for every single meal, to my delight.  "Qiezi", Chinese for aubergine, is the word used for "Cheese" in English when you take pictures.  It felt like a summer full of smiles.




         
 Overproduction of watermelon (Beijing 1986)

狄安娜














TWO PARISIANS IN CHINA

At the end of July, two of my friends arrived from Paris to travel with me for three weeks.  In 1986, very few people travelled independently and, unless you spoke Chinese, it was close to impossible.  My students in French kindly offered to organize a welcome dinner for my friends. While they prepared the meal, I went to the airport to meet Françoise and Brigitte.  
They came off the plane looking all dolled up, with make-up and the latest haircut.  In contrast, I wore an old pair of trousers and a plain T-shirt and couldn't remember when I last used an iron.  
I had booked a room for my friends, on campus, where they rested for a while before dinner.  Brigitte tried hard to socialize and seemed to enjoy the simple food cooked by my students whereas Françoise looked uncomfortable.  I didn't know whether it was the challenge of using chopsticks or simply jet lag.  Somehow, I had the feeling this trip was not going to be a piece of cake.
During a couple of days, we visited the usual sites in Beijing such as the Forbidden City and the Summer Palace but the two Parisians quickly tired out.   "I can tell you've been doing a lot of walking here. You never seem to get tired," Françoise said, lying down on her bed. I wasn't that fit but I remembered they drove everywhere in Paris while I walked nearly everywhere in Beijing.  They both suggested taking cabs, whenever possible, and offered to pay for them.  Brigitte took an interest in most everything but Françoise often remained silent and looked unhappy. One day, over breakfast, she burst out "There is no culture in China."  Stunned, I replied, "How can you say that?"  She didn't expand on her thoughts so we left it there. I wondered if she was expecting pretty pagodas and manicured gardens.  This was definitely not China in the 80's.  Undeterred, I prepared an itinerary and looked forward to the travelling. The Chinese Authorities had recently done away with visa applications for many places and that made the preparation much easier. By now, my Mandarin was acceptable and I had learned the ropes on how to deal with the Chinese.
The Beijing railway station, swarming with people, was a big shock to my friends. "That makes Gare du Nord at peak hours look deserted," Brigitte said with a laugh, as we headed for our train.  Our destination was Qufu, the birthplace of Confucius in the province of Shandong, four hundred kilometres South of Beijing.  The Sage, as the Chinese call him, was also buried there. 
Teacher Hu highly recommended this place as the Chinese had recently revived their interest in Confucius.  He was blacklisted during the Cultural Revolution and often the object of Red Guards' slogans.  'Pi Lin Pi Kong' 'Criticize Lin Biao -a politician in disgrace-, criticize Confucius' they used to chant.  He was now 'rehabilitated'.  In Qufu, a good number of its inhabitants claimed to be his descendants, 2,500 years later...
Confucius was born in 551 BC, and regarded as one of the greatest thinkers and philosophers of China.  At some point, he was a Magistrate and introduced a number of reforms to fight social inequalities. "Isn't it what the Communists tried to do?" Brigitte asked puzzled, "why fight Confucius then?" The Communists rejected anything from the past, particularly during the Cultural Revolution. From my days at university in France, I remembered two things about Confucius: education and filial piety, still fundamental values of Chinese society.





(Source Wikimedia)  Soon May-Ling & Chiang Kai-Shek in 1943

We left Qufu and rode another train for a few hours to Nanjing.  We stopped there, for the night, and visited Sun Yat-Sen's Mausoleum the following morning.   He was the founder of modern China and became the first President of the Republic in 1911 after the overthrow of the last Empire.  His second wife was Soong Ching-ling, one of the famous Soong sisters, the one who "loved China".  She married at the age of 25 when Sun was 52 and divorced. When I was at university, I remembered being fascinated by the Soong sisters.   The Chinese describe them as 'One loved money, one loved power, and one loved China.' The eldest 'loved money' and married one of the richest men of China. The youngest, Soong May-ling, 'loved power' and married a high profile politician, Chiang Kai-shek. He led the Nationalists in China and, defeated by the Communists, escaped to Taiwan in 1949, where he became President of the Republic.  May-Ling was the first Chinese to address the U.S. Congress, in 1943, for an appeal to back the Nationalists against Japan. And so they did. She died in New York in 2003 at age 105.

狄安娜














CRUISING ON THE GRAND CANAL

Apart from Sun Yat-Sen and the Soong sisters, we felt Nanjing didn't have much to offer and looked forward to our cruise on the Grand Canal, starting in Suzhou.  We got there by train and spent a few hours in The Humble Administrator's Garden, the largest one.  Suzhou was known for its gardens.  However, they were unkempt for so long that they turned out to be a real disappointment.  As for the famous canals of the Venice of China, they were in great need of repair.  Built to control the region's low waters, The Grand Canal, just outside Suzhou, is the longest man-made waterway initially built in the late 400's BC.  It was extended in the early 600's AD and contributed to Suzhou flourishing.   During the Ming dynasty (1368-1644), the city blossomed even more and attracted scholars, artists and rich merchants who built the gardens. 
I thought a cruise on The Grand Canal would give us a good insight into Chinese life.  My Parisian friends adopted the idea and I suggested a short cruise of half a day from Suzhou to Wuxi.  It was an ordeal to get tickets and we heard the usual 'meiyoule', 'none left', a few times before we succeeded.  By then, I was armed with patience and knew the tricks on how to woo the Chinese.  It was all a matter of keeping calm.  You smiled, lowered your voice and repeated the same question a few times until they decided they liked you.  Patience was a real asset in China and speaking Mandarin made the whole difference. 
We embarked on an old boat to realize we were the only tourists.  Those in charge were a family of three, the standard in China: father, mother and an only child.  China introduced the one child policy in the early eighties to limit population growth.  Fines, pressures to abort, forced sterilization were deterrents for families to expand.  However, in the countryside, rules were getting more flexible as there was talk of rising levels of girl infanticide. 
Zhong Zhong, our new friend on board, was eight years old and quickly became a 'hao pengyou', 'a good friend'. "I'll teach you how to play chess," he said after boarding.  "I always win," he added, with self-confidence.  Zhong Zhong was fun and delighted with our company.



Our friend Zhong Zhong (photo A.D.)

I enjoyed being on the water and found the journey very relaxing.  I took a close look at life on barges and was fascinated.  One had a pile of gravel at the front, an old piece of furniture, clothes hanging, a couple of live chickens and four generations on the same boat. People were friendly and waved at us, craning their neck to see the "foreign devils" cruising on the canal.  
"Did you know The Grand Canal was one of the great engineering works of this world, with a history of about 2,500 years?" enquired Brigitte, reading out loud from her guidebook.  "It starts North of Beijing and finishes in Hangzhou, total length is around 1,800 kilometres with twenty four locks," she went on.  It was easy to imagine what a crucial link it had been for the transport of goods.  Once we reached Wuxi, I felt half a day was too short and promised myself to cruise on the Grand Canal of China once again in my life.
Once we alighted in Wuxi, we took a taxi to our hotel, located on the famous lake Taihu with its forty-eight miniature islands.  There again we had to deal with the standard 'meiyoule' to book a room but the usual ploy worked.  "Keep calm, smile and ask again" was my motto.  We obtained a room for three without much trouble.  





The Pharaoh of Wuxi (photo A.D.)

The hotel was incredibly quiet as we were the only guests. We admired the splendid view of the lake from our window, for a while, and then enjoyed a boat ride in the afternoon.  Later, we walked around the downtown area and spotted a lot of fabric shops.  Wuxi had been a big textile centre since the beginning of the century and, before that, one of China's major grain markets.  It was extremely hot and humid.  There was no air-conditioning anywhere in China, in the mid 80's, except for expensive hotels or some of the very large stores.  I noticed many bus drivers had a small wet towel on their head, tucked behind their ears.  It made me smile at first and I thought they looked like pharaohs.    In the end, I couldn't resist it, bought a small towel and put it wet on my head.  "There's the pharaoh of Wuxi," Brigitte chuckled as she took a picture.  A few months in China had removed all traces of vanity... 

狄安娜














XIAN AND THE TERRACOTTA SOLDIERS

From Wuxi, we took a train to Shanghai where we spent a couple of days.  We stayed at my friend's, Professor Phen, delighted to have three young women stay with him. 
The next leg of our trip was Xian, to visit the famous terracotta soldiers but it was difficult to get plane tickets.  The Travel Agent supposedly had sold the last ones but, following another 'meiyoule', a few smiles and a lot of patience, three seats became available.  We embarked on an old Tupolev and, for the first time, I saw thunder very close by, from a porthole, and it was scary.
 "They found the terracotta soldiers, a good twelve years ago, near Xian." I explained to my friends.  In the West, this site was talked about and had become one of the main destinations of tourists in China.  "What does your guide say about Qin Shi Huangdi, the first emperor of China?" I enquired. "He was Mao's role model, both were ruthless tyrants and executed many scholars." Brigitte read and went on  "I thought Mao was a scholar himself." "That is something about China I'll never understand." I confessed. As soon as he took the throne, the emperor ordered the construction of his tomb and that lasted nearly forty years. Thousands and thousands of life-size terra-cotta warriors were buried for the afterlife.  They all had a different face and, in line with the Chinese tradition, the deceased were buried with their familiar objects. "How did they ever find them?" enquired Brigitte. "In the mid 70's, a man was digging a well and hit a warrior's head by accident. The area was soon isolated and, anybody who came close sentenced to death, according to rumours."  It took years to excavate the terracotta soldiers and it was definitely worth every minute of it. They were impressive and looked like giants coming out of the ground alive. It was bewildering to think that some of them were nearly intact.   The horses seemed ready to gallop any second. Our guide told us the site was much bigger than expected and more terracotta soldiers and horses were due to come out of the ground over the years. This was the legacy of a tyrant with a huge ego and yet we couldn't help being impressed.
During our stay in Xian, I had to share with my Parisian friends the misadventures of my roommate in that city.  Anne had gone, in May, for a short break to see the terracotta soldiers.  "She was not in a good mood when she came back from Xian and sounded like she hated the place." I said. "Why?" enquired Brigitte, very interested. "She had problems getting a train ticket for Beijing and was furious."  "Couldn't she buy a round trip ticket?"  "No, you can only get a single and must buy the return at the other end." The attendant at the ticket booth was very unhelpful. Anne got impatient and raised her voice. That was fatal and the attendant refused to help her.  She then proceeded to another booth without realizing the attendant had moved as well.  She tried again to get a ticket, recognized the unhelpful attendant and, by then, was ready to kill.  Before too long, both were shouting at each other.  As a result, my roommate was stuck in Xian for two more days as tickets were supposedly sold out. She heard a lot of 'meiyoule' on that occasion.  In the end, she could only get a "hard seat", unable to lie down for forty-five hours.  "My bottom is so f..... sore !" were her first words as she walked into our room in Beijing.




A dormitory in a Xian hotel (photo A.D.)




It was time to return to Beijing for my friends to catch their flight to Paris. We took the express train and the journey lasted twenty-four hours.   We were lucky enough to get 'hard sleepers', able to lie down a great part of the journey.
When we said good-bye, I wished my friends well. At that point, I discovered from Brigitte that the tension sensed at times was about a man they both knew in France... However, I hoped good memories would resurface for them, at some point.

狄安娜














FAREWELL TO BEIJING

By mid-September, the weather had cooled down in Beijing but it was still around thirty degrees Celsius.  I knew I only had two weeks left in China to see friends and organize the last details of my trip back to London.  At that point, I realized my visa had expired three months before.  I was convinced mine was for six months, the length of my stay in China, and never bothered to check. To make sure I could leave the country, I made a trip to the Immigration Department. "Ha!ha! You forgot to renew your visa. This is funny," said the Officer.  I apologized profusely and he laughed even more. The incident was treated very casually and they even waived the fine.   In those days, foreigners were in small numbers and the Chinese very accommodating.
September 15th, 1986 came almost too soon. Teacher Hu insisted on taking me to the airport. Like a lot of Chinese, she was not used to cars and looked uncomfortable during the ride to the airport.  Besides, she was sad I was leaving, as we had become good friends over the past few months. The same handsome Mr. Wang drove me in the same Shanghai car as the one that picked me up, six months before.  Despite her discomfort, Teacher Hu profusely thanked me for taking the trouble to learn Mandarin and, in the Chinese manner, I thanked her for being my teacher.  It was a sad day but, at the same time, I was excited by the prospect of going back to London, my home since 1980.  I couldn't wait to share my stories with friends and family.  A few weeks earlier, I had written to Mary, the friend living in my flat, to give her my date of return.  Surely she and other friends would be at Heathrow Airport to greet me.



My teachers in Beijing (photo A.D.)

狄安娜














WELCOME BACK TO THE WEST

Thirty-six hours later, the Air Rumania flight landed in London where the temperature was a cool fifteen degrees Celsius.  I waited a long time at the luggage section to realize my suitcase was missing.  After the necessary paperwork, I walked through the exit with my handbag as sole companion.  I then looked right and left but, to my surprise, didn't see any familiar face.  I suddenly remembered I didn't have the keys to my flat and felt a whiff of panic.  From the airport, I called a friend of many years who worked with Mary, my tenant.  "Hello Mark, I am back from China." "Welcome back! Where are you?" he asked hesitantly.  "I am at Heathrow, they lost my suitcase and I have nowhere to go as I don't have the keys to my flat".   "Do you know where Mary is? "Hmm...she's not in London....hmm....she's on holiday."  "Has she left my keys with you by any chance?" "Hmm....well...no.... Sorry! Come to my office, we'll sort something out."  
I boarded the Underground and got off near Mark's office. I immediately felt the bite of London's cool weather, a contrast with Beijing.  I looked forward to seeing my friend, always around when in need.  He kindly invited me for lunch as I had very little money with me.  My credit card and chequebook were in my London flat, being of no use in China.  Mark kindly offered to put me up for the night, lent me a sweater and a pair of socks to keep warm.  After a few glasses of wine, we both laughed at my predicament.  
The next morning, I travelled to my flat in Northwest London. I decided to try my neighbours, in the basement flat, and enquire if they had seen my tenant lately. Luckily they were in and, at least, I was able to go through the front door. To my astonishment, I found my keys in an envelope on the floor, in the hallway.  There was a letter from Mary explaining she had gone on holiday. "Suit yourself," I muttered as I went up the stairs.   Everything looked in perfect order and it felt good to be home.  However, with no suitcase to unpack, I decided to go for a walk. It was a strange feeling to look at faces that weren't Chinese.  Kilburn, then a rather run down part of London, looked luxurious in comparison to many places in China.  I made a trip to the super-market and was bewildered by the choice of products. It took me ten minutes to decide which type of bubble bath to buy and even more time to pick food for my dinner.  After months of a Spartan but fulfilling life in China, I knew the readjustment would be tough.
A few weeks later, I started interviewing for jobs and eventually ended up working for an investment bank in the City.  The contrast with my life in Beijing couldn't have been greater. I was full of my stories about China but, unfortunately, they fell on dead ears.  "Nobody cares about Deng Xiaoping," declared the in-house economist after I made a comment during a meeting.  To my great disappointment, the world of finance looked down on China but little did they know ! 

狄安娜














狄安娜 : Anne DEPAULIS

Anne was born and raised in Bordeaux, France, and started developing a great interest in foreign cultures very early on.  At some point, she even wished to have foreign parents.  At the age of 17, she was a student with AFS (a youth exchange organization) to the U.S., where she lived for one year, with a family in Dallas.  It was a true life changing experience, however, the Dallas Cowboys still remain unfathomable to her. On her return to France, she went to university in Bordeaux where she graduated in English and Chinese in the mid 70's.  She then received a scholarship to study in Santa Barbara, California, for one year of beach and sunshine.  There she prepared for her Master's degree in English, which she completed back in France. 
For personal reasons, Anne moved to London where she lived for nearly 12 years.  In 1986, thanks to her British passport, she received a scholarship to go to China for six months.  Upon her return to London, she was hired by an investment bank to become a specialist of Asian markets after a painful and painstaking training.  To start with, it was Japan and then eventually her time came with China, which led to six happy years in Hong Kong.
Altogether, she lived abroad for 26 years and describes herself as a global citizen with French characteristics and a British passport.   
Anne is now happily retired in Paris where she is rediscovering her own culture, doing a lot of singing and charity work of various sorts. 



狄安娜




















THE END

Copyright © 2015 Anne DEPAULIS - All rights reserved
ISBN  978-1508573999 


















