



Table of Contents



Table of Contents


The Minimalist Lifestyle


Frugal-Living-Simple-Path


Chapter 1- What Does It Mean To Be Frugal?


Chapter 2- What Are the Advantages of Being Frugal?


Chapter 3- How to Make the Transition to the Frugal Lifestyle


Chapter 4- How to Implement Clutter Busting Routines


Chapter 5- How to Declutter Your Home


Chapter 6- How to Declutter Your Finances


Chapter 7- How to Declutter Your Personal Life




ABOUT THE AUTHOR


Minimalist Living for Peace of Mind


Chapter 1- Starting At New Home With The Minimalist Lifestyle


Chapter 2- The Minimalist Diet Plan


Chapter 3- Making The Transition To the Minimalist Lifestyle


Chapter 4- Simple Frugal and Minimalist Tactics


Chapter 5- Being Minimalist At The Office


Chapter 6- From The Office To The Home With Minimalism


Chapter 7- Minimalism For Students


Chapter 8- Tips For The Minimalist Traveler


Chapter 9- Back To Decorating Your Minimalist Style Home




About The Author




Guide


Table of Contents




















Table of Contents
The Minimalist Lifestyle
Frugal-Living-Simple-Path
Chapter 1- What Does It Mean To Be Frugal?
Chapter 2- What Are the Advantages of Being Frugal?
Chapter 3- How to Make the Transition to the Frugal Lifestyle
Chapter 4- How to Implement Clutter Busting Routines
Chapter 5- How to Declutter Your Home
Chapter 6- How to Declutter Your Finances
Chapter 7- How to Declutter Your Personal Life
Minimalist Living for Peace of Mind
Chapter 1- Starting At New Home With The Minimalist Lifestyle
Chapter 2- The Minimalist Diet Plan
Chapter 3- Making The Transition To the Minimalist Lifestyle
Chapter 4- Simple Frugal and Minimalist Tactics
Chapter 5- Being Minimalist At The Office
Chapter 6- From The Office To The Home With Minimalism
Chapter 7- Minimalism For Students
Chapter 8- Tips For The Minimalist Traveler
Chapter 9- Back To Decorating Your Minimalist Style Home







The Minimalist Lifestyle
Getting Back To The Simple Life
By: Henry Rainford




 

Chapter 1- Defining the Minimalist Lifestyle
Though it may seem so to the person on the outside looking in, a minimalistic lifestyle does not have to mean a radical change in one's way of life. The core statement of those living in this manner is that downsizing on material objects and the clutter in their life can lead to more important aspects of existence being focused on. In essence, the message being received is that with fewer distractions, growing as a person and becoming extra productive is a more easily obtainable goal. Simple living is a completely voluntary choice and is not another term for poverty. Although many lessons may be learned by witnessing this lifestyle, the goal for the people living it is not to make a statement but to improve themselves.

There are quite a few misconceptions about minimalism and simple living. Though some may practice the action, living a more simple life does not mean constantly counting one's possessions. There is no required number of items one must own. The most important factor to consider when it comes to personal objects is desire versus need. By making sure that they only keep the items that are necessary to their existence, people engaging in minimalistic lifestyles can control what they may be distracted by. Often times, items such as a television may be deemed unnecessary and removed from the equation. Though that may be a common choice, there are not right or wrong items and the process changes for every individual.
Purging excess belongings from one's household may be a common form of simplistic living, but there are other ways to practice the lifestyle as well. Controlling the diet is another frequent practice. Often, the goal in this area is to eat natural food choices. This is not the same as simply looking to eat healthily, but instead to eat foods that are not too heavily processed. Portion control plays into this as well. Gorging oneself is considered a wasteful practice and is looked at as a conflict with a minimalist's ideals.
There are quite a few reasons as to one might choose this lifestyle for themselves. One factor could stem from monetary concerns. Many times, due to spending less on unnecessary items and consuming less in all respects, there is a considerable decrease in expenditures. Learning to become more frugal may be a difficult process for some, but often times it leads to less stress and an overall boost in self satisfaction. Many who have found themselves in debt consider the frugality of this mindset to be a helpful tool in pulling themselves out.
For others, thinking about living a simple lifestyle may be a more spiritual decision about improving their sense of self. These people do not merely look at necessary versus unnecessary, but instead also attempt to analyze their relationship with their inanimate objects. It is important for them to not give too much meaning to their possessions. The rallying point here is that there are far more important connections to be had found elsewhere.
A relationship with a phone may be sacrificed to establish a more powerful connection with another person, just as one with a television may be sacrificed to leave more room open for reading a good book. With less clutter, these practitioners intend to open themselves up to a better version of the person they are. Many focus on improving an art or practice with the new time they have granted themselves, such as painting or writing.
Yet another reason some may find themselves longing to begin a minimalistic lifestyle is to lessen their impact on the environment. Purely on principle, a simplistic life is compatible with that of a person attempting to live a more green life. Plainly put, it is common knowledge that cutting down on consumerism cuts down on needless waste. When one spends less, it causes a chain reaction. Purchasing less packaged goods leads to opening less packaged goods, which obviously leads to less rubbish. With less garbage being produced some may feel they are leaving a positive impact on the planet.
Though there are many different aspects to take into consideration when questioning why one may be turned onto simple living, the results and benefits wind up essentially adding up to the same outcomes. As previously mentioned, oftentimes it leads to a decrease in stress. With less to split one's attention between there are less distractions to be had and more time to focus on what truly leads to one's happiness. There is more time to be shared amongst the positive factors in life.
Working to become healthier, creating art, relaxing, and sharing more time with family members are all products reported by those who take part in making the effort to live this way. Other benefits that have been noted are the newfound ease in organizing for some, what with their new lack of clutter. Another aspect of note is the near effortlessness of sustaining this lifestyle. With monetary resources not being stretched as thin, there is more comfort to be found. With less to maintain, many people have found solace in this lifestyle, and swear by its practicality and advantages as pure fact.
At times, those who do not practice a minimalist lifestyle have been known to have looked at the process as a harsh choice weighed down with radical changes and strict rules. The truth however is not so extreme. Simple living is more of a state of mind than a tangible thing. By being mindful of their own impact and focusing on what is important, people are already practicing the life choice. There is no right way. It is a continual process, one that can be started by any type of person at any stage in their life. Many who live this life have a relaxed attitude towards the method. Though it may never be the desired way of life for everyone, living a minimalistic lifestyle has undoubtedly affected many people for the better.

Chapter 2- The Advantages of the Minimalist Lifestyle
People who embrace a minimalist lifestyle are often admired for their environmental awareness and their willingness to do without a hoard of material possessions. In fact, the focus of simple living is much more about what you get than it is about what you give up. For those who choose it, simplicity delivers enormous benefits, including the ones below.
Improved Physical Health
It would be difficult to pursue a minimalist approach and not end up with a healthier lifestyle. Burning less of the world's energy and more of your own by walking instead of riding, cleaning your own house instead of hiring someone to do it, and taking on your own DIY projects put activity back in your life. Dietary choices such as growing your own vegetables, baking your own bread and eliminating junk food nourish you better on far fewer calories.
Mental Ease
An overstuffed life creates a good deal of mental anxiety. There's the distraction of keeping track of everything, the worry over paying for it all, and the eternal low-simmering discontent of always wanting more. For many, assuaging this anxiety results in acquiring even more, buying a bigger house to keep it all in, and experiencing increased levels of stress as you work longer hours and fret over just how long you can keep all the plates spinning. Simplifying your life stops the spin cycle and eliminates many unacknowledged drags on mental health. The mind is free to spend its energy in different ways, such as learning, creating, enjoying and other activities that are far more likely to foster satisfaction and a sense of well-being.

Healthier Finances
Wealth, like time, is relative. If you make $30,000 a year and have everything you need, no debts and cash set aside for a rainy day, you are far better off than someone who makes $300,000 a year, carries a $500,000 debt load, and inhabits a starter castle of a house that's worth less than what's owed on it. Wealth, at its base level, isn't money, its freedom from financial worry. Pursuing a minimalist lifestyle results in buying less and avoiding all the "must haves" you don't really need. Credit cards get paid off and eventually there's money to set aside. Ironically, people who decide to be happy with less often end up with a whole lot more.
Time
In a society that overvalues money and objects, time is often undervalued. We fritter hours away on the computer or give up an hour of family time in order to check out a sale after work. We squander time, yet time is exactly what people usually say they want more of. When you streamline your life, you spend less time managing and caring for things, less time rushing from place to place and less time feeling overwhelmed. De-cluttering is literally buying time. Instead of feeling perpetually rushed, you have time to experience and examine your own life, to think about what's really important to you and redirect your time to more productive endeavors.
A Broader Life with More Choice
Between eternal acquiring and working to pay for it all, life can become a limited, monotonous routine with little latitude for choice. Even social life can suffer. There's no need to get together with friends for a movie when everyone has a home theater. Streamlining life creates opportunities for choice. Maybe you want trade a high income job for one that would give you more free time, or maybe now is the time to take that painting class you've always been curious about. It's ironic but true: a minimalist lifestyle leads to a broader, more varied life.
Flexibility and Self-Confidence
When you realize you can exist without things and activities you once believed were vital, you gain a sense of your own resilience and flexibility. You also develop new skills, which add to self-confidence. Knowing that you can move through life meeting unexpected challenges and carrying your own resources within is tremendously freeing. Don't be surprised if you become a more adventurous person as a result.
Stronger Family Bonds
When a family takes on tasks that were formerly contracted to others, be it raking leaves or remodeling a room, it fosters cooperation and closeness. Children like to feel useful and part of it all and finding a task each child can do builds self-esteem, good work habits and lasting memories. Also, shifting the focus from materialism to time spent together and lots of family fun makes children less likely to clamor for goods as proof of parental love. As children grow older, firm family bonds decrease the likelihood that they will turn to drugs, alcohol or risky behavior to get attention or sooth feelings of emptiness.
Appreciation and a Sense of Abundance
Downsizing your life to keep only what you want and need often means you can trade a big, expensive living space for a smaller and cozier one that emphasizes features such as good design, natural materials, or a breathtaking view. With the clutter cleared away, you can display and enjoy your favorite possessions. Instead of feeling overwhelmed by too many possessions, you appreciate and enjoy your surroundings, and life seems abundant rather than suffocating.
A Purposeful Life
Do you run your life or does your life run you? Many people feel caught on a merry-go-round they can't stop, living a life they never quite chose to live. How did so many plans end up on permanent hold? How did you end up with a couch that cost more than the down payment on your first house? Is this what life is really all about? Living a minimalist lifestyle isn't about what you give up, it's about what you gain. When you stop up the frenzied pursuit of status symbols, activities, and goals that bring you no pleasure, you take back control and live in a way that has purpose and meaning to you.

Chapter 3- Minimalist Lifestyle- Clearing out the Home
When we have a cluttered home, we have a cluttered mind. Home is where you can relax and let your hair down, but if your home is completely covered in clutter, there is no relaxing going on. Before you start to de-clutter your home, there are a few things that you can do (and not do) to start the process off right.

First, go through your home and throw any trash away. There may be something that accidentally fell behind the couch or under a table, or there may be broken items in your home that are not able to be used anymore, such as a broken lamp that you just haven't put in the trash. Anything that belongs in the trashcan must go there. Look for things that can be recycled. Papers, magazines, old phone books, paper or plastic bags or old boxes need to go in the recycling bin.
Mail is a huge creator of clutter in homes. You can actually stop the junk mail that you receive by going to the Direct Marketing Association's (DMA) Mail Preference Service (MPS) and getting your name and address on their delete list. Also, whenever you are asked for your address, leave that portion blank if you know that it is for marketing or advertising purposes. You could even use a PO Box for these types of things if you don't want to stop them from being sent. Just don't have things sent to your home that you know will not immediately be put in the trash.
Magazines and newspapers are going digital, for the most part. If you want to keep up with the daily news, there are websites that offer this information. You can even download news apps to your mobile phone in order to stay up to the minute on the news. Magazines have websites, also, and by eliminating magazines from your home, you will be eliminating paper clutter, helping the environment and saving yourself some money at the same time.
If you are a big reader, you can eliminate the need to store books by either using the library instead of purchasing every book that you read, or download them on an electronic reader. This way, you still own the books, but they are kept electronically instead of taking up space in your home.
Switch to paperless billing whenever possible. You will eliminate paper bills that you receive that may sit around your home, and you'll also have electronic proof that the bill is paid. You can also eliminate spam and junk emails by unsubscribing from emails that you get from time to time, although a cluttered email inbox is better than a cluttered home.
Staying organized is the key to keeping clutter at bay. If you have not used an item in the last 6 months, get rid of it. This is a good thing to do for every item in your home. If you don't want to throw it away, donate it. If you feel like you really need to resell it, choose a site like eBay or Craigslist to get something in return for it.
Keep items where they're used. This way it will be easier to put away when you are through using it. Keep your most used items accessible and visible, and those that aren't used a lot, keep out of sight. Don't buy something just to buy something. This is a habit for some people so when you are about to make a purchase ask yourself if you'll use the item. If not, don't buy it because it will just become clutter. Repurpose whenever you can instead of buying something else that you really don't need. Give away one thing weekly that you don't need any longer. If you can, try to fill one trash bag weekly of things to donate or even throw away. Use the "in and out" rule--when you purchase one item, go home and throw away or donate one item. If you purchase three new things, get rid of three old things.
Use space wisely by utilizing the ceiling and the walls for creative storage when necessary. Shelves are easy to install and there are things that can be hung from the ceiling for storage. Use decorative storage when necessary. There are baskets that are beautiful décor, but can also hold pillows and blankets in your living room that are necessary for movie night.
Some ottomans are made to open so that you can store movies, games, music, or entertainment equipment inside. Take advantage of anything that you can use for storage that you already have in your home. Use storage containers that can be hidden under the bed, or stacked in a closet. Try to de-clutter one area in your home daily. If you stay on a schedule, you'll never need to take a lot of time to clean up and your home will stay clutter free.
Only hold on to things that are positive. You don't want to keep something that will remind you of a bad time in your life. Surround yourself with things that will make you smile. If you are struggling with getting rid of sentimental items, always remember that it is the memories that you love, not the material things. The material things can be ruined or lost, but memories of a loved one will never fade from your mind. If you are struggling with getting rid of something that was a gift from someone special, use it in front of them or take a picture of yourself holding or wearing it before getting rid of it. When you are de-cluttering your home only work for one hour at a time; you don't want to get overwhelmed and not finish the job.
When it comes to your closet, divide everything into three piles: keep, throw away, and donate. Keep a hanging laundry bag in your closet for the things that you may wear or try on that don't fit, or aren't your style anymore. Once the bag is full, donate them. A great way to go through your things is by using the 3 F's: fit, flatter and feel. Does it fit? Is it flattering? And how does it make me feel? By using these three questions, you can easily discard the items in your closet that you really don't need. Also, if you haven't worn it in the last 12 months, get rid of it.
De-cluttering your home will give you the ability to more easily relax because your mind isn't cluttered with stuff. An organized home will give you satisfaction, help you save money, and benefit the environment. You'll also be helping others out by getting rid of good things that you won't use, but may be useful to others.

Chapter 4- What is Repurposing and How Does it Work?
There are many things in people's lives that can be repurposed. All it means is that something that was meant for one purpose is changed over to be used for another purpose. Take furniture, for instance. If you have furniture you are using for your living room, you can repurpose that furniture by sending it to a nonprofit organization who will see that it is used maybe in an office or someone else's home.
You would have to immediately transfer the title. That frees you up from all liability for what happens with the furniture once it leaves your home. Then you are also eligible for tax credits up to the market value of what you have donated.
A huge part of the benefits of the repurposing programs spread out over the country is that rather than clogging up landfills, items are finding further usability. They become assets rather than contaminants of the earth.
Creative Imagination
You can simply use your imagination and you will realize how many things there are that can be repurposed. Even something like web content can be repurposed. Marketing can be a challenge. You must always come up with great fresh content. Repurposing old content can help to fill that demand.

A lot of people who are marketing a blog or website get to a point where they are totally burned out on creating new content. After weeks of trying to write fresh and original content, it can become an overwhelming task. You blog, make videos, update your social media accounts, and work hard.
But as many wise marketers will tell you, it is not so much about creating new content, as it is about getting what content you have before more people. You can repurpose content and take the labor out of content creation, and you can focus more on broadening the scope of your reach.
What else could you possible repurpose? What about your career? Many baby boomers believe their time has come and gone. Not so. They want to make a change but have no faith in doing so. The truth is they can repurpose their careers.
It takes some thought and focus to repurpose a career. You have to look long and hard at yourself, and determine what your assets and liabilities are. Figure out what kind of work it is that you would like to do. Then talk to people who do that type of work and get some feedback. Find people who can assist you in making this transition.
You can use solid common-sense steps to totally repurpose your life. A whole new world awaits you through repurposing. It is simply a matter of being willing to make a change, and changing your focus and purpose.
Survival Repurposing Examples
Dental Floss - Here is an interesting example of repurposing. This can be used for cleaning between your teeth and promoting healthy gums. However, should your car break down on a mountain road, and you are left out in the wilderness to fend for yourself, it can be totally repurposed to help you survive.
You can actually use the dental floss to create a snare to catch small wild animals for food. It can be used as a fishing line to catch fish for supper. It can be repurposed as a binder for holding sticks together to make a shelter. There are many ways that plain old everyday dental floss can be repurposed to serve you in ways it was never intended.
Let's say that on this survival experience you not only had dental floss, but had a condom in your wallet as well. One of the biggest challenges for any survival situation is getting water. Transporting water can be difficult. You can repurpose that condom for carrying water. They will actually hold as much as one whole gallon of water. That could keep you alive for an entire day.
What about that cell phone? You are not getting a signal way out here in the wilderness, so how could you repurpose that cell phone to your advantage? Simply by keeping it on, it becomes a tracking device for rescuers. Even though you cannot make any calls, the cell phone will send out a signal that can be located through the nearest tower.
In this scenario you would quite possibly be wearing a watch. How could you repurpose this from telling time to a survival advantage? You can use it as a compass. This depends on the watch being non-digital and having hands. You can hold the watch face up. Keeping it parallel with the ground you point the hour hand toward the sun. If it is morning there, and then South should be located halfway between your hour hand, and going clockwise, 12 o'clock. You will find North on that same line, just in the opposite direction. It is not totally accurate but is close enough to render good service for finding your way.
One of the handiest repurposing tools in survival mode is the shoelace. They can be repurposed to make splints, lash sticks together, and even to start fires using some sticks and kindling. They are good for using the 'bow & drill' method to create friction for getting a spark for a fire.
The list goes on and on for repurposing everyday items in beneficial ways for survival.
You can repurpose an old laptop. If you have an old laptop that has been discontinued in regard to support, updates, security, and other much needed operating programs, you can repurpose it for performing other tasks. One way is to use it solely for writing, or watching movies, or anything else that does not require connecting to the internet. It could be used as an eBook reader that is full of extra features. You could store recipes on it and make it a new recipe book.
Repurposing is only limited by your imagination. It is a change of focus and purpose for anything you can think of a need for that exists in another capacity at this time. Now you see how repurposing works so get out there and start repurposing!

Chapter 5- Minimalist Lifestyle- Sorting Out Finances
Managing money is both a skill and an art. Some people are good at managing their money but are absolutely miserable and unhappy. Others "live for the moment" and let managing money take care of itself and don't care about saving or budgeting. Within each of us there is a comfort zone, a place where the way we manage our money makes us "feel good." Ideally, this is where we want to be. The act of decluttering our finances is aimed at this "sweet spot." To do this requires some time and effort.

Start by sitting down quietly and look into yourself to try and "see" who you really are. Ask yourself: "Does "stuff" make me happy? How much stuff do I need? Am I spending too much money on my stuff? Or at the other end, am I a miser? Do I spend hours clipping coupons trying to save every penny? Is getting more and more money my goal? And the hardest question of all: Am I greedy when it comes to money? Do I just love money for the sake of having it and always want more?
These underlying beliefs will affect the way you declutter your finances. Here we want to set up an objective process for handling your finances and then to look at ways that we can make adjustments of fit your own personality.
The Skill of Decluttering Your Finances
Here are the initial steps. Collect all your bills together. Then sit down and study each one. Some of them will be routine month after month like your heat, utilities, phone, Internet, cable, gas, mortgage, property taxes, health and car insurances. Take the time to analyze them. You may be able to tweak them by bundling phone, Internet and cable or your insurance together. Call you car insurance company and ask if you have all the discounts you are entitled to. For example, you get discounts for taking a driver safety course, for antitheft devices, running lights, safe driving record and more. You get an added discount if you have both car and home insurance with the same company.
Now do the same for your variable bills. They could include entertainment, shopping, hair visits, personal care items such as manicures, pedicures, doctor visits, counseling, memberships, etc. Do this for yourself and each member of your family. The act of writing down these expenses helps to fix them in your mind. This is where you will spend the most time deciding on the items that are not needed and which ones to keep. You most likely will have a family meeting where each person can decide on their absolute expenses and which ones they are willing to eliminate.
Next add your fixed bills and add your variable bills, each separately. Now write down your income from all sources: salaries, investments, savings, rentals, etc. Now subtract your fixed expenses. The amount that is left will be your variable expenses. It is these variable expenses that will pretty much determine your lifestyle and each family member's lifestyle. This is that "sweet spot" mentioned above.
If you have done this homework, you are more than half way to your goal. Now you need the mechanical tools to finish the job. You want to look at how these bills are paid. As much as possible use auto pay and auto deposit. Use auto deposit for your income by having all these items automatically deposited in your checking or savings account. Use auto pay online for as many items as possible, i.e. your phone, Internet and cable bill, mortgage (most include property taxes), insurances and utilities and credit cards.
Now is the time to mention credit cards. Ask yourself: How many credit cards do I have? If you have several plan to use just one. That means you will get only one bill and all of your charges can be checked off on that one statement or online if you do it that way. Study each balance on each card and note the APR rate. When you are paying off credit cards always pay the one with the highest APR first. This is the card you should NOT use. Use the card with your lowest APR. This will keep your interest charges to a minimum. A much better plan is to use only a debit card. Here you will have a running balance in your checking account and can follow your purchases much more closely.
Next do a spread- sheet with Excel or Google docs. Here you will be entering income and expenses as they arrive. Here is another best way to declutter your finances. Deal with each bill immediately. Pay it either by check or online and enter it on your spread- sheet. One of the places where your finances go awry is putting off paying bills. You cannot say like Scarlet in "Gone With the Wind" I'll deal with that tomorrow. What can happen is that by mid month you find that you are overspending and must immediately eliminate some items. If you don't keep your records up to date, you can start to fall behind. It only takes a few months and you are facing a bankruptcy court.
Must you keep files? The answer is yes. Some paper work like tax records and receipts must be kept for seven years. For medical records you would need two files, one for the first bill from the hospital or doctor and a second file for when you receive the final bill. You can digitize some documents such as mortgage, investment assets or policy beneficiaries and store them in your "cloud."
Finally, use the golden rule described in the book "The Richest Man in Babylon" written by George S Clason in 1926. The story is a parable about how a slave who was then freed became the Richest Man in Babylon. The rule is this: "Pay yourself first." Pay yourself at least 10% of your income each month. Eventually, you won't have to worry about how to pay your bills.

Chapter 6- What Is Frugal Living and How Does It Work?
Wish you could take that dream vacation to Italy? Or, perhaps you'd like to quit your job and start your own business or maybe you'd like to pay off your debt or start saving for your kids' college and your retirement, but you don't feel you make enough money to do so, with frugal living, you can. Frugal living means planning your budget wisely, so you can free up extra money towards the things you want. Frugal living may seem hard at first, but it's worth it!
Frugal Living
In Frugal living, you make a conscious effort to organize your spending and saving habits; this means keeping track of every dime you spend, only buying what you truly need, and getting the best bargain on everything you buy. This may include shopping at thrift stores, yard sales, using coupons and rebates, shopping clearance racks, and stockpiling items on sale; the key here is to only stockpile items you will actually use, to prevent wasting, another conscious goal of frugality. To begin a life of frugality, you will need to set a budget.
Frugal Budgeting
Once you know how much money you have in the bank and how much your bills equal for the month (including 10% for saving or investing. Yes, this should be viewed as important as a bill, because it's the main point of frugal living),then you can ask yourself questions like, with the money left over, do I really need those new shoes, if so, where can I get them for less? Or, do I have to go out to eat or could I prepare that same meal at home for less? Or, do I really need that gym membership or could I work at home, for less? The point is to figure out, after you have taken care of your needs, how to make the rest stretch.
11 Ways to Spend Less
Stretching your budget doesn't have to be hard or even discouraging. Simply exchange the higher cost of doing things, with lower costs. Budgeting can also help your self esteem, because as you budget, you are learning to live smarter.
Always shop with a list- if it isn't on the list; don't buy it. This prevents impulse shopping, the number one enemy of frugal living!
Use coupons, rebates, and shop discount clubs for groceries, and household and school supplies etc.
Start your own organic garden to save on expensive organic produce.
Acquire household skills such as how to the change oil, upgrade your family's computer, and using a wire hanger as a snake to unclog sinks and toilets etc. to save on expensive service repairs.
Eliminate the number of Cable television stations you are paying for to eliminate expensive cable bills. Rent movies, DVD's, books and magazines, and even the internet for free at your local library. Your local library keeps a nice selection of current movies, books, magazines, music CD's and more.
Eat out less often, opting to prepare cheaper and healthier meals at home. Save eating out for special occasions only, such as birthdays, anniversaries, graduations, and kitchen emergencies.
Switch to online bill pay to help eliminate check and money order fees, debit card fees, and postage fees. Online bill pay can be set up for free with your bank.
Grouping errands allow you get more done in a day and save on gas and emissions by using your car less often.
Switch to low energy light bulbs and appliances to save money on energy use. Investing in energy efficient curtains and draft door guards can also help lower energy costs, by keeping your heating and cooling in the house, so you don't have to turn your heater or air conditioner unit up as high.
Donate gently used items, while shopping at your local thrift store, to get a tax write off.
Tax credits such as the American Opportunity credit and the Lifetime Learning credit can help reduce your tax bill by allowing you to deduct a portion (up to $2,500 for the AOEC and up to $2,000 for the LLC) of your child's college tuition, books, supplies, and equipment costs. Consult your Jackson Hewitt tax professional for more information on claiming these credits.
Tips on Frugal Investing
The first rule of frugal investing is to educate yourself. Many online brokerages offer free education to help with self investing.
When investing, opt for no load investing instead. No load investing saves you money, because instead of paying a broker a commission to manage your investments and transactions, you manage them yourself. No Load investing means purchasing stock directly from the company, usually, with lower initial investment requirements.
For short term investing, CD's make an excellent frugal choice. They are easy to cash in, and if you redraw before the maturity date, you still recover the principal investment.
For long term investing, no load index mutual funds make a great frugal choice. Choosing a mutual fund, rather than individual stocks and bonds helps increase your returns and diversifies your risk.
The Frugal Lifestyle
A frugal lifestyle should be a family effort. This not only gets everyone involved, but also teaches your children how to manage their money. A frugal lifestyle is not about depriving your family or yourself of nice things; it just means you choose to indulge less often, saving your indulgences for special occasions or for when you really need it. The best part about frugal living is the peace you get when you know you're saving, so you're prepared for an emergency. A frugal lifestyle may be different than the lifestyle your friends are living, it isn't for everyone. However, don't let your friends spending habits distract you from the real joy, which is the peace you have, knowing you're saving!

Chapter 7- How to Shop When Living the Minimalist Lifestyle
Shopping when living a minimalist lifestyle is not an easy task but it is possible. It will take determination on the part of the individual living the lifestyle of the minimalist and will require quite a few life changes. The main thing for the minimalist to keep in mind is that however unnecessary most items might seem, there are those items that are simply a necessary part of life.

Shopping as a minimalist always requires the mentality that everything acquired should be items that are necessary. This of course will mean only purchasing those items that are a necessary part of life. In order to simplify this task, the minimalist must make certain sacrifices the first of which is to avoid sales of any kind.
A sale, in and of itself, would be a fantastic thing for the typical shopper but for the minimalist would only mean the temptation to purchase an item because it will save money at the time and not because it is needed. Sales are only opportunities for shoppers to purchase unnecessary items at a discounted price. It is not the sale that is a negative thing but the shopping behavior that the sales encourage in a shopper that can be negative.
That being said, the true minimalist must learn to shop without a credit card, debit card or checkbook. These 3 items alone encourage the purchase of items that are more wanted than needed and then they provide the means of making these purchases possible. A minimalist must learn to shop without these things because shopping with cash alone simplifies shopping and keeps a shoppers means to a minimalistic level.
For the true minimalist, leaving credit cards, debit cards and checkbooks out of the shopping game helps in resisting the temptation to become impulsive when shopping. Impulse shopping is the complete opposite of how a minimalist will shop and eliminating the opportunity altogether will help the minimalist to learn to shop more appropriately. This doesn't mean that a minimalist should never shop with any these 3 items but it simply means to be aware of the temptations and opportunity that shopping with these items provide.
When shopping as a true minimalist, shop with the intent of keeping necessities down to one of each item. This goes for all necessities including hygiene items, medicinal items and kitchen related items. When shopping with the mentality that stock piling in not necessary, it will be much easier to shop appropriately.
When shopping while living a minimalistic lifestyle it is important to prioritize not only the items being shopped for but the tasks for the day. By prioritizing these things, shopping becomes even more simplified for the minimalist. Learning to put things into specific categories such as "immediate needs", "possible needs", and "future needs" will simplify shopping even more.
For the minimalist, shopping will mean trying to stay away from shopping online. Online shopping encourages the purchase of unnecessary items by offering large discounts and adding lots of extras to make a purchase more enticing. This goes against everything that the minimalistic lifestyle stands for and the way in which the minimalist will shop.
As much as possible, the minimalist will shop for everything needed physically and at a physical location. This will encourage the purchase of only those items that are absolutely necessary by keeping opportunity to a minimum. While shopping online isn't restricted for the minimalist, shopping online would be discouraged. The fact that shopping online will require very high shipping and handling costs, in and of itself, implies shopping out of convenience and paying whatever is necessary to obtain the goal.
The minimalist is going to be frugal with finances so high shipping and handling costs goes against everything the minimalist stands for and is not necessary when shopping for necessary items. In most cases, necessities can be purchased at local convenience stores that will cost much less in gas alone so once again, purchasing items in person is encouraged.
When furnishing and decorating the home, reduce the necessities to a bare minimum. By reducing the necessities in home furnishings and decor, the minimalist will keep maintenance down to a bare minimum as well. This will, in turn, make shopping much easier and for the minimalist will provide simplicity where shopping is concerned. Less maintenance will require less shopping and this is always a good thing.
Even the minimalist enjoys reading and when it comes to reading magazines, books, and newspapers the minimalist should learn to shop for these items in their digital form. This will go against the shopping in person suggestion but as with all suggestions, they are simply suggestions and there are exceptions. Not only will shopping for your favorite magazine, books, and/or newspaper digitally save you money but it will save our natural resources (more specifically trees).
Everyone knows that newspapers, magazines, and books take paper when being made physically and lots of it. Digital newspapers, magazines, and books eliminate the need for the use of paper eliminating for the destruction of trees and in turn save the purchaser quite a bit of money in the process. This provides the minimalist with a great way to shop while providing opportunity to go the extra mile where our natural resources are concerned.
The minimalist will stay away from purchasing fast food and food out of convenience; making good choices when shopping for food will mean buying everything fresh and cooking fresh meals. As much as possible, the minimalist will want to consider planting a garden for the purpose of growing any fruits and vegetables possible. This is minimalistic shopping at its core but will take time and dedication.
Another thing for the minimalist to consider when shopping for food is to consider possibly designating a couple of nights specifically for vegetarian cooking. This will serve multiple purposes the first of which will be to save money. Meats can be quite costly and vegetarian nights will cut back on costs drastically.
Vegetarian cooking will also mean less meat is purchased which means life has been saved even if this life is an animal's life. As with saving our natural resources by going digital can be important for the minimalist, saving the lives of a few animals by going partially vegetarian can be as important. There are a number of things that the minimalist can consider when shopping and each makes shopping, for the minimalist, much easier in the end.

About The Author
Although Henry Rainford does not like to admit it, the bottom line is that he is a hoarder at heart. What's ironic is that he's well aware of this and has always known that he needed to do something about it. It's embarrassing when you can't have anyone come to your home nor even go shopping with you. It's just not attractive. But when accumulating things with no organization begins to even push your own self away from you, if that makes any sense, it's time to simplify all areas of your life immediately.
If you are like this in one area, you are most likely the same in other areas as well. Henry knew it had to start with him because some of his friends had already come to his home to get rid of things for him and organize what they could. But he couldn't maintain it even for two weeks and went right back to his old ways again. That's why he believes that your own mindset change, which is not something that someone else can do for you, is where it begins to start seeing the beauty of a simple life.







Frugal Living: The Simple Path to Success
Innovative Ways to Budget and Live a Simple Life
By: Timothy Grey








CHAPTER 1- WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO BE FRUGAL?
Everyone knows a person that will take a penny and make the most of what it values, stretching it far beyond what most imagine. Some people naturally understand, what it means to be frugal. Frugal is being able to find a bargain on almost anything, vacations, food, restaurants and home repairs. A frugal person will become a do it yourself person rather than spend the money to hire a professional, if they can do the job safely and save while they are doing it.
A frugal person can find a deal for almost everything. Sometimes saving money is a matter of timing. Even hotels cost less during the week. Restaurants offer deals for lunch and lots of dinner specials. Register online, get coupons for meals, and watch for newspaper coupons for your favorite eating-places. Frugality is an art anyone can learn and once you do, you will love adding up those savings.

Car Maintenance
What does it mean to be frugal? Saving money on car maintenance, certainly, you want your car to operate properly and you do not want to do anything to cause problems. However, some things you can do yourself, changing hoses, changing oil, changing filters and even changing the spark plugs. Service fee can cost $25 an hour and more not to mention time out of your busy schedule. Do these things in your leisure time.
Grocery Coupons
One of the biggest bills a family faces is the grocery bill. Clip coupons for the things needed for your household and favorite specialty foods and watch the savings grow. It is possible to save 25 to 35% on food each week. Stores place things on sale that are essential to a family budget regularly. Purchase these items in quantity when possible. This stretches the budget. Some items are storable buy these in bulk. Certain businesses specialize in selling foods and dry goods in large quantities.
Movies
What does it mean to be frugal? It means you have the ability to find a bargain. A love for movies can cost but most people want to keep up with the latest flicks. Frugal people use the library to rent these movies for nothing or they find the nearest discount video rental store and rent them for a dollar. Another way to get movies for a song is to get them from second hand stores, but watch out for scratches.
Use Green Cleansers
What does it mean to be frugal? The use of green cleansers is what it means to be frugal. Staying away from high priced cleansers that adversely affect the environment and making homemade cleaning products. Vinegar and water does a wonderful job cleaning hardwood floors, baking soda and vinegar is a great drain cleaner and the list goes on. Frugal living saves money and helps a family stay healthier.
Vegetable Gardening
Growing a few vegetables for soups and salads save a bundle, this is easier during growing season. Some foods can be dried and saved after the season is over. Other foods care grown even in cooler temperatures. Some plants can be grown or saved throughout the year. Onion, basil and other herbs taste great when they are grown organically.
Samples
Free items offer a great way to save money. This is a way to get free detergent, shampoo, tea and other products. It is possible to answer surveys and get discounts on hotel room, and car rentals. Get coupons on clothing and other things needed.
Cut Utility Costs
Save on utilities by conserving. Keep lights turned off when not in use and change bulbs with LED lighting. These bulbs use less electricity, create less heat and last longer. Dishwashers use a great deal of water and electricity, when time is available, hand wash and dry dishes. In cold temperatures, hot water heaters will turn on and off increasing a utility bill. Make sure this item is properly insulated. If other areas of the home are improperly insulated, make adjustments. Adding ventilation also saves on utility cost, keeping a home cooler during intense summer heat.
Recycle
Save aluminum cans, plastics, and glass and computer parts. Everything is up for recycling. People are making money from paper recycling and metals. Everything is reusable. Some manufacturers are recycling fabrics. This is a win for the budget and monies earned can go back into the family budget.
Cooking From Scratch
The price of prepackaged food is expensive and not always good for your body. Cooking homemade items last longer is more filling and leaves food in your pantry. Foods you prepare are generally cheaper and encourages dinners at home, which saves on eating out. Cook whole pots of soup for a song and have enough to feed several people rather than paying for one bowl. Cooking from scratch is a great frugal habit. Make a smorgasbord of any food in the fridge one a week. This potluck idea will make a great dinner and stretch your food budget.
What does it mean to be frugal? Being frugal is finding every way possible to avoid waste. Cut your own grass, wash your car, clean your carpet, carpool, combine errands and keep your gas tank full. These are all practices of frugal people and great ways to save money year round. Many people save for vacations or plan for major purchases by choosing one thing they feel they are wasting money on and put it towards saving for something the really want to spend money on. If you apply any of these tips to your lifestyle, you know what it means to be frugal. Avoiding waste is a winner for the family budget and the environment.







CHAPTER 2- WHAT ARE THE ADVANTAGES OF BEING FRUGAL?
As mentioned in chapter 1, frugality is a lifestyle choice that can revolutionize your life. Some of the wealthiest people in the world achieved their wealth in part through careful saving. Not only does it make financial sense, but it can improve your life in surprising ways.

Slash Your Tax Liability
When you earn $50, each dollar is taxed. If you need more money, you can always work harder, but each additional dollar will be taxed. Why not try to save the money that has already been taxed?
Work Less
Work to live rather than live to work. When you aren't frugal, you are forced to spend more hours working. This means less time with your family and pursuing hobbies. Save time that is spent going to the store or having your possessions serviced.
Avoid Debt
You will be less tempted to tap into your credit when you are more frugal. By saving money, you can save credit cards for credit building and emergencies. By not having debt, you will not have to pay interest on your debt. The less money you have in your bank account, the more likely that you will overdraft your bank account in the event that there is an emergency.
Remain Anonymous
If you do not have to tap into your credit, you can rely on cash instead. Cash helps make you more anonymous because there is no record of who made the purchase.
Have Emergency Funds
When you spend beyond your means and there is an emergency, you will need to tap into your credit. If you need a fast loan, you may need a loan with a high interest rate.
Put Your Money to Work
Most possessions that you purchase will depreciate. Very few purchases are an investment unless you are certain that the item will be in-demand in the future. For example, collectible items may be a good investment, even if it is difficult to predict what value it will hold. But you can grow your wealth if you invest rather than spend.
Tip Your Hat to the Environment
Most purchases come with packaging that will inevitably end up in a landfill. Even if you only purchase recycled items, you are still harming the environment when your possessions must be transported in a way that consumes fossil fuels.
Less Clutter
Being more frugal helps you reduce clutter. Your possessions can begin to own you as you are forced to clean and maintain them. The more you own, the more challenging it becomes to find storage.
Save Money for Experiences
Experiences bring much more happiness than buying products. After you consume something, its memory fades with time. When you purchase something, it won't be long before you do not even notice it as it blends in with everything else you purchased. Spending money on experiences, such as a vacation or a concert, is more likely to contribute to your happiness.
Appreciate What You Have
By having many possessions, receiving one more will not have the same impact as if you have only a few. Your first collectible is more meaningful than your 300th. You will cultivate gratitude when you have what you need only.
Avoid Consumer Product Health Scares
Consumer health scares have become almost routine; each product could contain lead. An appliance fire hazard may later be revealed on the evening news. The less you have, the less you have to fear.
Feel Self-Reliant
Many possessions can only be repaired by specialists. For example, if you have a piano, you periodically need a specialist to tune it. The less you have the less help you need from others.
The Excitement of the Hunt
Some frugal individuals enjoy finding deals. With time, you'll become an expert at the best stores, apps and coupons that slash 80% off or are made out of materials that cost 30% less. Also, it's satisfying to see the results of being frugal. When you see your grocery bill slashed in half, it's as if you earned $50 for doing almost nothing.
Discover Hidden Talents
Frugality and D-I-Y go hand-in-hand. Anything you build will save some money. If you repair something yourself, you will save hundreds of dollars in repair costs. You may also shock yourself when you open up your computer and repair your broken hard drive or when you repair the broken cabinet door. These talents will also come in handy during emergencies.
Teach Your Kids
If you have children, bring them along on the frugality ride. You never know what the future economy has to hold. By instilling the value of frugality into your children, they will be less likely to spend beyond their means when they have less to spend.
Worry Less
By spending less and saving more, you have less to worry about. Do you think your job will be outsourced? More money in the bank account means more time you can spend getting back on your feet before having to tap into your credit.
Give More Away
Give more to the fortunate with the wealth you have accumulated. Use your freed up time to volunteer for charitable organizations. Also, you will have more to give away to your family when you pass on.
The best way to get started is to make small changes to your life. Work toward frugality by finding new ways to save money. Making one change a month will make this process easier because you will less likely slip into your old habits.







CHAPTER 3- HOW TO MAKE THE TRANSITION TO THE FRUGAL LIFESTYLE
The nation is in a stretch for jobs, money, and debt-free families, with all becoming scarce at an alarming rate. Day to day living can be hard, with thin paychecks, low hours, or the simple high cost of living today, and something as simple as living life the way you want it can become not only difficult, but condemning. Many may think transitioning their lifestyles to something more frugal, to save money, increase the quality of their lives, and of their families, can be a difficult or hassling one, decreasing their happiness. But with the right steps, that isn't the case. Living the frugal lifestyle can be easy, healthy, and better for everyone, saving you hundreds - even thousands - in the long run.

Start Coupon Clipping
Snip your way to a less costly grocery list with coupon after coupon. They're essentially free money, delivered weekly, if not even daily, through the mail. Coupons, silly as they may seem, serve a central point here, and as long as they're used before the expiration date, and in bulk every time you go grocery shopping, it'll be a breeze. You may have to change a few of your favorite brands by the week, as different coupons come out, but most don't have an issue, here.
Reduce the Number of Times You Eat Out
Yes, this includes fast food restaurants, even with their seemingly good deal of dollar menus. It's heavy on your gas bill, heavy on your paycheck, and heavy on your health. Yes, eating out is fun, and often a tasty, easy way to get food, but it simply isn't cost efficient, and can be harmful to your daily quality of living, especially when you need that money for other things, like errands, groceries, and bills.
Run Errands as a Group
Carpool with friends when you do errands, and reduce the weekly gas pool of everyone. Need to go to the grocery store, pile in the same van. Need to visit the Laundromat? Go with friends, and stave off that lonely, boring droll of waiting for your clothes to finish drying. Everyone benefits, from errands together, and it'll get you closer with your friends, as well, with that mass amount of bonding time left to the lot of you.
Pay Bills Online
Cut back on late fees by paying bills online, providing yourself with a reliable dedication to due dates and schedules available by many bank services today. By paying online, you not only eliminate the possibility of late fees, but you also eliminate the cost of gas to any town hall or postal store, and the cost of stamps, which is slowly and unnecessarily rising. It might be a small amount of money, but its needed money, and you're going to be getting away with spending it.
Use Homemade Cleaners
Don't buy chemical filled cleaners from your local grocery store, even if you have the coupon for them. Instead, save on your money, your health, and the environment by making your own, at home cleaners for house, objects, and even your own body. DIY house cleaning products are easy to make, and often even more efficient than the chemical loaded brands more readily available at any store. Homemade body products are also best, because not only are they cheap and customizable to anyone's possible smell preference, they can be devoid of possible allergens that other brands might contain.
Find Freebies
Freebies exist everywhere, and can save a ton of money through the internet, offers, and available stores. Most often online, many stores love to give out free samples of new products, allowing others to test their wares and fall in love. You can profit off this by using these free samples to your advantage, and also taking advantage of situations like free movie tickets, free theme park tickets available to be won in competitions, and more. Look into it, and you'll quickly be finding plenty.
Turn off the Lights
All children are taught the cost effectiveness of switching off the lights at an early age, but it's rarely a motto that sticks as they grow, falling off the band wagon about the time they get their own house, and start wandering through. But turning off any light when it isn't needed is a great and easy way to save fast, kicking your electric bill where it hurts the most.
Wash on the Cold Setting
Wash on cold and sever your heating and water bills. Hot water settings can damage clothes, anyway, and if they don't shrink, they'll either ruin, or the colors have a high chance of bleeding. Reduce these changes, and switch it to cold, keeping your clothes and your wallet safe.
Make Friends with your Local Library
Buying books from the store can get ridiculously expensive, even when purchased from bargain bins, or half price or resale locations. Why spend the money paying when it's entirely legal to find the same thing for free? Your local library has hundreds of usable books, often the ones you're looking for, and if they don't, it's entirely possible to order one from nearby.
Buy in Bulk
Especially along with the use of savings, sales, and coupons, buying in bulk is one of the most cost effective choices one can make, when it comes to purchases. When companies sell bulk items, it saves on both shipping and packaging, and also space, and thusly, the cost is drastically reduced to the amount of getting the same thing at a 100%, or even 200% bonus of the original price.







CHAPTER 4- HOW TO IMPLEMENT CLUTTER BUSTING ROUTINES
Having too much clutter in your house can make life stressful and unfulfilling. Just staring at the mountain of clutter in your house each day can cause you to procrastinate and will eventually lead to more clutter. If you are ready to take the steps to be clutter free than keep reading. We will go over some simple tips that you can easily incorporate into your daily routine that will help you get clutter free and be able to maintain it at the same time.
Create a Filing System
Having mountains of papers scattered throughout the house is a disaster waiting to happen. Paper clutter can cause you to lose bills and important notices. The first step to de-cluttering paper is to buy a filing cabinet that will fit the paper you have now with extra space for the paper to come. Also don't forget to buy filing folders and labels. After you buy the filing cabinet, folders and labels, you can begin separating the paper into different categories. While separating the paper, keep a recycling bin nearby so that unimportant paper and forms can be easily thrown away.
Create an Efficient Storage System
Excess books, music and media, arts and crafts can create endless clutter if everything doesn't have an "efficient" home. Multifunctional cabinets that look good and have plenty of room for loose items and storage bins are an ideal way to organize multiple items in a small space. Book cases that have deep shelving units can hold an array of storage bins. Make sure that different items are separated into different storage bins.
Create A Place for Toys
If you have kids than you more than likely have toys all over the place. Kids need a designated place for each toy and kid efficient storage options in order to maintain a clean and organized play space. There are many storage options for kids' toys which include toy bins, toy boxes and furniture and shelves that can be used as a kid's bookshelf or for storage bins. IKEA has a great selection of storage options for kids' rooms that are easy to personalize and inexpensive.
Free Yourself of Junk Mail
Advertisers seem to know that junk mail has a tendency to remain in houses for extended periods of time. Accumulating junk mail will not only achieve its purpose of getting you to purchase what is being advertised, it will also clutter your home. Unless the item that is being advertised is essential and on sale than it should be thrown in the recycling bin.
Remove the Kitchen Appliances from the Counters
Kitchen appliances take up extra space on the counters and can make cooking dinner a daunting task. Kitchen clutter can create stressful cooking experiences. Removing small kitchen appliances such as toaster, coffee makers and blender only takes a few seconds and allows you to take advantage of the extra space. Make sure you find a space that allows you to ensure that it will comfortably fit so it doesn't get damaged.
Clean the Dishes after Dinner
Leaving a pile of dirty dishes can create a foul smelling odor in the kitchen and create an unpleasant dining experience. Also it makes the morning routine challenging as there will be too much clutter in and around the kitchen sink. After dinner hand wash the dishes before relaxing in the evening. Hand washing dishes takes only a few minutes as the stains haven't had a chance to settle and harden. Waking up in the morning to a clean kitchen will also be noticeable.
Donate Clothing That Isn't Being Worn Anymore
Everyone has clothes that hang in the closet for no other reason than to collect dust. Taking 15 minutes to clean out a few outfits that you haven't worn regularly in a while will make more room in your closet and your other clothes will fit better. Donating clothes that you clean out of your closet will also make you feel better and give you the added motivation to do it again.
Organize Your Laundry
No one likes to do laundry which makes it easy to let it pile up and then not fold it right away. Doing your laundry step by step will prevent the dirty clothes pile from piling up, causing that foul odor that we all dread. Also doing smaller loads of laundry and then folding them and putting them away right away will keep the clutter to a minimum and give you more of a choice of what to wear.
Making the Kids Pick up Their Own Things
Kids need to be taught responsibility at an early age and they never seem to want to pick up after themselves. Instilling an early sense of responsibility for their belonging will last them for a life time. Creating an organized room for each child will help them to clean their space in little to no time. Making this a daily routine will also make cleaning more efficient and create a relaxing environment at the end of the day for everyone.
Creating de-cluttering routine will provide you with a more fulfilling life and create a sense of peace. Each member of the family can contribute to the routine. Small steps can lead to good results over time. Taking a small step to bust the clutter each and every day will help you to establish a clutter free space. Even the smallest member of the family can take part and help out.







CHAPTER 5- HOW TO DECLUTTER YOUR HOME
Sometimes we are all faced with such daunting tasks that we don't know where to begin. A home filled with clutter can be embarrassing and make you feel downright like a hoarder. That mess staring you in the face at home didn't get there overnight and it won't go away if you are just looking at it. It took months or years to accumulate the clutter around your home. But all is not lost as there are ways to get rid of the excess rubbish in your life.
You got to have a plan. Blindly wading into the disorder will only create frustration. The most important element of your plan is that it has to be doable. Accomplish your tasks in small chunks. Trying to tackle the whole kit and caboodle in one try you will leave you exhausted. A little each day is the best medicine.

Discombobulating the Bedroom
Getting started in the bedroom is a nice personal place to start. Set aside 15 or 20 minutes and choose a task you can accomplish in that time frame.
Pick a dresser drawer and pull it out. Go through the garments in there. If it's worn toss it and if it is still usable can it be donated? Use this process as you go through each drawer, under the bed, or when tackling the closet area.
What about jewelry or other items of value that you neither really want to keep but are too valuable to toss out? Consider selling those items on consignment or advertise them with an online seller like eBay.
One key element to not failing at ridding yourself of the piles of headaches is to make sure that you get rid of the junk or donations right away. Do not create new piles of junk that you only have to clean up later. Finish each task completely and do not move on to the next one until you are done. Setting yourself up for small successes gets you well on the way to getting rid of the junk that clogs your life and home.
Once you have finished working over your bedroom area consider solutions for keeping your closet organized from clutter. There are many closet organizing kits available in home improvement stores.
Chaos in the Kitchen
The kitchen is one of those places that drive you nuts. Years of accumulating gadgets, utensils, and spices will take their toll on your sanity. How many times have you brought home some cheap plastic cup from your local fast food joint and it ultimately made its way into your cabinet? The cheapskate in all us renders us vulnerable to collecting dumb things we really don't need or use.
Get into a cabinet each day. Maybe you have a wide-ranging selection of dinner plates and bowls. Narrow your collection down those matching items that you would use regularly for your family and occasional guests. As for the rest just haul it away down to the local thrift store.
How about that gadget and utensil drawer? That one is always a challenge. If you are like most people you have collected your fair share of spatulas, egg slicers, ice picks, and so on. The list of these kinds of items can go on forever. Consider carefully what you really need and get rid of the items you have not used in ages.
Consider keeping the refrigerator cleaned out once a month. Get rid of items that have expired. There is nothing worse that grabbing an old bottle of salad dressing and pouring it onto your salad only to have your olfactory senses overwhelmed by the stench of spoil. Toss out old freezer burned meat. Your freezer will be more efficient when it is not overloaded.
One area that is continual mess in the kitchen is countertops. Literally if a surface is horizontal you will probably find something that doesn't belong there. If you used the blender while preparing your latest meal, don't leave it there. Clean it up and put it away. Keeping your countertops clear will keep your sanity intact.
Bold Steps to a Sanitary Bathroom
Like your kitchen you want to keep your bathroom clean and sanitary. Go through the medicine cabinet and toss out items like old tubes of toothpaste. Keep the countertops clean and put away the hair dryer and curling iron. Furthermore keeping these electric powered items next to the sink is a recipe for an electrocution misfortune.
Keep the laundry hamper cleaned out and find time to do laundry once a day if at all possible. Why spend an entire weekend doing multiple loads of laundry when you can know it out in one or two small loads. Keeping the laundry done and your clothes folded and put away will greatly reduce a common household clutter problem.
Take a look around the shower area. Are you keeping a half dozen bottles of shampoo or soap in there? Do you really need three or four razors for shaving? Put away the excess items if they are serviceable. Only buy the toiletry items you need and replace them as needed to save storage space.
If you practice keeping clutter at bay on a regular basis you find that keeping it that way is a simple process. Don't wait until it piles up and you have to spend inordinate amounts of time cleaning up. Keep it small and you find that you are doing other things with your time besides cleaning your house.







CHAPTER 6- HOW TO DECLUTTER YOUR FINANCES
Many decades ago people could manage their money with a checkbook, passbook savings account, and notepad. There was a time people didn't have a credit card to use and keep track of, let alone multiple credit cards. Families did not manage investments in IRA accounts and 401(k) either, instead relying on pensions to take care of retirement years.
Without cable, cell phones, and the Internet, there were minimal monthly bills and fewer financial obligations to manage. People weren't bombarded with cable specials, phone discount packages, Internet specials and other e-mail offers. People didn't have to deal with multiple vehicles to insure, maintain flexible spending accounts, or establish lines of credit to get them to spend more than they have.
Nowadays, things are different and there are more financial choices available to people. With these choices and changing technology, it is not easy to manage your finances. However, by planning carefully and getting organized, you can take appropriate steps to save money, spend more wisely and simplify your financial life. Here are some tips to help declutter your finances.
Automate Savings
This allows you to have money from your checking account or paycheck automatically deposited into a brokerage account or high-interest savings account. Likewise, by joining your company's 401(k) plan, you automate retirement savings. When you have savings taken from your income or paycheck, you avoid the hassle of making the transfer yourself.
Automate Bill Payments
Setting up an automatic bill pay is one of the easiest steps to decluttering your finances. You can automate bill payments from a credit card or bank account. This will enable you to pay your bills without sending checks for each bill, and you will be able to avoid missing a payment. You can use this system to handle the payment of all your bills, including phone bill, utilities and mortgage.
Budget Less
It is true that budgeting is an essential aspect of sound money management, but people take it too far. Some try to manage every expense they incur. If that works well for you, go with it. Many people find it difficult to manage every penny they spend. That can be a burden to handle, so the simple way to handle this is to control those categories of items that cause you to spend excessively. Whether it's buying clothes, eating out, or buying the latest gadgets, budget only those categories of expenses that seem to tempt you to overspend.
Keep Business Expenses Separate
Business finances should not be mingled with personal finances. If you are a business owner, keep track of business expenses so as to simplify your financial life. Don't charge business expenses to your personal credit cards. When filing taxes, separating business and personal expenses can be a real headache. A simple way to do this is to get a business credit card. You can choose a business credit card that comes with no annual fee.
Consolidate Your Bills
Items like magazine and newspaper subscription bills alone can begin to take up much of your time after a while. When you add in items like the Internet, car insurance, cable, health insurance, utilities, homeowners insurance, property tax, lawn service, and mortgage bills, and things like phone, credit cards, bank statements, and similar items, you could be dealing with dozens of bills each month that you sort through.
Instead of subscribing to multiple services from different companies, you may want to get them from same company so you can save money and time. You can bundle your phone, Internet and cable service with the same company. These packages can save you money, and also make it easy to manage your monthly bills. By reducing the number of statements and bills you receive each month, you may be able to handle your finances more efficiently.
Diversify Your Investments
Managing investments can be a very complicated and time-consuming task. Some people enjoy investing and analyzing investment opportunities, and that's fine. If you are one of those who do not like to deal with all this, you can just choose a simple way to save money for your retirement years. Major mutual fund companies can offer you ways to invest retirement savings based on how many years you have until your retirement. The money is invested in stocks and bonds. When you invest in one mutual fund, your investment is instantly diversified and you get a sound asset allocation.
Use Technology Wisely
Using technology wisely can help you manage your finances. Technology can also consume a lot of your time if you allow it. These days there are many ways to handle money management, and these include free online solutions like computer software. The key is to choose one solution that is suitable for your particular situation and stick with it. Some people prefer a simple spreadsheet, but you can also check out many free and low-cost money management and budget tools out there.
Considerations
Decluttering your finances might not seem difficult to some people in the beginning. However, once you plan carefully and follow proven methods it can make a huge difference to your personal finances. By taking steps such as bundling cable, phone, and Internet services, requesting to be billed for certain services on a quarterly or bi-monthly basis, or just requesting online access to certain bills and bank statements, you could handle your bills more efficiently. With some planning, a few modifications, and some readjustments, you could find that managing your finances becomes more efficient and effective. These tips can make it easier for you to manage your financial life.







CHAPTER 7- HOW TO DECLUTTER YOUR PERSONAL LIFE
Our personal lives, at times, become a cluttered mess. Sometimes this occurs through no fault of our own, and when we least expect it. Each of us has our own definition of happiness, but it is unlikely clutter and worries make us happy. Each of us deal with these issues in our own way, and on our own time schedule. Some of us have may have an easier time at decluttering our lives than others. Below are some steps you may want to consider after deciding you want to put an end to such a mess.

Make a list of the aspects of your life you would like to declutter. Include an estimated timeframe of when you would like the issue solved. Hold yourself to the list, but be flexible. Stressing yourself out over an arbitrary timeline will do you no good. Below each item you want to take on, list the ways you are going to fix the issue. Write in bullet form in order to remain focused. Some items may take a week, some may take a year. The purpose of the list is to give a visualization of where you are going, and where you have been.
Establish a daily routine you can stick with. The routine should include average daily choirs and activates you can accomplish in order to not fall behind on your overall objective. There is nothing more frustrating than conquering one task, and then having another pop right back up. Your life is not a game of "whack a mole," stay vigilant on small tasks so they won't become big ones.
Start and maintain a healthy relationship with your finances. The only people who say "money does not buy happiness," are the ones who have plenty of money. Not all problems are rooted in money, but some are. Create a solid financial plan and live within your means. Easier said than done, but sacrificing financially today will pay off in the end. Take on a part time job, cut you entertainment expenses, and put off buying the latest trend. Pulling back on spending is truly a liberating accomplishment.
Dump bit players from your life who have no place in it. Again this is easier said than done. Bit players are those people who do not play a major role in our lives, but are in it to one degree or another. We all have people in our lives that do not particularly provide us any joy, comfort, stimulation, or any other verb you can think of. How many 'empty' friends do you have on Facebook or other social media? How many people do you see, each day or week who are just downright negative or annoying? Start avoiding them and their negativity. Cut them out, delete or ignore them on Facebook, tell them you need a break, do what it takes to remove yourself from their lives, and vice versa. Be civil in such matters; avoid the drama so you can rest easy.
If you have major players in your life who are cluttering or making a mess of things, have a heart to heart with them. Major players include parents, significant others, siblings and the like. It is not suggested you 'dump' these individuals, unless of course there are issues beyond the scope of this chapter in play. These individuals, if they care about you, will be a positive force in your commitment to declutter your life. They should help you, and at the very least not hold you back.
Fix those nagging chores you have been putting off. Have a basement that needs reorganizing or a room that needs to be painted? Completing small, to medium size, chores which have been on your plate will give you a sense of accomplishment. This feeling will transfer onto other items you need to take care of. Before you know it, you will be well on your way to finishing your list.
Make this day the day you decide to get healthy. We often fall into a spiral of things to do, places to go, and goals to accomplish. This spiral is usually so crowded with things to get done, we get weighed down. Setting yourself up for success may take self-encouragement. Self-encouragement may come in the form of losing 10 pounds over the course of three months. This does not mean you have to join a gym, lose 50 pounds, and stop eating your favorite foods. As with all of these suggestions, start slow. Perhaps you start by quitting smoking, or by cutting soda from your diet. These little encouragements with go a long way in boosting your confidence, drive and resolve.
Include items on your list which will make you happy. Perhaps this is the time in your life to change jobs or to move into a bigger apartment? Setting these achievable goals will not only make you happy, but will strengthen you commitment to other areas. If you cannot encourage or motivate yourself, than who can?
Perhaps the best way to declutter your life is to simply be aware your life is cluttered. People, in general, operate differently than others. What works for some, may not work for you. All of the above suggestion are for not, unless you realize your life is indeed cluttered. Find your balance, organize, and never stop trying to reach your goal. Decluttering your life can be compared to climbing Mt. Everest, you do it one step at a time.







ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Timothy Grey was not an excessive spendthrift but as things turned in the economy, he found that he was forced to cut back on his spending and modify some other parts of his lifestyle to remain sane and to ensure that he would not get further into debt. His colleagues started to call him frugal and he could not figure out why until he decided to find out what frugality really was.
Suffice it to say that he fell in love with the concept of being frugal and adopted even more practices from it. His book provides a layman's point of view of what it means to be frugal and shows how it can be achieved.







Minimalist Living for Peace of Mind
How to Appreciate the Simple Life
By: Patricia Foster
 







CHAPTER 1- STARTING AT NEW HOME WITH THE MINIMALIST LIFESTYLE
Moving into a previously owned home can be a bit jarring. You are now moving into a structure that absorbed the character of the previous owners. Depending on whom you purchased the home from, you will have a great deal of work to do before the home will feel like yours.

Be careful!
Many new home owners begin to list all the things they would like to alter in their newly acquired home. Not only is this expensive, it is mentally exhausting. Rather than take on the entire home, you need to prioritize. Here are some simple and relatively inexpensive things to do to make that home feel like yours in no time.
First and foremost, give the house a good top to bottom scrubbing. The previous homeowners may have been lovely people, but chances are good that the home was neglected a bit in the cleanliness department. Fixtures, floors, refrigerator, lint screens of dryers, stairs, and carpets should all get your tender loving care. Tiles in the kitchen may need some extra attention, particularly the grout.
Use a simple cleaner and add some non-chlorinated bleach alternative to warm water. Let it soak on your grout and then scrub with a brush. Wipe, dry, and repeat until that tile looks like new! Windows will need to wiped, carpets may have to be steamed, and floors will need to be mopped. It will take much energy and sweat, but the result will be a sparkling clean home - a clean palette on which you can then build upon.
Now that your home is clean, it is time to think about color. If you are moving furniture from your previous home into your new one, you already have something to work from. Take a good look around your home.
Now is the time to add a fresh coat of paint to truly claim the space. Nothing can freshen up a home like a new coat of paint. Choosing colors does not need to be too difficult either. Stay with your tastes and go with complimentary colors. Don't be afraid of bold color either.
A splash of color here and there will go a long way to add excitement and character to your home. Interested in adding a bit of warm energy in your kitchen? Try using a splash of vibrant red on an accent wall.
Would you like your bathroom to send cool waves of serenity? Try a tranquil shade of aqua blue. Regardless of your choices, once the home has been painted, you will feel more connected to it.
Of course, you will have to decide whether to do it yourself or hire painters. This boils down to comfort and cost and every new homeowner needs to decide which way to proceed. But it is certain that painting your home can be one of the fastest ways to claim your new living space.
Now that your home is clean and painted, it is time to add some accents. Adding a few air filtering plants is a wonderful way to add some nature and fresh air to your home. A throw pillow here and there can add some spice to your living room.
A well placed and color coordinated vase can add interest to an empty space. Personal photos on the mantle add a great touch of family and friends to your home.
These touches can be small, inexpensive, and easy but speak volumes about your personality and all those who live in your home. This part can be done relatively quickly. And the beauty of adding these touches is that you can change them over time.
By cleaning, painting, and accessorizing your newly purchased home, you will quickly claim your space, feel at home, and begin to enjoy living in your new abode. Whether you moved down the block or across the country, these quick and easy steps will glide you into your home for as many years as you desire.
 
 







CHAPTER 2- THE MINIMALIST DIET PLAN
Moving into a previously owned home can be a bit jarring. You are now moving into a structure that absorbed the character of the previous owners. Depending on whom you purchased the home from, you will have a great deal of work to do before the home will feel like yours. Be careful! Many new home owners begin to list all the things they would like to alter in their newly acquired home.
Not only is this expensive, it is mentally exhausting. Rather than take on the entire home, you need to prioritize. Here are some simple and relatively inexpensive things to do to make that home feel like yours in no time.
First and foremost, give the house a good top to bottom scrubbing. The previous homeowners may have been lovely people, but chances are good that the home was neglected a bit in the cleanliness department. Fixtures, floors, refrigerator, lint screens of dryers, stairs, and carpets should all get your tender loving care.
Tiles in the kitchen may need some extra attention, particularly the grout. Use a simple cleaner and add some non-chlorinated bleach alternative to warm water. Let it soak on your grout and then scrub with a brush.
Wipe, dry, and repeat until that tile looks like new! Windows will need to wiped, carpets may have to be steamed, and floors will need to be mopped. It will take much energy and sweat, but the result will be a sparkling clean home - a clean palette on which you can then build upon.
Now that your home is clean, it is time to think about color. If you are moving furniture from your previous home into your new one, you already have something to work from. Take a good look around your home. Now is the time to add a fresh coat of paint to truly claim the space.
Nothing can freshen up a home like a new coat of paint. Choosing colors does not need to be too difficult either. Stay with your tastes and go with complimentary colors. Don't be afraid of bold color either. A splash of color here and there will go a long way to add excitement and character to your home. Interested in adding a bit of warm energy in your kitchen?
Try using a splash of vibrant red on an accent wall. Would you like your bathroom to send cool waves of serenity? Try a tranquil shade of aqua blue. Regardless of your choices, once the home has been painted, you will feel more connected to it. Of course, you will have to decide whether to do it yourself or hire painters.
This boils down to comfort and cost and every new homeowner needs to decide which way to proceed. But it is certain that painting your home can be one of the fastest ways to claim your new living space.
Now that your home is clean and painted, it is time to add some accents. Adding a few air filtering plants is a wonderful way to add some nature and fresh air to your home. A throw pillow here and there can add some spice to your living room.
A well placed and color coordinated vase can add interest to an empty space. Personal photos on the mantle add a great touch of family and friends to your home.
These touches can be small, inexpensive, and easy but speak volumes about your personality and all those who live in your home. This part can be done relatively quickly. And the beauty of adding these touches is that you can change them over time.
By cleaning, painting, and accessorizing your newly purchased home, you will quickly claim your space, feel at home, and begin to enjoy living in your new abode. Whether you moved down the block or across the country, these quick and easy steps will glide you into your home for as many years as you desire.
 
 







CHAPTER 3- MAKING THE TRANSITION TO THE MINIMALIST LIFESTYLE
Everyone faces bumps in his or her financial road at some point in life, but today's unemployment statistics make it clear the financial bumps are as numerous as gopher holes on the prairie and shared by many. One big difference between those who will sink during economic upheavals and those who survive is that survivors are able to distinguish between "wants" and "needs." This ability allows them to restructure their lives and make prudent purchasing decisions.

The list of "needs" basic to human survival includes food, shelter, and clothing. Add "transportation" to that list, because most communities now are built with shopping or employment opportunities surrounding residential areas.
"Shelter" would include utilities; running water is essential, heat is a must in the Dakotas, Minnesota and New England, and air conditioning is necessary in places such as Texas or Arizona. Beyond these items, everything else is a "want." Cable television, high speed internet, smart phones, magazine and newspaper subscriptions and a membership to the gym or country club are luxuries. So is dining out, even if it's at Mickey D's.
When income is scarce and there is no relief in the immediate future, these nonessentials should be the first to go. Before the Blackberry, people survived using a basic landline telephone. Entertainment is available for free at the local library; most libraries lend movies, audio books, e-books and music in addition to books and magazines.
Even within the "need" category, there are options that are economical and options that demand more resources. For example, a filling, nutritious meal can be produced using ground beef and pasta as the primary ingredients.
The same meal comes in a variety of pre-packaged forms at nearly twice the cost of making it from scratch. Chicken, fish, beans and peanut butter are not only less expensive protein sources than are beef and pork, but they are healthier choices as well.
For the past ten years, nutritionists and physicians have been advocating a diet lower in animal protein; economics may make this a reality for more Americans, which may inadvertently lead to lower health care costs and a better quality of life later on.
For a low-cost treat, try baking cookies, making popcorn or whipping up some old-fashioned desserts like bread pudding, rice pudding or baked apples. "Scratch" cooking and baking aren't as difficult or as time consuming as some people imagine them to be, and the cost differences between "homemade" and "packaged" adds up to some nice savings over time.
Compulsive shoppers are the frugal clothes buyer's best friends. Look through any consignment store or Goodwill store, and designer labels that are in nearly mint-condition abound. Purchase a classic style rather than something that is "so-2011" and no one will know that it was purchased "gently used."
As for transportation, driving a beater (paid for with cash), taking the bus, riding a bicycle or walking may not enhance one's aura of "cool," but these options do allow a person to get out from under the oppression of a car loan.
Using public transportation, walking or biking also eliminates the need for auto insurance, and that can eliminate an expense of a few hundred dollars a month. In addition, walking or biking daily improves both physical and mental health; 45 minutes of regular, rhythmic movement daily reduces stress, tones muscles and burns calories.
De-stressing when economic pressures close in offsets the human tendency to self-medicate in other, more destructive, ways; during the past two years, alcohol and cigarette sales have risen.
Finally, expenses related to home ownership may be the largest monthly outlays in the budget. While it may be tempting to stop paying for insurance or be late with utility payments, doing so would invite disaster. Utility companies are the first to report late payments to credit bureaus, and going without homeowner's insurance may violate terms written into a mortgage.
Utility companies do try to accommodate hardship situations; if they are called before non-payment or late payments become an issue, they may allow deferred payments, develop a budget-billing plan, or make other arrangements so that there won't be a shutoff later. Some utility companies offer a variety of service plans with competitive rates that would be more suitable. Ask for the best plan for your situation.
Unemployment and other financial hardships are temporary situations so this list of lifestyle changes can also be temporary. However, if they are maintained when finances improve, a frugal lifestyle can transform what was a pay-check-to-pay-check existence into a wealth-building powerhouse life.
 
 







CHAPTER 4- SIMPLE FRUGAL AND MINIMALIST TACTICS
We are all well aware of the skyrocketing costs of living. Groceries, utilities, taxes and rent are all climbing. Saving money by updating and replacing inefficient appliances and home products can be costly. Many companies offer products that can save us thousands of dollars a year.
However, many of these products cost many thousands of dollars. For a lot of us, those funds are not available to invest in money saving improvements. There are still a number of ways that you can save significantly and make a real dent in the chasm between take home pay and monthly bills.
Laundry
Look at the way you care for the laundry and your family's habits. There may be ways to conserve energy and save yourself some work at the same time. Is it possible to wear an item more than once? Can the jeans worn on Tuesday be worn on Wednesday as well? Perhaps they can be rotated and worn on Thursday.
If an outfit is tried on and rejected, is it discarded on the floor only to end up in the laundry basket?
Are bathroom towels hung up to dry and used multiple times? How often are the bed sheets changed?
Extend the use of items between laundering to save money.
If you can reduce the number of loads of laundry you do each week, you have saved money on several fronts. The amount of water used for a load of laundry can vary greatly.
If you wash a full load, each load not done can save approx. 47 gallons of water. You are saving on the amount of laundry detergent and fabric softener used and the electricity or gas required to wash and dry those clothes.
Bathroom Activities
Consider installing water restrictor devices on your water faucets. Purchase heads for both showers and sink faucets at hardware stores and home improvement centers.
There are showerheads that use only 1.5-GPM, as opposed to a normal head that uses as much as 4-GPM. The starting price for this device is around $10.50.
This small investment is worth a lot in terms of annual savings. A standard 4- GPM bathroom sink faucet can be replaced with a low-flow model that uses only 1.5-GPM. This cost as little as $2.50, so it is a very affordable change you can make.
Have a timer in the bathroom to help the family reduce the time they spend in the shower. The five-minute challenge is fun for the kids and reminds adults not to linger.
A ten-minute shower using 4-GPM is 40 gallons of water; a five-minute shower using 4-GPM is 20 gallons. That same 5 minutes using a 1.5-GPM restrictor is only 7.5 gallons of water.
Add a water displacement device to your toilet. A toilet typically uses approximately four gallons of water for each flush. Rather than buying a device, use a half-gallon milk bottle. Fill part way with gravel for weight, then fill the remainder with water and cap it. Carefully place it in the toilet tank, making sure that it does not interfere with the flushing mechanism.
This will save one half gallon of water every time the toilet is flushed. The average person uses the toilet 5 times a day. For a family of five, that can be a savings of 350 gallons of water each month or over 4000 gallons annually. If your toilet leaks, replace the flapper with one that properly seals for under $2.00.
Teach the family to leave the water off when brushing teeth. Wet the brush, turn off the water, apply the toothpaste, and brush. When it is time to rinse, then turn on the faucet. This small act adds up to big savings, especially if the faucet has a low-flow adapter attached to it.
In The Kitchen
Make sure the dishwasher is full before running it. Do not load it with a few huge pans or skillets. Wash those by hand and fill the dishwasher with dinnerware and glasses. When you wash those oversized pots and pans, use one as a dish pan and do not let the water continue to run. Wash them all and then rinse them.
Add a low-flow water restrictor to your kitchen faucet. If your faucet uses 4-GPM, the restrictor will reduce that to as little as 1.5-GPM. If you peel your vegetables in the sink, rinse them with water and then turn off the faucet.
Do not run the water while peeling and cutting them. When they are all cut and peeled, rinse them all at one time.
Conserving water helps the environment and cuts utility costs. Families can make significant savings by developing new habits around the house.
None of these is difficult or expensive and is easily accomplished without special tools or mechanical knowledge. Frugal living is not deprivation. It is learning to live smarter and making the most of the resources available.
 
 







CHAPTER 5- BEING MINIMALIST AT THE OFFICE
Could your office's appearance be contributing to your work-related stress? Whether it's from mountains of clutter or a lack of natural light, how your workspace looks can impact how you feel when you're in it.
Working in a stressful space can make work a depressing and frustrating experience, leading to lower productivity and a lack of fulfillment in your career.
Improving the look of your office surroundings can take your workplace from stressful to serene in no time. Here are some tips to help you spruce up your space:

Find a place for everything. If you have files and paperwork strewn across the office or stacked on every possible surface, it's time to find a more sensible solution. Invest in some storage equipment to fill your needs.
Filing cabinets, in-boxes and shelving units can all go a long way in making your non-digital data more accessible. Start small if you're not sure how much equipment you need, but make baby steps towards a better-organized workplace.
Put everything in its place. As you acquire storage equipment, use it! Start cutting through the clutter and filing things in their appropriate places. The sooner you devise an organization system, the sooner it'll become second nature. Start now, before your mess gets even more out of hand. Once everything is filed away, your office will immediately look much more pleasant and manageable.
Keep it clean. Clutter isn't the only culprit dirtying up your office. Dirt, dust, and garbage may also be contributing to an uncomfortable work environment. Unless you plan on putting vermin on the payroll, take the time to keep your office clean.
Dust and disinfect regularly. Vacuum the carpet as well as any other fabrics in the office, such as padded cubicle walls. Deal with food garbage immediately. Resolve to never let your garbage can overflow again.
Play with color. Is your office done up in boring beige? Maybe a new color is what you need to spruce up your space. Bright, light colors such as baby blue and yellow have a calming and mood-enhancing effect. If you're unable to paint, add some colorful artwork or even just some interesting magazine clippings.
Tack up pictures that transport you to a happier place if that's what it takes, but make sure you have something pleasant to look at.
Rethink your floor plan. Does your office's layout make sense? If yours is the closest desk to the door but visitors have to walk around 4 other people to get to you, something's wrong.
Make sure that your office is accessible, both to employees and to potential visitors. A well-designed floor plan will make it much easier to navigate your workspace, eliminating one more source of unnecessary stress.
Let the sun shine in. If you rely solely on artificial lights, think about letting some real sun in. Natural sunlight is known to improve happiness, and the lack of it can cause serious psychological issues such as seasonal affective disorder (SAD).
If your office doesn't have enough windows for sufficient natural sunlight, try to adjust your current lighting to be more appealing. Try brighter light bulbs, or add task lighting if your office is too dim.
Go for comfort. Physical stress in the workplace is often due to uncomfortable working conditions. Take the time to adjust your chair for proper height and lumbar support. Make sure you're not straining to reach your keyboard or mouse.
Walk around the office regularly, or just get up to stretch. Reduce eye strain by adjusting your monitor's tilt and brightness, and by looking away from the screen every so often. Giving your eyes a break will help keep you from feeling drowsy or getting headaches from staring at the monitor for too long.
Provide nourishment. If you've got a break room full of takeout menus and junk-filled vending machines, think about the unhappiness that comes with a poor diet.
We often turn to poor food choices when we're feeling stressed, but eating poorly can also cause people additional stress and self-consciousness about their appearance. Take that stress out of the equation by stocking your lunch space with fresh, healthy foods. Replacing the junk food with fruit, nuts and whole grain foods will help keep your employees making choices they can be proud of.
Don't forget fun! If your workplace is boring 100% of the time, your employees will feel like they're wearing a backpack full of bricks. Let loose once in a while! Play upbeat music throughout the work day to help keep people moving.
Offer contests or incentives to honor and encourage outstanding work. Encourage casual Fridays or a more relaxed dress code. Find a way to help your employees relax without sacrificing the quality of their work.
By making your office an attractive, fun place to work, stress levels will go down while productivity goes up. Who says you can't love what you do for a living?
 
 







CHAPTER 6- FROM THE OFFICE TO THE HOME WITH MINIMALISM
If you feel a need to spruce up your bedroom, but don't think you have the money to do it, take heart: there are many inexpensive ways to make a room look better with just a little hard work and creativity. Below are several different options to consider. Mix and match the ones that fit your circumstances, and have a blast.
1) Rearrange the furniture. This is a fairly labour-intensive proposition, but it's also totally free; no need to buy new stuff, just rearrange what you already have for a completely new look. This step should only be done with the help of friends or spouse; don't try to do it on your own.
2) Change out the knick-knacks. Have you been looking at the same "dust collectors" on your shelves for years? It may be time to switch them out. Change them out with knick-knacks from another room if you don't want to get rid of them, or pass them along to someone else and find new ones at thrift stores and yard sales.
This can become expensive very quickly (five dollar items add up fast), but if you're careful, it doesn't have to be. Just set yourself a "yard sale budget" and stick to it carefully.
3) Change out the bedclothes. This can be as expensive as buying a completely new bedroom set, or as cheap as covering the bed with a sheet that complements your current pillowcases. Also, change your sheets once a week. Sleeping on fresh sheets goes a long way towards improving your outlook on life.
4) Grab a throw rug. You can buy one for the bedroom if you have plenty of money...but if you don't, find one somewhere else in your house and move it. (If you have friends who are getting rid of a good, usable throw rug, don't be ashamed to ask if you can have it.
Offer to exchange something you're getting rid of if you don't want to take without giving something in return.
5) Change the curtains. If you have some skill with sewing, you can make your own. Otherwise, consider purchasing them. If you buy simple curtains, they need not be expensive, and they can add a whole new look to a room.
6) Fresh flowers. If you have a garden, picking a few fresh flowers and putting them in vases can perk up a room no end. Don't buy flowers if you don't have them fresh, however; flowers in general are either free or incredibly expensive, and not worth buying.
7) Switch furniture with other rooms. Similar to switching out knick-knacks and throw rugs, sometimes just changing out a couple of pieces of furniture, such as chairs or small shelving units, with pieces from another room, can really make a difference in a room.
The same goes for lamps or desk lights; if you can move it, consider changing it out with something similar from a different room.
8) Clean up. Cheap but labour-intensive, DE cluttering can go a long way towards changing the feel of a room. Working fifteen or twenty minutes at a time, either find a home for each item in your room, or else get rid of it.
9) Add or remove a painting. Small but pretty prints can be purchased for as little as $10 or $15, or sometimes even as little as $5, and adding one to your room can improve the overall feel of the room.
Alternately, if you feel like your room is cluttered and crowded, you may want to consider removing any paintings you currently have on your walls.
Allowing a little empty space on your walls can keep you from feeling so overwhelmed all the time. If you tend to stress out over little things, try clearing off your walls. You might be surprised by how much it helps.
10) Finally, consider repainting your walls. This is perhaps the most expensive suggestion of all those listed here, and not something to rush into. Before painting your walls, try wiping them with a damp rag to remove any accumulated dirt (wipe a small and inconspicuous section first, to make sure the walls are washable!), and get any cobwebs out of the corners.
Sometimes this will add enough pep to the room that painting the walls won't be necessary. However, if your walls are very dirty, dingy, and stained or scuffed, it may be worth saving up and putting a single coat of the same color over the walls to freshen the room up.
Changing the color of the walls is much more difficult and more expensive, and doesn't really belong in an article on inexpensive decorating solutions. But adding a fresh coat of paint can make a huge difference.
 
 







CHAPTER 7- MINIMALISM FOR STUDENTS
Higher education is, unfortunately, expensive. Tuition, accommodation, books, and other expenses can quickly eat away at any student or parents' budget.
Luckily, there are ways in which to ease the financial burden that college and university may place on a person. Here are ten tips which every student should know to make things a bit easier on both the pocket and on the bank account.

1. Student surveys and experiments - Many colleges and university have vibrant psychology departments, where students are often paid for taking part in surveys and experiments. These experiments are extremely safe, as there are often stringent safety requirements that must be adhered to. Although the payment is usually relatively small, a couple hours of experiments per week can quickly add up into a decent amount of money.
2. Buy second hand items - There are certain items that can be bought second hand which will save students a huge amount of money. Many second hand books for courses will be available, allowing students to save massive amounts on expensive course materials. Many other items, such as chairs, desks or other furniture, can be bought in good condition second hand, both in local shops and stores or online.
3. Re Sell - On the flip side of the coin, students can easily sell items that they may no longer need. Books are usually only good for one semester, and when moving house students may choose to sell unwanted or unnecessary furniture. These articles can quickly turn into a goldmine due to the available market of future incoming students.
4. Ask about scholarship, bursaries and grants that the university offers - Often, due to academic performance or financial need, students may qualify for scholarships, bursaries or grants that they may not even know about.
These can represent either significant financial savings or direct payments which will assist in easing the financial squeeze. It is important to check with the school's relevant financial assistance department to see if the student qualifies for any sort of financial assistance or relief.
5. Student employment - Many schools have a wide variety of jobs available, from work in shops, computer labs, or secretarial type work. These schools will usually advertise these jobs to the students first on the inter-campus websites, allowing them first preference to these jobs, so it is important to keep up to date with these websites to know if and when any job postings may become available.
6. Student cards - Students generally are given discounts at a number of locations, both locally and further afield. Using a student card to save 5% or 10% on purchases will definitely add up in the long run.
7. Insurance - Having insurance is one not so obvious way to save money as a student. Insuring valuable, but necessary goods is a great way to prevent further expense in case they get damaged or stolen. This is especially true for electronic items such as laptops and mobile phones, which can be easily damaged and are also frequent targets for theft.
Having insurance ensures that in cases of unfortunate damage or loss, the student has a means of recovering the item without spending little or any extra.
8. Budget - Frequently, when students go to university is the first time that they are financially on their own. Tasks such as buying food, paying for groceries or rent are novel to them.
As a result, they do not have an idea of how much money to spend, and often end up finding themselves in deep trouble when their bank accounts run dry. Having a budget ensures that the student will be far more knowledgeable about the money being spent and earned, reducing the likelihood of financial issues.
9. Save - On those occasions where students actually have a surplus of funds, they regularly end up spending this money on disposable or unnecessary items. While there is need for recreational spending, a portion of any "extra" money should be put into a dedicated savings account for emergency purposes, rainy days, or just used as a start to good spending habits.
10. Smart Shopping - Simple tricks like buying budget brands instead of premium, or shopping at value supermarkets can easily save hundreds a year. It is a great idea to figure out what items are frequently purchased, and then compare these prices with other supermarkets in the area. The internet is also a fantastic resource, as many items can easily be compared and purchased online.
 
 







CHAPTER 8- TIPS FOR THE MINIMALIST TRAVELER
Family summer vacations are a tradition for many across the country, and stories of those trips are staples in the "What I Did on Summer Vacation" essays on the first day of school. But in these tough economic times, many families are making a hard realization; a vacation simply doesn't fit into the budget this year.
While for some this may seem like a harsh blow, not taking the family away on vacation doesn't have to cause misery or distress. In fact, it's possible to have just as much fun on a family "stay-cation" as on a trip away somewhere. Not to mention staying home can potentially save thousands of dollars for the average family. The trick to a successful "stay-cation" is this: be creative!
Among the most popular summer vacation destinations are beaches and water parks, where families can escape the summer heat in cool water and exciting attractions. But beach vacation rentals and water park admissions costs can be astronomical, especially for families of four and more.
For water-loving families, a home vacation can be fun for everyone without sacrificing any of the excitement water parks offer. Families who wish to build at home water parks need to do their homework; watch sale papers and ads for the very lowest prices on things like kiddie or inflatable pools, slip-n-slides, and sprinklers. After these are purchased at rock bottom prices, it's up to family creativity to find fun ways to put them all together. Handy family members can even build water attractions from PVC pipe, plumbing connectors and hoses. Though a family's water bill will go up while supporting these mini water parks, the cost is insignificant when compared to the expense of a beach or water park vacation.
For those families that aren't overly interested in water fun, "stay-cations," there are still options for fun at home. Summer is the perfect time to explore nature, and get to know the world around us with our families. But many families looking for a true "stay-cation" aren't looking to take an actual camping trip with all the preparation and supplies those excursions call for. Those families need fear not; it's easy to get the great outdoors experience for the whole family while staying right at home.
For this at-home vacation, families should use their own backyards, and the very least expensive camping gear available. A lightweight tent, a ground covering tarp, a few flashlights and sleeping pads or bags will be plenty to get any family through a home camping trip. The best part about a stay-at-home camping excursion?
All the conveniences of home are right there for a family to use, including indoor bathrooms and kitchens. Simply committing to spending the majority of a "stay-cation" outside, exploring the outdoors and stargazing, is enough to make this at-home vacation fun.
One of the great mysteries of the world is why so many people are so unfamiliar with the cities and town in which they live. Some people live their whole lives in a city or town and never experience all it has to offer. For families' intent on a summer "stay-cation," this can be a thing of the past. A great tip for anyone who wants to avoid expensive vacations but still have a great time exploring, is to explore all things local. Museums, art galleries, parks and zoos; even train depots, historical homes and posh restaurants are hometown destinations too many people overlook.
Often, area attractions will offer discounts for locals who can provide proof of residence, often with simply a driver's license. For even deeper discounts, "stay-cationers" can sign up for online coupon sites like Groupon. Not only is this a great way for families to save hard-earned money, it also offers the opportunity for anyone to get to know their hometown.
Family summer vacations are, of course, a well-loved tradition, and certainly will not fade away into the sunset anytime soon. But for families who need a less expensive alternative, nothing beats a family "stay-cation" for frugal fun and adventure. With a little creativity, and lots of good spirit, a stay-home vacation can provide just as much family fun as the most expensive vacation.
 
 







CHAPTER 9- BACK TO DECORATING YOUR MINIMALIST STYLE HOME
In today's economic climate many people are on tight budgets, making redecorating one of the last things on their to do lists. Expensive home decor and furnishings seem out of reach when energy and food costs are skyrocketing. However, with a little creativity and patience, it is possible to find quality decor to fit any budget.
Whether you want to completely redecorate your home or buy a few items, here are 5 ideas for finding great decor and furnishings on a tight budget.

1. Family and Friends: People will hold onto all sorts of things they don't need or want because of sentimental reasons. Your family and friends have probably abandoned all sorts of unwanted goodies in their attics and garages. So don't be shy, let everyone know you are looking for furniture and home accessories for a redecorating project. You may be surprised who jumps at the chance to give Grandma's antique picture frame or coffee table to a good home. With friends and family you may just get your furnishings at the best price. Free.
2. Estate Sales: These 2 to 3 day sale events are great resources for finding quality furniture and home goods that may otherwise be out of financial reach. There are many websites that list local estate sales that provide photographs, logistics, and merchandise details. This makes it easier to find estate sales that fit not just your budget, but your decorating tastes as well. The most popular pieces sell first, so if you want that mid-century buffet, be one of the first in the door. If you want the best prices, go to the sale on the last day because the merchandise is usually marked down 50% or more. Don't forget to carry cash, because many estate sales do not accept credit cards or checks. Even those that do, cash is still king and having it may give you the upper hand while negotiating.
3. Craigslist: This online bulletin board is one of the best resources available for redecorating on a budget. In the privacy of your own home you can search through a variety of furnishings until you find that one must-have piece, or you can search for a particular item within a specific price range. For the most part, sellers operate on a cash and carry basis, but some will even deliver larger items for a small fee. Craigslist is a great site to find brand name, vintage, and one of a kind home decor.
4. Free cycling and Swapping: Many neighborhoods now have online groups and bulletin boards dedicated to swapping and free cycling. For instance, if you have a desk taking up valuable space, but need a decent bookcase, swapping is the perfect solution. Swapping is becoming increasingly popular making it easier to swap for top of the line items.
If swapping is not for you, research community bulletin boards like free cycle, where you can pick-up anything from a crystal punch bowl to brand new rolls of wallpaper. However, you have to be quick, claiming these items are on a first come first serve basis.
5. Going out of Business Sales: Unfortunately many home furnishing stores and design shops are either going out of business or closing low-performing stores. Going out of business sales give you the opportunity to purchase name brand and high-end home goods at deeply discounted prices.
To make as much money as possible, these stores usually discount their merchandise gradually over the course of a few months. If you can, wait until the final two or three weeks of the sale to take advantage of the final price slashing.
Not only can you get brand new furnishings and decor at a fraction of their original cost, you can also get floor models, samples, and display-only items for unbelievably cheap.
You do not have to sacrifice design or quality when shopping for home decor and furnishings on a tight budget. With a little time and research it is possible to get great things at great prices. So go ahead, put redecorating back at the top of your to do list.
 
 







ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Patricia Foster is a true believer in the tenets of minimalism. She was once living in a world where she had to have more than she needed to feel as if she was achieving some goal or was using her earnings to show how much she had. She had the gaudiest house and the fanciest car she could afford.
One day she simply came to the realization that she really was stressing herself out more than anything else when she opted to put herself in debt to get all of these things.
This is what led Patricia to change and this is what led her to share her journey with others and show them that nothing is wrong with minimalism.



