




 
Galaxy S6 Guide
 
Galaxy S6 User Manual











Free Bonus: Get My Latest Kindle E-Book for Free
As a "Thank You" for downloading, and reading my book I would like to give you full access to a service that will e-mail you my latest kindle e-books for FREE. You will have access to all my latest titles before they get marked at the normal retail. This is no strings attached offer simply for being a great customer.












Copyright2015 by SS Publishing
All rights reserved. This book or any portion thereof may not be reproduced or used in any manner whatsoever with the express written permission of the publisher except for the use of brief quotations in a book review










Contents

Introduction
Chapter 1             The Samsung Galaxy S Series
Chapter 2             The Samsung Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge
Chapter 3             Samsung Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge Specifications
Chapter 4             Additional Information for S6 Owners and Potential Owners
Will You Review My Book?
Other Recommendations
Free Bonus: Get My Latest Kindle E-Book for Free










Introduction
 
I want to thank you and congratulate you for downloading the book, "Galaxy S6 Guide: Galaxy S6 User Manual".
This book contains instructions on how to operate a Samsung Galaxy S6 for first time users.
This book tackles on the software upgrades as well the hardware specifications of the Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge. The explanations are done as simple as possible so that everyone, even those who are not familiar with the numerical values of hardware specifications can appreciate the upgrades.
Thanks again for downloading this book, I hope you enjoy it!











Chapter 1              The Samsung Galaxy S Series
Smart phones have altered the lifestyle of several people. To put it bluntly, smart phones have become an integral part to the lives of millions of human beings. Around major as well as small cities, it is impossible not to find someone holding a smart phone.
Children, teens, young adults and those who are young at heart own a smart phone sometimes, two or more!
The surge of the popularity of these new wave of devices can be traced back in the early 2000s. From simple devices that allowed messaging, calls and multimedia functions (such as image capture and music players) it turned into Internet ready and capable devices with capabilities almost similar to desktop computers. Some of the most advanced devices can even take on the basic capacities of notebooks.
As of the beginning of the millennium, everything has become accessible at the tip of the fingers: banking transactions, work (through the aid of productivity tools such as office suite applications) and leisure (browsing the World Wide Web, usage of social media applications, listening to music, watching videos and many more). All of these have been properly integrated within the smart phone environment with quirky innovations and additions every few months.
This several billions of dollars industry has several major key players and among these them is Samsung. The competition is always fierce because of the over saturation of the market.
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd is one of the largest manufacturers of smart phones within the industry. The company is a subsidiary of Samsung Group and offers several smart phones and mobile phone devices to the different market tiers.
Among the devices that are offered by Samsung are the Galaxy devices which run on the Android operating system. The flagship products of the high-end spectrum of the Galaxy series are the Galaxy S devices. Since its initial market release, they have taken the world by storm.
The first Samsung Galaxy S device was released last 2010 and from then on, a Galaxy S smart phone was released every year.
For each Galaxy S smart phone, there are usually several variants. The different releases from the flagship models gives chance to the different individuals from varying market strata to be able to get a Galaxy S experience. Certain telecommunication companies are also allowed to make changes with the devices before selling them to the consumers.
The following paragraphs gives a quick run through on the different Samsung Galaxy S devices and how well they did within their target markets. The variants usually possess the same capabilities as the original release but there are some changes to accommodate the price range of the target market.
With the Samsung Galaxy S, the variants are as follows:
Duos 2 S7582
The i9000 (Released last June 2010)
Advance i9070
Plus i9001
Duos S7562

As of the first quarter of 2013, there are more than 24 million units that have been shipped.
The original Samsung Galaxy S was met with great acclaim. Critics have given positive reviews positing that the smart phone was at-par with the current Android-operated device models as well as with Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4. Since then, Samsung Galaxy S devices became part of the fierce competition within the smart phone industry.             
With the Samsung Galaxy S II, the variants are as follows:
i9210 HD LTE
The i9100 (Released last April 2011)
The SII Plus i9105
The i9100G
 
As of the first quarter of 2013, there are more than 40 million units that have been shipped.
The Galaxy SII was heralded as 2012's smart phone of the Year Award by the Mobile World Congress' Global Mobile Award. Most reviewers of the Galaxy SII gave it a near perfect and perfect scores, stating that the SII has become a benchmark for the other smart phones in the market. There were negative criticisms towards the plastic body but performance wise, the Galaxy S II was outperforming the other devices that were out in the market. This is one of the Galaxy S devices that has received critical acclaim with the other being the successor, Galaxy S III.
With the Samsung Galaxy SII, the variants are as follow:
The i9300 (Released last May 2012)
Mini VE i8200
i9305
Neo i9300i
Mini i8190
Neo i9301i
Slim G3812B
 
Currently, the S III has the most number of model variants. Also, the model has more than 50 million units shipped and can be assumed as the most successful among the rest of the line-up, in terms of shipments.
The Samsung Galaxy S III has been highly praised by several critics. Natasha Lomas, from CBET UK, has said that the Galaxy S III is the Ferrari of Android phones. Dave Oliver, from Wired UK, said that the device is a Prince among Android phones while Esat Dedezade from Stuff magazine said that the device is the King. It can be seen by the kudos and high approval of the public and critics that the Samsung Galaxy SIII has become an unparalleled force.
The next follow-up of the critically-acclaimed devices is the Galaxy S4 with the variants:
Zoom SM-c101
The i905 and i9500 (Released last April 2013)
Active i9295
Mini i9190
 
The Samsung Galaxy S4 has met with mostly positive reviews and within its first 6 months of release, the device has had 40 million units sold. The chief complaint with this release was the presence of bloat ware that could not be removed.
The Samsung Galaxy S Mini has also been carried over from the previous generation and as well as to the next.
The Galaxy S5 has the following variants:
Active SM-G870A
SM-G900F and SM-G900H(Released last April 2015)
Mini SM-G800F
LTE-A
 
The Samsung Galaxy S5, unlike its predecessors, have received mixed reviews. The sales of the device was 40% lower than the Galaxy S4's. There were praises at the improved display of the Galaxy S5. However, there were criticisms that the camera of the Galaxy S5 did not make much of an improvement and took terrible images under low lighting. In a nutshell, the S5 was swimming across troubled waters.
In the past year, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd might have been on the rocky road but the company is revitalizing the Galaxy S series of smart phones with the incoming addition.
With the unveiling of the latest Galaxy S devices revealed the Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge. These new additions to the Galaxy S line of smart phones are meant to bring back the glory of that Samsung basked during their S III generation. As of the date, the Galaxy S6 models are currently met with positive reviews for the innovations that Samsung has implemented.
These technological updates and upgrades will be discussed in the next chapter.
So in this chapter, the various line-up of the Samsung Galaxy S smart phone line-ups were briefly discussed. The Samsung Galaxy S devices are at the pricier end of the smart phone spectrum because of its higher-end technologies that are incorporated.











Chapter 2              The Samsung Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge
"The Next is Now" - Galaxy S6 slogan
 
The earliest rumors for the new Samsung Galaxy device started last January 2015. The gossip mill within the World Wide Web was rampant with the upcoming successor of the Galaxy S5.
Most of the hushed whispers and speculations were about the curved edge of the upcoming S6 as well as the shift to Samsung's native chipset, the Exynos, rather than the usual Snapdragon Qualcomm. There were also photo leaks and by the time of the pre-release, the rumors were no longer such. Aside from the curved edge which was one of the two releases, there was the usual candy bar smart phone variant, the Galaxy S6. The Galaxy S6 Edge's curved screen does not dramatically shift like the Note Edge's and instead of only having one edged side as with the latter model, it has both left and right sides in a curve.
The unveiling was last March 1, 2015 at the Mobile World Congress. The event was held in Spain and Samsung Electronics event, Samsung Unpacked. Those who were part of the event had a chance to test out the new family member of the Galaxy S line up. It was then officially revealed that the next in line for the Samsung Galaxy S series are the Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge. Although it was not much of a surprise by then. As per reports, these devices are already shipped with the latest Android version which is 5.0, Android Lollipop.
Aside from the partnership with Goggle which means the usual pre-loaded applications such as the Play Store, Goggle Play Music and Goggle Chrome, Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge have pre-loaded Microsoft applications such as Skype and One Drive. Samsung is giving free 115 GB worth of storage with the Microsoft One Drive cloud storage for two years. This free storage can compensate greatly for the lack of external memory expansion slot.
The staple, TouchWiz, Samsung Electronics' proprietary User Interface (UI), will run on top of Lollipop. However, unlike the predecessors which contained several bloat ware and unwanted applications, the current TouchWiz has been streamlined. The UI has also been simplified and it looks more or less similar to the stock Android. The sleek and smooth upgrade of TouchWiz is a great step on the part of Samsung and the public's reception towards it is more than appreciative of this.
As of today, these new flagship models of Samsung are receiving positive reviews. Why is that? The S6 models, as mentioned, are successors to the previous Galaxy S5 and retain the tradition of bar styled multi-touch screen interface, yet the excitement was palpable.
Despite the traditional physical appearance and functionality, Samsung is giving the new devices a fresh look.
Samsung Electronics has made a move to veer away from their usual plastic physical make-up and opted from a matte aluminum alloy frame. The move to metallic frames of Samsung is not new. This started with the Galaxy Note 4 and the Galaxy S series, a mid-range brand of smart phones. The Corning Gorilla Glass 4 is also implemented on the front and the back of the Galaxy S6 models. The new physical appearance gives a pleasing aesthetic value to the device. This change was highly praised by the early critics of the device. Samsung is setting the bar of having both front and back portions of smart phones be protected against scratches through the implementation of the Corning Gorilla Glass technology.
The Galaxy S6 models are being equipped with the capacity for wireless charging and as well as fast charging. These changes are deemed as a significant move because it allows for the wireless charging of the mobile devices to be possible and more efficient due to the predominantly glass facets of the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge. The company claims that it will only take one and a half hour to fully charge the device from 0 to 100. Samsung has said that they are also selling their own brand of wireless chargers but the Galaxy S6 wireless charging ability will also work with other brands of wireless chargers. They are compliant to the wireless charging standards of Qi and Matter Powers Alliance. This ensures consumers that the wireless charging of the Galaxy S6 models are state of the art and stable.
In line with the Samsung devices wireless charging, there are news that the company is teaming up with IKEA to integrate into furniture the capacity for wireless charging.
These new implementations are not only the latest additions. According to Samsung, the company has raised the bar of the quality of the cameras of the new models.
The new back or rear-facing camera is said to perform better under low lighting conditions compared to the rear-facing camera of the S5. The rear-facing camera is at 16 MP and has similar specifications with the Galaxy Note 4. The camera is accompanied by a LED flash.  The front camera also receives an upgrade and a nice one too. From the usual 2 MP front cameras of the Galaxy S smart phones, the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge's front camera gets a 5 MP bump. To date, this is one of the highest MP available for front cameras within its competitors.
The back-end camera of the Galaxy S6 has similar image sensor as the Galaxy note 4, meaning that it has a built-in optical image stabilization. The real-time HDR is also present. The camera also has auto focus on object tracking and with the aid of the infrared that is responsible for the heart rate sensor, there is white balance calibration integrated. Those who have a shaky grip will no longer worry because the Galaxy S6 Edge also has the same capabilities. Samsung claims that the camera upgrades will allow for a better low-light performance.
Another noteworthy upgrade is the inclusion of Samsung Pay. Last February 2015, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd was able to acquire LoopPay. Through the acquisition, Samsung integrated the mobile payments system that was developed from LoopPay's intellectual property. Samsung Pay works with at least 90% of the point-of-sale units within the United States. According to LoopPay, the mobile payment system that they have developed has workarounds to the limitations of the other mobile payment systems. This means that LoopPay's development team has made significant improvements within the mobile payments systems.
Samsung Pay will make the device work as if it was a credit or debit card that was swiped through the pay terminal's slot. The Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge will emit an electromagnetic field that will act as a conduit for the transaction. The technology behind this is called Magnetic Secure Transmission, the intellectual property of LoopPay.
Aside from this, mobile payments done through Near Field Communication (NFC) is also supported. The Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge are trailblazers among the Samsung mobile devices for this type of upgrade.
Owners of these new models will not have to worry about credit card theft because the information is stored in an isolated and secure token. Also, payments need to authenticate via the fingerprint scan to make any transaction valid.
This brings us to another upgrade of the S6 models - fingerprint scanner. There have been positive remarks about the Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge's fingerprint scanner According to one critic, Anandtech, Samsung's fingerprint scanner is on par with Apple's Touch ID system. Instead of a swipe-style fingerprint scan which was in the Galaxy S5, the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge have a touch-based fingerprint scan.
Aside from the initial positive reaction, there have also been concerns that were raised. The common worry was the lack of memory expansion slot. Unlike the predecessors of the Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge, the current set of devices has removed this particular function. According to Samsung, the lack of a memory expansion slot is to allow for better performance and speed of the devices. The new addition to the Galaxy S line also does not have a removable battery.
In response to the lack of an expandable memory slot, Samsung Electronics is offering three different internal memory storage capacities:  32 GB, 64 GB and 128 GB.
Along with those mentioned, these new S6 models are compatible with the Gear VR, Samsung's virtual reality headset. The Gear VR was originally set to work for the Galaxy Note 4 but the new Gear VR, which is being rebranded into Gear VR Innovator Edition for Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge.
In this chapter, the upgrades and new inclusions that were incorporated to the S6 models were discussed. There were improvements to the older hardware components as well changes to the infrastructure of the device. Unlike the other members of the Galaxy S line, the S6 and S6 Edge were built from ground up, discarding the plastic frame for which Samsung phones were well-known for.
The new members of the Galaxy S series of smart phones are eliciting positive responses from the public and to some, this device could be, as stated in the previous chapter, bring back the Galaxy S devices into the top list of smart phones. The specifications of the S6 models will be shortly discussed in greater detail.











Chapter 3              Samsung Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge Specifications
We previously tackled on the innovations that were implemented by Samsung Electronics into the Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge. In this chapter, the hardware specifications of the device will be discussed.
These S6 models utilize a nano SIM card compartment and is LTE ready. The standard inclusions of a WiFi and Bluetooth ready device is also present.
As is with the other Galaxy S devices, the S6models have the usual home button at the facade of the device while the power and volume buttons are at the side. However the placement of the SIM card slots vary between the two devices. For the Galaxy S6, the nano SIM card slot can be found at the side while for Galaxy S6 Edge, it can be found at the upper portion.
The S6 models sport a bigger size than any of its predecessors. It has a screen size of 5.1 inches and the screen display of keeps up with the longstanding use of the Super AMOLED. It has a screen resolution of 1440 x 2560 pixels with a density of 577 ppi. This means that the screen has a more vibrant color and critics have said that this currently one of the best screen display resolutions in the market.
To those who have previously owned any of Samsung's high-tiered smart phones, the display screen utilizes Super AMOLED. To those who are new to this term, Super AMOLED was developed by Samsung to address the problem of AMOLED displays which cannot be seen or difficult to see when under the sunlight.
Super AMOLED is a marketing term by Samsung that differentiates this AMOLED display from others. The company has said that the Super AMOLED has a digitizer which means that the touch detection has been integrated into the screen instead of having it on top of the screen. The Super AMOLED also reflects one-fifth of the sunlight and the gaps between the layers of screens are minimized. Hence, as mentioned, this make it easier to look at the display when under the sun.
Unlike the previous North American releases of the Galaxy S smart phones that utilized the chipset, Qualcomm Snapdragon, the Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge are using the Samsung Exynos chipset. The company said that the decision to use their in-house chipset was due to the Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 overheating while being run compared to the Samsung Exynos chipset. Also, the company also opted in favor of the usage of Samsung Exynos for the new Galaxy S smart phones because it can accommodate the upgrades better.
The S6 series has an octa-core CPU running with four 1.5 GHz Cortex-A53 and four 2.1 GHz Cortex-A57 and equipped with a RAM of 3.0 GB. These numbers mean that the devices are able to run effectively even if several applications are run together. For those who are into mobile gaming, this device has promising hardware specifications. Also for those who are heavy phone users, the device can still have a smooth run for prolonged usage.
Going outside of the inner parameters of the S6 models, both devices are similar in size. The S6 Edge (5.6 x 2.8 x 0.28 inches) is infinitesimally bigger than the S6 (5.6 x 2.8 x 0.27 inches) but it is lighter weighing only 4.6 ounces (132 grams) compared to 4.9 ounces (138 grams).  These values might seem insignificant; Samsung Electronics has said that they are trying to emulate the devices being as close to each other.
There are also differences with the batteries. The S6 has 2,550 mAh while the S6 Edge has 2,660 mAh. These values are smaller than the Galaxy S5 but there are new implementations within the system, particularly the chipset and the lowered values could imply better battery efficiency.
Although the two S6 models are priding themselves with the wireless charging capacity, the devices can still be charged the old fashion way through a USB 2.0 port which can be used to attach the cord to an adapter. The downgrade from Galaxy S5's USB 3.0 port was implemented by Samsung to ensure better performance and speed of the device. Also, there is lack of the IP6 certified waterproofing is not present with the new S6 models.
To reiterate, the downgrades and changes enforced by Samsung to the new line of devices is to improve the S6 and S6 Edge's overall performance and give the consumers best experience with their devices.
In this chapter, the discussion was focused on the specifications, more on the hardware side of the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge. To an ordinary consumer, these numbers might just be some mambo jumbo but it was placed here to show that Samsung has ante what they were previously known for: an external memory expansion slot as well as removable battery, for a powerful internal system dedicated to performance and speed.
All of the basic components of a smart phone are present with the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge: WiFi ready, Bluetooth capable, a native Email client, HTML Internet browser, media playback and everything else. As well as the S Health, S Voice and other integral applications of the Galaxy S devices are incorporated.
The upgrades that Samsung applied focused on the overall aesthetic value making the S6 and S6 Edge look like next generation devices and in line to predominantly glass facet, an efficient wireless charging ability; the camera for better low lighting capture; introduction of Samsung Pay and system changes such as the usage of the Exynos chip sets.
The S6 models are setting a new bar within the smart phone industry. In general, Samsung is leveling up the competition with the introduction of their new flagship product.











Chapter 4              Additional Information for S6 Owners and Potential Owners
Navigating through the Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge is no different from other smart phones. However, these new models offer a fresh take to the Galaxy S devices. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd is fusing together the best of their technology and aptly innovating them into their devices. Changes have been present from the physical appearance, down to the tiniest parts of the smart phone.
Quoting from the first chapter, "smart phones have become integral part to the lives of millions of human beings." Before, cellular phones were used primarily for communication through text messages and calls. Today, these cellular phones, aptly named smart phones, are able to do what a desktop computer could do and much more.
Recent utilities inside smart phones have the capacity to detect physiological changes such as heartbeats. Health related applications are also in constant development these days; these capabilities alone, surpass what a desktop computer does.
The growth of the capabilities of the smart phone devices are exponential. Perhaps back in the 1900s the technological innovations that are present now were envisioned but not yet deemed as probable, much more, possible.
However, by 2000s, a technological revolution has arrived. Mobile phones were able to access the Internet, take on multimedia functions such as image capture and video and music playback. These activities were done before with digital cameras and specialized players, respectively.
The introduction of the first generation iPhone last 2007 has made an endless horizon of technological revolutions. It paved way to a new wave of mobile phones. Smart phones became a different class of mobile phones all together.
Bringing another revolution to the field of technology is the wireless charging efficiency that is introduced by Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge along with the compelling specifications. These models are still at their early stages of introduction to the market.
Later into the year, there could be other variants that will return the integration of waterproofing and other applications that will maximize the hardware capacity of the S6 models.
Another noteworthy aspect of the growth of the smart phones is its relationship with virtual reality. Smart phones and virtual reality are slowly moving hand in hand. Most likely, there will be more applications that will complement the Gear VR Innovator Edition for Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge.
Owners of these S6 models will most likely receive periodic updates from Samsung for further optimization as it is normal for manufacturers.
If you are planning on buying your first smart phone or upgrading from an old model to a new one, consider either of the Galaxy S6 or S6 Edge. These devices are promising additions to the Android-run devices and smart phones in general.
In totality, the book has discussed the briefly the various models of the Galaxy S line of smart phones, a simplified explanations on the upgrades and downgrades done by Samsung to their S6 and S6 Edge as well as the hardware specifications of the devices. Samsung Electronics has done trade-offs in favor of attaining a competitive advantage over the other smart phone manufacturers.










Will You Review My Book?

Thank you again for downloading this book! 
I hope this book was able to help you with navigating through, understanding and appreciating the Galaxy S6 models.
Aside from the physical appearance, the system changes may not be immediately felt after several hours or days of usage to allow comparison. There could be some resistance to major changes such as lack of microSD slot and a removable battery option but Samsung has remedied these through a free 115 GB cloud storage and a fast charging capacity of the devices.
There are pros and cons for every device because, as of now, there is no such thing as a perfect device or this is the one device that can surmount the others. There are currently only devices that can do better than the other or has this particular capacity that the other does not.
The next step is to apply what you have read and check it out for you to decide whether the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge truly live up to the initial hype and positive criticisms the models were enjoying.
 
I hope you liked this book and that you will get as much pleasure from reading it as I've gotten from writing it; it really was a labor of love. I'd like to ask you for a favor, would you be kind enough to leave a review for this book on Amazon? It'd be greatly appreciated!
Simply click on "Write a Customer Review" in the image below

Thank you and good luck!










Other Recommendations
Below you'll find some of other popular books that are popular on Amazon and Kindle as well.  Simply click on the images below to check them out. 


 
If the links do not work, for whatever reason, you can simply search for these titles on the Amazon website to find them.











Free Bonus: Get My Latest Kindle E-Book for Free
As a "Thank You" for downloading, and reading my book I would like to give you full access to a service that will e-mail you my latest kindle e-books for FREE. You will have access to all my latest titles before they get marked at the normal retail. This is no strings attached offer simply for being a great customer.

















