




Ken Binmore
Game Theory
A Very Short Introduction









 
Contents


List of
  illustrations xiii


1


The name
  of the game 1


2


Chance 22


3


Time 36


4


Conventions
  57


5


Reciprocity
  71


6


Information
  88


7


Auctions 102


8


Evolutionary
  biology 117


9


Bargaining
  and coalitions 140


10 Puzzles and paradoxes 158



References
  and further reading 175



Index 181

 








 
List of
illustrations
1 
  Matching Pennies 4
2 
  Payofftables 5
3 
  Numerical payoffs 10
4 
  Games with mixed motivations 11
5 
  James Dean 12
6 
  John Nash 13
7 
  Two versions of the Prisoner's Dilemma 18
8 
  Rolling dice 24
9 
  Learning to play an equilibrium 28
10  Two
board games 39
11 
 Kidnap 44
12 
 Cosy Kidnap 46
13 
 Ultimatum Minigame 49
14 
 Evolutionary adjustment in the Ultimatum Minigame 50
15 
Simplified Chain Store paradox 53
16 
 David Hume 61
17 
Schelling's Solitaire 63
18 
 Stag Hunt Game 69
19 
 Reciprocal grooming by chimps 74
20  The
folk theorem 77
21 
 Information sets for Matching Pennies 89
22 
Full house 90
23  Maximin play in
Von Neumann's Poker model 91
24  Von Neumann's
model 93
25  Payoff table for
Von Neumann's Poker model 94
26  Incomplete
information in Chicken 96
27  The Judgement of
Solomon 105
28  Going, Going,
Gone! 108
29  Replicator
dynamics in the Hawk-Dove Game 126
30  Relatives play
the Prisoner's Dilemma 131
31  Vampire bat 135
32 
Hawk-Dove-Retaliator Game 137
33  The Nash
bargaining solution 144
34  Transparent
disposition fallacy 163
35  Two attempts to
satisfy Newcomb's requirements 165
36  Three midwestern
ladies 168
37  Monty Hall Game 173








 
Chapter 1
The name
of the game
What is game
theory about?
When my wife
was away for the day at a pleasant little conference in Tuscany, three young
women invited me to share their table for lunch. As I sat down, one of them
said in a sultry voice, 'Teach us how to play the game of love', but it turned
out that all they wanted was advice on how to manage Italian boyfriends. I
still think they were wrong to reject my strategic recommendations, but they
were right on the nail in taking for granted that courting is one of the many
different kinds of game we play in real life.
Drivers
manoeuvring in heavy traffic are playing a driving game. Bargain-hunters
bidding on eBay are playing an auctioning game. A firm and a union negotiating
next year's wage are playing a bargaining game. When opposing candidates choose
their platform in an election, they are playing a political game. The owner of
a grocery store deciding today's price for corn flakes is playing an economic
game. In brief, a game is being played whenever human beings interact.
Antony and
Cleopatra played the courting game on a grand scale. Bill Gates made himself
immensely rich by playing the computer software game. Adolf Hitler and Josef
Stalin played a game that killed off a substantial fraction of the world's
population. Kruschev and Kennedy played a game during
the Cuban missile crisis that might have wiped us out altogether.
With such a wide field of
application, game theory would be a universal panacea if it could always
predict how people will play the many games of which social life largely
consists. But game theory isn't able to solve all of the world's problems,
because it only works when people play games rationally. So it can't
predict the behaviour of love-sick teenagers like Romeo or Juliet, or madmen
like Hitler or Stalin. However, people don't always behave irrationally, and so
it isn't a waste of time to study what happens when people put on their
thinking caps. Most of us at least try to spend our money sensibly - and we
don't do too badly much of the time or economic theory wouldn't work at all.
Even when people haven't
thought everything out in advance, it doesn't follow that they are necessarily
behaving irrationally. Game theory has had some notable successes in explaining
the behaviour of spiders and fish, neither of which can be said to think at
all. Such mindless animals end up behaving as though they were rational,
because rivals whose genes programmed them to behave irrationally are now
extinct. Similarly, companies aren't always run by great intellects, but the
market is often just as ruthless as Nature in eliminating the unfit from the
scene.
Does game theory work?
In spite of its
theoretical successes, practical men of business used to dismiss game theory as
just one more ineffectual branch of social science, but they changed their
minds more or less overnight after the American government decided to auction
off the right to use various radio frequencies for use with cellular telephones.
With no established
experts to get in the way, the advice of game theorists proved decisive in
determining the design of the rules of the auctioning games that were used. The
result was that the
American taxpayer made a
profit of $20 billion - more than twice the orthodox prediction. Even more was
made in a later British telecom auction for which I was responsible. We made a
total of $35 billion in just one auction. In consequence, Newsweek magazine
described me as the ruthless, Poker-playing economist who destroyed the telecom
industry!
As it turned out, the
telecom industry wasn't destroyed. Nor is it at all ruthless to make the fat
cats of the telecom industry pay for their licences what they think they are
worth - especially when the money is spent on hospitals for those who can't
afford private medical care. As for Poker, it is at least 20 years since I
played for more than nickels and dimes. The only thing that Newsweek got
right is that game theory really does work when applied by people who know what
they are doing. It works not just in economics, but also in evolutionary
biology and political science. In my recent book Natural Justice, I even
outrage orthodox moral philosophers by using game theory when talking about
ethics.
Toy games
Each new big-money telecom
auction needs to be tailored to the circumstances in which it is going to be
run. One can't just take a design off the shelf, as the American government
found when it hired Sotheby's to auction off a bunch of satellite transponders.
But nor can one capture all the complicated ins and outs of a new telecom
market in a mathematical model. Designing a telecom auction is therefore as
much an art as a science. One extrapolates from simple models chosen to mimic
what seem to be the essential strategic features of a problem.
I try to do the same in
this book, which therefore contains no algebra and a minimum of technical
jargon. It looks only at toy games, leaving aside all the bells and whistles
with which they are complicated in real life. However, most people find that
even toy games give them plenty to think about.

1. Alice and Bob's
decision problem in Matching Pennies
Conflict and cooperation
Most of the games in this
book have only two players, called Alice and Bob. The
first game they will play is Matching Pennies.
Sherlock Holmes and the
evil Professor Moriarty played Matching Pennies on the way to their final
confrontation at the Reichenbach Falls. Holmes had to decide at which station
to get off a train. Moriarty had to decide at which station to lie in wait. A
real-life counterpart is played by dishonest accountants and their auditors.
The former decide when to cheat and the latter decide when to inspect the
books.
In our toy version, Alice
and Bob each show a coin. Alice wins if both coins show the same face. Bob wins
if they show different faces. Alice and Bob therefore each have two strategies,
heads and tails. Figure 1 shows who wins and loses for all
possible strategy combinations. These outcomes are the players' payoffs in
the game. The thumbs-up and thumbs-down icons have been used to emphasize that
payoffs needn't be measured in money.
Figure 2 shows how all the
information in Figure 1 can be assembled into a payoff table, with Alice's
payoff in the southwest corner of each cell, and Bob's in the northeast corner.
It also shows a two-player version of the very different Driving Game that we play
every morning when we get into our cars to drive to work. Alice and Bob again
have two pure strategies, left and right, but now the players'
payoffs are totally aligned instead of being diametrically opposed. When
journalists talk about a win-win situation, they have something like the
Driving Game in mind.
 

2. Payoff tables. Alice
chooses a row and Bob chooses a column
Von Neumann
The first result in game
theory was John Von Neumann's minimax theorem, which applies only to games like
Matching Pennies in which the players are modelled as implacable enemies. One
sometimes still reads dismissive commentaries on game theory in which Von
Neumann is caricatured as the archetypal cold warrior - the original for Dr
Strangelove in the well known movie. We are then told that only a crazed
military strategist would think of applying game theory in real life, because
only a madman or a cyborg would make the mistake of supposing that the world is
a game of pure conflict.
Von Neumann was an
all-round genius. Inventing game theory was just a sideline for him. It is true
that he was a hawk in the Cold War, but far from being a mad cyborg, he was a
genial soul, who liked to party and have a good time. Just like you and me, he
preferred cooperation to conflict, but he also understood that the way to achieve cooperation isn't to pretend that people
can't sometimes profit by causing trouble.
Cooperation and conflict
are two sides of the same coin, neither of which can be understood properly
without taking account of the other. To consider a game of pure conflict like
Matching Pennies isn't to claim that all human interaction is competitive. Nor
is one claiming that all human interaction is cooperative when one looks at a
game of pure coordination like the Driving Game. One is simply distinguishing
two different aspects of human behaviour so that they can be studied one at a
time.
Revealed preference
To cope with cooperation
and conflict together, we need a better way of describing the motivation of the
players than simply saying that they like winning and dislike losing. For this
purpose, economists have invented the idea of utility, which allows each
player to assign a numerical value to each possible outcome of a game.
In business, the bottom
line is commonly profit, but economists know that human beings often have more
complex aims than simply making as much money as they can. So we can't identify
utility with money. A naive response is to substitute happiness for money. But
what is happiness? How do we measure it?
It is unfortunate that the
word 'utility' is linked historically with Victorian utilitarians like Jeremy
Bentham and John Stuart Mill, because modern economists don't follow them in
identifying utility with how much pleasure or how little pain a person may
feel. The modern theory abandons any attempt to explain how people behave in
terms of what is going on inside their heads. On the contrary, it makes a
virtue of making no psychological assumptions at all.
We don't try to explain why
Alice or Bob behave as they do. Instead of an explanatory theory, we have
to be content with a descriptive theory, which can do no more than say that
Alice or Bob will be acting inconsistently if they did such-and-such in the
past, but now plan to do so-and-so in the future. In game theory, the object is
to observe the decisions that Alice and Bob make (or would make) when they
aren't interacting with each other or anyone else, and to deduce how they will
behave when interacting in a game.
We therefore don't argue
that some preferences are more rational than others. We follow the great
philosopher David Hume in regarding reason as the 'slave of the passions'. As
he extravagantly remarked, there would be nothing irrational about his preferring
the destruction of the entire universe to scratching his finger. However, we go
even further down this road by regarding reason purely as an instrument for
avoiding inconsistent behaviour. Any consistent behaviour therefore counts as
rational.
With some mild
assumptions, acting consistently can be shown to be the same as behaving as
though seeking to maximize the value of something. Whatever this abstract
something may be in a particular context, economists call it utility. It
needn't correlate with money, but it sadly often does.
Taking risks
In acting consistently,
Alice may not be aware that she is behaving as though maximizing something we
choose to call her utility. But if we want to predict her behaviour, we need to
be able to measure her utility on a utility scale, much as temperature is
measured on a thermometer. Just as the units on a thermometer are called
degrees, we can then say that a util is a unit on Alice's utility scale.
The orthodoxy in economics
used to be that such cardinal utility scales are intrinsically nonsensical, but
Von Neumann fortunately didn't know this when Oskar
Morgenstern turned up at his house one day complaining that they didn't have a
proper basis for the numerical payoffs in the book on game theory they were
writing together. So Von Neumann invented a theory on the spot that measures
how much Alice wants something by the size of the risk she is willing to take
to get it. We can then figure out what choice she will make in risky situations
by finding the option that will give her the highest utility on average.
It is easy to use Von
Neumann's theory to find how much utility to assign to anything Alice may need
to evaluate. For example, how many utils should Alice assign to getting a date
with Bob?
We first need to decide
what utility scale to use. For this purpose, pick two outcomes that are
respectively better and worse than any other outcome Alice is likely to
encounter. These outcomes will correspond to the boiling and freezing points of
water used to calibrate a Celsius thermometer, in that the utility scale to be
constructed will assign 0 utils to the worst outcome, and 100 utils to the best
outcome. Next consider a bunch of (free) lottery tickets in which the only
prizes are either the best outcome or the worst outcome.
When we offer Alice
lottery tickets with higher and higher probabilities of getting the best
outcome as an alternative to a date with Bob, she will eventually switch from
saying no to saying yes. If the probability of the best outcome
on the lottery ticket that makes her switch is 75%, then Von Neumann's theory
says that a date with Bob is worth 75 utils to her. Each extra percentage point
added to her indifference probability therefore corresponds to one extra util.
When some people evaluate
sums of money using this method, they always assign the same number of utils to
each extra dollar. We call such people risk neutral. Those who assign fewer
utils to each extra dollar than the one that went before are called risk
averse.
Insurance
Alice is thinking of
accepting an offer from Bob to insure her Beverley Hills mansion against fire.
If she refuses his offer, she faces a lottery in which she ends up with her
house plus the insurance premium if her house doesn't burn down, and with only
the premium if it does. This has to be compared with her ending up for sure
with the value of the house less the premium if she accepts Bob's offer.
If it is rational for Bob
to make the offer and for Alice to accept, he must think that the lottery is
better than breaking even for sure, and she must have the opposing preference.
The existence of the insurance industry therefore confirms not only that it can
be rational to gamble - provided that the risks you take are calculated risks -
but that rational people can have different attitudes to taking risks. In the
insurance industry, the insurers are close to being risk neutral and the
insurees are risk averse to varying degrees.
Notice that economists
regard the degree of risk aversion that a person reveals as a matter of
personal preference. Just as Alice may or may not prefer chocolate ice-cream to
vanilla, so she may or may not prefer to spend $1,000 on insuring her house.
Some philosophers - notably John Rawls - insist that it is rational to
be risk averse when defending whatever alternative to maximizing average
utility they prefer, but such appeals miss the point that the players'
attitudes to taking risks have already been taken into account when using Von
Neumann's method to assign utilities to each outcome.
Economists make a
different mistake when they attribute risk aversion to a dislike of the act of
gambling. Von Neumann's theory only makes sense when the players are entirely
neutral to the actual act of gambling. Like a Presbyterian minister insuring
his house, they don't gamble because they enjoy gambling - they gamble only
when they judge that the odds are in their favour.

3. Numerical payoffs
Life isn't a zero-sum game
As with measuring
temperature, we are free to choose the zero and the unit on Alice's utility
scale however we like. We could, for example, have assigned 32 utils to the
worst outcome, and 212 utils to the best outcome. The number of utils a date
with Bob is worth on this new scale is found in the same way that one converts
degrees Celsius into degrees Fahrenheit. So the date with Bob that was worth 75
utils on the old scale would be worth 167 utils on the new scale.
In the toy games we have
considered so far, Alice and Bob have only the outcomes WIN and LOSE to
evaluate. We are free to assign these two outcomes any number of utils we like,
as long as we assign more utils to winning than to losing. If we assign plus
one util to winning and minus one util to losing, we get the payoff tables of
Figure 3.
The payoffs in each cell
of Matching Pennies in Figure 3 always add up to zero. We can always fix things
to make this true in a game of pure conflict. Such games are therefore said to
be zero sum. When gurus tell us that life isn't a zero-sum game, they
therefore aren't saying anything about the total sum of happiness in the world.
They are just reminding us that the games we play in real life are seldom games
of pure conflict.

4. Games with mixed
motivations
Nash equilibrium
The old movie Rebel
without a Cause still occasionally gets a showing because it stars the
unforgettable James Dean as a sexy teenage rebel. The game of Chicken was
invented to commemorate a scene in which he and another boy drive cars towards
a cliff edge to see who will chicken out first. Bertrand Russell famously used
the episode as a metaphor for the Cold War.
I prefer to illustrate
Chicken with a more humdrum story in which Alice and Bob are two middle-aged
drivers approaching each other in a street too narrow for them to pass safely
without someone slowing down. The strategies in Figure 4 are therefore taken to
be slow and speed.
The new setting downplays
the competitive element of the original story. Chicken differs from zero-sum
games like Matching Pennies because the players also have a joint interest in
avoiding a mutual disaster.
The stereotypes embedded
in the Battle of the Sexes pre-date the female liberation movement. Alice and
Bob are a newly married couple honeymooning in New York. At breakfast, they
discuss whether to go to a boxing match or the ballet in the evening, but fail
to make a decision. They later get separated in the crowds and now each has to
decide independently where to go in the evening.

5. James Dean
The story that accompanies
the Battle of the Sexes emphasizes the cooperative features of their problem,
but there is also a conflictual element absent from the Driving Game, because
each player prefers that they coordinate on a different outcome. Alice prefers
the ballet and Bob the boxing match.
John Nash
Everybody has heard of
John Nash now that his life has been featured in the movie A Beautiful Mind.
As the movie documents, the highs and lows of his life are out of the range
of experience of most human beings. He was still an undergraduate when he
initiated the modern theory of rational bargaining. His graduate thesis
formulated the concept of a Nash equilibrium, which is now regarded as the
basic building block of the theory of games. He went on to solve major problems
in pure mathematics, using methods of such originality that his reputation as a
mathematical genius of the first rank became firmly established. But he fell
prey to a
schizophrenic illness that wrecked his career and finally left him to languish
in obscurity for more than 40 years as an object of occasional mockery on the
Princeton campus. His recovery in time to be awarded a Nobel Prize in 1994
seems almost miraculous in retrospect. But as Nash comments, without his
'madness', he would perhaps only have been another of the faceless multitudes
who have lived and died on this planet without leaving any trace of their
existence behind

6. John Nash
.
However, one doesn't need
to be a wayward genius to understand the idea of a Nash equilibrium. We have
seen that the payoffs in a game are chosen to make it tautological that
rational players will seek to maximize their average payoff. This would be easy
if players knew what strategies their opponents were going to choose. For
example, if Alice knew that Bob were going to choose ball in the Battle
of the Sexes, she would maximize her payoff by choosing ball as well.
That is to say, ball is Alice's best reply to Bob's choice of ball, a
fact indicated in Figure 4 by circling Alice's payoff in the cell that results
if both players choose ball.
A Nash equilibrium is just
a pair of strategies whose use results in a cell in which both payoffs
are circled. More generally, a Nash equilibrium occurs when all the players are
simultaneously making a best reply to the strategy choices of the others.
Both (box, box) and
(ball, ball) are therefore Nash equilibria in the Battle of the Sexes.
Similarly, (slow, speed) and (speed, slow) are Nash equilibria in
Chicken.
Why should we care about
Nash equilibria? There are two major reasons. The first supposes that ideally
rational players reason their way to a solution of a game. The second supposes
that people find their way to a solution by some evolutionary process of trial
and error. Much of the predictive power of game theory arises from the
possibility of passing back and forth between these alternative
interpretations. We seldom know much about the details of evolutionary
processes, but we can sometimes leap ahead to predict where they will
eventually end up by asking what rational players would do in the situation
under study.
Rational interpretation
Suppose that somebody even
cleverer than Nash or Von Neumann had written a book that lists all possible
games along with an authoritative recommendation on how each game should be played by rational players. Such a great book of game
theory would necessarily have to pick a Nash equilibrium as the solution of
each game. Otherwise it would be rational for at least one player to deviate
from the book's advice, which would then fail to be authoritative.
Suppose, for example, that
the book recommended that teenage boys playing Chicken should both choose slow
as their mothers would wish. If the book were authoritative, each player
would then know that the other was going to play slow. But a rational
player in Chicken who knows that his opponent is going to choose slow will
necessarily choose speed, thereby refuting the book's claim to be
authoritative.
Notice that the reasoning
in this defence of Nash equilibria is circular. Why does Alice play this way?
Because Bob plays that way. Why does Bob play that way? Because Alice plays
this way.
Various Latin tags are
available to those who are unhappy with such circular arguments. When first
accused of committing the fallacy of circulus in probando when talking
about equilibria, I had to go and look it up. It turns out that I was lucky not
to have been accused of the even more discreditable petitio principii. But
all arguments must obviously either be circular or reduce to an infinite
regression if one never stops asking why. Dictionary definitions are the
most familiar example.
In games, we can either
forever contemplate the infinite regression that begins:
Alice thinks that Bob
thinks that Alice thinks that Bob thinks... or else take refuge in the circularity built into the
idea of a Nash equilibrium. This short circuits the infinite regression by
observing that any other strategy profile will eventually be destabilized when
the players start thinking about what the other players are thinking. Or to say the same thing another
way, if the players' beliefs about each other's plans are to be consistent,
then they must be in equilibrium.
Evolutionary interpretation
The rational
interpretation of Nash equilibrium had such a grip on early game theorists that
the evolutionary interpretation was almost entirely neglected. The editors of
the journal in which Nash published his paper on equilibria even threw out his
remarks on this subject as being without interest! But game theory would never
be able to predict the behaviour of ordinary people if the evolutionary
interpretation were invalid. For example, the famous mathematician Emile Borel
thought about game theory before Von Neumann but came to the conclusion that
the minimax theorem was probably false. So what hope would there be for the
rest of us, if even someone as clever as Borel couldn't reason his way to a
solution of the simplest class of games!
There are many possible
evolutionary interpretations of Nash equilibria, which differ in the adjustment
process by means of which players may find their way to an equilibrium. In the
simpler adjustment processes, the payoffs in a game are identified with how fit
the players are. Processes that favour fitter strategies at the expense of
their less successful brethren can then only stop working when we get to a Nash
equilibrium, because only then will all the surviving strategies be as fit as
it is possible to be in the circumstances. We therefore don't need our players
to be mathematical whizzes for Nash equilibria to be relevant. They often
predict the behaviour of animals quite well. Nor is the evolutionary
significance of Nash equilibria confined to biology. They have a predictive
role whenever an adjustment process tends to eliminate strategies that generate
low payoffs.
For example, stockbrokers
who do less well than their competitors go bust. The rules-of-thumb that
stockbrokers use are therefore subject to the
same kind of evolutionary pressures as the genes of fish or insects. It
therefore makes sense to look at Nash equilibria in the games played by
stockbrokers, even though we all know that some stockbrokers wouldn't be able
to find their way around a goldfish bowl, let alone a game theory book.
Prisoner's Dilemma
The most famous toy game
of all is the Prisoner's Dilemma. In the traditional story used to motivate the
game, Alice and Bob are gangsters in the Chicago of the 1920s. The District
Attorney knows that they are guilty of a major crime, but is unable to convict
either unless one of them confesses. He orders their arrest, and separately
offers each the following deal:
If you confess and your
accomplice fails to confess, then you go free. If you fail to confess but your
accomplice confesses, then you will be convicted and sentenced to the maximum
term in jail. If you both confess, then you will both be convicted, but the
maximum sentence will not be imposed. If neither confesses, you will both be
framed on a tax evasion charge for which a conviction is certain.
The story becomes more
poignant if Alice and Bob have agreed to keep their mouths shut if ever put
into such a situation. Holding out then corresponds to cooperating and
confessing to defecting, as in the table on the left of Figure 7. The payoffs
in the table correspond to notional years in jail (on the assumption that one
util always corresponds to one extra year of freedom).
A less baroque story
assumes that Alice and Bob each have access to a pot of money. Both are
independently allowed either to give their opponent $2 from the pot, or to put
$1 from the pot in their own pocket. On the assumption that Alice and Bob care
only about money, we are led to the payoff table on the right of Figure 7 in
which utils have been identified with dollars. In this case, the altruistic
strategy of giving $2 has been assigned the label dove, and the selfish
strategy of taking $1 has been assigned the label hawk.

7. Two versions of the
Prisoner's Dilemma: in the version on the right, dove represents giving
and hawk represents taking
Circling best replies
reveals that the only Nash equilibrium in the give-or-take version of the
Prisoner's Dilemma is for both Alice and Bob to play hawk, although each
would get more if they both played dove. The gangster version is
strategically identical. In the unique Nash equilibrium, each will defect, with
the result that they will both spend a long time in jail, although each would
get a much lighter sentence if they both cooperated.
Paradox of rationality?
A whole generation of
scholars swallowed the line that the Prisoner's Dilemma embodies the essence of
the problem of human cooperation. They therefore set themselves the hopeless
task of giving reasons why game theory's resolution of this supposed 'paradox
of rationality' is mistaken (See Fallacies of the Prisoner's Dilemma, Chapter
10). But game theorists think it just plain wrong that the Prisoner's Dilemma
captures what matters about human cooperation. On the contrary, it represents a
situation in which the dice are as loaded against the emergence of cooperation
as they could possibly be.
If the great game of life
played by the human species were adequately modelled by the Prisoner's Dilemma,
we wouldn't have evolved as social animals! We therefore see no more need to
solve an invented paradox of rationality than to explain why people drown when
thrown into Lake Michigan with their feet encased in concrete. No paradox of
rationality exists. Rational players don't cooperate in the Prisoner's Dilemma
because the conditions necessary for rational cooperation are absent.
Fortunately the
paradox-of-rationality phase in the history of game theory is just about over.
Insofar as they are remembered, the many fallacies that were invented in
hopeless attempts to show that it is rational to cooperate in the Prisoner's
Dilemma are now mostly quoted as entertaining examples of what psychologists
call magical reasoning, in which logic is twisted to secure some desired
outcome. My favourite example is Immanuel Kant's claim that rationality demands
obeying his categorical imperative. In the Prisoner's Dilemma, rational players
would then all choose dove, because this is the strategy that would be
best if everybody chose it.
Domination
The idea that it is
necessarily irrational to do things that would be bad if everybody did them is
very pervasive. Your mother was probably as fond of this argument as mine. The
following knock-down refutation in the case of the Prisoner's Dilemma is therefore
worth repeating.
So as not to beg any
questions, we begin by asking where the payoffs that represent the players'
preferences in the Prisoner's Dilemma come from. The theory of revealed
preference tells us to find the answer by observing the choices that Alice and
Bob make (or would make) when solving one-person decision problems.
Writing a larger payoff
for Alice in the bottom-left cell of the payoff table of the Prisoner's Dilemma
than in the top-left cell therefore means that Alice would
choose hawk in the one-person decision problem that she would face if
she knew in advance that Bob had chosen dove. Similarly, writing a
larger payoff in the bottom-right cell means that Alice would choose hawk when
faced with the one-person decision problem in which she knew in advance that
Bob had chosen hawk.
The very definition of the
game therefore says that hawk is Alice's best reply when she knows that
Bob's choice is dove, and also when she knows his choice is hawk.
So she doesn't need to know anything about Bob's actual choice to know her best
reply to it. It is rational for her to play hawk whatever strategy he is
planning to choose. In this unusual circumstance, we say that hawk dominates
Alice's alternative strategies.
Objections?
Two objections to the preceding
analysis are common. The first denies that Alice would choose to defect in the
gangster version of the Prisoner's Dilemma if she knew that Bob had chosen to
cooperate. Various reasons are offered that depend on what one believes about
conditions in Al Capone's Chicago, but such objections miss the point. If Alice
wouldn't defect if she knew that Bob had chosen to cooperate, then she wouldn't
be playing the Prisoner's Dilemma. Here and elsewhere, it is important not to
take the stories used to motivate games too seriously. It is the payoff tables
of Figure 7 that define the Prisoner's Dilemma - not the silly stories that
accompany them.
The second objection
always puzzles me. It is said that appealing to the theory of revealed
preference reduces the claim that it is rational to defect in the Prisoner's
Dilemma to a tautology. Since tautologies have no substantive content, the
claim can therefore be ignored! But who would say the same of 2 + 2 = 4?
Experiments
An alternative response is
to argue that it doesn't matter what is rational in the Prisoner's Dilemma,
because laboratory experiments show that real people actually play dove.
The payoffs in such experiments aren't usually determined using the theory of
revealed preference. They are nearly always just money, but the results can
nevertheless be very instructive.
Inexperienced subjects do
indeed cooperate a little more than half the time on average, but the evidence
is overwhelming in games like the Prisoner's Dilemma that the rate of defection
increases steadily as the subjects gain experience, until only about 10% of
subjects are still cooperating after ten trials or so.
Computer simulations are
also mentioned which supposedly show that evolution will eventually generate
cooperation in the Prisoner's Dilemma, but such critics have usually confused
the Prisoner's Dilemma with its indefinitely repeated cousin in which
cooperation is indeed a Nash equilibrium (See Tit-for-tat, Chapter 5).








 
Chapter 2
Chance
Conan
Doyle's analysis of his version of Matching Pennies in The Final Problem doesn't
reflect much credit on his hero's supposed intellectual mastery. Edgar Allan
Poe does better in the Purloined Letter, in which the villain has stolen
a letter, and the problem is where to look for it.
Poe argues
that the way to win is to extend chains of reasoning of the form 'He thinks
that I think that he thinks that I think . . . ' one step further than your
opponent. In defence of this proposition, he invents a boy who consistently
wins at Matching Pennies by imitating his opponent's facial expression, thereby
supposedly learning what he must be thinking. It is admittedly amazing how many
Poker players give their hands away by being unable to control their body
language, but Alice and Bob can't both use Poe's trick successfully even
if neither ever learns to keep a Poker face.
Game theory
escapes the apparent infinite regression with which Alice and Bob are faced by
appealing to the idea of a Nash equilibrium. But we are still left with a
problem, because the trick of circling best replies doesn't work for Matching
Pennies. After circling all the payoffs in Figure 3 that are best replies, we
end up with two Nash equilibria in the Driving Game, but none at all in
Matching Pennies.
This fact may seem
mysterious to those who remember that John Nash won his Nobel Prize partly for
showing that all finite games have at least one equilibrium. The answer to the
mystery is that we need to look beyond the pure strategies we have considered
up to now, and consider mixed strategies as well.
Does randomizing make
sense?
A mixed strategy requires
that players randomize their choice of pure strategy. It is natural to object
that only crazy people make serious decisions at random, but mixed strategies
are used all the time without anyone realizing it.
My favourite example arose
when I was advising a package holiday company on a regulatory matter. Game
theory predicts that such a company will use a mixed strategy in the pricing
game it has to play when the demand for vacations proves to be unexpectedly
low. However, when I asked a senior executive whether his company actively
randomized their prices last year, he reacted with horror at such an outlandish
suggestion. So why were his prices for similar vacations so very different? His
answer was instructive: 'You have to keep the opposition guessing.'
His answer shows that he
understood perfectly well why game theory sometimes recommends the use
of mixed strategies. What he didn't want to face up to is that his company's
method for setting prices was essentially a randomizing device. Nobody cut any
cards. Nobody rattled a dice box. But from the point of view of a rival trying
to predict what his company would charge for two weeks in the Bahamas, they
might as well have done so.
Mixed Nash equilibria
The use of mixed
strategies isn't at all surprising in Matching Pennies, where the whole point
is to keep the opponent guessing. As every child knows, the solution is to
randomize between heads and tails. If
both players use this mixed strategy, the result is a Nash equilibrium. Each
player wins half the time, which is the best that both can do given the
strategy choice of the other.
Similarly, it is a Nash
equilibrium in the Driving Game if both players choose left and right
with equal probability, which therefore has three Nash equilibria, two pure
and one mixed. The same is also true in both Chicken and the Battle of the
Sexes, but the mixed Nash equilibrium in the Battle of the Sexes requires more
of the players than that they simply make each of their pure strategies equally
likely.
In the Battle of the
Sexes, Bob likes boxing twice as much as ballet, and so Alice must play box half
as often as ball to ensure that he gets the same payoff on average from
his two pure strategies. Since Bob doesn't then care which of his pure
strategies gets played, all of his strategies are then equally good - including
the mixed strategy which makes ball half as likely as box. But
the use of this mixed strategy makes Alice indifferent between her two pure
strategies. So all of her strategies are then equally good - including the
mixed strategy which makes box twice as likely as ball. This
completion of the circuit shows that we have found a mixed Nash equilibrium in
which Alice and Bob each play their more favoured strategy two-thirds of the
time.
Making the other guy
indifferent
Rational players never
randomize between two pure strategies unless they are indifferent between them.
If one strategy were better, the inferior strategy would never get played at
all. What might make you indifferent between two strategies? In the Battle of
the Sexes, the reason is that you believe your opponent is going to play a
mixed strategy that equalizes the average payoff you get from each of your
strategies. This feature of a mixed Nash equilibrium sometimes leads to results
that look paradoxical at first sight.
The Good Samaritan Game is
played by a whole population of identical players, all of whom want someone to
respond to a cry for help. Each player gets ten utils if someone helps, and
nothing if nobody helps. The snag is that helping is a nuisance, and so all the
players who offer help must subtract one util from their payoffs.
If nobody else is planning
to help, you do best by offering to help yourself. If everybody else is
planning to help, you maximize your payoff by doing nothing. So the only
possible Nash equilibrium in which everybody independently uses the same
strategy is necessarily mixed. In such a mixed Nash equilibrium, there must be
precisely one chance in ten that nobody else offers help, because this is the
frequency that makes you indifferent between helping and not helping.
The actual probability
that help is offered in equilibrium is somewhat higher, because there is some
chance that you will offer to help yourself. However, the probability that any
single player offers help in equilibrium has got to get smaller as the
population gets larger because the probability that nobody else helps has to
stay equal to 1/10. So the bigger the population, the lower the chances that
anyone will help. With only two players, each helps with probability 9/10 and
the cry for help is ignored only one time in a hundred. With a million players,
each helps with such a tiny
probability that
nobody at all answers the cry for help about one time in ten.
The consequences can be
chilling, as a notorious case in New York illustrates. A woman was assaulted at
length after dark, and finally murdered in the street. Many people heard her
cries for help but nobody even phoned the police. Should we follow the
newspapers and deduce that city life makes monsters of us all? Perhaps it does,
but the Good Samaritan Game suggests that even small-town folk might behave in
the same way if put in the same situation.
Voting has a similar
character. To take an extreme case, suppose that Alice and Bob are the only
candidates for the presidency. It is common knowledge that Bob is a hopeless
case; only his mother thinks he would be the better president. She is sure to
vote, but why should anyone else bother? As in the Good Samaritan Game, adding
more voters makes things worse. In equilibrium, Bob will get elected with some
irreducible probability even if there are a million voters.
Such voting games are only
toys. Real people seldom think rational thoughts about whether or not to vote.
Even if they did, they might feel that going to the polling booth is a pleasure
rather than a pain. But the model nevertheless shows that the pundits who
denounce the large minority of people who fail to vote in presidential
elections as irrational are talking through their hats. If we want more people
to vote, we need to move to a more decentralized system in which every vote
really does count enough to outweigh the lack of enthusiasm for voting which so
many people obviously feel. If we can't persuade such folk that they like to
vote and we don't want to change our political system, we will just have to put
up with their staying at home on election night. Simply repeating the slogan
that 'every vote counts' isn't ever going to work, because it isn't true.
Getting to equilibrium
How do people find their
way to a Nash equilibrium? This question is particularly pressing in the case
of mixed equilibria. Why should Alice adjust her behaviour to make Bob
indifferent between some of his strategies?
Sports studies show that
athletes sometimes behave in quite close accord with game theory predictions.
Taking penalty kicks in soccer is one example. Where should the ball be aimed?
Which way should the goalkeeper jump? Tennis is another example. Should I smash
or should I lob? It seems unlikely that coaches read any game theory books, so
how come they know the correct frequency with which to choose each option?
Presumably they learn by trial and error.
Nobody understands all the
different ways in which real people learn new ways of doing things, but we have
some toy models that capture some of what must be going on. Even the following
naive model does surprisingly well.
Alice and Bob are robots
who play the same game repeatedly. At each repetition, Alice is programmed to
play her best reply to a mixed strategy in which each of Bob's pure strategies
is played with the same frequency he has played it in the past. Bob has the
same program, so neither he nor Alice are fully rational, because they could
both sometimes improve their payoffs if they were programmed more cleverly.
Game theorists say that they are only boundedly rational.
As time passes, the
frequencies with which the robots have played their second pure strategy evolve
as shown in Figure 9 (which has been simplified by passing from discrete to
continuous time). For example, Alice's best reply in Matching Pennies is tails
whenever the current frequency with which Bob has played tails exceeds
one half. So her frequency for tails will increase until his frequency
for tails falls below one half, after which it will abruptly begin to
decrease.

9. Learning to play an
equilibrium
Following the arrows in
Figure 9 always leads to a Nash equilibrium. No matter how we initialize the
robots, someone counting how often they play each of their pure strategies will
therefore eventually find it hard to distinguish one of our boundedly rational
robots from a perfectly rational player.
In the case of Matching
Pennies, which is closest to tennis or soccer, the frequencies with which heads
or tails are played always converge on their equilibrium values of
1/2. In laboratory experiments with human subjects, the general pattern is much
the same, although the frequencies don't evolve in such a regular manner and
they begin to drift when they get near enough to a mixed equilibrium, because
the players are then nearly indifferent between the available strategies.
The situation in Chicken
is more complicated. Each pure equilibrium has a basin of attraction. If we
initialize our robots so that they begin in the basin of attraction of a
particular equilibrium, they will eventually converge on that equilibrium. The
basin of attraction for (slow, speed) lies above the diagonal in
Figure 9. The basin of
attraction for (speed, slow) lies below the diagonal. The basin of
attraction for the mixed equilibrium is just the diagonal itself.
It is easy to construct
games in which the behaviour of robots like Alice and Bob would cycle forever
without ever settling down on an equilibrium, but human beings are capable of
learning in more sophisticated ways than Alice or Bob. In particular, we
commonly enjoy a great deal of feedback from all kinds of sources when learning
how to behave when faced with a new game.
For example, rookie
stockbrokers learn the ropes from their more experienced colleagues. Young
scientists peruse the history of Nobel laureates in the hope of finding the
secret of their success. Novelists tediously recycle the plots of the latest
best-seller. Shoppers tell each other where the best bargains are to be found.
Toy models of such social or imitative learning converge more quickly and
reliably on Nash equilibria than models in which single individuals learn by
trial and error.
Evolutionary game theory
is the study of such dynamic models. Its application to evolutionary biology is
so important that it gets a chapter all to itself (Chapter 8).
Minimax theorem
When a youthful John Nash
called at Von Neumann's office to tell him of his proof that all finite games
have at least one equilibrium when mixed strategies are allowed, Von Neumann
was dismissive. Why didn't he welcome Nash's contribution?
It is true that the method
Nash used to prove his theorem wasn't anything new for Von Neumann, who had
pioneered the method himself. It is also true that Nash's approach was probably
not very tactful, since he famously called on Albert Einstein around the same
time to tell him how to do physics. But Von Neumann had nothing to fear from a brash young graduate student
muscling in on his domain. I think there was a more fundamental reason for Von
Neumann's lack of interest.
Von Neumann never seems to
have thought much about the evolutionary interpretation of game theory. He
believed that the purpose of studying a game should be to identify an
unambiguous rational solution. The idea of a Nash equilibrium doesn't meet this
requirement, because most games have many Nash equilibria, and there is often
no purely rational reason for selecting one equilibrium rather than another. As
Von Neumann later remarked, the best-reply criterion only tells us that some
strategy profiles can't be the rational solution to a game, but we want
to know which strategy profiles can be regarded as solutions.
Minimax and maximin
Von Neumann presumably
restricted his attention to two-person, zero-sum games because they are one of
the few classes of games in which his ideal of a unique rational solution can
be realized. It is unfortunate that his proof of this fact should be called the
minimax theorem, because the rational solution of a two-person, zero-sum
game is actually for each player to apply the maximin principle. This
tells you to work out the worst payoff you could get on average from each of
your mixed strategies, and then to choose whichever strategy would maximize
your payoff if this worst-case scenario were always realized.
For example, the worst
thing that could happen to Alice in Matching Pennies is that Bob will guess her
choice of mixed strategy. If this mixed strategy requires her to play heads more
than half the time, then he will play tails all the time. She will then
lose more than half the time and so her payoff will be negative. If Alice's
mixed strategy requires her to play tails more than half the time, then
Bob will play heads all the time. She will again lose more than half the
time and so her payoff will again be negative.
Alice's maximin strategy
is therefore to play heads and tails equally often, which
guarantees her a payoff of exactly zero.
Only a paranoic would find
the maximin principle attractive in general, since it assumes that the universe
has singled you out to be its personal enemy. However, if Alice is playing Bob
in a zero-sum game, he is the relevant universe and so the universe is indeed
her personal enemy in this special case.
Why maximin?
Ironically, Von Neumann's
minimax theorem follows immediately from Nash's
proof that all finite games have at least one Nash equilibrium.
To see this, begin by
locating a Nash equilibrium in a two-person, zero-sum game. Call Alice's
equilibrium strategy row and Bob's equilibrium strategy column.
The equilibrium payoffs will be called Alice's value and Bob's value.
For example, in Matching Pennies both row and column are the
mixed strategy in which heads and tails are played with equal
probability; Alice's value and Bob's value are the zero payoff
that each player gets on average if they play this way.
Alice can't be sure of
getting more than Alice's value because Bob might always play column,
to which her best reply is row. On the other hand, Alice can be sure
of getting at least Alice's value by playing row because the best
that Bob can do is to reply with column, and the best that Bob can do
for himself in a zero-sum game is the same as the worst he can do to Alice. So Alice's
value is Alice's maximin payoff, and row is one of her maximin
strategies.
By the same reasoning, Bob's
value is his maximin payoff and column is one of his maximin
strategies. Since if Alice's value and Bob's value sum to zero,
it follows that so do their maximin payoffs. Neither player can therefore get
more than his or her maximin payoff unless the other
gets less. So one can't improve on the maximin principle when playing a
two-person, zero-sum game against a rational opponent.
Von Neumann's proof of
this fact is called the minimax theorem, because saying that Alice and Bob's
maximin payoffs sum to zero is equivalent to saying that Alice's maximin payoff
equals her minimax payoff. But one mustn't make the common mistake of thinking
that Von Neumann therefore recommended using the minimax principle. Nobody
would want to work out the best payoff you could get on average from
each of your mixed strategies, and then choose whichever strategy would minimize
your payoff if this best-case scenario were always realized!
Finding maximin strategies
In retrospect, it is a
pity that mathematicians took an immediate interest in the minimax theorem. The
study of pursuit-evasion games in which a pilot seeks to evade a heat-seeking
missile is certainly an interesting exercise in control theory, but such work
naturally reinforces the prejudices of critics who are fixated on the idea that
game theorists are mad cyborgs. Nor is the popularity of game theory likely to
be enhanced by the abstruse finding that the minimax theorem can only be true
in certain infinite games if we are willing to deny the Axiom of Choice. Game
theory would have found a more ready acceptance in its early years if
enthusiasts hadn't made it all seem so difficult.
Rock-Scissors-Paper
Every child knows this
game. Alice and Bob simultaneously make a hand signal that represents one of
their three pure strategies: rock, scissors, paper. The winner is
determined by the rules:

rock


blunts


scissors


scissors


cuts


paper


paper


wraps


rock .

If both players make the
same signal, the result is a draw, which both players regard as being
equivalent to a lottery in which they win or lose with equal probability, so
that the game is zero-sum.
It is obvious that the
rational solution is for each player to use each of their three pure strategies
equally often. They each then guarantee their maximin payoff of zero. The chief
interest of the game is that one has to work very hard to find an evolutionary
process that converges on this solution.
For example, the
best-reply dynamics of Figure 9 end up cycling in a manner that periodically
nearly eliminates each strategy in turn. One might dismiss this outcome as a
curiosity if it weren't for the fact that the population mix of three varieties
of Central American salamanders who play a game like Rock-Scissors-Paper also
end up in a similar cycle, so that one variety always seems on the edge of
extinction.
O'Neill's Card Game
Barry O'Neill used this
game in the first laboratory experiment that found positive support for the
maximin principle. Previous experiments had been discouraging. The eminent
psychologist William Estes was particularly scathing when reporting on his test
of Von Neumann's theory: 'Game theory will be no substitute for an empirically
grounded behavioral theory when we want to predict what people will actually do
in competitive situations.'
But in the experiment on
which Estes based his dismissive remarks, there were only two subjects, who are
described as being well practised in the reinforcement learning experiments
that Estes was using to defend the (now discredited) theory of 'probability
matching'. Neither subject knew that they were playing a game with another
person. Even if they had known they were playing a game, the minimax theory would
have been irrelevant to their plight, since they weren't told in advance what the payoffs of the game were. They were therefore
playing with incomplete information - a situation to which Von Neumann's
minimax theory doesn't apply.
In designing an experiment
without such errors, O'Neill wanted to control for the possibility that
subjects might have different attitudes to taking risks. For example,
Rock-Scissors-Paper wouldn't be zero-sum if Alice and Bob didn't both think a
draw is equivalent to winning or losing with equal probability. So O'Neill
experimented on a game with only winning or losing, but which still has enough
structure to make the solution unobvious.
Alice and Bob each have
the ace and the picture cards from one of the suits in a deck of playing cards.
They simultaneously show a card. Alice wins if both show an ace, or if there is
a mismatch of picture cards. Otherwise Bob wins.
Alice's maximin strategy
is found by asking which of her mixed strategies makes Bob indifferent between
all his pure strategies. The answer is that Alice should play each picture card
equally often and her ace twice as often. Bob should do the same, with the
result that Alice will win two-fifths of the time and Bob will win three-fifths
of the time.
Duel
The game of Duel is the
nearest we are going to get to a military application. Alice and Bob walk
towards each other armed with pistols loaded with just one bullet. The
probability of either hitting the other increases the nearer the two approach.
The payoff to each player is the probability of surviving.
How close should Alice get
to Bob before firing? This is literally a question of life and death because,
if she fires and misses, Bob will be able to advance to point-blank range with
fatal consequences for Alice. Since someone dies in
each possible outcome of the game, the payoffs therefore always sum to one.
One conclusion is obvious.
It can't be a Nash equilibrium for one player to plan to fire sooner than the
other, because it would be a better reply for the player who is planning to
fire first to wait a tiny bit longer. But how close will they be when they
simultaneously open fire?
The minimax theorem gives
the answer right away. Duel is unit-sum rather than zero-sum, but the minimax
theorem still applies (provided the payoffs still sum to one when the players
fire simultaneously). The only difference is that the players' maximin payoffs
now add up to one instead of zero. So if Alice is always twice as likely to hit
Bob as he is to hit her, they will both fire at whatever distance makes Alice
hit Bob two-thirds of the time and Bob hit Alice one-third of the time.








 
Chapter 3
Time
Games with
perfect information
People
sometimes think it frivolous to talk about human social problems as though they
were mere parlour games. The advantage is that nearly everybody is able to
think dispassionately about the strategic issues that arise in games like Chess
or Poker, without automatically rejecting a conclusion if it turns out to be
unwelcome. But logic is the same wherever it is applied.
Parlour games
At first
sight, it doesn't look like Chess and Poker can be represented by payoff
tables, because time enters the picture. It not only matters who does what - it
matters when they do it.
Some of the
difference is illusory. In the general case, a pure strategy is a plan of
action that tells a player what to do under all possible contingencies that
might arise in a game. The players can then be envisaged as choosing a strategy
once and for all at the beginning of the game, and then delegating the play of
the game to a robot. The resulting strategic form of Chess will then
look just like Chicken or the Battle of the Sexes, except that its payoff table
will be zero sum and have immensely more rows and columns.
Von Neumann argued that
the first thing one should do in any game is to reduce it to its strategic
form, which he called its normal form for this reason. However, the case of
Chess makes it clear that this isn't always a very practical proposal, since it
has more pure strategies than the estimated number of electrons in the known
universe! Even when the strategic form isn't hopelessly unwieldy, it is often a
lot easier to work things out by sticking with the extensive form of the
game.
Game theorists use the
analogy of a tree when describing a game in extensive form. Each move
corresponds to a point called a node where the tree branches. The root of the
tree corresponds to the first move of the game. The branches at each node
correspond to the choices that can be made at that move. The leaves of the tree
correspond to the final outcomes of the game, and so we must say who gets what
payoff at each leaf. We must also say which player moves at each node, and what
that player knows about what has happened so far in the game when making the move.
In Poker, the first move
is made by a fictional player called Chance who shuffles and deals hands to the
real players. What the players know about this move is extremely important in
Poker, since the game would be devoid of interest if everybody knew what
everybody else had been dealt. However, such games of imperfect information
will be left until the next chapter. All the games in this chapter will be
games of perfect information, in which nothing that has happened in the game so
far is hidden from players when they make a move. Nor shall we consider games
of perfect information like Duel that have chance moves. Chess is therefore the
archetypal example for this chapter.
Backward induction
Backward induction is a
contentious topic, but everybody agrees that we would always be able to use it
to find the players' maximin
values in a finite
game of perfect information - if we had a large enough computer and sufficient
time. Given a large enough lever and a place on which to stand, Archimedes was
similarly correct when he said he would be able to move the world. Applying
backward induction to Chess illustrates both its theoretical virtues and its
practical drawbacks.
Chess
Label each leaf of the game
tree for Chess with WIN, LOSE, or DRAW, depending on the outcome for White. Now
pick any penultimate node (where each choice leads immediately to a leaf of the
tree). Find the best choice for the player who moves at this node. Label the
penultimate node with the label of the leaf to which this choice leads.
Finally, throw away all of the tree that follows the penultimate node, which
now becomes a leaf of a smaller tree in which the players' maximin values are
unchanged.
Now do the same again and
again, until all that is left is a label attached to the root of the original
tree. This label is White's maximin outcome.
No matter how big and fast
the computers we eventually build, they will never be able to complete this
program for Chess, because it would take too long. So we will probably never
know the solution of Chess. But at least we have established that, unlike
Bigfoot or the Loch Ness Monster, there really is a solution for Chess.
If White's maximin outcome
is WIN, then she has a pure strategy that guarantees her a victory against any
defence by Black. If White's maximin outcome is LOSE, Black has a pure strategy
that guarantees him a victory against any defence by White. However, most
experts guess that White's maximin outcome is DRAW, which implies that both
White and Black have pure strategies that guarantee a draw against any defence.

10. Two board games
If these experts are
right, then the strategic form of Chess has a row in which all the outcomes are
WIN or DRAW and a column in which all the payoffs are LOSE or DRAW as in Figure
10. Without the backward induction argument, I am not sure that this fact would
seem at all obvious.
Hex
Piet Hein invented this
game in 1942. It was reinvented by Nash in 1948. People say that he had the
idea while contemplating the hexagonal tiling in the men's room of the
Princeton mathematics department. There were indeed hexagonal tiles there, but
Nash tells me that he doesn't recall finding them at all inspiring.
Hex is played between
Black and White on a board of hexagons arranged in a parallelogram, as in
Figure 10. At the beginning of the game, each player's territory consists of
two opposite sides of the board. The players take turns in moving, with White
going first. A move consists of placing one of your counters on a vacant
hexagon. The winner is the first to link their two sides of the board, so Black
was the winner in the game just concluded in Figure 10.
As in Chess, we can
theoretically work out the players' maximin payoffs using backward induction,
but the method isn't practical when the board
is large. But we nevertheless know that White's maximin payoff is WIN. That is
to say, the first player to move has a strategy that guarantees victory against
any defence by the second player. How do we know this?
Note first that Hex can't
end in a draw. To see this, think of the Black counters as water and the White
counters as land. When all the hexagons are occupied, water will then either
flow between the two lakes originally belonging to Black, or else the channel
between them will be dammed. Black wins in the first case, and White in the
second. So either Black or White has a winning strategy.
Nash invented a strategy-stealing
argument to show that the winner must be White. The argument is by
contradiction. If Black were to play a winning strategy, White could steal it
using the following rules:
1.   Put your first counter anywhere.
2.   At later moves, first pretend that the last counter you played isn't on the board. Next pretend
that all the remaining White counters are Black and all the Black counters are
White.
3.   Now make the move that Black would make in this position when using his winning strategy. If
you already have a counter in this position, just move anywhere.
This strategy guarantees
you a win, because you are simply doing what supposedly guarantees Black a win
- but one move earlier. The presence on the board of an extra White counter may
result in your winning sooner than Black would have done, but I guess you won't
complain about that!
Since both players can't
be winners, our assumption that Black has a winning strategy must be wrong. The
winner is therefore White - although knowing this fact won't help her much when playing Hex on a large board, since finding White's
winning strategy is an unsolved problem in the general case.
Notice that the
strategy-stealing argument doesn't tell us anything at all about White's actual
winning strategy. She certainly can't guarantee winning after putting her
first counter just anywhere. If she puts her first counter in an acute corner
of the board, you will probably be able to see why Black then has a winning
strategy in the rest of the game.
It may also be fun to test
your reasoning skills on a version of Hex with which Princeton mathematicians
supposedly used to tease their visitors. An extra line of hexagons is added to
the board so that White's two sides of the board become more distant than
Black's. In the new game, not only is it Black who has a winning strategy, but
we can write his winning strategy down. However, when visitors played as White
against a computer, the board was shown in perspective on the screen to disguise
its asymmetry. The visitors therefore thought they were playing regular Hex,
but to their frustration and dismay, somehow the computer always won!
Deleting dominated
strategies
Every time you throw out a
bunch of choices at a node while carrying out a backward induction, you are
discarding an equivalent bunch of pure strategies. From the point of view of
the strategic form of the game you have reached at that stage, any strategy you
discard is dominated by a strategy which is exactly the same except that
it calls for a best choice to be made at the node in question.
If we exclude the case
when two strategies always yield the same payoff, one strategy is dominated by
another if it never yields a better payoff, no matter what strategies the other
players may use. Thus hawk dominates dove in the Prisoner's
Dilemma (but not in the Stag Hunt Game of Figure 18).
We can therefore mimic
backward induction in a game by successively deleting dominated strategies in
its strategic form. We can sometimes reduce a strategic form to just one
outcome by this method even when not mimicking backward induction. The result
will always be a maximin outcome in a two-person, zero-sum game. But what about
games in general?
Any Nash equilibrium of a
game you get by eliminating dominated strategies from a larger game must also
be a Nash equilibrium of the larger game. The reason is that adding a dominated
strategy to your options in a game can't make any of your current best replies
into something worse. You may sometimes lose Nash equilibria as you delete
dominated strategies (unless all the dominations are strict), but you can never
eliminate all Nash equilibria of the original game.
Guessing games
If Alice trades on the
stock market, she is hoping that the shares she buys will rise in value. Since
their future value depends on what other people believe about them, investors
like Alice are really investing on the basis of their beliefs about other
people's beliefs. If Bob plans to exploit investors like Alice, he will need to
take account of his beliefs about what she believes about what other people
believe. If we want to exploit Bob, we will need to ask what we believe about
what Bob believes about what Alice believes about what other people believe.
John Maynard Keynes
famously used the beauty contests run by newspapers of his time to illustrate
how these chains of beliefs about beliefs get longer and longer the more one
thinks about the problem. The aim in these contests was to chose the girl
chosen by most other people. Game theorists prefer a simpler Guessing Game in
which the winners are the players who choose a number that is closest to
two-thirds of the average of all the numbers chosen.
If the players are
restricted to whole numbers between 1 and 10 inclusive, it is a dominated
strategy to choose a number above 7, because the average can be at most 10, and
23  10 = 623. You therefore always
improve your chances of winning by playing 7 instead of 8, 9, or 10. But if
everybody knows that, nobody will ever play a dominated strategy, then we are
in a game in which the players choose a number between 1 and 7 inclusive. The
average in this game can be at most 7, and 23  7
= 423. So it is a dominated strategy to choose a
number above 5.
It will be obvious where
this argument is going. If it is common knowledge that no player will ever use
a dominated strategy, then all the players must choose the number 1.
Common knowledge
Something is common
knowledge if everybody knows it, everybody knows that everybody knows it,
everybody knows that everybody knows that everybody knows it; and so on. If
nothing is said to the contrary in a rational analysis of a game, it is always
implicitly being assumed that both the game and the rationality of the players
are common knowledge. Otherwise we wouldn't be entitled to use the idea of a
Nash equilibrium to break into infinite regressions of the form: 'Alice thinks
that Bob thinks that Alice thinks that Bob thinks . . . '
I once watched a quiz show
called The Price is Right in which three contestants guess the value of
an antique. Whoever gets closest to the actual value is the winner. If the last
contestant thinks the value is more than both the other two guesses, he should
obviously raise the higher guess by no more than one dollar. Since this isn't
what happens, we would be foolish to try to apply game theory to quiz shows on
the assumption that it is common knowledge that the contestants are rational.
It is therefore fortunate that the evolutionary interpretation of game theory
doesn't require such strong assumptions.

11. Kidnap
Subgame perfection
Daniel Ellsberg is best
known for blowing the whistle on the Nixon administration's conduct of the war
in Vietnam when he leaked the Pentagon Papers to the New York Times in
1971. In an earlier incarnation, he proposed the game of Kidnap.
Kidnap
Alice has kidnapped Bob.
The ransom has been paid, and the question now is whether she should release
him or murder him. Alice would prefer to release Bob if she could be sure that
he wouldn't reveal her identity. Bob has promised to stay silent, but can she
trust his promise?
Figure 11 shows a game
tree for Kidnap together with a corresponding payoff table. Circling best
replies reveals that there is only one Nash equilibrium, in which Alice murders
Bob because she predicts that he will tell if released.
Deleting dominated
strategies leads us to the same Nash equilibrium. Bob's strategy tell is
always at least as good as silent. So we begin by deleting silent.
In the game that remains, Alice's strategy murder is always at least as
good as release (because Bob can only play tell in the reduced
game). So we are left with only the Nash equilibrium (murder, tell).
Deleting dominated
strategies in this way corresponds to using backward induction in the game
tree. First thicken the branch in the game tree that represents Bob's best
choice of tell. Now forget that Bob's inferior choice is there at all,
and thicken the branch that represents Alice's best choice of murder in
the game that remains. We can now see the equilibrium path that will be
followed when Alice and Bob play the Nash equilibrium (murder,tell). In
this case, a single thickened branch links the root of the tree to a leaf; in a
bigger game, the equilibrium path will be a whole sequence of thickened
branches that link the root to a leaf.
In games of perfect
information like Kidnap, backward induction always leads to strategies that are
not only a Nash equilibrium in the whole game, but also in all its subgames -
whether they lie on the equilibrium path or not. Reinhard Selten shared a Nobel
Prize with John Nash partly for introducing this class of equilibria. He first
called them perfect, but later changed his mind about what perfection should
mean. So now we call them subgame perfect.
Counterfactuals
Politicians like to
pretend that hypothetical questions make no sense. As George Bush Senior said
in 1992 when replying to a perfectly reasonable question about unemployment
benefit: 'If a frog had wings, he wouldn't hit his tail on the ground.' But the
game of Kidnap shows why hypothetical questions are the life blood of game
theory - just as they ought to be the life blood of politics.
Rational players stick to
their equilibrium strategies because of what they predict would happen
if they were to deviate. The subjunctives in this sentence appear
because we are talking about a counterfactual event - an event that isn't going
to happen. Far from being irrelevant to anything real, such counterfactual
events always arise when a rational decision is made. Why doesn't Alice ever
step in front of a car when crossing the road? Because she predicts that if she did, she would be run over. Why
does Alice murder Bob in Kidnap? Because she believes that he would tell on her
if she didn't.
What would happen in
subgames that won't be reached therefore matters. It is because of what would
happen if they were reached that they aren't reached!
Changing the game?
Psychologists advise
kidnap victims to try and build up a human relationship with their captors. If
Bob could thereby persuade Alice that he cared sufficiently for her that his
payoffs for remaining silent or telling were reversed, then we would be playing
a different game that one might call Cosy Kidnap.
As Figure 12 shows, Cosy
Kidnap has two Nash equilibria in pure strategies: (murder, tell) and (release,
silent). The equilibrium (murder,tell) isn't subgame perfect any
more, because it calls for Bob to make the inferior choice of tell in
the subgame that is unreached in equilibrium because Alice actually chooses murder,
but which would be reached if Alice were to choose release instead.
However, the new
equilibrium (release,silent) is subgame perfect. It is therefore this
equilibrium that will be played, provided that Alice is rational and knows that
Bob is rational. If the payoffs are chosen according to the theory of revealed
preference, then it is tautological that Bob would play silent rather
than tell if Alice were to play release. Alice will therefore
play release because she knows it will yield a higher payoff than murder.
The moral is that
rationality sometimes tells us more than simply that Alice and Bob must play a
Nash equilibrium.

12. Cosy Kidnap
Ultimatum Game
Reinhard Selten has a
mischievous sense of humour, and it may be that he takes a delight in the
controversy he created with his notion of a subgame-perfect equilibrium. He
certainly added fuel to the fire when he proposed to his student Werner Gth
that he run a laboratory experiment on the subject. The experiment was to see
whether real people would play the subgame-perfect equilibrium in the Ultimatum
Game. Selten predicted that they wouldn't - and he was right.
The Ultimatum Game is a
primitive bargaining game in which a notional philanthropist has donated a sum
of money for Alice and Bob to share if they can agree on how to divide it. The
rules specify that Alice first makes a proposal to Bob on how to divide the
money. He may accept or refuse. If he accepts, Alice's proposal is adopted. If
he refuses, the game ends with both players getting nothing.
It is easy to apply
backward induction to the game on the assumption that both players care only
about getting as much money as possible. If Alice offers Bob a positive amount,
he will say yes, because anything is better than nothing. The most that
Alice will therefore offer is a penny. In a subgame-perfect equilibrium, Alice
therefore scoops the pot.
However, laboratory
experiments show that real people usually play fair. The most likely proposal
is a fifty-fifty split. Proposals for an unfair
split like seventy-thirty are refused more than half the time, even though the
responder then gets nothing at all. This is the most replicated result in
experimental economics. I have replicated it myself several times. It doesn't
go away when the stakes are increased. It holds up even in countries where the
dollar payoffs are a substantial fraction of the subjects' annual income. The
result isn't entirely universal, but one has to follow anthropologists into
remote parts of the world to find exceptions.
A new school of
behavioural economists uses this result as a stick with which to beat their
traditional rivals. They say that the data disprove the 'selfishness axiom' of orthodox
economics. Their challenge is therefore to the hypothesis that people care only
about money rather than to the logic of backward induction.
Actually, it isn't
axiomatic in economics that people are relentlessly selfish. The orthodoxy is
represented by the theory of revealed preference. Everybody agrees that money
isn't everything. Even Milton Friedman used to be kind to animals and give
money to charity. But it is also true that there are an enormous number of
experiments showing that most subjects do eventually end up behaving as though
they were primarily interested in maximizing their dollar payoffs in all but a
few laboratory games. The Prisoner's Dilemma is the norm rather than an
exception. So what is different about the Ultimatum Game?
I think that the answer
lies in the fact that the rational and the evolutionary interpretations of an
equilibrium diverge when applied to subgame-perfect equilibria.
The Ultimatum Minigame
In this simpified version
of the Ultimatum Game, the philanthropist donates $4. Alice can make a fair or
an unfair proposal to Bob. The fair offer is to split the money fifty-fifty.
Bob automatically accepts the fair offer, but has the option of accepting or refusing the unfair offer, which
assigns $3 to Alice and only $1 to Bob. Figure 13 shows the game tree and
payoff table for the Ultimatum Minigame. Its analysis is the same as in Cosy
Kidnap, although here the logic of the argument is controversial because
critics don't like where it leads

13. Ultimatum Minigame.
Apart from the labels of the available actions and some inconsequential changes
in the payoffs, the game is the same as Cosy Kidnap
.
The subgame-perfect
equilibrium is (unfair,yes). Like Cosy Kidnap, the game also has another
Nash equilibrium: (fair,no). In fact, it has lots of Nash equilibria in
which Alice chooses fair because Bob is planning to use a mixed strategy
in which he says no to the unfair offer with a sufficiently high
probability.
The reason that we need to
worry about Nash equilibria that aren't subgame perfect is that we haven't any
reason to suppose that an evolutionary process will necessarily converge on the
subgame-perfect equilibrium. If the subjects are learning by trial and error
which equilibrium to play, they might therefore learn to play any of the Nash
equilibria of the Ultimatum Minigame.
Figure 14 shows two
different evolutionary processes in the Ultimatum Minigame. One is the
best-reply dynamics we encountered earlier; the other is the more complicated replicator
dynamics, which is usually regarded as a superior toy model of an
adjustment process (see Evalutionary Stability, Chapter 8).

14. Evolutionary
adjustment in the Ultimatum Minigame. The subgame-perfect equilibrium is S.
The other Nash equilibria lie in the set N. The latter all require the
use of the weakly dominated strategy no, but N still has a large
basin of attraction in the case of the replicator dynamics
The best-reply dynamics
converge on the subgame-perfect equilibrium, but this isn't necessarily true of
the replicator dynamics. The set of Nash equilibria in which Alice plays fair
has a large basin of attraction in Figure 14.
Evolution doesn't care
that Bob's choice of no is weakly dominated in all of these equilibria.
It is true that yes is always better than no provided that Alice
sometimes plays unfair, but the evolutionary pressure against unfair can
be so strong that it disappears altogether. Once it has gone, no can
survive, because Bob is then indifferent between yes and no.
Fair conventions
We now have an explanation
of the experimental data in the Ultimatum Game that doesn't require assigning
different preferences to the subjects than they reveal when playing the
Prisoner's Dilemma in the laboratory.
In real life, Bob would be
stupid to knuckle under when made an unfair offer, because he can't afford to
acquire a reputation for being a soft touch. We therefore
operate a convention in which Alice is often refused if she makes an unfair
offer. Subjects bring this convention into the laboratory without realizing
either that it coordinates behaviour on an equilibrium in the game of life, or
that the game they are asked to play in the laboratory is very different from
the real-life games for which the convention is adapted.
When subjects start by
playing fair in the Prisoner's Dilemma, evolutionary pressures immediately
start modifying their behaviour, because the only Nash equilibrium in the
Prisoner's Dilemma precludes any cooperation. The Ultimatum Game differs from
the Prisoner's Dilemma in having many Nash equilibria. Any split whatever of
the available money corresponds to a Nash equilibrium, for the same reason that
the same is true in the Ultimatum Minigame. When Alice and Bob begin by playing
fair in the Ultimatum Game, there are no obvious evolutionary pressures urging
them towards the subgame-perfect equilibrium. We therefore don't need to invent
some reason why they don't move much from where they started.
Game theorists are happy
for behavioural economists to make the case against selfishness. How else are
we to explain why Milton Friedman contributed to charity? But they make two
errors when they say: 'Game theory predicts the subgame-perfect equilibrium in
the Ultimatum Game.' The first is that game theory assumes that players
necessarily maximize money. The second is that rational and evolutionary game
theory always predict the same thing.
Refinements
Evolution doesn't always
select subgame-perfect equilibria, but it remains rational for Alice to solve
the Ultimatum Minigame by backward induction when the payoffs are determined by
the theory of revealed preference. The standard assumption that Alice knows that Bob is rational is essential for this
purpose, because Alice needs to be sure that Bob's behaviour will be consistent
with the payoffs assigned to him.
Does our standard
assumption that the rationality of the players is common knowledge imply that a
subgame-perfect equilibrium path will be followed in any finite game of
perfect information? Bob Aumann says yes, and one might think that he
should know, since he won his Nobel Prize partly for making common knowledge
into an operational tool. But examples like Selten's Chain Store paradox
continue to keep the question open.
Chain Store paradox
The Ultimatum Minigame can
be reinterpreted as a game in which Alice is threatening to open a store in a
town where Bob already runs a similar store. We just need to relabel Alice's
strategies as out and in, and Bob's as acquiesce and fight.
Fighting consists of initiating a price war, which is bad for both players.
Selten's paradox arises when Bob runs a chain of stores in a hundred towns and
Alice is replaced by a hundred possible rivals threatening to set up a rival
store in each town.
Just as in the Ultimatum
Minigame, backward induction in the 100th game says that the 100th rival will
enter the market, and Bob will acquiesce. What happens in the 100th game is
therefore determined independently of what happens in previous games, and so exactly
the same argument applies in the 99th game. Continuing in this way, we end up
with the conclusion that the rival will always enter and Bob will always
acquiesce. But wouldn't Bob do better to fight the first few entrants so as to
discourage entry in the remaining towns?
The game tree of Figure 15
is a simplification in which there are only two towns and the rival is always
Alice. If she enters the first town, Bob can acquiesce or fight. If she later
enters the second town, he can again acquiesce or fight. If Alice stays out of
the first town, we simplify by assuming that she necessarily stays out of the
second town. Similarly, if Bob acquiesces in the first town, Alice necessarily
enters the second town, and Bob again acquiesces.

15. A simplified Chain
Store paradox. Apart from the labels of the available actions, the subgame
rooted at Alice's second move is identical to the Ultimatum Minigame
The thickened lines in
Figure 15 show the result of applying backward induction. If the great book of
game theory recommended following the subgame-perfect equilibrium path, it
would therefore be right for Alice to enter both towns and for Bob to acquiesce
each time. But will Alice and Bob follow the book's advice? To explore this
question, put yourself in Bob's position at his first move.
Alice has just entered the
first town as recommended by the book, but what would she do if her second move
were reached? The answer depends on what she predicts Bob would do if his
second move were reached. If Alice knew that Bob were rational, then she would
predict that he would acquiesce. She should then enter, and so Bob should
acquiesce at his first move, as required by backward induction. But Alice wouldn't
know that Bob is rational at her second move,
because a rational Bob wouldn't have fought at his first move if the great book
of game theory were right about what is rational!
Alice began the game
believing Bob to be rational, but if he plays in a manner that is inconsistent
with his preferences by fighting in the first town, her belief will be refuted.
And who knows what she might believe after such a counterfactual event?
Selten's original version of the paradox has 100 stores, because the
common-sense answer after Bob has fought in 50 towns is that he is likely to
fight in the 51st as well. But then the backward induction argument collapses.
The paradox doesn't cast
doubt on backward induction as a way of finding the maximin payoffs in
two-person, zero-sum games. Nor does it create a problem for the rationality of
backward induction in games like Kidnap or the Ultimatum Game. The players'
initial belief that everyone is rational would still be refuted if someone were
to diverge from the equilibrium path, but this fact causes no problem in these
short games. But how are we to respond to the paradox in longer games?
Typos
Subgame-perfect equilibria
are said to be a refinement of the Nash equilibrium concept. They are
safe to use whenever the circumstances make it sensible for the players to
continue behaving as though it is common knowledge that they are all rational
even though one or more irrational moves have been made. A whole bestiary of
even more refined refinements has been created for use in games of imperfect
information. These are based on various different ideas about what beliefs
would make sense in the counterfactual event that a rational player were to
play irrationally. If George Bush Senior were to read the literature, it would
make his head swim! Fortunately, this phase in the history of game theory is
effectively over - although applied economists continue to appeal to whichever refinement in the
bestiary comes closest to confirming their own prejudices.
My own take on these
issues is that we should follow Reinhard Selten's common-sense approach, which
eliminates the need to interpret counterfactuals at all. He recommends that we
build enough chance moves into the rules of our games to remove the possibility
that players will find themselves trying to explain the inexplicable. In the
simplest such models, the players are assumed to make occasional mistakes.
Their hands tremble as they reach for the rational button and they press an
irrational button by mistake. If these mistakes are independent transient
errors - like typos - that have no implications for mistakes that might be made
in the future, then the Nash equilibria of the game with mistakes converge on
subgame-perfect equilibria of the game without mistakes as we allow the
frequency of mistakes to get very small.
Selten tried to downgrade
subgame-perfect equilibria because he decided that the limits of Nash
equilibria in trembling-hand games are what really deserve to be called
perfect. But the rest of the world only concedes that such equilibria are
trembling-hand perfect.
Thinkos
The reason that other game
theorists were unwilling to endorse Selten's new definition can perhaps be
traced to doubts about the generality of his trembling-hand story. If we want a
rational analysis of a game to be relevant to the behaviour of real people
trying to cope intelligently with complex problems, we have to face up to the
fact that their mistakes are much more likely to be 'thinkos' than 'typos'.
For example, nobody would
think it reasonable to explain why the owner of a chain of stores initiated a
price war in 50 successive towns by saying that he always meant to instruct his
managers to acquiesce in the entry of a rival,
but somehow always sent the wrong message by mistake. The only plausible
explanation is that he has a policy of fighting entry, and hence is likely to
fight in the 51st town whether this is foolish or not.
When chance moves are
introduced that allow for such thinkos to occur, the Nash equilibria of the game
with mistakes needn't converge on a subgame-perfect equilibrium of the game
without mistakes. So Nash equilibria of the game without mistakes can't
routinely be thrown away as irrelevant to a rational analysis. But nor do we
want to scrap backward induction. All Nash equilibria of the game with mistakes
are automatically subgame-perfect because the mistakes ensure that every
subgame is always reached with positive probability. Backward induction is
therefore a useful tool when locating these equilibria.
A moral?
The lesson I draw from the
refinement controversy is that game theorists went astray by forgetting that
their discipline has no substantive content. Just as it isn't our business to
say what people ought to like, so it isn't our business to say what they ought
to believe. We can only say that if they believe this, then they would be
inconsistent not to believe that. If we can't analyse a game on such
consistency principles alone, then more information about the players and their
environment needs to be added to the game until we can.








 
Chapter 4
Conventions
There is no
problem about which Nash equilibrium should be regarded as the rational
solution of a two-person, zero-sum game, because any pair of maximin strategies
is always a Nash equilibrium in which the players get their maximin payoffs.
But things can be very different in games that aren't zero sum.
For example,
in the Battle of the Sexes, the maximin payoff for both players is two-thirds.
This happens to be the same as the payoffs they both get in the game's mixed
equilibrium, but their maximin strategies aren't equilibrium strategies.
Moreover, Alice and Bob's payoffs in both pure equilibria of the game are much
bigger than their maximin payoffs. So what should they do?
The Driving
Game makes it obvious that there isn't any point in looking for a strictly
rational answer. Any argument that might be offered in favour of everyone
driving on the left would be an equally good argument for everyone driving on
the right. People sometimes say that the rational solution must therefore be
the mixed equilibrium in which everyone decides whether to drive on the left or
right at random, but this proposal seldom garners much support!
To solve the
Driving Game, we need a commonly accepted convention as to whether we
should drive on the left or the right.
The fact that such a
convention may be entirely arbitrary is reflected in the fact that some
countries have adopted the convention of driving on the left and others of
driving on the right.
Focal points
Societies sometimes choose
conventions deliberately, as when Sweden switched from driving on the left to
driving on the right in the early hours of 1 September 1967. However, one
should perhaps think of Sweden's problem on this occasion as a multi-player
version of the Battle of the Sexes, with some players preferring the
traditional equilibrium and others preferring the equilibrium used by the rest
of continental Europe. Rationality alone can't settle such differences over how
to solve equilibrium selection problems, but the convention in Sweden is to
follow the guidance of its democratically elected government. On the other
hand, it is only necessary to observe the chaos at traffic signals in Naples to
realize that the guidance of a democratically elected government isn't enough
to guarantee that a convention will be honoured.
Tom Schelling
What happens when no
obvious convention is in place? Tom Schelling ran a number of experiments in
the 1950s which show that we aren't so helpless as you might think at first
sight. He says that the conventions that people invent when asked questions
like the following are focal points. Most people are surprised both at their
success in locating focal points, and at the arbitrary nature of the contextual
cues to which they find themselves appealing. An important lesson is that the
context in which games appear - the way a game is framed - can make a
big difference to how real people play them.
1. Two players
independently name heads or tails. They win nothing unless both
say the same, in which case each wins $100. What would you say?
2.   You are to meet someone in New York tomorrow, but no arrangements have been made
about where or when the meeting is to take place. Where will you go? At what
time?
3.   Alice, Bob, and Carol must each independently write down the letters A, B, and
C in some order. They all get nothing unless they choose the same order,
in which case the player whose initial is first gets $300, the player whose
initial is second gets $200, and the player whose initial is third gets $100.
What would you do if you were Carol?
4.   Alice and Bob are each given one of two cards. One card is blank and the other is marked with
a cross. A player can mark a cross on the first card or erase the cross on the
second. Nobody wins anything unless there is one and only one cross on the two
cards when they are handed in. The player who hands in the card with the cross
then wins $200 and the player who hands in the blank card wins $100. What would
you do if given the blank card?
5.   A philanthropist donates $100 to Alice and Bob - provided they can agree on how to divide it. Each player is
independently required to claim a share. If the shares sum to more than $100,
nobody gets anything. Otherwise each player receives the amount that he or she
claimed. How much would you claim?
6.   Alice loses $100 and Bob finds it. Bob is too honest to spend the money, but is unwilling to
return it unless suitably rewarded. What reward would you offer to Bob if you
were Alice? What reward would you offer if Bob had already refused $20? What
reward would you offer if Alice and Bob had watched a television programme together
the previous evening on which some guru announced that the fair split in such
circumstances is for Bob to get a reward of one-third of the total amount?
Most people say heads in
the first question, because it is conventional to say heads before tails
when both are mentioned. How well people do in the second question depends
on their familiarity with New York. Schelling asked New Englanders, who
strongly favoured Grand Central Station at noon. In the third question, Carol usually recognizes that alphabetical
order is so focal that she has to say ABC, although she will then get
the lowest payoff of the three players. In the fourth question, the status
quo is focal, and most people therefore choose to do nothing. In the fifth
question, a fifty-fifty split is almost universal. The sixth question is more
challenging. People usually manage to coordinate effectively only after hearing
about the guru, in which case they nearly always take his advice.
How much is conventional?
Daily life largely
consists of playing a multitude of coordination games with those around us.
When young people learn how to play these coordination games by emulating the
successful players in their environment, they usually don't notice that they
are playing a game at all. They learn whatever convention is current in their
society without appreciating that the convention wouldn't survive in the long
run unless it coordinated behaviour on an equilibrium. When the convention
itself evolved so long ago that its origins are lost in the mists of time, it
can even become conventional to deny that the convention is conventional. It
then becomes impossible to recognize that other societies may be playing
essentially the same game as us, but that their different social history has
led to a different equilibrium of the game becoming focal.
David Hume was the first
philosopher to say out loud that many of our rules of social behaviour are no
more solidly founded than the convention we use to select an equilibrium in the
Driving Game. In his Treatise of 1739, he famously says:
Two men who pull the oars
of a boat, do it by an agreement or convention, although they have never given
promises to each other. Nor is the rule concerning the stability of possessions
the less derived from human conventions, that it arises gradually, and acquires
force by a slow progression ...In like manner are languages gradually
established by human conventions without any promise. In like manner do gold
and silver become the common measures of exchange, and are esteemed sufficient
payment for what is of a hundred times their value.

16. David Hume
Most people have no
difficulty in accepting the conventional nature of language or money, but draw
the line when philosophers like Hume suggest that the same is
true in sensitive subjects like ethics or religion. Sometimes their opposition
to moral relativism or evolutionary biology is so strong that they feel the
need to throw out game theory as well. But, whatever you may think of Hume's
bathwater, game theory is a baby worth clasping to your bosom.
Game theory can never be a
threat to any consistent religious or ethical system, because it has no more
substantive content than arithmetic or logic. It only says that some
propositions aren't consistent with other propositions. Like arithmetic or
logic, it can therefore be used on either side of any argument.
Many game theorists are
deeply religious - notably Bob Aumann, who shared a Nobel Prize with Tom
Schelling in 2006. Steve Brams has even written a book using game theory to
make theological points. I am a sceptic myself, but my Natural Justice accepts
that some fairness principles are universal in the human species. In brief, the
only folk who need fear the use of game theory are those whose beliefs are
inconsistent.
Bad conventions
The mixed equilibrium in
the Driving Game isn't at all efficient, since players who use it will end up
in a stand-off half the time. But it is an equilibrium nevertheless, and hence
available as a possible convention. I used to say that it is a convention that
has never actually emerged anywhere in the world, until corrected by some
Turks, who observed that I had obviously never visited Turkey. But I have now,
and I see what they mean.
Schelling's Solitaire is a
toy model intended to show how cultural evolution can easily bring about such
socially undesirable conventions without any need for an evil genius plotting
the downfall of society in the background. It is played on a Chessboard with
Black and White counters. Each counter represents a householder. The square the counter
occupies represents his or her house. The surrounding squares (up to eight)
represent the householder's neighbourhood. So a counter on one of these squares
is a neighbour

17. Schelling's
Solitaire
Each counter is sensitive
to the colours of its neighbours. Whites wish one half or more of their
neighbours to be White. Blacks wish one third or more of their neighbours to be
Black. You operate the evolutionary process by moving discontented counters to
squares on which they are content until nobody who wants to move has anywhere
they want to go. Schelling recommends starting with Black counters on all the
Black squares of the Chessboard and White counters on all the White squares.
You remove some of these at random and then start the process. In Figure 17, 12
counters were removed.
The two configurations
shown in Figure 17 are equilibrium outcomes of the process. They differ because
there is some randomness in the initial configuration and in your choice of
which discontented counter to move next. But the equilibrium that emerges nearly
always has Black and White counters occupying segregated neighbourhoods. It is
worth playing Schelling's Solitaire a few times to get a feeling for how
inexorable the separation process can be. Everyone in the model would be content to live in a mixed neighbourhood but they end
up with a convention in which they are segregated.
Social dilemmas
Schelling's Solitaire
shows how easy it can be for a convention to get established that nobody likes.
Following the sociologist Vilfredo Pareto, economists say that outcomes are
inefficient when there are other outcomes that everybody likes better. But if
we realize that we are operating an inefficient convention, aren't we being
collectively irrational not to move to an efficient one?
Perhaps the most important
role for game theory is to insist that any reform needs to coordinate behaviour
on an equilibrium if it is to survive in the long run. If there is no
satisfactory equilibrium to which we can move, as in Schelling's Solitaire,
inventing a new kind of rationality that somehow whitewashes over the
inconsistencies in individual behaviour implied by out-of-equilibrium play can
only make things worse. One only has to look at the long history of failed
utopias to see why.
Karl Marx is a major
culprit. In treating Capital and Labor as monolithic players in a mighty game,
he failed to see that the cohesion of a coalition depends on the extent to
which it succeeds in satisfying the aspirations of its individual members. The
same is true when a whole society is treated as though it were a single
individual written large. This isn't to deny that group solidarity can
sometimes temporarily triumph over individual incentives - even when there is
no prospect of blacklegs being punished by the comrades they betray. Nor is to
deny that we would arguably all be better off if we identified more often with
some conception of the common good. Such behaviour is certainly selfless or
even saintly, but we defraud ourselves if we insist that more selfish behaviour
is somehow irrational.
As the grumpy philosopher
Thomas Hobbes explained long ago:
Bees or Ants, live
sociably one with another ... and therefore some man may perhaps desire to know
why Mankind cannot do the same. To which I answer . . . amongst these
creatures, the common good differeth not from the private.
In game theory terms,
Hobbes is saying that the games that social insects play with each other are
games of pure coordination, but I guess that most people would agree with me
that the same is seldom true of human beings.
The errors I am pointing
out here are typical of intellectuals of the left, but intellectuals of the
right need not congratulate themselves. They typically make the complementary
error of overlooking the possibility that there may be more efficient equilibria
than the equilibrium we are currently operating.
What game theory can
contribute to such debates is a framework within which one can realistically
discuss what is or is not possible for a society. What equilibria are available
in the game we are playing? Is there an equilibrium we all like better than the
equilibrium we are currently playing? If we don't like any of the available
equilibria, can we change the rules of the game or the players' preferences
somehow?
Suppose everybody behaved
like that? 
Social psychologists say
that a situation in which achieving an efficient outcome conflicts with the
incentives of the individual members of a group is a social dilemma. The
Prisoner's Dilemma is the archetypal example.
You can usually tell that
you are in a social dilemma by the fact that your mother would register her
disapproval of any hawkish inclination on your part by saying, 'Suppose
everybody behaved like that?' Immanuel Kant is
sometimes said to be the greatest philosopher of all time, but he too thought that
it couldn't be rational to do something if it would be bad if everybody did it.
As his famous categorical imperative says: 'Act only on the maxim that you
would will to be a universal law.'
For example, when waiting
at an airport carousel for our bags, we would all be better off if we all stood
well back so that we could see our bags coming. But if everybody else does
that, it profits each individual to edge forward a little, and so we all end up
straining our necks to peer over a wall of backs.
We would similarly all
benefit if we turned our air conditioners down when a brown-out is threatened,
or if we didn't use our lawn sprinklers in a drought. The same applies when
people stand up at a football match, or when they conduct their business in
slow motion after reaching the head of a long line.
When large numbers of
anonymous folk play such social dilemmas, Kant and your mother are right to
predict that things will work out badly if everybody responds to their
individual incentives. But urging people to behave better in such situations is
seldom effective. Why should you lose out by paying heed to your mother when
everybody else is ignoring theirs?
Tragedyof the Commons
The everyday social
dilemmas described above are irritating, but some social dilemmas spell life or
death for those who must play them. A toy example is called the Tragedy of the
Commons by political scientists.
A hundred families keep
goats that graze on some common land. Total milk production is maximized with a
thousand goats in all.
How many goats should each
family keep to maximize its own milk production?
At first sight, the answer
seems to be ten, but it isn't an equilibrium for each family to keep ten goats.
If all the other families keep ten goats, your family's optimal strategy isn't
to do the same. You will do better by grazing one goat more, because your
family will enjoy all the benefit from the extra goat, while its cost in terms
of less grass for the other goats to eat will be shared by the whole community.
Families will therefore add extra goats to their herd until the common is
reduced to a desert. But this outcome is very inefficient indeed.
The Tragedy of the Commons
captures the logic of a whole spectrum of environmental disasters that we have
brought upon ourselves. The Sahara Desert is relentlessly expanding southward,
partly because the pastoral peoples who live on its borders persistently
overgraze its marginal grasslands. We pump carbon dioxide into the atmosphere
as though there were no tomorrow. We poison our rivers. We jam our roads with
cars. We fell the rainforests. We have plundered our fisheries until some fish
stocks have reached a level from which they may never recover.
Game theorists get a lot
of stick for denying that the individual behaviour that leads to such disasters
is irrational. Our critics ask how it can possibly be rational for a society to
engineer its own ruin. Can't we see that everybody would be better off if
everybody were to grab less of the common resource? The error in such reasoning
is elementary. A player in the human game of life isn't some abstract entity
called 'everybody'. We are all separate individuals, each with our own aims and
purposes. Even when our capacity for love moves us to make sacrifices for
others, we each do so in our own way and for our own reasons. If we pretend
otherwise, we have no hope of ever getting to grips with the Tragedy of the
Commons.
Stag Hunt Game
Jean-Jacques Rousseau, the
prophet of the French Revolution, accepted that political games are seldom
games of pure coordination. His solution was to convert them into games of pure
coordination by changing our preferences: 'If you would have the general will
accomplished, bring all the particular wills into conformity with it.'
Game theorists overlook
the impracticality of this radical programme and focus instead on his parable
of a stag hunt. Alice and Bob agree to cooperate in hunting a stag, but when
they separate to put their plan into action, each may be tempted to abandon the
joint enterprise by the prospect of bagging a hare for themselves.
Only slight changes in the
payoffs of the give-and-take version of the Prisoner's Dilemma of Figure 7 are
necessary to obtain the Stag Hunt Game of Figure 18, but they are enough to
make it a Nash equilibrium for both players to play dove.
The Stag Hunt Game
therefore looks like a game that doesn't create a social dilemma. If we find
ourselves operating the inefficient Nash equilibrium in which Alice and Bob
both play hawk, we can shift to the efficient Nash equilibrium in which
they both play dove. However, the payoffs in the Stag Hunt Game have been
carefully chosen to make such a shift hard to manage.
The basin of attraction of
the inefficient equilibrium is large and that of the efficient equilibrium is
small. So it is difficult for evolution to get us out of the basin of
attraction of the inefficient equilibrium and into the basin of attraction of
the efficient equilibrium. It is true that we aren't animals who have to wait
for the slow forces of evolution to establish a new convention. We can talk to
each other and agree to alter the way we do things. But can we trust each other
to keep any agreement we might make?

18. The Stag Hunt Game.
The diagram on the right shows that the basin of attraction for the Nash
equilibrium (dove,
dove) is much smaller than the basin of attraction for the Nash
equilibrium (hawk, hawk). The basin of
attraction for the mixed Nash equilibrium in which dove is played
two-thirds of the time is just the broken line
Variants of the Stag Hunt
Game are used by experts in international relations under the name of the
Security Dilemma or the Assurance Game to draw attention to the problems that
can arise even when the players are rational.
Suppose that the current
convention is to play hawk, but Alice seeks to persuade Bob that she
plans to play dove in the future, and so he should follow suit. Will he
be convinced? Game theorists think not. The reason is that whatever Alice is
actually planning to play, it is in her interests to persuade Bob to play dove.
If she succeeds, she will get 5 rather than 0 if she is planning to play dove,
and 4 rather than 2 if she is planning to play hawk. Rationality alone
therefore doesn't allow Bob to deduce anything about her plan of action from
what she says, because she is going to say the same thing no matter what her
real plan may be! Alice may actually think that Bob is unlikely to be persuaded
to switch from hawk and hence be planning to play hawk herself,
yet still try to persuade him to play dove.
Trust?
This Machiavellian story
shows that attributing rationality to the players isn't enough to resolve the
equilibrium selection problem - even in a seemingly transparent case like the
Stag Hunt Game. The standard response is to ask why game theorists insist that
it is irrational for people to trust one another. Wouldn't Alice and Bob both
be better off if both had more faith in each other's honesty?
Nobody denies that Alice
and Bob would be better off if they trusted each other. Nor do game theorists
say that trust is irrational. They only say that it isn't rational to trust
people without a good reason: that trust can't be taken on trust. For example,
no Neapolitan is likely to trust his fellow drivers to start honouring traffic
signals just because some authority figure says that they should.
So how can we ever move
from one equilibrium to another? The collapse of the Soviet Empire provides a
magnificent case study. Some Eastern European countries successfully followed
the example of Sweden in the Driving Game by switching from a command economy
to a market economy more or less overnight. They thereby minimized the
opportunity for matters to slide out of control - as in Gorbachev's Russia -
while the system was out of equilibrium during the interregnum.
But it would be just as
much a mistake to deduce from the Stag Hunt Game that gradual transitions
between conventions are never possible as it would be to deduce from the
Prisoner's Dilemma that the same is true of rational cooperation. Neither game
is adequate as a model of how whole societies work. They are just toys,
invented to make a particular point.








 
Chapter 5
Reciprocity
If we want
to understand a whole society, we can't neglect the role of reciprocity, which
philosophers from Confucius to Hume have identified as the mainspring of human
sociality. If they are right, then we all play our part in maintaining a
complex network of reciprocal arrangements with those around us. But we
understand how the system works no better than the physics we use when riding a
bicycle.
Game theory
offers some insight into the nuts and bolts of such self-policing
understandings. How do they work? Why do they survive? How much cooperation can
they support?
Repeated
games
In a one-shot
game, Alice can't promise to scratch Bob's back tomorrow if he will scratch her
back today, because we have implicitly assumed that they are never going to
meet again. The simplest setting in which reciprocity can arise requires the
same players to play the same game over and over again.
Repetition
with a fixed horizon
The
Prisoner's Dilemma epitomizes the fact that cooperation needn't be rational. Does this unpleasant
conclusion go away if
Alice and Bob play
repeatedly? If it is common knowledge that Alice and Bob are to play the
Prisoner's Dilemma every day for the next week, backward induction says that
the answer is no. Politicians get dismissed as lame ducks near the end
of their period in office for much the same reason.
On Saturday - the last day
of the week - Alice and Bob will be playing the regular Prisoner's Dilemma, in
which it is rational to play hawk. On Friday, they will therefore know
that nothing they do today can affect what will happen tomorrow. So they will play
hawk on Friday. Working backward through each day of the week, we find
that rational players will always play hawk. (There are also Nash
equilibria that aren't subgame perfect, but all these also require that hawk
is played on the equilibrium path.)
Indefinite repetition
Should we conclude that
rational cooperation is impossible even when the Prisoner's Dilemma is
repeated? This would be a rash conclusion, because it isn't realistic to assume
that Alice and Bob are sure that they will never interact again after next
Saturday. In real life, relationships are nearly always open-ended. So what
happens in the repeated Prisoner's Dilemma if it isn't common knowledge that
Alice and Bob will never meet again? The answer is that rational cooperation
now becomes feasible.
In the simplest toy model,
Alice and Bob always believe that there is some positive probability that they
will play the Prisoner's Dilemma at least one more time, no matter how many
times they may have played in the past. If this probability is large enough and
the players care enough about their future payoffs, then the repeated game has
many Nash equilibria. In some of these, dove is always played on the
equilibrium path.
To see this, it is enough
to look at the GRIM strategy, which requires Alice always to play dove in
the indefinitely repeated
Prisoner's Dilemma unless
Bob ever plays hawk. If he does play hawk, the GRIM strategy says
that Alice should retaliate by permanently switching to hawk herself. If
both players use the GRIM strategy, neither will provoke the other into playing
hawk, and so they will both play dove all the time. But is the
pair (GRIM,GRIM) a Nash equilibrium?
All best replies to the
GRIM strategy tell Bob never to be the first to play hawk. If he does
play hawk, the best payoff stream he could get in the future is 3, 1,
1, 1, . . ., which is worse than the payoff stream of 2, 2,2,
. . . he gets by always playing dove. As the GRIM strategy always
calls for the play of dove when matched against itself, it follows that
the choice of GRIM by Bob is a best reply to the choice of GRIM by Alice. Since
the same is true of Alice, the pair (GRIM, GRIM) is a Nash equilibrium
for the indefinitely repeated Prisoner's Dilemma.
Punishment
Critics who mistakenly
believe that game theory denies that people are
naturally altruistic sometimes take umbrage at the idea that cooperation supposedly can't work without the
threat of punishment. They particularly
dislike the GRIM strategy because it punishes any
deviation from the equilibrium path with relentless determination.
Such critics are right to
the extent that the threat of punishment is intrinsic to reciprocal cooperation.
If Alice tells Bob that she will scratch his back if he will scratch hers, the
implication is that she won't scratch his back if he won't scratch hers. People
don't usually provide a service unless they expect to get something in return.
If the service isn't reciprocated, then it will be withdrawn. Sometimes, a
disservice will be offered instead. However, extravagant punishments like those
built into the GRIM strategy are only encountered in extreme circumstances in
real life. Everyday punishments are more usually proportional to the offence.

19. Reciprocal grooming
by chimps
We are so habituated to
responding appropriately to the small punishments that are provoked by our
small offences that we seldom even notice that we are responding at all.
Subliminal signals from those around us are automatically translated into
behaviour without any conscious control. No stick is commonly flourished. What
happens most of the time is that the carrot is withdrawn a little. Shoulders
are turned slightly away. Greetings are imperceptibly gruffer. Eyes wonder
elsewhere. These are all warnings that your body ignores at its peril, because
they signal that more serious social exclusion will follow if you don't mend
your ways.
Altruism?
The fact that game
theorists think that more cooperation is reciprocal than is generally
appreciated doesn't imply that they hold that cooperation is impossible without
reciprocity. If people have sufficiently altruistic preferences, then rational
cooperation ceases to be problematic even in one-shot games. For example, if
Alice and Bob have utilitarian preferences that make them want to maximize the
sum of both their payoffs rather than their own individual payoffs, then it
would be a Nash equilibrium for both to play dove in
the Prisoner's Dilemma. (We shall encounter exactly this case when Alice and
Bob are identical twins in the Hawk-Dove Game in Chapter 8.)
How much people care about
each other is an empirical question on which game theory is necessarily silent.
My own view is that although the human cocktail obviously contains more than a
smidgen of Dr Jekyll, I wouldn't join a utopia that denies the existence of Mr
Hyde.
Such utopias sometimes
work well enough to begin with, but the original sweetness and light notoriously
erode as the players unconsciously respond to their incentives. Here, for
example, is an IRS Commissioner explaining why a survey showed that the
percentage of the public who thought it OK to cheat on their taxes was up from
11% to 17% over the previous five years: 'It's a basic sense of fairness.
Somebody out there is complying with the law, and they see others doing things,
and over time, they feel like chumps' (Mark Everett in USA Today, 8
April 2004). So the IRS continues to audit on the assumption that nearly
everybody will eventually find an excuse to cheat if they don't provide
adequate disincentives.
Folk theorem
Can strategies other than
GRIM support rational cooperation in the indefinitely repeated Prisoner's
Dilemma? What of rational cooperation in other repeated games?
Although game theory's
answer to these questions is called the folk theorem, there is no Professor
Folk. After Nash published his ideas on Nash equilibrium, Bob Aumann found that
everybody in the business already seemed to know about the implications for
repeated games, and so he decided that his thoughts on the subject should be
regarded as folk wisdom.
David Hume had already
explained how reciprocity works in 1739, but I don't suppose that Aumann knew
anything about his work. The biologist Robert Trivers was equally ignorant of
Aumann's ideas when he reinvented them under the heading of reciprocal altruism
20 years later. It was only with the publication of Axelrod's Evolution of
Cooperation in 1984 that the idea finally stopped being rediscovered - in
much the same way that America ceased being discovered after the voyage of
Columbus in 1492.
The Trust Minigame
As a small child, I
remember wondering why shopkeepers hand over the goods
after being paid. Why don't they just pocket the money?
Economists call this the
hold-up problem. My favourite example is the Antwerp diamond market. Traders
hand over enormously valuable diamonds for inspection without even asking for a
receipt. Why don't they get cheated? I found the neatest explanation in the New
York Times of 29 August 1991. When asked why he could rely on the honesty
of the owner of the antique store that sold his finds on commission, a dealer
unfamiliar with the GRIM strategy replied: 'Sure I trust him. You know the ones
to trust in this business. The ones who betray you, bye-bye.'
The Trust Minigame is a
toy game that highlights these questions of trust and reputation. When Alice
delivers a service to Bob, trusting him to reciprocate by making a payment in
return, their predicament is essentially the same as in the game Kidnap of
Figure 11. To see why, just relabel Alice's release strategy as deliver
and Bob's silent strategy as pay.
Since Kidnap has a unique
subgame-perfect equilibrium, the same is true of the Trust Minigame. Alice
doesn't deliver the service, because she predicts that Bob won't pay. But the
folk theorem tells us that all payoff pairs in the heavily shaded region of
Figure 20 are Nash equilibrium outcomes of the indefinitely repeated game
- including the payoff pair (2,1) that arises when Alice always delivers
and Bob always pays

20. The folk theorem.
The shaded regions show the cooperative payoff regions for the Prisoner's
Dilemma and the Trust Minigame. These are the sets of payoff pairs on which the
players could agree if pre-play bargains were enforceable. The deeply shaded
triangles show the payoff pairs per game that the folk theorem shows to be
available as equilibrium outcomes in the repeated versions of the two games
when the players are sufficiently patient
.
To understand why the folk
theorem works, it is useful to ask what possibilities would be open to Alice
and Bob if they were to bargain in advance about how to play the one-shot Trust
Minigame. One possibility is that they might agree on any of the three payoff
pairs in the table of Figure 11. These payoff pairs are located at the corners
of the shaded triangle in Figure 20. The remaining points in the triangle can
be achieved as compromises obtained by tossing coins or taking turns. For
example, the payoff pair that results if Alice and Bob agree that she will
always deliver but he will only pay half the time lies midway between the pairs
(0, 2) and (2, 1). Since it consists of all possible compromises
on which Alice and Bob might agree, the shaded triangle is called the
cooperative payoff region for the Trust Minigame.
The problem with the
bargaining story is that it won't work without some kind of external agency
willing and able to enforce any contracts that Alice and Bob may write. Without
such an external agency, any agreements between Alice and Bob must be self-policing.
That is to say, it must be optimal for a player to keep the agreement provided
that the other does so too. It follows that only Nash equilibria are available
as viable deals. So the only possibility for rational players in the one-shot
Trust Minigame is the inefficient outcome in which Alice doesn't deliver
because Bob isn't going to pay. But what happens if the game is repeated
indefinitely often?
It always remains a Nash
equilibrium in a repeated game to keep playing a Nash equilibrium of the one-shot
game, but the folk theorem says that there are always lots more equilibria. If
the players are sufficiently patient and the probability that the game will be
played at least one more time is sufficiently high, then any payoff pair
inside the cooperative payoff region is available as a Nash equilibrium outcome
- provided it pays both players their minimax values or more.
The basic argument is so
easy that it is no wonder it was discovered by pretty much everyone who gave
repeated games any thought after Nash published his equilibrium idea in 1951.
Pick any potential agreement inside the cooperative payoff region. To make this
into a Nash equilibrium outcome, we need only punish any players who deviate
from the strategy they need to follow in order to implement the agreement. For
the purposes of the argument, it is easiest to use the kind of implacable
punishment characteristic of the GRIM strategy, in which any deviation is
punished forever in the most severe manner available.
What is the most severe
punishment Alice can inflict on Bob? The worst she can do is to hold him to his
minimax payoff - because he will respond to her attempt to minimize his payoff
by making the reply that maximizes his
payoff given her choice of punishment strategy. In the Prisoner's Dilemma, the
minimax payoff for both players is 0. In the Trust Minigame, Alice's minimax
payoff is 1 and Bob's is 0. The heavily shaded regions in Figure 20 therefore
show all self-policing agreements for the indefinitely repeated versions of the
Prisoner's Dilemma and the Trust Minigame. No other agreements can be supported
as Nash equilibrium outcomes.
What can go wrong?
Easy though it is to
prove, I think the folk theorem embodies perhaps the most significant insight
available to political philosophy. It says that we don't need an external
enforcement agency - whether real or invented - to cooperate successfully. In a
repeated situation, we can enjoy all the fruits of cooperation by acting as our
own policemen.
However, the folk theorem
has a major limitation. It assumes that any deviations from equilibrium will be
observed by the other players. This is probably not a bad assumption in the
case of the small bands of hunter-gatherers in which human culture first
evolved. As in the small towns of today, presumably everybody knew everybody
else's business. But this certainly isn't true of modern city life. In the
anonymity of a big city, it isn't possible to detect and punish deviants often
enough to deter cheating. We do our best with CCTV cameras, policemen,
auditors, tax inspectors, and the like, but nobody would want to claim that our
efforts in this direction are anywhere near efficient.
I wish I could say that
game theorists have all the answers to the imperfect monitoring problem, but it
remains largely terra incognita in spite of the efforts of many clever
people. This is perhaps the area of game theory in which further progress would
have the greatest social benefits.
Tit-for-tat
Most social scientists
think that everything they need to know about reciprocity is summarized in the
strategy TIT-FOR-TAT for the indefinitely repeated Prisoner's Dilemma. It tells
a player to begin by playing dove and then to copy whatever the other
player did last time. It is a Nash equilibrium if both Alice and Bob play TIT-FOR-TAT
just as it is a Nash equilibrium if they both play GRIM, but TIT-FOR-TAT
doesn't punish a deviation relentlessly. Repentant sinners are forgiven after
they return to the fold by playing dove again.
The popularity of
TIT-FOR-TAT derives from Bob Axelrod's Olympiad, in which social scientists
were invited to submit computer programs to be matched against each other in
the indefinitely repeated Prisoner's Dilemma. After learning the outcome of a
pilot round, the contestants submitted programs that implemented 63 of the
infinite number of possible strategies for the game.
The most successful
strategy in the competition was TIT-FOR-TAT. So Axelrod continued by simulating
the effect of evolution operating on all 63 strategies. The fact that
TIT-FOR-TAT was the most numerous of all the surviving programs at the end of
the evolutionary simulation clinched the question for Axelrod, who then
proceeded to propose TIT-FOR-TAT as a suitable paradigm for human cooperation
across the board. In describing its virtues, he says:
What accounts for
TIT-FOR-TAT's robust success is its combination of being nice, retaliatory,
forgiving and clear. Its niceness prevents it from getting into unnecessary
trouble. Its retaliation discourages the other side from persisting whenever
defection is tried. Its forgiveness helps restore mutual cooperation. And its
clarity makes it intelligible to the other player, thereby eliciting long-term
cooperation.
But to describe
TIT-FOR-TAT as the most successful strategy in Axelrod's simulation was to gild
the lily. Six of the strategies entered for Olympiad survived the evolutionary
process, and so the true winner was the mixed strategy in which the surviving
strategies are played with the frequency with which they were present when the
process stabilized. The frequency of TIT-FOR-TAT in this mixture of six
strategies was actually only a little more than one-sixth. Nor is the limited
success TIT-FOR-TAT enjoyed in the simulation robust when the initial
population of entries is varied. The unforgiving GRIM does extremely well when
the initial population of entries isn't biased in favour of TIT-FOR-TAT.
Axelrod defined a nice
strategy to be one that is never the first to play hawk, but it isn't
true that we can count on evolution to generate nice behaviour as he suggests.
When some small fraction of suckers worth exploiting is allowed to flow
continually into the system, mean strategies outperform TIT-FOR-TAT. The
simplest such mean strategy is TAT-FOR-TIT, which begins by playing hawk and
thereafter switches its action if and only if the opponent played hawk last
time. Two TAT-FOR-TIT strategies are a Nash equilibrium in the infinitely
repeated Prisoner's Dilemma, in which cooperation is achieved only after the
first round of play.
As for clarity, it is only
necessary for cooperation to evolve that a mutant be able to recognize a copy
of itself.
All that is then left on
Axelrod's list is the requirement that a successful strategy be retaliatory.
This is perhaps the claim that has done most harm, because it applies only in pairwise
interactions. For example, it is said that reciprocity can't explain the
evolution of friendship. It is true that the offensive-defensive alliances of
chimpanzees can't be explained with a tit-for-tat story. If Alice needs help
because she is hurt or sick, her allies have no incentive to come to her aid,
because she is now unlikely to be useful as an ally in the future. Any threat
she makes to withdraw her cooperation will therefore be
empty. But it needn't be the injured party who punishes a cheater in
multi-person interactions. Others will be looking on if Bob abandons Alice to
her fate, and they will punish his faithlessness by refusing to form alliances
with him in the future. After all, who wants to make an alliance with someone
with a reputation for abandoning friends when they are in trouble?
I think the enthusiasm for
TIT-FOR-TAT survives for the same reason that people used to claim that it is
rational to cooperate in the one-shot Prisoner's Dilemma. They want to believe
that human beings are essentially nice. But the real lesson to be learned from
Axelrod's Olympiad and many later evolutionary simulations is infinitely more
reassuring. Although Axelrod's claims for TIT-FOR-TAT are overblown, his
conclusion that evolution is likely to generate a cooperative outcome seems to
be genuinely robust. We therefore don't need to pretend that we are all Dr
Jekylls in order to explain how we manage to get on with each other fairly well
much of the time. Even a society of Mr Hydes can eventually learn to coordinate
on an efficient equilibrium in an indefinitely repeated game.
Emergent phenomena
Game theory models of
social relationships are sometimes criticized as reductionist because they make
no reference to notions like authority, blame, courtesy, duty, envy,
friendship, guilt, honour, integrity, justice, loyalty, modesty, ownership,
pride, reputation, status, trust, virtue, and the like. The inference is that
game theory is an inhuman discipline which treats people like robots.
It is true that - like all
successful sciences - game theory is reductive, but it doesn't follow that game
theorists think that concepts like authority or duty are irrelevant to human
behaviour. On the contrary, we believe that such notions are emergent phenomena that arise when people try to make sense of
the equilibria they find themselves playing in the game of life.
For example, the folk
explanation of the equilibrium in which Alice always delivers and Bob always
pays in the Trust Minigame is that Bob can't afford to lose his reputation for
honesty by cheating on Alice, because she will then refuse to provide any service
to him in the future. In practice, Bob will usually be someone new, but the
same equilibrium works just as well, because nobody will be any more ready than
Alice to trade with someone with a reputation for not paying.
Far from denying such
stories, game theory offers a nuts-and-bolts explanation of why they sometimes
work - and why they sometimes fail. For example, our critics say that we are
wrong about the Trust Minigame, because people still pay up, even in one-shot
games in which their reputation for honesty is irrelevant. But I notice that
filling stations increasingly make you pay in advance for your petrol,
presumably because they have experienced the subgame-perfect equilibrium in the
one-shot Trust Minigame too often to be willing to play that game any more.
Authority
David Hume tells us that
the authority of popes, presidents, kings, judges, policemen, and the like is
just a matter of convention and habit. Alice obeys the king because such is the
custom - and the custom survives because the king will order Bob to punish
Alice if she fails to obey. But why does Bob obey the order to punish Alice? In
brief, who guards the guardians?
Game theory answers this
ancient question by showing that a version of the folk theorem holds not only
for Nash equilibria, but for subgame-perfect equilibria as well. When such an
equilibrium is in use, it is always optimal to punish any deviant
behaviour that leads us to a subgame off the
equilibrium path. If you deviate yourself by trying to evade the cost of
punishing a deviant, you will take us to another subgame where it is optimal
for some other player to punish you. If he fails to do so, we go to yet another
subgame - and so on forever.
Immanuel Kant naively
thought that to contemplate such chains of responsibility is to initiate an
infinite regress, but the folk theorem shows that the chains of responsibility
can be bent back on each other. With only a finite number of players, these
chains of responsibility are necessarily closed in a manner that Kant failed to
consider. Alice obeys the king because she fears Bob will otherwise punish her.
Bob would obey the order to punish Alice because he fears that Carol will
otherwise punish him. Carol would obey the order to punish Bob because she
fears that Alice will otherwise punish her.
At first sight, such a
spiral of self-confirming beliefs seems too fragile to support anything solid.
It is true that the beliefs go round in a circle, but the folk theorem shows
that their fragility is an illusion, since the behaviour generated by the
beliefs holds together as a subgame-perfect equilibrium.
Duty
Anthropologists tell us
that pure hunter-gatherer societies have no authority structure. Food is
gathered and distributed on the principle that all contribute according to
their ability, and benefit according to their need.
How can such a social
contract survive? If only the tit-for-tat mechanism were available, why would
anybody share food with powerless folk outside their family? But the punishment
for failing to share needn't be administered by whoever is left to go hungry.
In modern foraging bands, the whole group joins in punishing a deviant.
To see how this can work,
imagine a toy world in which only a mother and a daughter are alive at any
time. Each player lives for two periods. The first period is her youth, and the
second her old age. In her youth, a player bakes two (large) loaves of bread.
She then gives birth to a daughter, and immediately grows old. Old players are
too feeble to work, and so produce nothing.
One equilibrium requires
each player to consume both her loaves of bread in her youth. Everyone will
then have to endure a miserable old age, but everyone will be optimizing given
the choices of the others. All players would prefer to consume one loaf in
their youth and one loaf in their old age. But this 'fair' outcome can only be
achieved if the daughters all give one of their two loaves to their mothers,
because bread perishes if not consumed when baked.
Mothers can't retaliate if
their daughters are selfish, but the fair outcome can nevertheless be sustained
as an equilibrium. In this fair equilibrium, a conformist is a player who gives
her mother a loaf if and only if her mother was a conformist in her youth.
Conformists therefore reward other conformists, and punish nonconformists.
To see why a daughter
gives her mother a loaf, suppose that Alice, Beatrice, and Carol are mother, daughter,
and granddaughter. If Beatrice neglects Alice, she becomes a nonconformist.
Carol therefore punishes Beatrice, to avoid becoming a nonconformist herself.
If not, she will be punished by her daughter - and so on. If the first-born
player is deemed to be a conformist, it is therefore a subgame-perfect
equilibrium for everybody to be a conformist. However, the injured party is
never the person who punishes an infringement of the social contract. Indeed,
the injured party is dead at the time the infringement is punished!
In real life, we say that
daughters have a duty to care for their helpless mothers. The model
shows how such duties could be honoured in a
rational world even if all daughters were stonyhearted egoists.
Role of the emotions
Emotions were once
dismissed as irrational urges left over from our evolutionary history. The
socially aroused emotions associated with pride, envy, and anger are still
counted among the seven deadly sins. But if these emotions are as
self-destructive as tradition holds, how come evolution equipped us with them?
I share the now widely held view that tradition is plain wrong in seeing no
useful role for our emotional reactions to social events.
For example, the
prototypical scenario for the expression of anger arises when Alice treats Bob
unfairly. In his anger at her injustice, he is then likely to inflict some harm
on her. Alice therefore takes care to keep her acquisitive urges under control
lest she incur his ire.
In this way, it is
possible to sustain efficient equilibria in repeated games without any of the
players even being aware that they are playing a repeated game. How else would
chimpanzees be capable of sustaining high levels of reciprocal altruism? How
would humans be capable of the same feat if we always had to spend half an hour
or more calculating what to do before taking any action? Some of our thinking
in these situations must surely be hardwired, and perhaps getting into an
emotional state is simply how it feels when our autopilot takes over the controls.
Revenge
Suppose Bob risks damage
to himself in launching an angry attack on Alice after she has treated him
unfairly. His behaviour might then easily be dismissed as irrational by
observers who fail to notice that he isn't necessarily acting wildly in a
one-shot game, but may be carrying through his part of an equilibrium in an
indefinitely repeated game.
Experiments on the
Ultimatum Game currently provide a focus for this kind of confusion. Why don't
experimental subjects accept anything they are offered in one-shot versions of
the Ultimatum Game? A popular answer is that they get angry and refuse out of
spite. Analysis of the testosterone levels in their sputum would seem to
confirm that this explanation is right insofar as it goes.
But why do responders get
angry? I think that they get angry because this is their habituated response to
an unfair offer in the situations in which we encounter ultimata in real life.
Such behaviour survives in repeated situations because it serves to police an
equilibrium. It is triggered in one-shot laboratory games because the subjects
don't initially appreciate how the laboratory game differs from the games of
life to which they are accustomed. But it doesn't follow that we are mere
robots controlled by our emotions. Subjects commonly adapt their behaviour to
the one-shot games they play in the laboratory as they gain experience. In the
Prisoner's Dilemma, it takes only about ten trials for 90% of subjects to learn
that playing dove doesn't make sense in a one-shot game.








 
Chapter 6
Information
In a game of
perfect information like Chess, the players always know everything that has
happened so far in the game. When information is imperfect, we have to keep
track of what the players know as they climb the game tree. Von Neumann taught
us to do this using the simple idea of an information set.
Figure 21
shows two ways of expressing a simultaneous-move game like Matching Pennies as
a tree with information sets. It doesn't matter who moves first if the player
who moves second doesn't know what action the first player has taken, so we can
make either Alice or Bob move first. In the case when Alice moves first, we
enclose Bob's two decision nodes in an information set to indicate that he
doesn't know whether he is at his left node or his right node when he moves.
The more
information sets we put into an extensive form, the smaller its strategic form
becomes. The reason is that a pure strategy only specifies an action at each of
a player's information sets - not at each of the decision nodes it contains.
If we took
away the information set in the version of Matching Pennies in which Alice goes
first, Bob would have 4 = 2  2 pure strategies, each of which specifies a
choice of one of his two actions for each of Alice's two actions. With the
information set, he can't make his action contingent on Alice's action, because
he isn't informed of her action. So he only has two pure strategies, one for
each of his actions

21. Information sets
for Matching Pennies. A player can't distinguish between two decision nodes
enclosed in the same information set. Alice's payoffs are always in the
southwest of each box
Poker
The archetypal game of
imperfect information is Poker. Unlike Chess, we can solve simple versions of
Poker explicitly.
It was Von Neumann's
analysis of Poker that made me into a game theorist. I knew that good Poker
players bluff a lot, but I just didn't believe that it could be optimal to
bluff as much as Von Neumann claimed. I should have known better than to doubt
the master! After much painful calculation, I not only had to admit that he was
right, but found myself hopelessly hooked on game theory ever after.
However, you are in for a
disappointment if you hope to make yourself rich by playing your maximin
strategy at the Poker table. Players at the World Poker Championships in Las
Vegas play a lot more like Von Neumann recommends than amateurs like you and
me, but legendary players like the great Amarillo Slim don't triumph because
they play according to the minimax theorem.

22. Full house
Not only would playing
your maximin strategy yield an average profit no better than zero in a fair
game, it would mostly be as entertaining as watching paint dry.
For example, if Alice were
dealt four eights when playing Bob at Straight Poker, her maximin strategy says
to reraise four times - but then to fold if Bob raises her again! To make money
at a real Poker table, you need to be a lot more enterprising. You must
actively seek out and exploit the psychological flaws of your opponents. But
unless you are a natural master of human psychology like Amarillo Slim, your
naive attempts to exploit the flaws of others are likely to end up with them
exploiting yours instead!
Bluffing
Don't worry if you don't
know the difference between a straight flush and a full house, or the betting
rules in Texas Hold'em. Von Neumann's toy model abstracts all such
complications away.
Alice and Bob are each
dealt a number between 0 and 1. Both aim to maximize their average dollar
earnings on the assumption that all numbers
are equally likely to be dealt to your opponent, regardless what is dealt to
you. So if Alice is dealt 0.667, she thinks it roughly twice as likely that she
has a higher card than Bob.
Before the deal, each
player puts an ante of $1 into the pot. After the deal, there is a round of
betting, during which Bob may fold. If he folds, Alice wins the pot, no matter
who has the better hand. If Bob doesn't fold, there is a showdown, after which
the player with the higher card takes the pot. Theshowdown occurs when Bob
calls Alice's bet by making his total contribution to the pot equal to hers.
Von Neumann's model
severely restricts the betting possibilities. Alice can first either check (by
adding $0 to the pot), or raise (by adding $1 to the pot). If she checks, Bob
must call. If Alice raises, Bob has a choice. He can fold or call.
Figure 23 shows the
players' maximin strategies in Von Neumann's model. Everybody who plays
nickel-and-dime Poker knows that Alice must sometimes raise with poor hands, or
Bob will learn never to call when she raises with a good hand. Amateurs try to
compromise by bluffing with middle-range hands, but the maximin strategy isn't
so timid. If you want to break even at Poker against good opposition, bluff a
lot with really bad hands! The point of bluffing is not so much that you might
win with a bad hand, as that you want to encourage the opposition to bet with
middle-range hands when you have a good hand.

23. Maximin play in Von
Neumann's Poker model. The graph on the left shows how the probability with
which Alice or Bob should bet high varies with their hands. (Only one of Bob's
many optimal strategies is shown.) The graph on the right shows that optimal play
in our simplified version has a similar character
An even simpler model
The next model simplifies
Poker even more by replacing Von Neumann's numerical cards by a deck with only
the King, Queen, and Jack of Hearts. However, Figure 23 shows that the maximin
strategies still look like those in Von Neumann's model.
The chance move that
begins the game tree in Figure 24 represents the dealer shuffling the deck into
one of six equally likely orders. The top card is then dealt to Alice, and the
second card to Bob. The rest of the game tree then shows Von Neumann's betting
rules in operation with the new deck of cards.
The game tree looks so
formidable that you will probably be surprised to find that you know everything
you need to solve the game. First delete dominated strategies by thickening
branches that are obviously better than their rivals. For example, Alice should
check when holding the Queen, because Bob only calls when he has her beat. Only
two decisions then remain in doubt. Does Alice bluff when holding the Jack?
Does Bob call when holding the Queen?
Figure 25 shows all the
pure strategies of the game, but only the shaded part of the strategic form
matters, because the strategies that don't correspond to the shaded part are
dominated. The figure also shows a close-up of the shaded part. We can work out
the mixed Nash equilibrium of this game by finding what strategies Alice and
Bob must use to make their opponent indifferent. It turns out that Alice should
play RCR (raise when holding the Jack) with probability 1/3. Bob should
play CCF (call when holding the Queen) with probability 1/3.
 

24. Von Neumann's
model. After lines have been thickened to show dominant actions, only the cases
in which Alice holds the Jack and Bob holds the Queen remain
Types
According to the
philosopher Hobbes, man is characterized by his strength of body, his passions,
his experience, and his reason. In game theory, Alice's strength of body is
determined by the rules of the game. Her passions translate into her
preferences, and her experience into her beliefs. Her reason leads her to
behave rationally.

25. The payoff table
for Von Neumann's Poker model. The strategy RCR for Alice requires that
she raises when holding the King, checks when holding the Queen, and raises
when holding the Jack. The strategy CFF for Bob requires that he calls
when holding the King, folds when holding the Queen, and folds when holding the
Jack
These four properties
determine a player's type. Unless someone says otherwise, a rational analysis
of a game takes for granted that the types of all the players are common
knowledge. This very large assumption is sometimes emphasized by saying that
information is complete in a game.
When is it reasonable to
assume that information is complete? A game like Chess creates no problem, but
what about Chicken? Is it really likely that Alice will know Bob's degree of
risk aversion sufficiently well to work out his payoffs? What will Bob believe
about her payoffs? What will Alice believe about what Bob believes about her
payoffs?
John Harsanyi
Alice doesn't know Bob's
hand in a Poker game. Bob doesn't know what Alice believes about his hand.
Alice doesn't know what Bob believes about what she believes about his hand.
And so on. We close this seemingly infinite chain of beliefs about beliefs by
assuming that the chance move which represents shuffling and dealing the cards
is common knowledge. John Harsanyi taught us how to use a similar trick
whenever information is incomplete.
Harsanyi had an eventful
life for an academic. As a Jew in Hungary, he escaped disaster by the skin of
his teeth not once, but twice. Having evaded the death camps of the Nazis, he
crossed illegally into Austria with his wife to escape persecution by the
Communists who followed. And once in the West, he had to build his career again
from scratch, beginning with a factory job in Australia.
As with many truly
original minds, his talent was initially unrecognized. It took 25 years for
economists to appreciate the ingenuity of his idea for dealing with incomplete
information, but he was still alive when they awarded him a Nobel Prize in
1994, alongside John Nash and Reinhard Selten, for his work on incomplete
information in games. Whether his equally important work on utilitarianism will
ever be adequately recognized now that he is dead remains to be seen.
Incomplete information
Although economists talk
about games of incomplete information, there is really no such thing.
Harsanyi's theory shows how a situation with incomplete information can
sometimes be transformed into a game of imperfect information, which we then
analyse using Nash's idea of an equilibrium.
When information is
incomplete, the problem is usually that the players may be of various types
with different preferences and beliefs. Harsanyi proposed handling this kind of
situation as though each player were dealt a type, as in a game of Poker.
The characteristics of
such a typecasting move need to be common knowledge if Harsanyi's approach is
to work. Economists seem untroubled by this requirement, but my own view is
that the method is only genuinely viable when all the knowledge that needs to
be held in common is actually available in a database that everybody knows
everybody can access.

26. Incomplete
information in Chicken
One-sided ignorance in
Chicken
Middle-aged businessmen
often play Chicken when driving oncoming cars in narrow streets. In the version
with one-sided ignorance shown in Figure 26, everything about the game is
common knowledge except Bob's largest payoff - the payoff he gets from speeding
when Alice goes slow.
To apply Harsanyi's
method, imagine a chance move that deals Bob his type, which is identified with
his top payoff in this example. A pure strategy for Bob then says what action
he would take for each type he might be dealt.
The probabilities with
which the chance move deals different types to Bob are determined by Alice's
beliefs. To tie things down, assume it is common knowledge that Alice believes
that Bob's type is equally likely to be anything between 3 and 9. If St Francis
of Assisi were driving Bob's car he would doubtless be of type 3, but even
Attila the Hun has a type no greater than 9 in this toy model.
The implicit subjunctives
built into this modelling technique often create unease. If Bob knows he isn't
a saint, why should he behave as though he were playing a game in which he
might be St Francis?
The reason that we need
Bob to examine how he would have behaved for all possible types that he might
have been is that Alice doesn't know which of these types has been
realized. Since her choice of strategy depends on what Bob would have done if
his type were something other than it actually is, Bob can't decide what to do
when he knows that his type is 421 or 534
without simultaneously considering what he would have done if his type were any
of the other possibilities.
Bob learns his type but
Alice remains ignorant of the outcome of the typecasting move. She therefore
has only two strategies: slow and speed. Bob has an enormous number
of strategies, but we only consider those in which he chooses slow if
his type is less than some number and speed if it is larger.
We have previously located
three Nash equilibria for Chicken: two pure and one mixed. The pure equilibria
continue to be equilibria in the game with one-sided ignorance. The first
equilibrium corresponds to the convention Ladies' First: Alice plays speed
and Bob always plays slow whatever his type turns out to be. The
second equilibrium corresponds to the convention Gentlemen First: Alice
plays slow and Bob always plays speed.
Where no such convention
is available - as when driving in heavy traffic - we have to look at an
analogue of the mixed equilibrium of Chicken in which each player chooses slow
and speed equally often. We begin by making Alice indifferent
between slow and speed. Any mixed strategy is then optimal for
her. Bob can make Alice indifferent by choosing to play slow when his
type is between 3 and 6, and speed when his type is between 6 and 9. It
will then seem to Alice that Bob is playing slow and speed equally
often. But Alice mustn't play slow and speed equally often as in
the mixed equilibrium of Chapter 2, since it now has to be optimal for Bob to
switch from slow to speed when his type is 6. To make him
indifferent between slow and speed when his top payoff is 6,
Alice must play speed three times as often as slow.
Notice how the accident rate
goes up when we make Alice ignorant of Bob's type. In the mixed equilibrium of
the original version of Chicken, Alice and Bob each chose speed half the
time, and so the probability is 1/4 that both players speed and so cause an
accident. In the corresponding equilibrium of the version with one-sided
ignorance, the probability of an accident rises to 3/8.
Two-sided ignorance in
Chicken
The second example of
Figure 26 is more fun than the first, since both Alice and Bob are now
ignorant, but the symmetry of the problem makes it even simpler to analyse.
We follow Harsanyi again
by introducing a chance move that independently deals a type to each player
that the other believes is equally likely to be anything between 3 and 9. The
interesting equilibrium arises when Alice and Bob both play slow when
their type is less than 5 and speed when their type is more than 5. It
will then seem to both players that their opponent is playing speed twice
as often as slow. A player with a top payoff of 5 will then be indifferent
between playing slow and speed. Optimal play for both Alice and
Bob then consists of switching from slow to speed when their type
reaches 5.
The probability of an
accident is now 4/9, which is an increase on the probability of 3/8 we found in
the case of one-sided ignorance, but we are about to see that increasing the
level of ignorance can sometimes make the players better off.
Ignorance is bliss?
Alice and Bob are about to
play the Nash equilibrium we just found for Chicken with two-sided ignorance.
Each is of type 4, and so both are planning to play slow. There is then
no possibility of an accident and each player will receive a payoff of 3 utils.
Pandora is a well-informed
dogooder who observes that Alice and Bob are basing their choice of strategy on
a false premise. Each is behaving as though their opponent might have any type
between 3 and 9, but their opponent's type is actually 4. Pandora therefore
intervenes with a public announcement that makes it common knowledge that Alice
and Bob are both of type 4. Alice and Bob then play the familiar mixed
equilibrium for Chicken in which each player chooses slow and speed half
the time. So Pandora's intervention increases the probability of an accident to
1/4 and reduces Alice's and Bob's average payoff to 1 21
utils.
Increasing everybody's
knowledge can therefore make everybody worse off. Better knowledge is only sure
to be an unmitigated good to a player if it is secretly acquired. Thus if
Pandora secretly tells Alice what the game really is, Alice will switch
from slow to speed, and her payoff will improve from 3 to 4
utils.
The conclusion that
revealing information can hurt a society raises an important ethical question.
Should it be legitimate for politicians to conceal the truth for our own good?
John Stuart Mill is perhaps the most benign of a number of philosophers from
Plato onwards who have answered yes to this question, but my own view is
no. I keep my mouth shut when I learn that someone is cheating on their
marriage, but I want people to think it right to blow the whistle in public
life. Lies that supposedly further the public interest usually turn out to
benefit only the liars who tell them.
Signalling your type
When people play Chicken
in real life, they look out for clues that may signal the type of their
opponent. Is Alice driving a dented old pick-up truck? Is Bob wearing a dog
collar?
To be effective in
signalling a player's type, a signal must usually be costly to send. If Alice
is dealt a pair of twos in Poker, it won't help her to tell Bob that she has
been dealt four aces. Game theorists dismiss such
idle bombast as cheap talk. Bob will only pay attention if Alice puts
her money where her mouth is. But if she bluffs by betting like she has four
aces, she risks being called and losing her bet.
Returning to Chicken with
two-sided ignorance, suppose that both Alice and Bob can simultaneously send a
costly signal that says, 'I am a high type - don't mess with me.' If some types
send this signal to register their strength, then remaining silent becomes a
signal of weakness. We therefore need to contemplate a new game in which both
players have a strategic opportunity to signal strength or weakness before
playing Chicken. We look at a particular subgame-perfect equilibrium in which
players whose type exceeds 5 signal strength, and players whose type is less
than 5 signal weakness.
If Alice claims to be
strong by sending the signal and Bob implicitly admits to being weak by
remaining silent, the equilibrium requires that they play Chicken according to
the rule: Ladies First. That is to say, Alice speeds and Bob goes slow. If Bob
sends the signal and Alice doesn't, they play according to the rule: Gentlemen
First. Bob then speeds and Alice goes slow.
The more interesting cases
arise when either both or neither send the signal. We have already seen how to
analyse the versions of Chicken with two-sided ignorance that result. In the
case when both send a signal, it becomes common knowledge that both types lie
between 5 and 9. It is then a Nash equilibrium if players whose type is less
than 6 choose slow and players whose type is more than 6 choose speed. In the case when neither sends a signal, it becomes common knowledge that both types lie between 3
and 5. It is then a Nash equilibrium if players whose type is less than 4
choose slow and players whose type is more than 4 choose speed.
It is only at the final
step that any new considerations arise. It needs to be optimal for players
whose type is more than 5 to send the signal and
for players whose type is less than 5 to remain silent. A player whose type is
exactly 5 will then be indifferent between sending the signal and remaining
silent. We therefore need to work out what a player of type 5 expects to get in
the two cases. For the equilibrium to hold together, the cost of claiming to be
tough must be equal to the difference between these two payoffs. The difference
turns out to be 2 61 utils, and so the cost of a
signal must also be 2 61 utils if the equilibrium
is to work.
Displays
Costly signalling is of
major importance in bargaining. Delay is frequently used for this purpose. For
example, during a strike, complaints are sometimes made about the irrationality
of union officials who don't plan to consider the latest offer from the
employer until Tuesday week. Union officials are doubtless sometimes
irrational, but exactly the same tactic might be used by rational players
sending a costly signal of their strength. In its crudest form, a bargainer
might rationally display his strength simply by burning a bundle of bank notes.
Biology offers wonderful
examples. Avishag Zahavi describes costly signalling as the Handicap Principle.
Why do some skylarks sing when pursued by a hawk? To signal that they are swift
enough to escape even when they handicap themselves by singing. Young hawks
still give chase, but they soon learn not to bother. Why do peacocks have such
magnificent tails? Part of the reason is runaway sexual selection. Peahens like
big tails and so peacocks with big tails father more chicks. But big tails
presumably began as a costly signal of a peacock's fitness.








 
Chapter 7
Auctions
Alice now
becomes a boss who wants her subordinates to work towards her aims rather than
pursuing their own interests. In the language of economics, Alice is a
principal and the subordinates are her agents.
Alice could
tell her agents what to do under all possible contingencies, but there are two
reasons why such command economies are notoriously inefficient. The first is
that it is difficult for a principal to monitor her agents to ensure that they
are following her rules rather than doing their own thing. The second reason is
that the agents often know their own business better than the principal.
Mechanism
design
The rules
that Alice can monitor and enforce create a game for the agents to play. To
persuade the agents to pursue her aims rather than their own in situations that
she is unable to monitor or lacks the expertise to regulate, she needs to
invent suitable incentives to motivate the agents. The problem of finding a
good system of regulations and incentives is called mechanism design.
The chief
insight from game theory is that people should be expected to change their
behaviour after a new reform is introduced.
Their behaviour will adjust until they eventually settle on a Nash equilibrium
of the new game. When Alice evaluates a possible new mechanism, she should
therefore ask herself how much she likes what will happen after the
agents have moved to an equilibrium of the new game. The almost universal
mistake that real principals make is to ask instead how much they like what
will happen before the agents learn the ropes of the new game.
In a real-life example,
the new chairman of the controlling body of a university health scheme argued
in favour of abolishing its co-pay arrangements. These require you to pay the
first hundred pounds or so of any claim you make, with a view to discouraging
frivolous use of the service. To make up the lost revenue, he proposed that the
premiums be increased by enough to cover the co-pay receipts from the previous
year. When the economist on the committee objected that the premiums would need
to be increased by more than this, a vote was taken on whether anyone else
thought that 'people would visit their doctor when they didn't need to'. Only
the economist voted yes to this loaded question, but there wasn't enough
money to pay the bills in the following year.
The United States Congress
made a bigger mistake in 1990 when it passed an act intended to ensure that
Medicare wouldn't pay substantially more for its drugs than private health
providers. The basic provision of the act said that a drug must be sold to
Medicare at no more than 88% of the average selling price. The problem was
created by an extra provision which said that Medicare must also be offered at
least as good a price as any retailer. This provision would only work as its
framers intended if drug manufacturers could be relied upon to ignore the new
incentives created for them by the act. But why would drug manufacturers ever
sell a drug to a retailer at less than 88% of the current average price if the
consequence is that they must then sell the drug at the same price to a huge
customer like Medicare? However, if no drugs are sold at less than 88% of the
current average, then the average price will be forced up!
In 2006, the British
Liberal Democrats proposed introducing green taxes that would allow income tax
to be reduced by a total of $12 billion. This proposal failed not only to
appreciate that people change their behaviour in response to new taxes, but
that the very purpose of a green tax is to change behaviour!
Nobody would ever propose
constructing an aeroplane or a bridge without giving a great deal of thought to
how the mechanism would stand up to the stresses and strains it will face when
built, but the idea that one should give the same care and attention to the
design of social mechanisms is typically greeted with scorn. I once provoked
outright laughter when I suggested that some money might be spent testing a
major reform in a psychological laboratory to see whether it would work before
being put into practice. Even the design of big-money auctions is still often
left in the hands of amateurs who know nothing whatever of the simple ideas to
be outlined in this chapter.
Judgement of Solomon
When confronted by two
women disputing the motherhood of a baby, King Solomon famously proposed that
the baby be split in two, so each claimant could have half. The false mother
accepted the judgement, but the true mother's 'bowels yearned upon her son' so
that she begged for the baby go to her rival rather than being hacked in two.
Solomon then knew the true mother, and awarded her the baby.
Actually, the biblical
story doesn't support Solomon's proverbial claim to wisdom particularly well.
His scheme would have failed if the false mother had been more strategically
minded. So what scheme would work better?
Solomon is the principal.
The plaintiff and the defendant are the agents. Trudy is the true mother, and
Fanny is the false mother. To keep things simple, we assume it to be common
knowledge that Trudy would pay all she has in the
world for her baby, but Fanny will pay only some lesser amount.
Solomon's aim is to award
the baby to the true mother, but he doesn't know what type each agent is. He
could ask them, but Fanny has no incentive to tell the truth. So Solomon
follows Harsanyi's methodology by imagining a chance move that either casts
Trudy in the role of the plaintiff and Fanny in the role of the defendant, or
Trudy in the role of the defendant and Fanny in the role of the plaintiff.
Figure 27 shows the rules
of a mechanism that achieves the first-best outcome of awarding the baby to the
true mother for certain. The plaintiff moves first by saying whether or not she
claims to be the mother. If she denies being the mother, the baby is given to
the defendant. If she claims to be the mother, the defendant must say whether
or not she claims to be the mother. If she denies being the mother, the baby is
given to the plaintiff.

27. The Judgement of
Solomon. The diagram on the right shows the game from Solomon's point of view
when Trudy values the baby at 3 shekels, Fanny values the baby at 1 shekel, and
Solomon sets a fine of 2 shekels
If both women claim to be
the mother, the baby is given to the defendant, and both women are fined.
Solomon must use his famed
wisdom in setting the incentives for Fanny and Trudy. The fine must be higher
than Fanny's valuation of the baby but lower than Trudy's. The thickened lines
in Figure 27 then show the result of applying backward induction. When the
actors use this subgame-perfect equilibrium, Trudy always gets the baby,
and no fine is paid.
Economic applications
The big successes of
mechanism design are in auctions and regulatory economics. The billions of
dollars raised in telecom auctions have attracted a lot of attention, but the
regulatory applications are probably of more significance in the long run.
The fat cats who get
regulated squeal a great deal about the virtues of the free market, but they
know that the pleasant properties of perfectly competitive markets only apply
when there are large numbers of small buyers and sellers. When there are only
small numbers of sellers, they always end up using their market power to screw
the consumer unless restrained by government regulation.
The free marketeers are
right that no regulation is usually better than the bad regulation with which
we have mostly been saddled in the past, but regulation doesn't need to be bad.
Better regulation using the principles of mechanism design is already making
headway against the opposition of the various gurus whose advice it makes
redundant. However, I don't have space to talk seriously about regulatory
economics here, and so the rest of this chapter will be about auctions.
Willlam Vickrey
Auctioning is the branch
of game theory in which most progress has been made.
It is also an area in which game theory has been used with spectacular success to solve applied
problems. The amount of money raised in telecom auctions designed by game
theorists is astronomical.
Once upon a time,
governments used to organize what became known as 'beauty contests' when
allocating valuable public assets to private companies. Each company would
submit a mighty document explaining why it should get the asset rather than one
of its rivals. A committee of officials would then decide whose document they
liked best. But the officials commonly had no idea of the commercial value of
the assets they were selling. Nor were they told the truth by the contestants
in the beauty contest. Why would agents ever tell the truth to their principal
unless it were to their advantage? They need to be offered appropriate
incentives before they will part with the information the principal needs.
Auctions persuade agents to tell the truth is by making them put their money
where their mouths are.
William Vickrey is the
hero of auction theory. He was advocating the use of specially designed
auctions for the sale of major public assets 30 years before the idea became
popular. The Federal Communications Commission ignored his arguments until the
word finally reached Congress, which insisted that the next batch of telecom
frequencies be sold by auction. A design by a group of game theorists led by
Paul Milgrom then raised a total of $20 billion in revenue.
The team I led myself
designed other telecom auctions in Britain, Belgium, Denmark, Greece, Hong
Kong, and Israel. The auction in Britain raised $35 billion all by itself.
After the collapse of the NASDAQ index in 2001 and the consequent bursting of
the hitech bubble, there was a great deal of caterwauling as telecom executives
sought to blame their own failure to assess the market properly on the game
theorists who supposedly made them pay more for their licences than they were
worth. But who but an idiot would bid more for something than they thought it
was worth?
I think all the brouhaha
only served to underline how effective game theorists can be when allowed to
apply the discipline of mechanism design on a large scale. The Nobel Committee
obviously thought the same thing and belatedly awarded Vickrey a Nobel Prize,
but he died three days after receiving the announcement.
Kinds of auction
Auctions are nothing new.
Herodotus describes the auctioning of unwanted wives in ancient Babylon. Nor
are big-money auctions a novelty. In AD 193 the Pretorian Guard auctioned off
the Roman Empire to one Didius Julianus. Some of the kinds of auctions in
regular use are listed below.
English auctions
Sotheby's uses this kind
of auction to sell old masters. An auctioneer invites oral bids. The bidding
continues until nobody is willing to bid any more. The auctioneer traditionally
cries out,
'Going, going, gone!'

28. Going, Going, Gone!
If nobody interrupts with
a new bid, he hammers his block, and the object is sold to the buyer who bid
last.
Dutch auctions
The auctioneer begins by
announcing a high price, which is then gradually
lowered until a buyer calls a halt. The first buyer to do so then acquires the object at the price outstanding when
he or she intervened.
Dutch auctions can be
quick, and so are used to sell perishable goods like fish or cut flowers. In
Amsterdam's flower auction, a seller may fly cut flowers in from Zambia, and the
buyer may ship them out to sell them in Chicago all in a single day. However,
slow-motion Dutch auctions are sometimes operated by used furniture stores that
reduce the price of unsold items by 10% each month.
First-price, sealed-bid
auctions
This is the standard
format for government tenders. Each potential buyer privately writes his bid on
a piece of paper and seals it in an envelope. The seller commits herself to
selling the object to whoever makes the highest bid at the price he bid.
Vickrey auctions
In a Vickrey auction, the
object is sold by the sealed-bid mechanism to the highest bidder, but at the
highest price bid by a loser. This will be the second-highest
price unless there is a tie for first place, in which case the winner is chosen
at random from the highest bidders.
Milton Friedman led an
irresponsible but successful campaign to persuade the American government to
change the auction format used to sell Treasury Bonds to what financial gurus
choose to call a second-price auction, but he was mistaken in supposing that he
was advocating the appropriate generalization of a Vickrey auction to the case
when many identical objects are for sale. This is only one example of a distressing phenomenon. Even in those
few cases where game theorists know the answer to a problem, government
officials usually prefer the advice of false prophets with better public
relations.
Optimal auctions
Alice wants to sell her
house, which is worth nothing to her if a buyer can't be found. The only
potential buyers are Bob and Carol. What auction design should Alice use?
Alice's problem is similar
to King Solomon's. She doesn't know Bob and Carol's valuations for her house.
If she knew their valuations, she would simply make a take-it-or-leave-it offer
of one penny less than the higher of the two valuations. It would then be
rational for the bidder with the higher valuation to accept, because a profit
of one penny is better than nothing. This analysis depends heavily on Alice
having the power to make an irrevocable commitment to the rules of the
Ultimatum Game. Mechanism design doesn't work at all if the agents don't
believe that the principal will stick by the rules of the game she invents for
them to play.
Since Alice doesn't know
Bob and Carol's valuations, she follows Harsanyi's methodology by modelling her
uncertainty about their valuations with the help of a chance move. In the
simplest case, this chance move assigns valuations to Bob and Carol
independently - so that nothing you may learn about one agent's valuation tells
you anything new about the valuation of the other agent. Where it is necessary
to be specific, I shall assume that each agent's valuation for Alice's splendid
house is equally likely to be anything between zero and 36 million dollars.
Most people are surprised
to discover that all the auction designs surveyed in the previous section are
optimal for Alice if everybody is trying to maximize their average profit in
dollars. Alice should set a reserve price of 18 million
dollars and then use whichever of the designs takes her fancy, because they all
yield the same average profit of 15 million dollars.
Reserve prices
Notice that Bob won't bid
at all half the time, because his valuation will be less than Alice's reserve
price. Since the same is true of Carol, Alice won't sell her house at all one
time in every four. If this happens, she mustn't cheat on her own rules by
auctioning the house again with a lower reserve price - unless she doesn't care
whether the agents will believe her in the future when she acts as a principal
again!
I have given advice to
many governments on designing big-money auctions, but I have never had any
success in persuading the responsible officials to set as high a reserve price
as I wished. Nor have I ever had any confidence that the officials understood
that they mustn't put the object for sale back on the market immediately if it
didn't reach its reserve price. But my efforts on this front aren't entirely
wasted, since they provide an excuse for looking only at the case of a zero
reserve price in what follows. All the auction designs we have considered so
far raise the same revenue on average whatever the reserve price, but it is
easiest to explain why in the case when all the potential buyers can be counted
on to make a bid.
Revenue equivalence
In a symmetric Nash
equilibrium, agents with higher valuations will make higher bids in all of the auctions
we have considered. So the agent with the higher valuation will win. The
probability of an agent with a given valuation winning the auction is therefore
the same for all our designs.
What does the agent expect
to pay on average? In each of our auctions, the answer turns out to be half the
agent's valuation.
It follows that Alice's
average revenue must be the same for each design. This average revenue turns
out to be only 12 million dollars, but this is the best Alice can hope for if
Bob and Carol bid rationally and she sets a reserve price of zero.
Why should the winner
expect to pay only half his or her valuation? The case of an English auction is
easiest. It is obvious that Bob and Carol should each keep bidding until the
going price reaches their valuation, after which they should shut up. So the
bidding will stop when the going price reaches the lower of the agents'
valuations. The winner will therefore pay the loser's valuation. Since
the loser's valuation is equally likely to be anything less than the winner's
valuation, its average value is half the winner's valuation.
It now becomes possible to
see why a Vickrey auction is essentially the same as an English auction. If Bob
and Carol submit their true valuations to Alice and she sells her house to the
highest bidder at a price equal to second-highest bid, then her average profit
will be exactly the same as in an English auction. But why should Alice expect
Bob and Carol to bid their true valuations?
The answer is that this
strategy dominates all the agents' other alternatives. If the opposing agent
has bid less than your valuation, you make sure of winning without affecting
the price you pay by bidding your valuation. If the other agent has bid more
than your valuation, you don't want to win and so you might as well bid your
valuation.
What about a Dutch
auction? Bob and Carol could write the price at which they plan to stop a Dutch
auction on a piece of paper and leave Alice to implement the strategy on their
behalf. A Dutch auction is therefore essentially the same as a first-price
sealed-bid auction. So if we can work out what price Bob and Carol should seal
in their envelopes in the latter auction, we will also know when they should
plan to stop a Dutch auction.
Shading your bid
What bid should you seal
in your envelope in a first-price sealed-bid auction? You certainly won't bid
your true valuation, because your profit would then be zero if you won. You
need to shade your bid down. But by how much? I already gave the secret away
when explaining why all our auction designs are revenue equivalent. Bob and
Carol should each bid only half their valuations.
This fact is usually
proved by calculus but I plan to explain it using landscape gardening. What
shape should a garden be if you want to enclose the maximum area with a fixed
amount of fence? The answer is obviously a circle. If the garden has to be
rectangular, the answer is a square.
Returning to the problem
of finding a symmetric Nash equilibrium for a first-price, sealed-bid auction,
imagine it to be common knowledge that Carol will make a bid proportional to
her valuation. Bob's probability of winning will then be proportional to
whatever bid he makes. He wants to maximize his average profit, which is the
product of his profit if he wins and his probability of winning. This product
is proportional to the area of a rectangular garden whose length is his profit
if he wins and whose width is his bid.
Since his profit if he
wins is the difference between his valuation and his bid, the length of the garden
fence is proportional to his valuation. The fence therefore has the same length
whatever bid he makes. So finding Bob's best reply reduces to deciding which
rectangular garden has the largest area when enclosed by a fence of fixed
length. Since the answer is a square, Bob best reply is found by setting his
bid equal to the difference between his valuation and his bid - which makes his
optimal bid equal to half his valuation. His bid will then be proportional to
his valuation, and so Carol's optimal bid will also be equal to half her
valuation.
All-pay auctions
Instructors in game theory
courses are fond of auctioning a dollar according to the following rules. The
bidding is as in an English auction, with the highest bidder getting the
dollar, but everyone pays their highest bid including those who
don't win the dollar. Watching the expression on students' faces when the
bidding reaches one dollar, and the losers realize that it is now worth their
while to bid more than one dollar can be quite entertaining!
Bribing corrupt
politicians or judges is rather like an all-pay, sealed-bid auction. Everyone
pays, but only one bribe can be successful. If there is honour among thieves,
it will be largest bribe that carries the day.
All-pay auctions are
mentioned here only to make the point that the revenue equivalence result
applies very generally. The agents will obviously shade their bids much more in
an all-pay, sealed-bid auction than in a first-price, sealed-bid auction, but
Alice's average revenue will still be 12 million dollars.
Bespoke auctions
Economic correspondents of
newspapers sometimes quote revenue equivalence results when wrongly arguing
that it never matters what kind of auction the seller uses. But the
result goes away if Bob and Carol are budget constrained or risk averse. Alice
then gets more in a Dutch auction than an English auction. Nor does it hold if
Bob and Carol's valuations cease to be independent. Alice will then expect more
in an English auction than a Dutch auction.
When a big-money auction
is to be run, it is therefore of paramount importance that its rules be
tailored to the circumstances. For example, if Alice somehow knows that the
only amounts at which it is possible for Bob and Carol to value her house are
27 million or 36 million dollars, then she shouldn't run any of the auctions considered so far. If the two
possibilities are equally likely, she should run a sealed-bid auction in which
the winner pays the average of the two bids!
Winner's curse
Agents with private values
know their valuations before the auction begins, and nothing they might learn
during the auction will lead them to change their valuations. All the auctions
we have looked at up to now have been treated as private-value auctions. At the
opposite end of the spectrum are common-value auctions, in which it is common
knowledge that the value of the object being sold is the same for all
the prospective buyers.
For example, when licences
to drill for oil in undersea tracts are auctioned, the amount of oil in a tract
is the same for everybody, but the buyers' estimates of how much oil is likely
to be in a tract will depend on their differing geological surveys. Such
surveys aren't only expensive, but notoriously unreliable. Some prospective
buyers will therefore receive optimistic surveys, and others will receive
pessimistic surveys. So who will win the auction?
If Bob treats his survey's
estimate of the value of the tract as a private value, then he will win
whenever his survey is the most optimistic. But when Bob realizes that his
winning the auction implies that all the other surveys are more pessimistic
than his, he will curse his bad luck at winning! If he had known at the outset
that all the other surveys were more pessimistic than his, he wouldn't have bid
so high.
As with the all-pay
auction, game theory instructors like to catch their students out by trapping
them with a common-value auction. A glass jar filled with coins and rumpled
bills of various denominations is auctioned off to the highest bidder, who usually
falls prey to the winner's curse and so makes a substantial loss.
Wallet Game
To avoid the winner's
curse, bidders must take account of the information that the bids of their
rivals convey about how much they think the object for sale is worth. The
Wallet Game is a toy example. Alice confiscates Bob and Carol's wallets, and
then uses an English auction to sell their combined contents back to them.
It is a Nash equilibrium
if both agents plan to keep bidding until the going price reaches twice the
money in their own wallets. If Carol bids this way, then Bob will be cursed if
he wins by bidding more than twice the money in his own wallet. He then knows
that the amount of money in his own wallet is less than half the final price.
He also knows that the amount of money in Carol's wallet is less than half the
final price, because she stopped bidding. So the total amount of money Bob has
won must be less than the price he paid for it.








 
Chapter 8
Evolutionary
biology
Biologists
have a huge advantage over social scientists in applying game theory, because
they have so much more data. Natural selection has generated a vast variety of
different species, some of which are so weird and wonderful that they seem to
defy rational explanation. But what could be more satisfying than finally to
learn why the unusual genetics of the Hymenoptera explain the unequal
sex ratio in certain species of bees? Or why two very different variants of the
bluegill sunfish succeed in coexisting together in the same lake? To deny
evolution in the face of such examples seems to me like emulating the
theologian who refused to look through Galileo's telescope.
Even more
remarkable is the fact that even the crudest of toy games will sometimes
suffice to model some animal behaviour successfully. Nobody really believes,
for example, that reproduction is sexless among birds, or that the evolutionary
process is deterministic. But, as in physics, the models that result from
making such heroic simplifications sometimes fit the data remarkably well.
Evolutionary
game theory
Herbert
Spencer summarized Darwin's theory of evolution as the survival of the
fittest. When asked why the animals of some species behave as they do, we therefore look for an
answer that explains why alternative behavioural traits were less fit. But how
is fitness to be defined?
Bill Hamilton's definition
makes it inevitable that modelling animal behaviour will sometimes reduce to
finding the Nash equilibria of games. He took the fitness of a behavioural
trait to be the average number of extra children that carry that trait into the
next generation as a result of the trait being used in the current generation.
With this definition, behavioural traits can be identified with strategies, and
fitness with utility.
When animals compete, we
can then imagine that Chance occasionally picks two or more individuals from
the relevant populations to play a game. A famous example in ecology is the
predator-prey game that results in the numbers of Canadian lynxes and hares
cycling indefinitely. However, this chapter will focus on games played within a
single species that have stable outcomes. For example, what determines how long
a male dung fly will wait at a particular cow pat for a female when seeking to
mate? Since the strategic problem is the same for all dung flies, we can then
confine our attention to symmetric Nash equilibria of symmetric games.
A symmetric game looks
exactly the same to all its players. In a symmetric equilibrium, all players
use the same strategy. A variant of Nash's theorem shows that all finite,
symmetric games have at least one symmetric Nash equilibrium.
Replicators
Unfortunately, the
philosophical waters have been muddied by a controversy over who or what should
be treated as a player in an evolutionary game. A whole species? An individual
animal? A package of genetic material? Or an individual gene? The title of
Richard Dawkins' Selfish
Gene seems to tell us where he stands on this issue, but he actually takes
the more sophisticated view that anything which replicates itself may be
regarded as the fundamental unit in an evolutionary game.
Like the old lady I once
heard giving Dawkins a hard time for failing to see that genes are just
molecules and so can't have free will, people often find it paradoxical that
game theory could be successfully applied in evolutionary biology. How can an
insect be a player in a game? Insects can't reason. Their behaviour is largely
instinctive. They just do what they are programmed to do.
The solution to the
paradox is that the players in the game needn't be taken to be the animals
under study. If the behaviour being investigated is largely instinctive, then
it is coded for in the animal's genes. One may think of the genes as part of
the hardware of a natural computer: the part where the computer's programs are
stored. Some of the programs control the animal's behaviour.
An important property of
computer programs is that they can be copied from one computer to another.
Computer viruses copy themselves from one computer to another. They are self-replicating.
The programs imprinted on an animal's genes are also self-replicating. But
their replication is immensely complicated compared with the replication of a
computer virus. Nature not only has to copy programs from one natural computer
to another, she has to create a new natural computer to which the programs
maybe copied. Crick and Watson's discovery of how Nature works this trick using
the device of the double helix is one of the great scientific adventure
stories. But its thrills will have to be enjoyed elsewhere. All that is
important here is that we understand that something exists that does two
things:
     It replicates itself.
     It determines strategic behaviour
in a game.
Whenever we find something
in a model on which we can hang these two properties, it will be called a replicator.
Genes can certainly be
replicators. Critics sometimes complain that a mutation in a single gene is
unlikely to have much effect, but even the slightest modification in a
behavioural trait can be significant when fitness is averaged out over a long
enough time span. Packages of genes that tend to be replicated together also
count as replicators. In a parthogenetic species like the mason beetle, a
mother transmits its entire genetic coding to its children, in which case one
might as well say that each individual type of animal is a replicator.
To survive, replicators
need hosts in whose genes they are imprinted. Since we have defined the fitness
of a host to be a measure of how frequently it reproduces its genes, it becomes
almost a tautology that replicators that confer high fitness on their hosts
will come to control a larger share of hosts than those that confer low
fitness. If the environment will only support a restricted number of hosts, the
replicator conferring low fitness on its hosts may eventually die out
altogether. The fittest replicator will then have survived.
If Alice is watching the
situation evolve, she might try to make sense of what she sees by attributing a
goal or purpose to whatever mechanism generates replicators: that of maximizing
the fitness of their hosts. If natural selection operates for long enough in a
stable environment, only those replicators that are good at maximizing the fitness
of their hosts will survive. To Alice, it will therefore seem as though something
were consciously choosing replicators to maximize fitness. We call this
imaginary something a player of the game.
For example, when the
replicators are taken to be variants of a single gene, we can imagine the
player sitting at the locus on the chromosome where that particular gene
operates. Careful biologists who like to think of
genes themselves as players use the term allele for the possible forms a
gene may take. However, it is common to blurr the distinction between a player
and a replicator in much the same way that the distinction between a player and
a type often gets blurred in the theory of incomplete information (see
Incomplete information Chapter 6).
Evolutionary stability
For evolution to work,
there must be some variation in a population. The shuffling of genes in sexual
reproduction is one source of variation. Geographical migration and mutation
are others. When can we expect a population to settle down in the face of such
random variation? One approach is to look for an asymptotic attractor - a
population of replicators that is stable in the face of any small perturbation.
The simplest possible
model of a biological evolutionary process is called the replicator dynamics.
Figure 14 on P. 50 shows how it works in a particular game when the players are
drawn from two different populations that evolve separately. In this chapter,
the corresponding diagrams are much simpler, because the focus will be on
symmetric games in which the players are drawn from a single population.
The replicator dynamics
assumes that the proportion of a population hosting a particular replicator
increases at a rate proportional to two factors:
     The fraction of the population
currently hosting the replicator.
     The difference between the current
fitness of the replicator's hosts and the average fitness of all the hosts in
the population.
The first requirement
simply recognizes that the rate of growth of a replicator is constrained by the
number of parents available to transmit the replicator to the next generation.
The second requirement recognizes that
evolution can only take account of a replicator's fitness relative to
the fitness of the population as a whole.
If all the replicators to
be considered are present when the replicator dynamics get started, then the
system can only converge on a symmetric Nash equilibrium - if it converges on
anything at all.
Evolutionarily stable
strategies
The idea of an
evolutionarily stable strategy or ESS begins with George Price, who submitted a
60-page essay on evolutionary mathematics to the journal Nature, which a
more worldly author would have known publishes only short articles.
Fortunately, his referee was John Maynard Smith. Together they wrote a paper
which distilled Price's essential wisdom into something readable. Maynard Smith
went on to write Evolution and the Theory of Games, which put
evolutionary game theory on the map. George Price eventually committed suicide,
reportedly because he found it increasingly difficult to reconcile his
fundamental contributions to evolutionary biology with his religious
convictions.
When the players are drawn
from different populations, the considerations to which we are about to appeal
lead to nothing more exotic than a strict Nash equilibrium (in which there are
no alternative best replies to the equilibrium strategies). But evolutionarily
stable strategies apply when the players are drawn from the same population
to play a symmetric game. The defining properties are:
     An ESS must be a best reply to
itself.
      If an ESS isn't the only best reply
to itself, it must be a better reply to any alternative than the alternative is
to itself.
The first requirement says
that a pair of evolutionarily stable strategies must be a refinement of the
notion of a symmetric Nash equilibrium. But if this were our
only requirement, what would prevent a destabilizing invasion of the population
by an alternative best reply? The second requirement provides the necessary
evolutionary pressure against such an invasion by asking that an ESS be more
fit than an invader immediately after an invasion.
Any ESS in a symmetric
game is necessarily an asymptotic attractor of the replicator dynamics. In its
turn, an asymptotic attractor is necessarily a symmetric Nash equilibrium. We
therefore have a necessary condition and a sufficient condition for
evolutionary stability. Both conditions apply to a wider class of evolutionary
processes than just the replicator dynamics, but some care is necessary when
applying the ESS concept even with the replicator dynamics. For example, the
trajectories of the replicator dynamics in Rock-Scissors-Paper go round in
circles, and the game has no ESS at all (see Finding maximin strategies,
Chapter 2). Worse still, other 3  3 symmetric games exist which have isolated
asymptotic attractors that aren't ESS. Only in symmetric games with just two
pure strategies is the ESS concept entirely safe.
However, carping about the
inadequacies of evolutionary modelling concepts in the abstract isn't very
productive. The real question is: how useful are they in making sense of real
biological examples?
Hawk-Dove Game
Two birds drawn from the
same species occasionally contest some valuable resource. The two replicators
in the population make their hosts either passive or aggressive in such
situations. A passive bird surrenders the entire resource to an aggressive bird.
Two passive birds share the resource equally. Two aggressive birds fight.
Maynard Smith referred to
passive birds as doves and aggressive birds as hawks, for which
reason the game is called the
Hawk-Dove Game - but don't
be misled into supposing that the birds are intended as representatives of
different populations that evolve separately. The environment is intended to be
entirely symmetric.
Prisoner's Dilemma
If possession of the
resource enhances a bird's fitness by four utils and getting into a fight by
only one util, then the Hawk-Dove Game reduces to the version of the Prisoner's
Dilemma shown in Figure 29. Recall that the only Nash equilibrium is for both
players to use hawk (see Chapter 1). Since this strategy is strictly
dominant, it is also an evolutionarily stable strategy.
The birds playing the
Hawk-Dove Game are drawn from a single population, and so the replicator
dynamics for the Prisoner's Dilemma in Figure 29 on P. 126 are one-dimensional
(rather than two-dimensional as in previous examples). The arrow shows that
there is a unique asymptotic attractor in which the population consists
entirely of hawks. If we were to perturb this population by throwing in a
positive fraction of dovelike mutants, they would eventually all be eliminated.
In fact, the basin of attraction consists of all population states other than
that in which the whole population consists of doves. The appearance of even a
tiny fraction of hawk mutants therefore dooms the doves to eventual extinction.
Group selection fallacy
The ardor with which game
theorists deny the various fallacies claiming that cooperation is rational in
the Prisoner's Dilemma pales into insignificance when compared with the almost
demonic ferocity with which evolutionary biologists denounce the group selection
fallacy.
According to the group
selection fallacy, evolution favours mutations that enhance the fitness of the
species rather than the fitness of the mutated gene itself.
A population playing dove in the Prisoner's Dilemma would then be
invulnerable to invasion by a mutant hawk because any fraction of hawks
in the population would reduce the total fitness of the population. The fallacy
lies in misplacing the relevant replicator at the level of the species. It is,
after all, at the molecular level that replication takes place physically when
the double helix divides. It is therefore right to confine attention to the
unique ESS, which is hawk.
Charles Darwin knew
nothing of modern genetics and so occasionally fell into a number of errors, of
which the group selection fallacy was one. However, it is the biologist Vero
Wynne-Edwards who is the luckless target of modern critics. He suggested, for
example, that starlings gather in large numbers at nightfall in order to
estimate their numbers with a view to controlling their population size. George
Williams's critique of his group selection arguments was very influential,
leading to a literature explosion of which Dawkins's Selfish Gene is
just one example.
The sex ratio problem is a
nice example of the failure of the group selection fallacy. What sex ratio
would favour a new species? The answer is a few males and many females. So why
do we have roughly equal numbers of boys and girls? Because a boy born into a
population consisting mostly of girls will be fitter than a girl, and a girl
born into a population consisting mostly of boys will be fitter than a boy. How
is an equilibrium achieved in such situations? That is our next topic.
Chicken
The payoff values that
identify the Hawk-Dove Game with the Prisoner's Dilemma are unrealistic,
because even a slight injury is likely to be a serious handicap. If we assign a
negative utility to a bird that gets into a fight by subtracting two more utils
from its payoff, we are led to the version of Chicken of Figure 29.

29. Replicator dynamics
in the Hawk-Dove Game. For a single population, the trajectories can be shown
using one-dimensional diagrams. A similar diagram for the Stag-Hunt Game would
show the arrows pointing away from its mixed equilibrium
Chicken has three Nash
equilibria: two pure and one mixed. The mixed equilibrium requires that each
player use dove one-third of the time and hawk two-thirds of the
time. In contrast to Getting to equilibrium in Chapter 2, we reject the pure
equilibria because they are asymmetric - only the symmetric mixed equilibrium
is of interest here.
Must we then envisage
birds as throwing dice? Not in the Hawk-Dove Game. To see why, imagine that
one-third of the population are doves and two-thirds are hawks. When Chance
selects two birds at random to play Chicken from this polymorphic population,
it will seem to both players that their opponent is playing the mixed
equilibrium strategy. Since players are indifferent between the pure strategies
they use in a mixed equilibrium (see Chapter 2), both hawks and doves will
therefore be equally fit. So no individual bird need randomize at all to
sustain the equilibrium.
Maynard Smith observed
that the mixed population state not only corresponds to a symmetric Nash
equilibrium, it also corresponds to an evolutionarily stable strategy. The
replicator dynamics shown in Figure 29 confirm that a population with twice as
many hawks as doves is an asymptotic attractor. It is good to be a hawk when
there are many doves, and good to be a dove when there are many hawks. The two
effects cancel out at the mixed Nash equilibrium, where a player is indifferent
between choosing dove and hawk.
At one time the survival
of two variants of the same animal in the same environment was thought to be a
mystery. Surely one type must be just a little less fit than the other, and so
be driven to extinction in the long run? But the fitness of a variant varies
with its frequency in such situations.
Bluegill sunfish
The bluegill sunfish (Leoponis
macrochirus) is a popular target for anglers in North American lakes. The
fish enjoy a synchronized mating season in which males stake out nests on the
lake floor. Females lay their eggs in whatever nest takes their fancy. The eggs
are promptly fertilized by the resident male who then stoutly guards the
resulting brood.
Guardian males share their
lakes with another type of male commonly called a sneaker. Sneakers mature
after two years, whereas guardians take seven years. Sneakers are unable to
establish and guard a nest, since they are little more than self-propelled
sexual organs. When a female lays her eggs in a nest, they rush out from their
hiding places and try to fertilize her eggs before the guardian.
In a profligate display of
exuberence, Nature has also gifted us with an alternative sneaker that
disguises itself as a female, and an alternative
guardian that establishes its nest at a distance from the closely packed nests
established by regular guardians.
The theory says that the
numbers of each type of male will adjust to equalize their fitness - a
conclusion that is reassuringly in line with the data.
Playing the field
Animals don't need to
randomize when they compete in pairs, but they
sometimes behave as though they do when 'playing the field'.
Male dung flies (Scatophaga
stercoraria) congregate at cow pats hoping to mate with females attracted
by the scent. How long should a male wait before seeking a fresh cow pat (which
takes an average of four minutes)? Game theory tells us to look for symmetric
Nash equilibria. In the simplest model, each male will use a mixed strategy in
which his waiting time is exponentially distributed. This means that his
probability of leaving now is always twice what it would be if he waited some
fixed time period. But how long is this period?
If the theory is right,
the period should adjust until a dung fly's mating success is the same no
matter how long he waits. As with sunfish, the data are very supportive of this
hypothesis, although I dare say a dung fly would be no more receptive than a
company executive to the idea that he was actively randomizing (see Does
randomizing make sense, Chapter 2).
Kin selection
The animal kingdom overflows
with examples of cooperation within the family. African hunting dogs
regurgitate food to help out a hungry pack brother. Marmosets and tamarins help
to care for their nephews and nieces in extended families. Male birds of some
species do the same when their chances of being able to reproduce in the current year are low. Aphids give up
their lives defending their siblings from attack. Musk oxen form a defensive
ring around the weaker members of the family when attacked by wolves. Why is
kinship so important in the animal kingdom?
Hamilton's rule
Bill Hamilton's Narrow
Roads of Geneland is an account of the life and work of another oddball
genius. He recently died a typically adventurous death on a field trip to
Brazil. Hamilton deserves most of the credit for introducing game theory into
biology, although I doubt that he ever heard of John Nash during the long years
he strove, alone and unrecognized, to create a whole new field of research. One
of his many achievements was to formulate the evolutionary explanation of
cooperation within the family nowadays known as kin selection.
His point was famously
anticipated in a semi-serious joke of J. B. S. Haldane. When asked whether he
would give his life for another, he replied that the sacrifice would only be
worthwhile if it saved two brothers or eight cousins! Haldane's joke is only
funny if you know that your degree of relationship to a full brother is
one-half, and your degree of relationship to a full cousin is one-eighth.
It is sometimes said that
the degree of relationship can't really matter, because human beings share
nearly all their genes anyway. But this is to miss the point that we are never
concerned with genes that are always present in the human body, but only
with a particular piece of behaviour that will be modified or left alone
according to whether a recently mutated gene is present or absent.
Your degree of
relationship to a relative is the probability that a recently mutated gene in
your body is also in your relative's body. To see that your degree of
relationship to a cousin is one-eighth, imagine that
your cousin is the daughter of your mother's sister. The probability that a
mutant gene in your body came from your mother rather than your father is
one-half. If it came from your mother, the probability it is also in the body
of your aunt is one-half. If it is in the body of your aunt, the probability
she passed it to your cousin is one-half. Multiplying these three halves
together, we get one-eighth.
What counts in calculating
the fitness of a gene is the average number of times it gets replicated in the
next generation. But it doesn't matter which of two or more identical versions
of a gene is copied. A copy made from a gene in my sister's body is just as
good as a copy made from an identical gene in my own body. When we figure out
the fitness of a gene in my body, we therefore have to take account, not only
of the effect of my behaviour on my own reproductive success, but of its effect
on the reproductive success of my relatives. Hamilton called the outcome of
such a calculation an inclusive fitness.
If my sister is my only
relative, then a mutant gene in my body shouldn't simply count the extra number
of children I will have on average as a consequence of its modifying my
behaviour. It should use Hamilton's rule, which requires adding in the extra
number of children that my sister will have - weighted by one-half, because
this is the probability that the mutant gene is also in her body. For example, if
I expect to have one child less as a consequence of changing my behaviour, and
my sister expects to have four children more, then Hamilton's rule says that
the inclusive fitness of my new strategy is -1 + 21  4 =
1. My personal loss is therefore outweighed by my sister's gain.
The results of replacing
individual fitnesses in a game by inclusive fitnesses can be dramatic, as with
the Prisoner's Dilemma in Figure 30. When nestlings compete for food with their
siblings, their behaviour is largely genetically programmed. If the nestlings
were identical twins, both players could therefore count on their opponent
choosing exactly the same strategy as themselves. The situation then reduces to
a one-player game.

30. Relatives play the
Prisoner's Dilemma. Hamilton's rule has been used to convert individual
fitnesses in the Prisoner's Dilemma of Figure 29 into inclusive fitnesses.
Identical twins will now cooperate, but we must expect mixed behaviour from
siblings
The two-player games of
Figure 30 are more suitable for modelling human behaviour in cases when the
players' behaviour is learned rather than genetically programmed. When Alice
and Bob are identical twins, we are led to a game that I call the Prisoner's
Delight because dove is now a dominant strategy. When they are brother
and sister, we are led to a form of Chicken, in which we should expect both
dovelike and hawkish behaviour to survive together. (It would take us too far
afield to examine the more interesting case of siblings whose behaviour is
genetically determined.)
Kinship is especially
important in primitive human societies. In societies that tolerate promiscuity,
for example, some of the functions undertaken by a father in our own society
are taken on by a child's maternal uncle - the underlying reason being that
everybody knows his degree of relationship to the child is one-fourth, whereas
nobody can be sure who the child's real father may be. Hamilton's rule provides
an evolutionary explanation of such phenomena by quantifying the extent to
which we should expect blood to be thicker than water.
Social insects
A species is eusocial if
it lives in colonies with overlapping generations in which one or a few
individuals produce all the offspring, and the rest serve as sterile helpers.
Eusociality is rare except among the Hymenoptera - the order of insects
that includes ants, bees, and wasps. It used to be said that true eusociality
has evolved independently at least 12 times in the Hymenoptera, but only
twice elsewhere - the exceptional cases being the termites of the order Isoptera
and the naked mole-rats of the order Rodentia. Later research has found
other eusoscial species, the most interesting of which is a shrimp (Decapoda)
that colonizes sponges on coral reefs. But the frequency of eusociality in the Hymenoptera
remains a puzzle demanding an explanation.
Why did evolution generate
casts of sterile workers? Why do they work tirelessly for the sake of others?
Why is this phenomenon common among the Hymenoptera and rare elsewhere?
At one level, the puzzle
is easy. Groups working together are usually more productive than individuals
acting separately. In a beehive or an anthill, very large numbers of sterile
workers specialize in protecting and caring for the young, while the queen
specializes in being an egg-laying machine. As a consequence, the total number
of young produced is immensely larger than if pairs of bees or ants brought up
separate families by themselves.
It is clear why the queen
benefits, but what's in it for the workers? Each fertile child the queen
produces is related to the workers. They are the workers' brothers and sisters.
A mutant gene that expresses itself in the body of a worker therefore has a lot
of relatives to count when it computes its inclusive fitness. All the queen's
fertile children - weighted by their degree of relationship to a worker - must
be counted when calculating the benefit to a worker of striving hard in support
of the queen. The productivity of a beehive
or an anthill then ensures that the balance comes down very firmly on the side
of eusociality.
All this would be equally
true of the human species if we had a sterile worker cast, but we traditionally
bring up our children in extended families rather than biological factories. So
why didn't evolution take us down the same road as the Hymenoptera?
Bill Hamilton's answer to
this question depends on the fact that the Hymenoptera are haplodiploid,
which means that unfertilized eggs grow into haploid males and fertilized eggs
grow into diploid females. In a haploid species, each locus on a chromosome
hosts just one gene. Humans are diploid, with each locus hosting two genes, one
from the mother and one from the father. This is why the degree of relationship
between human sisters is one-half, since a child gets one gene from each parent
at every locus, and the gene it gets from each parent is equally likely to be
either of the two genes the parent carries at that locus. By contrast, the
degree of relationship between sisters in the Hymenoptera is
three-quarters, because each locus on their chromosomes gets the same gene
from their father, and a randomly chosen gene from the pair carried at that
locus by their mother.
Workers therefore have a
stronger motivation to help their fertile sisters than humans would have in the
same situation. But this isn't the end of the story.
Robert Trivers pointed out
that the degree of relationship between genetically female workers and their
brothers, the drones, is only one-fourth. If the sex ratio among the Hymenoptera
were 50 : 50, then the average degree of relationship between a sterile
worker and a fertile sibling would therefore only be the average of
three-quarters and one-quarter, which is one-half - the same as in our own
species. However, in some species among the Hymenoptera, the sex ratio
is about 75 : 25 in favour of fertile females as
opposed to fertile males. How come? The answer is not only of interest in
itself, but it also serves to complete Hamilton's explanation of why
eusociality has evolved so often in the Hymenoptera.
In the Hymenoptera, it
is usually the genes expressed in the workers that determine the sex ratio, because
it is the workers who rear the young. The sex ratio must therefore make a
worker indifferent between raising a fertile male or a fertile female infant.
This happens only when the sex ratio is 75 : 25, because the payoff to a
mutant gene expressed in the body of a worker is then 43 41 from producing a male and 41 34 from producing a female. Since
these payoffs are equal, a mixed equilibrium can survive in which females are
born with probability three-quarters and males with probability one-quarter.
With this sex ratio, the
average degree of relationship a sterile worker has with a fertile brother or
sister is 34 34 + 41 41 , which is five-eighths. If the
worker were human, the degree of relationship would be one-half. Human workers
would therefore have to work harder on behalf of a human queen in order to
derive the same benefit as a worker in an anthill or a beehive.
It should be emphasized
that the details of this overly simple story are controversial among
biologists. Even those species which come closest to fitting the story deviate
in idiosyncratic ways. But I think that the fact that game theory allows
evolutionary biologists to explain sex ratios in species where these aren't
symmetric is one of the more convincing demonstrations that we must be doing
something right.
Of course, many mysteries
remain. Why are the Hymenoptera haplodiploid? How come only some species
in the order are eusocial? What about colonies with multiple queens? What of Pachycondyla
villosa, in which species unrelated queens apparently found colonies together? What of the many
puzzles posed by termites? Creationists seize on such admissions of ignorance
as an excuse to debunk evolutionary science, but I think their criticisms
simply reveal a failure to understand how science works.
Evolution of cooperation
We already know that
cooperation can be sustained among animals that aren't related by the mechanism
that Bob Trivers called reciprocal altruism. A wonderful example is provided by
the vampire bat (Desmodus rotundis).
Vampire bats roost
together in caves during the day. At night they seek an animal from which to
suck blood. Some 8% are unsuccessful, which is a big problem for bats, who need
to feed every 60 hours or so. For this reason, the evolutionary pressure
towards sharing is very strong. Gerald Wilkinson discovered that vampire bats
share blood on a reciprocal basis with roostmates who aren't always relatives.
In brief, a bat is more likely to regurgitate blood for a begging roostmate, if
the roostmate has shared blood with it in the past.

31. Vampire bat
How does such cooperation
get off the ground? Axelrod has muddied the waters by claiming to have shown
that TIT-FOR-TAT is an ESS in the indefinitely repeated Prisoner's Dilemma.
Although Maynard Smith mistakenly endorsed the claim, it obviously isn't true.
A population of TIT-FOR-TATs can be invaded by the strategy that always plays dove.
Such a mutant won't displace TIT-FOR-TAT, but nor will it be expelled.
No pure strategy can be an
ESS in the indefinitely repeated Prisoner's Dilemma: a mutation that changes
the strategy at an unreached subgame won't even be detected, let alone driven
out. The ESS concept needs to be widened to be useful in such a setting, so
that whole sets of strategies through which a population may drift are regarded
as evolutionarily stable aggregates. For example, the set N in both
Figure 14 and Figure 32 is a kind of aggregate asymptotic attractor within
which the system is free to drift. (There needn't be a trajectory leading away
from N, as in both these cases.)
Hawk-Dove-Retaliator Game
The problem is already
apparent in the Hawk-Dove-Retaliator Game with which Maynard Smith and Price
originally explored the evolution of cooperation. A retaliator plays like a
hawk against a hawk, and like a dove against a dove. The retaliate strategy
is weakly dominated, and so the game has a symmetric Nash equilibrium in which retaliate
is not played at all. As in the Hawk-Dove game, dove is played with
probability 1/3 and hawk with probability 2/3. In the upper triangle of
Figure 32, this mixed equilibrium is marked with the letter M. There are
also an infinity of Nash equilibria in which hawk is not played at all,
marked in Figure 32 with the letter N. These require that retaliate is
played with probability at least 3/5.

32.
Hawk-Dove-Retaliator Game. The upper triangle shows the replicator dynamics in
the pure game. A population mix is thought of as being distributed at the three
corners of the triangle. The point that represents it is located at the centre
of gravity of this distribution. The lower triangle shows the replicator
dynamics when retaliators have a small advantage over doves, and hawks have a
small advantage over retaliators
The upper triangle shows
the replicator dynamics for the Hawk-Dove-Retaliator Game. The shaded set is
the basin of attraction for the set N. Maynard Smith and Price ignore
this set because only M is an ESS. However, if the system found its way
into N, its only chance of escaping is if a new hawk mutation
appears while it is close to Q. But this rare event might be delayed for
a very long time. There have, in fact, been enormously long perods of stasis in
the evolution of many species that might be attributed to this cause.
The lower triangle of
Figure 32 shows the replicator dynamics for a modified version of the
Hawk-Dove-Replicator Game in which a retaliator is realistically assumed to do
a little better against a dove and a little
worse against a hawk. This game has three symmetric Nash equilibria. There is
an analogue of the mixed equilibrium M of the Hawk-Dove Game; a pure
equilibrium R in which only retaliate gets played; and an
equilibrium P in which all three strategies are played with positive
probability. The equilibria M and R correspond to ESS strategies.
The basin of attraction of
R is shaded in Figure 32. Since this is a large set, we have a toy model
in which it makes sense to apply the ESS concept, and which offers the
beginnings of an explanation of the evolution of cooperation. Maynard Smith and
Price expand the model by introducing a bullying type who displays like a
retaliator but backs down when challenged. The bullies displace doves, but
otherwise nothing much changes.
However, the most
interesting application of the Hawk-Dove-Replicator Game is to the case of
local interaction. In real life, animals mostly play games with their
geographical neighbours. Chance might therefore easily fix it so that a mutant
retaliator becomes numerous in a small neighbourhood. The Hawk-Dove-Replicator
Game then tells us that the other strategies will gradually be extinguished in
that neighbourhood. But then the same will happen in overlapping neighbourhoods
until the whole environment is taken over by retaliators.
This seems to me the most
convincing toy explanation of the evolution of cooperation that is commonly
offered.
Social or cultural
evolution
It is sometimes thought
that one should only speak of evolution if the analogy with biological
evolution is very close. It is true that replicators don't only arise in a
biological context. Rules-of-thumb, codes-of-conduct, fashions, lifestyles,
creeds, and scientific ideas are all replicators of a kind. Richard Dawkins
refers to such cultural replicators as
memes. They spread from one human mind to another through imitation or
education.
I used to be enthusiastic
about memes, but now that we understand that the replicator dynamics emerge not
just from toy models of biological reproduction, but also from toy models of
imitation and stimulus-response learning, it seems unnecessary to shackle
ourselves to the meme paradigm. Whenever adaptive dynamics take us to the Nash
equilibrium of a game, I am ready to speak of cultural evolution.
The chief difference in
applying evolutionary ideas between the biological and the social sciences
would seem to be that biologists are usually very well informed about the
sources of interesting variation, whereas social scientists can only guess. For
example, an evolutionary model in economics must take account of the fact that
mutations in the form of new money-making schemes are appearing all the time,
but if economists could predict which of these were going to be successful,
they would all be rich!








 
Chapter 9
Bargaining
and coalitions
Half of Von
Neumann and Morgenstern's Theory of Games and Economic Behavior is
devoted to two-person zero-sum games. This part of the book is the birthplace
of the noncooperative theory of games that we have studied up to now. In
this theory, the strategic opportunities of the players are explored in detail,
and predictions of their behaviour are made using the idea of a Nash
equilibrium. The other half of Von Neumann and Morgenstern's book is about cooperative
game theory.
This use of
words is an endless source of confusion, because critics mistakenly assume that
noncooperative game theory is exclusively about conflict and cooperative game
theory is exclusively about cooperation. They are right to the extent that
cooperative game theory is largely about how rational people will cooperate.
What coalitions will form? Who will get how much of the gravy? But they go
astray when they treat cooperative and noncooperative game theory as antithetic
perspectives in which Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde are set up as rival paradigms on
the human condition. After all, the folk theorem is part of noncooperative game
theory, but its chief interest lies in showing how cooperation can be sustained
as equilibrium behaviour in repeated games.
Cooperative
game theory differs from noncooperative game theory only in abandoning any
pretension at explaining why cooperation survives in our species. It postulates instead that the
players have access to an unmodelled black box whose contents somehow resolve
all the problems of commitment and trust that have worried us periodically
throughout this book. Among other things, the black box must contain an
explanation of how preplay negotiations on how a game should be played can
result in an agreement that the players treat as unconditionally binding.
In economic applications,
one can sometimes argue that the black box contains all the apparatus of the
legal system. The players then honour their contracts for fear of being sued if
they don't. In social applications, the black box may contain the reasons why
the players care about the effect that behaving dishonestly in the present may
have on their reputation for trustworthy behaviour in the future. One can even
argue that the black box contains the results of our childhood conditioning, or
an inborn aversion to immoral behaviour.
The utopian fallacy is to
imagine that the black box of cooperative game theory contains nothing more
than the fond hope that conflict would disappear if only people would behave
rationally. Much conflict in real life is admittedly stupid, but we won't make
people less stupid by teaching them that their hearts are more rational than
their heads.
The way to respond to the
utopian fallacy is to open the cooperative black box and take a long hard look
at what lies inside. Why does it make sense for players to trust each other in
some situations and not in others? Why don't they pursue their own interests
rather than those of the group to which they belong?
When seeking to answer
such questions, we have no choice but to use the methods of noncooperative game
theory. Noncooperative game theory is therefore the study of games in which any
cooperation that may emerge is fully explained by the choice of strategies the
players make. But this can be very hard. Cooperative game theory bypasses all the difficult why questions
in the hope of finding simple characterizations of what agreement
rational players will eventually reach.
Nash program
The Nash program invites
us to open the cooperative black box to see whether the mechanism inside really
does work in the way a particular cooperative solution concept assumes.
Nash observed that any
negotiation is itself a species of game, in which the moves are everything the
players may say or do while bargaining. If we model any bargaining that
precedes the play of a game in this way, the result is an enlarged game. A
strategy for this negotiation game first tells a player how to conduct the
preplay negotiations, and then how to play the original game depending on the
outcome of the negotiations.
Negotiation games must be
studied without presupposing preplay bargaining, all preplay activity having
already been built into their rules. Analysing them is therefore a task for
noncooperative game theory. So we look for their Nash equilibria, hoping that
the equilibrium selection problem won't prove too difficult.
When negotiation games can
be solved successfully, we have a way of checking up on cooperative game
theory. If a cooperative solution concept predicts the result of a rational
agreement on how to play some game, then a noncooperative analysis of the
enlarged negotiation game should yield the same answer.
Nash therefore regarded
cooperative and noncooperative game theory as complementary ways of approaching
the same problem. Cooperative game theory offers easily applied predictions of
rational agreements. Noncooperative game theory provides a way of testing these
predictions.
Nash bargaining solution
A Beverly Hills mansion is
worth $4m to its owner and $5m to a potential buyer. By getting together and
agreeing a sale, the buyer and the seller can create a surplus of $1m. How this
surplus is divided between them is decided by bargaining. A simple model that
captures the essence of this archetypal bargaining problem is traditionally
known as Divide-the-Dollar.
The story that goes with
the model envisages a philanthropist who offers Alice and Bob the opportunity
to share a dollar - provided they can agree on how to divide it between them.
If they can't come to an agreement, the philanthropist takes his dollar back
again. In this story, the dollar represents the surplus over which two economic
agents bargain. The philanthropist's provision that the dollar is available
only if Alice and Bob can reach an agreement represents the fact that there
will be no surplus unless the agents get together to create it.
When Nash considered the
problem, orthodox economists held that rationality is irrelevant to the
problem, because the outcome depends on how skilfully Alice and Bob negotiate.
Bargaining was therefore thought to be a problem for psychology rather than
economics. Even Von Neumann and Morgenstern endorsed this view in their Theory
of Games and Economic Behavior. When speaking about bargaining 30 years
later, I found that hecklers were still sold on the idea that 'bargaining isn't
part of economics'. In retrospect, it seems amazing that such a bizarre notion
should have won such widespread acceptance, but the past is truly a foreign
country.
Nash's argument
John Nash began to think
about bargaining when he took a single economics course on international trade
as part of his undergraduate degree. The thoughts to which he was led eventually
overturned the orthodox view that the bargaining problem is indeterminate.

33. The Nash bargaining
solution
Recall that we can
identify utility with money in the case of a risk-neutral player. If Alice and
Bob are risk neutral in Divide-the-Dollar, one therefore doesn't need to be a
genius to predict that they will split the dollar fifty-fifty if they both have
access to the same strategic opportunities in whatever negotiation game they
play. But suppose they have different attitudes to risk? If Bob is more risk
averse than Alice, he will fear a disagreement more than her. So he will end up
with less of the dollar - but how much less?
Nash's way of figuring out
the answer is illustrated in Figure 33. The first step is to identify each
available deal with the pair of utilities that Alice and Bob would get if the
deal were implemented. The disagreement point that results if no deal is
reached at all is called the status quo. The shape of the set of all
possible agreements is convex when Alice and Bob are both risk averse.
Nash assumed that a
rational deal will be somewhere on the frontier of the set of all possible
agreements - otherwise the players would be able to find a
more efficient agreement that both prefer. (Economists mysteriously call this
observation the Coase theorem, although it is neither a theorem nor original to
the Nobel Prize-winner Ronald Coase.) Nash then drew a tangent to the frontier
of the agreement set at the point representing the rational deal.
The next step is to
relocate the zeros on Alice and Bob's utility scales at the status quo.
The units on their utility scales are then adjusted to make the slope of the
tangent at the rational deal equal to 45. The diagram on the
right of Figure 33 shows the new situation. If the agreement set were the
shaded triangle in this diagram, then the rational deal would have to be the
midpoint of the hypotenuse (for the same reason that we agreed that the
rational deal would be fifty-fifty in Divide-the-Dollar when Alice and Bob are
risk neutral).
The final step is to argue
that the rational deal must remain the same when we throw away all the points
in the shaded triangle on the right of Figure 33 that aren't in the deeply
shaded agreement set. Nash called these 'irrelevant alternatives' because Alice
and Bob didn't choose any of them when they were available, and so they have no
reason to change their agreement when they cease to be available.
To find the Nash
bargaining solution in the diagram on the left of Figure 33, we therefore need
only locate the tangent that touches the frontier of the agreement set at its
midpoint
Who shoulddohow much
housework? 
 
Newspapers like to stoke
the gender wars when short of copy. Here is a typical quote: 'Men pay lip
service to equal rights in the home while letting women do three quarters of
the household chores.' Other things being equal, the fact that wives do more
housework than husbands would indeed show that the balance of power within marriages is biased in favour of men, but
are other things equal?
Alice and Bob are getting
married. They have no interest in enjoying any of the benefits of marriage
other than sharing the housework. In the modern style, they agree on a binding
marriage contract that specifies how many hours a week of housework each will
contribute. What deal does the Nash bargaining solution predict that they will
reach?
In a toy version of the
problem, Alice thinks a household should devote two hours a day to housework;
Bob thinks one hour a day is adequate. Each player derives a benefit of 100
utils a week if at least the number of hours they think appropriate is worked;
otherwise they see no benefit at all in any housework being done.
Neither Alice nor Bob
likes doing housework. Alice loses 5 utils a week for each hour of housework
that she does. Bob loses 10 utils per hour, because he dislikes doing housework
more than Alice. In the status quo situation before the marriage, Alice
therefore does 14 hours of housework a week from which she derives a utility of
30 utils; Bob does 7 hours of housework from which he also derives a utility of
30 utils.
The Coase theorem says
that the bargaining outcome will be efficient, which means that Alice will get
her way over the number of hours that the new household will spend on
housework. To find the Nash bargaining solution, we need to find the extreme
outcomes that just make the marriage worthwhile for both partners. One extreme
arises when Alice does all the housework; she will then get 30 utils and Bob
will get 100 utils. The other extreme arises when it is Bob who gets only 30
utils. He will then do one hour of housework a day. Alice must do the other
hour of housework to make up the two hours a day she thinks necessary. Her
utility will then be 65 utils.
Because the model has been
fixed to make Alice and Bob risk neutral, the Nash bargaining solution is found
by averaging the two extremes. So Alice will end up with 47.5 utils and Bob
with 65 utils a week. To make this happen, Alice will have to work 1021
hours a week and Bob only 321 hours a week.
The Nash bargaining
solution therefore says that if Alice and Bob bargain on an equal basis, then
Alice will get her way on the number of hours worked a week, but she will have
to do three-quarters of the work. If it is indeed true that wives do three times
as much housework as single women, then our toy model shows that it doesn't
necessarily follow that the balance of power within marriages is biased in
favour of men. Who would do how much housework if all the factors left out of
the toy model were taken into account? Even if I knew, I wouldn't say!
Rubinstein's bargaining
model
In accordance with the
Nash program, Nash defended his bargaining solution with a noncooperative
bargaining model in which Alice and Bob each simultaneously commit themselves
to take-it-or-leave-it demands. However, Schelling was later successful in
casting doubt on the realism of attributing commitment power to the players in
negotiation games.
For example, if Bob were
able beat Alice to the draw when making an irrevocable commitment in
Divide-the-Dollar, then he could scoop the pot by demanding 99 cents, leaving
Alice with a choice between one penny or nothing. But how does Bob convince
Alice that he is truly committed - that nothing she might do can make him
revise his demand? Who believes someone who claims he is now making his 'last
and final offer'? Even prices posted on expensive items in fancy stores are
seldom final. The seller will try to make you feel like a cheapskate for
challenging the price, but folk wisdom is right for once. Everything is
negotiable. Never take no for an answer.
It is genuinely hard to
establish commitments. People sometimes make a career of building up a
reputation for being stubborn or stupid for this purpose. Trade unionists
occasionally succeed in committing themselves by voting for intransigent
leaders. But outside such special circumstances, the vocabulary of commitment
is usually just so much cheap talk. But if all threats must be credible, we
have seen that we need to look at subgame-perfect equilibria.
So what happens when
anything a player says has to be credible before the other player will believe
it? This question led Ariel Rubinstein to make the most important of all
contributions to the Nash program. In the most natural noncooperative model of
bargaining, Alice and Bob alternate in making offers to each other until they
reach agreement. If they are assumed to prefer making any particular deal now
rather than later, then Rubinstein showed that the alternating-offers model has
a unique subgame-perfect equilibrium.
My own contribution was to
show that the unique subgame-perfect equilibrium outcome approximates an
asymmetric version of the Nash bargaining solution when the time interval
between successive offers becomes sufficiently small. In the symmetric version
of the Nash bargaining solution, the ratio NB/AN in Figure 33 is equal
to one. In the asymmetric version NB/AN equals the ratio of the rates at
which Alice and Bob discount time.
If we make Alice more
patient than Bob, her discount rate will decrease and so the asymmetric version
of the Nash bargaining solution predicts that she will get more of the surplus
available for division.
What matters in bargaining?
When I first met Ariel
Rubinstein, he told me that he had been working on the
bargaining problem without any success. Since his theorem proved to be pivotal in destroying the
orthodoxy that the bargaining problem is indeterminate, this was an unduly
humble judgement. But his reason for judging himself so harshly still holds
good. All the work on bargaining that has been summarized up to now assumes
that information is complete. But how often do real bargainers know each
other's preferences?
When Alice tries to sell
Bob a house, she would like to know the most that he would really be willing to
pay - but he won't tell her. Nor will she tell him the lowest price she will
take. Such informational asymmetries matter enormously. In particular, the
Coase theorem fails. Roger Myerson has shown that, if it is common knowledge
that Alice and Bob's valuations are independent and equally likely to be
anything between $4m and $5m, then the result of optimal bargaining is very
inefficient indeed. Even when the bargaining process is chosen to maximize the
expected surplus that rational bargainers can achieve, the house is sold only
when it is worth $250,000 more to Bob than to Alice!
Information trumps all
other considerations, but nobody knows how to extract a unique prediction from
Rubinstein's bargaining model when information is incomplete. The following principles
therefore have solid foundations only when the bargainers are unable to conceal
any secrets from each other.
Commitment
It is in Alice's interest
to convince Bob that she is unable to accept less than her current demand, but
she should view any attempt by him to claim to have made a similar commitment
with severe scepticism. Sometimes your opponent will even turn out to be a
pushover. For example, when I once asked a car-hire clerk what discounts were
offered on the price she had just quoted, she replied: 20%.
Risk
The players' attitudes to
taking risks determines the shape of the agreement set. The more risk averse
you are, the less you get. Used car dealers therefore affect light-hearted
unconcern at the prospect of losing a sale. But as the Bible tells, although
they say it is naught, when they goeth their way, they boasteth.
Time
The relative patience of
the players determines how much asymmetry must be built into the Nash
bargaining solution. The more impatient you are, the less you will get. In a
recent court case in which I was involved, the telecom regulator had ruled that
the leading fixed-line company must do a deal with a new entrant on the price
it would charge to connect the entrant's customers with its own customers. But
in the absence of a ruling on when the deal must be in place, the
fixed-line company could afford to be infinitely patient and thereby
expropriate all the gains from trade.
Playing fair?
A best-selling book on
negotiation dismisses any use of strategy as a dirty trick. One should
supposedly just insist on what is fair. It is perhaps for this reason that a
study of collective wage bargaining in Sweden came up with 24 different
definitions of what counts as fair!
A reputation for religious
or moral obstinacy can certainly sometimes be strategically useful when
bargaining. For example, Daniel Defoe's Compleat English Tradesman explains
that it was contrary to the religious principles of the Quakers of his time to
'lie' by asking for a deal better than they were willing to take. They were
therefore successful bargainers, because their first offer was known to be
their final offer. But what if the opposition attempts the same commitment
tactic? War is the usual consequence when two nations put rationality aside in
this kind of way.
None of this is meant to
imply that fairness is somehow irrational. On the contrary, it seems to me to
be the most important of the conventions that humans use to resolve equilibrium
selection problems in everyday coordination games. But rather than regarding
fairness as a substitute for compromises reached by rational bargaining, John
Rawls's Theory of Justice makes rational bargaining the foundation stone
of his definition of a fair outcome. Rawls identifies a fair deal with the
agreement that Alice and Bob would reach if they were to bargain behind a 'veil
of ignorance' that concealed their identity during the bargaining. Neither
Alice nor Bob would then wish to disadvantage anyone, because they might
themselves turn out to be the disadvantaged party.
I have devoted a
substantial chunk of my life using game theory to examine the implications of
Rawls's definition. Why does it strike us as reasonable? Does it lead to a
utilitarian outcome as claimed by Harsanyi, or an egalitarian outcome as
claimed by Rawls? However, life is too short to explain why I think Rawls
defended a sound intuition with a wrong argument.
Forming coalitions
How can we apply what we
have learned about how two rational people bargain to the bargaining that takes
place when coalitions form? Von Neumann and Morgenstern proposed the simplest
toy model in which coalitions matter.
Alice, Bob, and Carol are
to play Divide-the-Dollar. Who gets how much is determined by majority voting.
Any coalition of two players can therefore dispose of the dollar as they
choose. But which coalition will form? Who will be the odd man out? How will
the dollar be divided?
Outside options
Alice's outside option
when bargaining with Bob is the most she can get
elsewhere if their negotiations break down altogether.
Labour economists continue
to make the error of identifying the status quo payoffs with the
players' outside options when using the Nash bargaining solution to predict the
outcome of wage negotiations. For example, if Bob will become unemployed if he
fails to come to an agreement with Alice, then his status quo payoff is
taken to be the level of social benefit.
To see why it is usually a
mistake to use the Nash bargaining solution in this way, it is necessary to
modify the Rubinstein bargaining model so that Alice and Bob always have the
opportunity to take up their outside option after refusing an offer. It then
becomes obvious that the outside options are relevant to the bargaining outcome
only to the extent that we should discard all payoff pairs from the agreement
set that assign somebody less than their outside option. The status quo needs
to be identified with the payoffs the players receive while negotiating.
For example, if Alice and Bob are seeking to negotiate the end of a strike,
then their status quo payoffs are their respective incomes during the
strike.
In order for it to be
right to identify the status quo payoffs with the players' outside
options, any breakdown in the negotiations needs be forced rather than
voluntary. To model such a forced breakdown in Rubinstein's model, one can
introduce a chance move that ends the negotiations with some small probability
after each refusal. This would correspond to the case in which any delay in
reaching an agreement might result in the surplus over which Alice and Bob are
bargaining being stolen by a third party.
Odd-Man-Out
Our three-player version
of Divide-the-Dollar can be regarded as three two-player bargaining problems to
which we can apply Nash's cooperative bargaining theory. When two players
bargain about how they will split the dollar should they agree to form a
coalition on how to vote, their outside options are the deals that each would reach if they were to bargain with the
odd-man-out instead.
It follows that Alice must
expect the same payoff if she succeeds in forming a coalition with Bob as when
she succeeds in forming a coalition with Carol - otherwise one of the potential
agreements would require her to accept less than her outside option in that
situation. Together with the Coase theorem, this fact ties down the three
possible deals. In the case when the players are all risk neutral, we are led
to the unsurprising conclusion that the coalition which forms will split the
dollar fifty-fifty, leaving the odd-man-out with nothing.
The symmetry of the
problem makes it impossible to say which of the three possible coalitions will
form. However, the following noncooperative model breaks the symmetry by
requiring that Alice, Bob, and Carol rotate in making payoff demands. When it
is your turn to move, you may either accept any demand that has been made
previously or else make a new demand of your own. The unique subgame-perfect
equilibrium predicts that the very first opportunity to form a coalition will
be seized by Alice and Bob. In order that their shares of the dollar
approximate our cooperative prediction, the time interval between successive
demands needs to be very small.
Core
What can be said about how
coalitions form in more general situations? One proposal is that we should
reject a payoff profile as a possible solution outcome if some coalition can
object to it on the grounds that it is able to enforce an alternative payoff
profile that all its members prefer. The set of all payoff profiles to which no
such objection can be found is called the core of a cooperative game.
Economists like the idea
because the core of a large enough market game approximates what will happen if
buyers and sellers trade at whatever prices equate
supply and demand. However, applying the idea to Odd-Man-Out in the case when
all the players are risk neutral isn't very encouraging.
We have seen that one
possible solution outcome in Odd-Man-Out is for Alice and Bob to form a
coalition on the understanding that they will vote to split the dollar so that
each gets 50 cents. But this outcome can't be in the core, because Bob and
Carol can object that they are able to enforce an outcome that they both prefer
by voting to split the dollar so that Bob gets 51 cents and Carol gets 49
cents. Since similar reasoning can be used to exclude any payoff profile
whatever, the core of Odd-Man-Out is empty.
Condorcet paradox
The Marquis de Condorcet
was an idealistic French revolutionary who discovered a similar problem when
exploring possible voting systems. If Alice and Bob form a coalition that
disadvantages Carol, she will offer whoever will listen a little more than they
are currently getting. If Bob takes up Carol's offer and abandons Alice, then
Alice will become the disadvantaged party, with an incentive to offer Carol a
little more than she is currently getting. If Carol agrees, Bob will then
approach Alice. And so on.
The results in real life
can be devastating. For example, the border between England and Wales where I
live was a battlefield for centuries. Powerful lords on the English side
supposedly guarded the border or marches against raids by the Welsh tribes, but
warfare was actually continuous as the Welsh, the King of England, and the
local Marcher Lord shifted alliances to combine against whichever of the three
was currently most powerful.
Condorcet's life didn't
work out any better than the victims of the unstable social systems whose
mechanics he succeeded in identifying. He had hoped to create a utopia by
mathematical reasoning, but was sentenced to the guillotine instead.
Stable sets
Von Neumann and
Morgenstern understood that Bob would be unwise to listen to Carol in
Odd-Man-Out when she explains that he can get 51 cents by joining a coalition
with her rather the 50 cents that Alice has promised him. If it is a good idea
to dump Alice when he is approached by Carol, then it will be a good idea for
Carol to dump him when she is approached by Alice.
To capture this idea, Von
Neumann and Morgenstern invented a notion that is nowadays called a stable
set. They argued that objections which aren't themselves possible solution
outcomes should be ignored. Anything outside a stable set is still excluded
because an objection from within the stable set can be found, but something
inside a stable set need only be immune from objections within the stable set.
Their chief example was
Odd-Man-Out when the players are all risk neutral. One stable set consists of
the three possible outcomes in which the dollar is divided equally between two
of the players. However, there are lots of other stable sets. For example, the
set of all of outcomes in which Carol gets 25 cents and the rest of the dollar
is split in all possible ways between Alice and Bob is stable.
It isn't easy to make
sense of these new stable sets. Other game theorists disagree, but I think
their appearance simply shows that the idea of a stable set isn't precise
enough. So there are sometimes too many stable sets - but this is the least of
our troubles. William Lucas found a cooperative game with many players that has
no stable sets at all, and so there are also sometimes too few stable sets.
Shapley value
I was once summoned
urgently to London to explain what the French government was talking about when
it suggested that the costs of a proposed tunnel under
the English Channel be allocated to countries in the European Union using the
Shapley value. The latter is the brainchild of Lloyd Shapley, who was another
of the brilliant group of graduate students who studied mathematics alongside
John Nash at Princeton.
Shapley followed Nash's
example by proposing a set of assumptions that define a unique prediction for
the outcome of a cooperative game. However, unlike Nash, his assumptions apply
not just to bargaining games with only two players, but to any cooperative game
with 'transferable utility'. The leading case of interest is when the players
are all risk neutral and the payoffs are measured in dollars. It can then be
argued that everything that matters about a coalition is what I shall call the
value of the coalition - the largest number of dollars that it can guarantee is
available to be shared out among its members. These payoffs include any 'side
payments' necessary to buy the loyalty of any member of the coalition who might
think the grass looks greener elsewhere.
For example, in
Odd-Man-Out, the value of each coalition with two players is one dollar. The
value of the grand coalition of all three players is also one dollar. The value
of a coalition with only one player is zero. The empty coalition with no
players also has value zero.
The easiest way to find
the Shapley value makes it explicit that it is intended as an average over
all the possible ways that coalitions might form. Start with the empty
coalition and add players until you get to the grand coalition. When Alice is
added to a coalition, write down her marginal contribution to the coalition -
the amount by which her inclusion increases the value of the coalition. The
payoff assigned to Alice by the Shapley value is then the average of all her
marginal contributions taken over all the possible ways in which the grand
coalition can be assembled one player at a time.
Odd-Man-Out has three
players, and so there are six ways of ordering the players: ABC, ACB, BAC, BCA,
CAB, CBA. Alice's marginal contributions are respectively: 0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0. So
the Shapley value assigns Alice a payoff of 1/3 of a dollar, which is what we
argued she would get on average in the previous section on coalitions.
How useful is the Shapley
value? I think there is no doubt of its relevance to cost-sharing exercises of
the type proposed by the French government, but it doesn't fare too well when tested
by the Nash program. Like much else in game theory, there remains a great deal
about coalition formation that we do not yet understand.








 
Chapter 10
Puzzles
and paradoxes
Feedback
phenomena and human intuition are uncomfortable bedfellows. When people dislike
where an equilibrium argument takes them, it is therefore unsurprising that
they invent simpler arguments that lead to more palatable conclusions. However,
the first principle of rational thought is never to allow your preferences to
influence your beliefs.
Fallacies of
the Prisoner's Dilemma
The fact
that both players would be better off if they didn't play their equilibrium
strategies in the Prisoner's Dilemma is said to be a paradox of rationality
that requires resolution.
Categorical
imperative
In
colloquial language, Immanuel Kant's categorical imperative says that it is
rational to do what you wish everybody would do. If this were true, it would be
rational to cooperate in the Prisoner's Dilemma. But wishful thinking is never
rational. It is a constant source of amazement to me that Kant is never held to
account for proposing a rationality principle without giving any reasons why we
should take it seriously.
Fallacy of the twins
Two rational people facing
the same problem will necessarily choose the same action. So Alice and Bob will
either both play hawk or both play dove in the Prisoner's
Dilemma. Since Alice prefers the outcome (dove,dove) to (hawk, hawk),
she should therefore choose dove.
The fallacy is attractive
because it would be correct if Alice and Bob were genetically identical twins,
and we were talking about what genetically determined behaviour best promotes
biological fitness (see Kin selection in Chapter 8). But the relevant game
wouldn't then be the Prisoner's Dilemma; it would be a game with only one
player.
As is commonplace when
looking at fallacies of the Prisoner's Dilemma, we are offered a correct
analysis of the wrong game. The Prisoner's Dilemma is a two-player game in
which Alice and Bob choose their strategies independently. The twins
fallacy wrongly assumes that Bob will make the same choice as Alice whatever
strategy she chooses. This can't be right, because Bob is supposedly rational
and one of his two choices is irrational.
One can modify the
assumptions of the fallacy so that Alice and Bob's strategies coincide only
with some sufficiently high probability. The story told to justify such a
correlation in their behaviour often kicks up enough dust to obscure the fact
that any correlation at all implies that Alice and Bob aren't choosing
independently. But if they don't choose independently, they aren't playing the
Prisoner's Dilemma. Even if Alice and Bob's information were correlated, as
hypothesized in Aumann's notion of a correlated equilibrium, they still
wouldn't play hawk, because hawk is strongly dominated whatever
the players may learn about other matters.
Myth of the wasted vote
A version of the twins
fallacy is routinely trotted out at election time, when pundits argue that
'every vote counts' (see Mixed Nash equilibria, Chapter 2). If a wasted vote is
one that doesn't affect the outcome of the election, then the only time that
your vote can count is when only one vote separates the winner and the
runner-up. If they are separated by two or more votes, then a change in your
vote would make no difference at all to who is elected. However, an election
for a seat in a national assembly is almost never settled by a margin of only
one vote.
Here is a hypothetical
example of an election even closer than the actual race between Bush and Gore
in the United States in 2000. A reliable opinion poll says that the voters in a
pivotal state who have made up their minds are split 51% to 49% in favour of
Bush. The probability that a floating voter will go for Bush is just enough to
ensure that he will beat Gore by 500 votes on average. Things look so close
that Alice decides to vote. What are the chances that her vote will count -
that the result would have been different if she had stayed home and watched
the television?
With one million voters of
whom 5% are undecided, Alice's vote would count only once in every 8,000 years,
even if the same freakish circumstances were repeated every four years. But
they won't be. The chances that the votes cast by floaters will almost balance
those cast by the decided voters are infinitesimal. If the floaters in our
example voted for Bush with the same frequency as the rest of the population,
Alice's vote would count only once in every 20 billion billion years. No wonder
no state has ever been decided by a single vote in a presidential election!
Naive folk imagine that to
accept this argument is to precipitate the downfall of democracy. We are
therefore told that you are wrong to count only the effect of your vote alone -
you should instead count the total number of
votes cast by all those people who think and feel as you think and feel, and
hence will vote as you vote. If you have 10,000 such soul mates or twins,
your vote wouldn't then be wasted, because the probability that an election
will be decided by a margin of 10,000 votes or less is often very high. This
argument is faulty for the same reason that the twins fallacy fails in the
Prisoner's Dilemma. There may be large numbers of people who think and feel
like you, but their decisions on whether to go out and vote won't change if you
stay home and watch the television.
Critics sometimes accuse
game theorists of a lack of public spirit in exposing this fallacy, but they
are wrong to think that democracy would fall apart if people were encouraged to
think about the realities of the election process. Cheering at a football game
is a useful analogy. Few cheers would be raised if what people were trying to
do by cheering was to increase the general noise level in the stadium. No
single voice can make an appreciable difference to how much noise is being made
when a crowd of people is cheering. But nobody cheers at a football game
because they want to increase the general noise level. They shout words of wisdom
and advice at their team even when they are at home in front of a television
set.
The same goes for voting.
You are kidding yourself if you vote because your vote has a significant chance
of being pivotal. But it makes perfectly good sense to vote for the same reason
that football fans yell advice at their teams. And, just as it is more
satisfying to shout good advice rather than bad, so many game theorists think
that you get most out of participating in an election by voting as though you
were going to be the pivotal voter, even though you know the probability of one
vote making a difference is too small to matter. A Kantian would assume that
everyone is similarly strategic, but I prefer to use opinion polls when
guessing the most likely way a tie might arise.
For example, Ralph Nader
was the green candidate in the presidential election when Bush just beat Gore.
I am hot on green issues, but I wouldn't have voted for Nader, because if there
had been a tie, it would almost certainly have been between Bush and Gore. In
Europe, such strategic voting will sometimes result in your voting for a minor
party. The same pundits who tell you that every vote counts will also tell you
that such a strategic vote is a wasted vote. But they can't be allowed to have
it both ways!
Transparent disposition
fallacy
This fallacy asks us to
believe two doubtful propositions. The first is that rational people have the
willpower to commit themselves in advance to playing games in a particular way.
The second is that other people can read our body language well enough to know
when we are telling the truth. If we truthfully claim that we have made an
irrevocable commitment, we will therefore be believed.
If these propositions were
correct, our world would certainly be very different! Charles Darwin's Expression
of the Emotions would be wrong in denying that our involuntary facial
muscles make it impossible to conceal our emotional state, and so actors would
be out of a job. Politicians would be incorruptible. Poker would be impossible
to play. Rationality would be a defence against drug addiction. However, the
logic of game theory would still apply.
As an example, consider
two possible mental dispositions called CLINT and JOHN. The former is a
retaliating strategy named after the character played by Clint Eastwood in the
spaghetti westerns (see Evolution of Cooperation, Chapter 8). The latter
commemorates a hilarious movie I once saw in which John Wayne played the part
of Genghis Khan. To choose the disposition JOHN is to advertise that you have
committed yourself to play hawk in the Prisoner's Dilemma no matter
what. To choose the disposition

34. Transparent
disposition fallacy
CLINT is to advertise that
you are committed to play dove in the Prisoner's Dilemma if and only if
your opponent is advertising the same commitment. Otherwise you play hawk.
If Alice and Bob are
allowed to commit themselves transparently to one of these two dispositions,
they won't be playing the Prisoner's Dilemma any more; they will be playing the
Film Star Game of Figure 34 in which the players' strategies are CLINT and
JOHN. If both players choose CLINT in the Film Star Game, they are then
committed to playing dove in the Prisoner's Dilemma; otherwise they are
committed to playing hawk.
As the circled payoffs
show, CLINT is a (weakly) dominant strategy in the Film Star Game. So if Alice
and Bob choose CLINT, they will be playing a Nash equilibrium that results in
their cooperating in the Prisoner's Dilemma. Advocates of the transparent
disposition fallacy think that this shows that cooperation is rational in the
Prisoner's Dilemma. It would be nice if they were right that real-life games
are really all Film Star Games of some kind - especially if one could choose to
be Adam Smith or Charles Darwin rather than John Wayne or Clint Eastwood. But
even then it wouldn't follow that rationality requires cooperating in the
Prisoner's Dilemma. The argument shows only that it is rational to play CLINT
in the Film Star Game.
Newcomb's paradox
Two boxes possibly have
money inside. Alice is free to take either the first box or both boxes. If she
cares only for money, what should she do? This seems an easy problem. If dove
represents taking only the first box and hawk represents taking both
boxes, then Alice should choose hawk because she then gets at least as
much money as with dove.
However, there is a catch.
It is certain that the second box contains one dollar. The first box contains
either two dollars or nothing. The decision about whether there should be money
in the first box is made by Bob, who knows Alice so well that he is always able
to make a perfect prediction of what she will do. Like Alice, he has two choices,
dove and hawk. His dovelike choice is to put two dollars in the
first box. His hawkish choice is to put nothing in the first box. His
motivation is to catch Alice out. He therefore plays dove if he predicts
that Alice will choose dove. He plays hawk if he predicts that
Alice will choose hawk.
Choosing hawk doesn't
look so good for Alice now. If she chooses hawk, Bob predicts her choice
and puts nothing in the first box, so that Alice gets only the single dollar in
the second box. But if Alice chooses dove, Bob will predict her choice
and put two dollars in the first box for her to pick up.
The Harvard philosopher
Robert Nozick created a craze in his profession (aptly described as
Newcombmania) by claiming that Newcomb's paradox shows you can sometimes maximize
your payoff by playing a strongly dominated strategy. He could equally well
have argued that it shows 2 + 2 = 5, since anything can be deduced from a
contradiction. The contradiction in Newcomb's paradox consists in assuming the
existence of a game in which:
1.   Alice moves after Bob.
2.   Bob knows Alice's choice.
3.   Alice has more than one choice.

35. Two attempts to
satisfy Newcomb's requirements. The information set in the right-hand game
indicates that Alice doesn't know Bob's prediction. The payoff tables
underneath each game tree are the relevant strategic forms
Figure 35 shows two
attempts to create such a game without being specific about Bob's payoffs; the
game on the left fails item 1 on the list, and that on the right fails item 2.
We can satisfy both item 1 and item 2 by offering Alice only one choice in the
right-hand game, but then we fall foul of item 3.
When arguing that Alice
must play dove to maximize her payoff, Nozick assumes that Bob will play
dh in the left-hand game. That is to say, Bob will predict d when
Alice plays d and h when she plays h. However, Alice's
strategy d isn't dominated in the left-hand game. To argue that Alice's
strategy d is dominated, one has to appeal to the right-hand game. But
it isn't paradoxical that Alice might play differently in different games.
One can muddy the waters
by giving up the requirement that Bob can predict Alice's behaviour perfectly.
We can then create a game in which the three requirements of Newcomb's
paradox are satisfied by introducing chance
moves into the right-hand game that remove Alice's opportunity to choose
differently from Bob some of the time. But no amount of juggling with the
parameters will make it optimal to play a strongly dominated strategy!
Surprise test paradox
The British telecom
auction that raised $35 billion has been mentioned several times. Everybody was
surprised at this enormous amount - except for the media experts, who finally
got the figure roughly right by predicting a bigger number whenever the bidding
in the auction falsified their previous prediction. Everybody can see the fraud
perpetrated by the media experts on the public in this story, but the fraud
isn't so easily detected when it appears in one of the many versions of the
surprise test paradox, through which most people first learn of backward
induction.
Alice is a teacher who
tells her class that they are to be given a test one day next week, but the day
on which the test is given will come as a surprise. Bob is a pupil who works
backward through the days of the coming school week. If Alice hasn't set the
test by the time school is over on Thursday, Bob figures that she will then
have no choice but to set the test on Friday - this being the last day of the
school week. So if the test were given on Friday, Bob wouldn't be surprised.
Bob therefore deduces that Alice can't plan to give the test on Friday. But
this means that the test must be given on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday. Having reached this conclusion, Bob now applies the backward
induction argument again to eliminate Thursday as a possible day for the test.
Once Thursday has been eliminated, he is then in a position to eliminate
Wednesday. Once he has eliminated all the days of the school week by this
method, he sighs with relief and makes no attempt to study over the weekend.
But then Alice takes him by surprise by setting the test first thing on Monday
morning!
This isn't really a
paradox at all, because Bob shouldn't have been so quick to sigh with relief.
If the backward induction argument is correct, then Alice's two statements are
inconsistent, and so at least one of them must be wrong. But why should Bob
assume that the wrong statement is that a test will be given, and not that the
test will come as a surprise? This observation is usually brushed aside,
because what people really want to hear about is whether the backward induction
argument is right. But what they should be asking is whether backward induction
has been applied to the right game.
In the game that people
imagine is being analysed, Eve chooses one of five days on which to hold the
test, and Bob predicts which of the five days she will choose. If his
prediction is wrong, then he will be taken by surprise. The solution of this
version of Matching Pennies is that Alice and Bob both choose each day with
equal probability. Bob is then surprised four times out of five.
This isn't the conclusion
we reached before, because the surprise test paradox applies backward induction
to a game in which Bob is always allowed to predict that the test will be
today, even though he may have wrongly predicted that it was going to take
place yesterday. In this bizarre game, Bob's optimal strategy is therefore to
predict Monday on Monday, Tuesday on Tuesday, Wednesday on Wednesday, Thursday
on Thursday, and Friday on Friday. No wonder Bob is never surprised by having
the test occur on a day he didn't predict!
The surprise test paradox
has circulated ever since I can remember. Occasionally it gets a new airing in
newspapers and magazines. It has even been the object of learned articles in
philosophical journals. The confusion persists because people fail to ask the
right questions. One of the major virtues of adopting a systematic formalism in
game theory is that asking the correct questions becomes automatic. You then
don't need to be a genius like Von Neumann to stay on the
right track. His formalism does the thinking for you.
Common knowledge
Why do we attach so much
importance to eye contact? I think the reason is that something becomes common
knowledge only if it is implied by an event that couldn't have occurred without
everybody knowing it. For example, if Alice and Bob observe each other
observing that Carol has a dirty face, then it becomes common knowledge between
Alice and Bob that Carol has a dirty face. Similarly, when two people look each
other in the eye, it becomes common knowledge between them that they are aware
of each other as individuals.
Three old ladies
Alice, Beatrice, and Carol
are three respectable ladies at a midwestern county fair. Each has a dirty
face, but nobody is blushing, although a respectable lady who was conscious of
appearing in public with a dirty face would surely do so. It follows that none
of the ladies knows that her own face is dirty, although each can clearly see
the dirty faces of the others.

36. Three midwestern
ladies
Midwestern clergymen
always tell the truth, and so the ladies pay close attention when a local
minister announces that one of the ladies has a dirty face. After his
announcement, one of the ladies blushes. How come? Didn't the minister simply
tell the ladies something they knew already?
To understand what the
minister added to what the ladies already knew, we need to look at the chain of
reasoning that leads to the conclusion that at least one of the ladies must
blush. If neither Beatrice nor Carol blushes, Alice would reason as follows:
Alice: Suppose that my face were clean.
Then Beatrice would reason as follows: Beatrice:
I see that Alice's face is clean. Suppose that my face were also clean.
Then Carol would reason as follows: Carol: I see that Alice and
Beatrice's faces are clean. If my face were clean, nobody's face would be
dirty. But the minister's announcement proves otherwise. So my face is dirty,
and I must blush.
Beatrice: Since Carol hasn't blushed, my face
is dirty. So I must blush.
Alice: Since Beatrice hasn't blushed, my
face is dirty. So I must blush.
So what did the minister
add to what the ladies already knew? For Alice's reasoning to work, she needed
to know that Beatrice knows that Carol knows that Alice and Beatrice know that
someone has a dirty face. All these knowings became possible only after the
minister's announcement makes it common knowledge that someone has a dirty
face. It is then not only true that Alice, Beatrice, and Carol know that one of
them has a dirty face; they all know that they all know
that they all know that they know it.
A coordination paradox
Is a magnificent beard
necessary to make advances in interactive epistemology? The only evidence I
have to offer is that the bearded Princeton philosopher David Lewis shares the
credit for recognizing the importance of common knowledge in game theory with
the equally hirsute Bob Aumann. But what are we to make of Lewis's claim that a
convention can't be operational unless it is common knowledge that the players
are planning to use it?
For something to become
common knowledge, we need an equivalent of the tactless clergyman in the story
of the three midwestern ladies. But no such clergyman is usually to be found.
Nearly all the conventions we use in daily life therefore fail Lewis's test. So
how come they seem to work so well?
Computer scientists
worried about the implications for distributed systems illustrate the problem
by telling a story about two Byzantine generals trying to coordinate an attack
on an enemy army that lies in a valley between them, but I prefer a less
dramatic example.
Alice and Bob want to get
together tomorrow in New York. Alice emails the suggestion that they meet at
Grand Central Station at noon. Bob emails a confirmation. This exchange would
be adequate for most of us, but Lewis would object that the agreement isn't
common knowledge because Bob doesn't know that Alice received his confirmation.
She should therefore email to confirm that she received his confirmation. Bob
should then email a confirmation of her confirmation, and so on. Since there is
always a small probability that an email message won't be received, their
attempt to agree on a convention will never become common knowledge.
But why should a
convention have to be common knowledge to be operational? Ariel Rubinstein
studied this question by analysing a new Email Game in which Alice and Bob's
Meeting Game is replaced by the Stag Hunt Game of Chapter 4. The default
convention is for Alice and Bob to play dove in the Stag Hunt Game, but
every so often the labels of both their strategies get reversed, so that
choosing dove will result in hawk actually being played. Only
Alice observes when this happens. She sends an email message to Bob saying that
they should play hawk on this occasion rather than dove. He
automatically sends a confirmation. She automatically sends a confirmation of
his confirmation, and so on.
A strategy in the Email
Game says whether dove or hawk should be played depending on the
number of messages a player has received. We can then short-circuit the common
knowledge question by asking whether there is a Nash equilibrium of the Email
Game in which Alice and Bob always succeed in coordinating on the equilibrium
they both prefer in the Stag Hunt Game. Rubinstein's answer seems to confirm
Lewis's intuition. The only Nash equilibrium in the Email Game in which Alice
and Bob play dove when no message is sent requires that they always play
dove no matter how many messages they may receive.
However, the picture
changes when we allow Alice and Bob to choose whether or not to send or receive
messages. The modified Email Game then has many Nash equilibria, the most
pleasant of which requires that both players play hawk whenever Alice
proposes doing so and Bob says OK - as when friends agree to meet in a coffee
shop. But there are other Nash equilibria in which the players settle on hawk
only after a long exchange of confirmations of confirmations. Hosts of
polite dinner parties suffer from such equilibria when their guests start
moving with glacial slowness towards the door at the end of the evening,
stopping every inch or so in order that the host and the guest can repeatedly assure each other that departing at this
time is socially acceptable to both sides.
The common-sense
conclusion is that conventions don't need to be common knowledge to work. Most
conventions are established by the forces of cultural evolution. Sometimes
evolutionary stability considerations make it possible to eliminate some Nash
equilibria. In the modified Email Game, one might hope that such considerations
would eventually eliminate the equilibria that generate 'long goodbyes' after
dinner parties, but the prognosis isn't good. Ironically, only Rubinstein's
equilibrium, in which Alice and Bob play dove no matter what happens,
fails to pass an appropriate evolutionary stability test.
Monty Hall problem
Alice is a contestant in
an old quiz show run by Monty Hall. She must choose from three boxes, only one
of which contains a prize. Monty knows which box contains the prize, but Alice
doesn't. After she chooses Box 2, Monty opens one of the other boxes
that he knows to be empty. Alice then has the opportunity to change her mind
about her choice of box. What should she do?
People usually say it
doesn't matter. They reason that Alice's probability of winning when she chose Box
2 was 1/3 because there was then an equal chance of the prize being in any
of the three boxes. After another box is shown to be empty, the probability
that Box 2 contains the prize goes up to 1/2, because there is now an
equal chance that the prize is in one of the two unopened boxes. If Alice
switches boxes, her probability of winning will therefore still be 1/2. So why
bother changing?
Marilyn Vos Savant
apparently has the highest IQ ever recorded. When she explained in Parade magazine
that Alice should always switch boxes, various self-appointed mathematical
gurus laughed her to scorn, but she was right.
The probability that the
prize is either in Box 1 or Box 3 is 2/3. If she switches to
whichever of these boxes isn't opened, Alice will therefore win with
probability 2/3.
This argument is
deceptively easy. Even top mathematicians sometimes fail to see why Monty's
action conveys so much information to Alice. After all, it wouldn't have
conveyed any useful information at all if he had opened a box at random that
just happened to be empty - but he deliberately chose a box that he knew to be
empty.
However, you don't need to
have the highest IQ ever recorded to get the answer right if you are willing to
let Von Neumann do your thinking for you. Figure 37 shows the game that Alice
and Monty are playing. It doesn't matter what Monty's payoffs are, but we might
as well assume that he wants Alice to lose. A chance move first puts the prize
in one of the boxes. Monty then decides whether to open Box 1 or Box
3. (He only has a genuine choice when the prize is actually in Box 2.)
Alice then chooses whether to stay with Box 2 or to switch to whichever
of Box 1 or Box 3 Monty didn't open. 
There is now no need to
think at all. If Alice always switches, the figure makes it impossible not to
recognize that she wins when the prize is in Box 1 or Box 3 and loses
when the prize is in Box 2. So she wins with probability 2/3.
 

37. The Monty Hall
Game. Only Alice's payoffs are shown. The chance move is shown as a square.
Alice's information sets show that she doesn't know which box contains the
prize, but she does know which box Monty opens. Her switching choice is
thickened. The figure shows that whatever strategy Monty chooses, Alice wins
with probability 2/3 if she switches
 













