



God's Word
Scripture—Tradition—Office
JOSEPH RATZINGER
(POPE BENEDICT XVI)
God's Word
Scripture—Tradition—Office
Edited by
Peter Hünermann and Thomas Söding Translated by Henry Taylor
IGNATIUS PRESS    SAN FRANCISCO
Original German edition:
Wort Gottes
Schrift—Tradition—Amt
© 2005 by Libreria Editrice Vaticana
© 2005 by Verlag Herder, Freiburg im Breisgau
Cover photograph © Stefano Spaziani
Cover design by Riz Boncan Marsella
© 2008 by Ignatius Press, San Francisco © 2008 by Libreria Editrice Vaticana, Vatican City All rights reserved ISBN 978-1-58617-179-7 Library of Congress Control Number 2007928632 Printed in the United States of America
Contents
Introduction
By Peter Hünermann and Thomas Söding
I
Primacy, Episcopacy, and Successio Apostolica
The Church's Teaching on Primacy and Episcopacy
Reflections on the Nature of Apostolic Succession in General
Successio Papalis and Successio Episcopalis in Relation and Distinction to Each Other
II
The Question of the Concept of Tradition: A Provisional Response
First Section
Revelation and Tradition: An Attempt to Analyze the Concept of Tradition
I.    Formulation of the Problem
II.   Theses on the Relation between Revelation and Tradition
Revelation and Scripture
The Differing Significance of Scripture in the Old and New Testaments
Christ, the Revelation of God
The Nature of Tradition
The Function of Exegesis

Second Section
On Interpreting the Tridentine Decree on Tradition

The Pneumatological Setting of the Concept of Tradition in the Original Draft of Cardinal Cervini
The Linking of Tradition with Ecclesial Life in Various Contributions to the Discussion at Trent
Tradition and Church Dogma
The Meaning of the Trent Decree
III
Biblical Interpretation in Conflict
The Question of the Basic Principles and Path of Exegesis Today

Preliminary Considerations: The Situation and the Task
Self-Criticism of the Historical-Critical Method Following the Paradigm of the Methodological Doctrine of Martin Dibelius and Rudolf Bultmann
Some Basic Elements of a New Synthesis
Introduction
Joseph Ratzinger, now Pope Benedict XVI, published three volumes in the series Quaestiones Disputatae: two as professor on theology, and one as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. All three include important pieces from his pen; all three have attracted a good deal of notice; all three are concerned with how God's word is alive in the Church; all three were written with ecumenism in view; and they all respond to the question of how the truth of the Christian faith can be recognized and articulated, how we can witness to it and hand it on to others. The two earlier pieces are from the context of the Second Vatican Council, and the third is of paradigmatic significance for the development of Vatican theology.
In 1961, in the midst of the preparations for the Second Vatican Council, Joseph Ratzinger, together with Karl Rahner, published the volume Episkopat und Primat (The Episcopate and the Primacy). His contribution was entitled "Primacy, Episcopate, and Successio Apostolica". At the end of the first section, the writer comes to this conclusion:
The Vatican Council [he means the First Vatican Council] represents a condemnation of papalism just as much as of episcopalism. Actually, it characterizes both doctrines as heresies, and, in place of one-dimensional solutions on the basis of late theological ideas or those of power politics, it sets the dialectic of the reality already given, stemming from Christ, a dialectic and a reality that confirm their obedience to the truth in their very renunciation of a uniform formula satisfying to the intellect.    The fact that, according to the Vatican Council, not only episcopalism but also papalism in the narrow sense should be regarded as a condemned doctrine is something that must no doubt be impressed in the public consciousness of the Christian world to a far greater extent than has hitherto been the case.1
In the second part, the nature of the apostolic succession, as "being taken into the service of the word"2 and as following the apostles, is shown as essentially based on and influenced by the apostolic tradition. " 'Apostolic succession' is by its nature the living presence of the word in the personal form of the witness."3 It is against this horizon that the agreement and the difference between papal and episcopal succession are determined.
In 1965, during the final year of the Council's work, Joseph Ratzinger (again, together with Karl Rahner) published volume 25 of the Quaestiones Disputatae, under the title of Offenbarung und Überlieferung (Revelation and Tradition, QD 17). His own [first] piece is also entitled, "The Question of the Concept of Tradition: A Provisional Response". The question that sets the tone is of ". . . the way the word of revelation uttered in Christ remains present in history and comes to man".4 Joseph Ratzinger begins with an analysis of the way the question was put in the Reformation period, then works out fundamental theses regarding the relation between revelation and tradition, and thus interprets the concept of tradition in the documents of Trent. In his concluding reflection, he sums up his findings: "We are faced with a concept according to which revelation does indeed have its ἐϕάπαξ [its 'once-for-all' character], insofar as it took place in historical facts, but also has its constant 'today', insofar as what once happened remains forever living and effective in the faith of the Church, and Christian faith never refers merely to what is past; rather, it refers equally to what is present and what is to come."5 Tradition comprises:
1. the inscription of revelation (= the gospel) not only in the Bible, but in hearts; 2. the speaking of the Holy Spirit throughout the whole age of the Church; 3. the conciliar activity of the Church; 4. the liturgical tradition and the whole of the tradition of the Church's life.6
In 1989, Joseph Ratzinger published Quaestio no. 117, Schriftauslegung im Widerstreit (Biblical Interpretation in Conflict). This records the "Erasmus Lecture" that the writer delivered at the Lutheran Center for Religion and Society in New York and the papers discussed in the subsequent workshop with scholars of various Christian denominations. The Cardinal's lecture is entitled "Biblical Interpretation in Conflict: The Question of the Basic Principles and Path of Exegesis Today". This represents a fundamental discussion of questions concerning biblical exegesis ecumenically, and, starting from a "self-critical reflection"7 on modern critical methods, it sketches the outlines of a new synthesis. The central watchwords of this new synthesis are:
1. The unity of "event and word"; if these are separated in a dualist scheme, then this cuts "the biblical word off from creation and abolishes the interrelationship of meaning between the Old and New Testaments".8
2. The way that revelation is "greater" in relation to the news about it. "The biblical word bears witness to the revelation but does not contain it in such a way that the revelation is completely absorbed in it and could now be put in your pocket like an object."9 It follows from this that, "There is a surplus of meaning in an individual text, going beyond its immediate historical setting." And at the same time, Scripture as a whole has its own status. "It is more than a text pieced together from what the individual authors may have intended to say, each in his own historical setting."10 This essentially stems from the fact that Scripture witnesses to the word of God, which tradition also produces.
These three pieces are closely related to the central task that Benedict XVI sees as being set for his pontificate. In his "First Message", of April 20, 2005, before the cardinals in the Sistine Chapel, and which he was addressing, not just to his "most reverend brothers", but also to his "dear brothers and sisters in Christ" and to all "men of goodwill", he said,
Nourished and sustained by the Eucharist, Catholics cannot but feel encouraged to strive for the full unity for which Christ expressed so ardent a hope in the Upper Room. The Successor of Peter knows that he must make himself especially responsible for his Divine Master's supreme aspiration. Indeed, he is entrusted with the task of strengthening his brethren (cf. Lk 22:32). With full awareness, therefore, at the beginning of his ministry in the Church of Rome that Peter bathed in his blood, Peter's current Successor takes on as his primary task the duty to work tirelessly to rebuild the full and visible unity of all Christ's followers.11
Working at this task demands both boldness in the Spirit and an authenticity of action founded in faith. It requires profound insight into theological relationships. These three publications offer us essential insights into the problem areas posed by this task. They open up perspectives toward solutions that Joseph Ratzinger saw as a theologian and cardinal and that remain important for his pontificate.
The main focus that Benedict XVI is setting for his pontificate has prompted the Herder publishing house and the current editors of the Quaestiones Disputatae series, with its wealth of tradition, to reissue these important texts. They wish that Benedict XVI may have the "assistance" that Jesus promised and all that help which is essential for the achievement of this task.
Peter Hünermann
Thomas Söding
I
Primacy, Episcopacy, and Successio Apostolica
Within the little expression "Roman Catholic", which nowadays distinguishes those communities of believers in relation with the Bishop of Rome from the other varieties of "catholics" in religious statistics, there is a linguistic paradox, which is for its own part the expression of a substantial complex of theological problems. "Catholic", just like "ecumenical", signifies the transcending of all spatial limits, the claim to embrace the whole world. When the term "catholic" became the "given name" of a "Christian", this very spatial universality was meant to differentiate them from the spatially limited sectarian churches and thus, as it were, establish clarity in terms of religious statistics.1 Yet when another name was added to "catholic" with the word "Roman", then behind that was concealed not merely the offense of a division within the Catholica itself (only on account of this did a more precise denomination of this kind become necessary); it also looks like a tacit withdrawal of the first title if the freedom from spatial limitation now seems more specific and constricted by the designation of a particular place. The curious polarity in which the two words Romanus and catholicus now stand in relation to each other movingly captures the mutual relationship of fullness and unity, of primacy and episcopacy. If the formula "Roman Catholic" refers in the first place, on the basis of its function in religious statistics, to the phenomenon of division within Catholicism, yet seen more profoundly it reveals the starting point of that division in that it helps us see that essential understanding of unity and catholicity by which minds have been and still are divided.
John XXIII's plan for the Council brought this complex of problems into the center of theological questioning once more and after the decades following the [First] Vatican Council, when attention was fixed on Romanus, shifted attention more strongly to the other side of the balance, to the catholicus with which the Romanus stands together in paradoxical unity, so that either of them, detached from the other, would no longer be itself. Theology is preparing to rewrite the tractates De episcopo and De conciliis, after having succeeded in bringing the tractate De primatu to a high degree of clarity.2 In a discussion of this kind, to which the present essay on the concept of succession is meant to offer a modest contribution, it is going to be important to avoid problems that are merely apparent and not to make things that are irrelevant or clear in any case the subject of ill-advised profundities, but rather to set out those questions that are genuinely open, the discussion of which will bring more than a merely verbal improvement in our knowledge of the nature of the Church, and that thus also offer the hope of doing a real service to Christendom in its divided state.
The Church's Teaching on Primacy and Episcopacy
Let us then first ask: What is the established teaching of the Church and, to that extent, a given factor that may be and should be a presupposition of any discussion, whether within Catholicism or in apologetic theology? Well, what is established as the teaching of the Church, in the first place, is that the pope enjoys direct ordinary jurisdiction (in the sense of true episcopal authority) over the entire Church.3
The primacy of the pope is referred to by the Vatican Council as apostolicus primatus, and the See of Rome as sedes apostolica.4
The result for the sphere of doctrine, from what we have said, is that the pope in his official person enjoys infallibility, so that his decisions ex cathedra are irreformable ex sese, and not just in virtue of their subsequent confirmation by the Church.5
What follows for the sphere of communion, as the second pillar of ecclesial existence, is that only someone who is in communion with the pope is living in the true communion of the Body of the Lord, that is, in the true Church.6 Over against these certainties concerning the pope there are a series of certainties concerning the nature of the episcopal office. If, on the one hand, the papal see is referred to as sedes apostolica, and his primacy as apostolicus, yet contrariwise it is true of the bishops in particular that they "in Apostolorum locum successerunt";7 if ordinary episcopal authority in the whole of the Church is ascribed to the pope, so that the impression might be given that the bishops were merely instruments of the pope, yet, on the other hand, it is declared that they are "appointed by the Holy Spirit",8 are bishops "by divine law"9—not by papal law, but irrevocable by the pope, because they are just as much a part of the divinely given structure of the Church as he himself is.
Dom Olivier Rousseau has recently recalled to the attention of theologians a document that has been forgotten all too long and that he rightly regards as an authentic commentary on the Vatican Council—we may probably regard it as a kind of recovery of the neglected doctrinal statement De episcopo, as a most important supplement that still unlocks the full meaning of the Vatican decrees. It concerns the "Collective Declaration of the German Hierarchy, relating to the Circular Letter of the Imperial German Chancellor with Reference to the Coming Papal Election", from 1875, which was emphatically and unreservedly endorsed by Pius IX.10
Rousseau summarizes the contents of this important document in the following seven points:
1. The pope cannot claim the episcopal rights for himself or substitute his own authority for that of the bishops; 2. episcopal jurisdiction is not subsumed within papal jurisdiction; 3. the entire fullness of episcopal authority was not put into the pope's hands by the decrees of the Vatican Council; 4. he has not in principle taken the place of each individual bishop; 5. he cannot at any given moment put himself in the place of the bishop vis-à-vis governments; 6. the bishops did not become instruments of the pope;7. they are not the officials of a foreign sovereign, vis-à-vis governments.11
If, in this light, we take a new, fresh look at what the Vatican Council says about primacy, then we cannot deny that it appears much more profound, and of course much less simple, than theological textbooks, to a great extent, give any idea. Running through the texts is basically the same dialectic as is characteristic of the other statements of this Council, which are often oversimplified yet are in truth amazingly precise and qualified. H. U. von Balthasar has shown the dialectical nature of the first part of the Vatican decrees by pointing out that the Vatican Council by no means simply defined the existence of a natural knowledge of God, that there is rather a sublime dialectic running through its statements on this point, inasmuch as the certo cognosci posse of one section is counterbalanced, in the second, by an explicit acknowledgment of the lack of the firma certitudo that might be easily available to all men, without admixture of error; so that the following scheme emerges:
12
The certo thus appears at the same time under the heading of sic and non; the Council offers no simple formula of the kind that the theologian is (quite rightly) constantly seeking but obviously believes it can express the full facts of the case only in the dialectical union-in-tension of sic et non.
The same dialectic, however, emerges in the following section, on the way revelation can be recognized by a sign. The certo is in fact even trumped with a certissime here, and the difficulty is rendered the more acute in that it is not the abstract humana ratio per se that appears as the vehicle for such certainty, but the concrete reason of the average person, as he actually is. Yet contrasted with this reinforced sic is a strengthened non, when it is emphasized at the same time that such knowledge is a "free obedience" that man can resist and from which he can withdraw.13 Here, too, the Council remains committed to the whole reality, which can only be expressed in the dialectic conflict between two series of statements that are in themselves inadequate. If we think again about the section "De R. Pontificis et episcoporum iurisdictione" (D 1828)—which is often quickly passed over—in the light of the bishops' "Collective Declaration", then it becomes clear that this former brings into play, in the doctrine of primacy, the same dialectic that characterizes the Council's concept of revelation and faith. Here, too, there are ultimately two series of statements standing over against each other that cannot be brought to coincide completely, and, by that very fact, are capable of expressing something like the whole of the reality, which is not one-dimensional. The Church appears (to use Heribert Schauf's words), not as a circle with a single center, but as an ellipse with two foci: primacy and episcopacy.14 To put this in terms of the history of doctrine: In the context of the centuries-old struggle between episcopalism/conciliarism, on one side, and papalism, on the other, the Vatican Council is not at all simply a victory for the latter, as it might well seem to superficial observers. For the classic papalism of the Middle Ages, "the hierarchical pyramid of the priests under the bishop, that is, the jurisdictional superiority of the bishop" was seen as "an organizational measure taken by the Church"; it was justified by the fact "that the pope, from a purely practical point of view, is not in the position to give pastoral care to all the faithful"; accordingly, the pope can "at any time limit and restrict, or alternatively abolish, the jurisdictional authority of the bishop".15
The Vatican Council represents a condemnation of papalism just as much as of episcopalism. Actually, it characterizes both doctrines as heresies, and in the place of one-dimensional solutions on the basis of late theological ideas or those of power politics, it sets the dialectic of the reality already given, stemming from Christ, a dialectic and a reality that confirm their obedience to the truth in their very renunciation of a uniform formula satisfying to the intellect. The fact that, according to the Vatican Council, not only episcopalism but also papalism in the narrow sense should be regarded as a condemned doctrine is something that must no doubt be impressed in the public consciousness of the Christian world to a far greater extent than has hitherto been the case. In the great historical struggle of these two powerful movements, it puts itself neither on one side nor on the other, but creates a new position that goes beyond all human conceptualization in formulating the peculiar nature of the Church, which ultimately springs, not from man's judgment, but from the word of God.
The question of what is already established has thus, of itself, brought us into the middle of the difficulties concerning precisely this element of what is established—and has, of course, also made its boundaries clear. Episcopacy and primacy, according to Catholic belief, are divinely given factors of the Church. Consequently, for the Catholic theologian there can be no question of playing one off against the other; he can only try to learn to understand more profoundly the living mutual relationship between the two and thus, of course, through his thinking, to serve its realization, which does indeed come about through men and is at all times a human and broken form of the given factor, of what God has given and given up for us in advance. K. Rahner has tried to explain this mutual relationship in more detail, on the basis of the concept of communion.16
That is, and doubtless remains, the central approach, inasmuch as the Church is, in her inmost nature, communio, a sharing of and fellowship in the body of the Lord.17
The reflection that the Church of the incarnate Word is in turn the Church of the word, and not just of the sacrament leads us to a complementary aspect: sacrament and word are the two pillars upon which the Church stands18—and we find in the relationship of these two elements, yet again, a polarity of unity-and-duality that cannot be further analyzed; this is the sign of something living that precedes and goes beyond any logical constructions and can never be entirely enclosed within them. Yet if in our investigation we start from the word, we are led to the concept of successio, which is affected, not (or, not primarily) by the reality of communion, but by the struggle concerning the "word"; and it is there that it finds its proper place, even though it does in fact necessarily include the realm of communion as well. The problem of primacy and episcopacy is reflected in the concept of succession, inasmuch as it is said, on one hand, that the bishops are the successors of the apostles, whereas, on the other hand, the predicate apostolicus is uniquely reserved for the pope. Thus the question arises whether there are then two kinds of succession and thus two kinds of sharing in apostolicity. It will be best, first of all, to investigate the nature of succession in itself and, on that basis, to tease out the meaning of the little word apostolicus in connection with the concept of succession.
2. Reflections on the Nature of Apostolic Succession in General
The concept of succession was clearly formulated, as von Campenhausen has impressively demonstrated, in the anti-Gnostic polemics of the second century;19 its purpose was to contrast the true apostolic tradition of the Church with the pseudo-apostolic tradition of Gnosis. It is therefore, from the outset, closely connected with the question of what is truly apostolic; in particular, it is clear that successio and traditio were originally neighboring terms; the two concepts were at first practically synonymous and were even referred to with a single word, διαδοχή, which signified both "tradition" and "succession".20 "Tradition" is indeed never a simple and anonymous handing on of teaching, but is linked to a person, is a living word, that has its concrete reality in faith. And, vice versa, succession is never the taking over of some official powers that are then at the disposal of the officebearer; rather, it is being taken into the service of the word, the office of testifying to something with which one has been entrusted and which stands above its bearer, so that he fades into the background behind the thing he has taken over and is (to use the marvelous image from Isaiah and John the Baptist) just a voice that enables the word to be heard aloud in the world.
The office, the succession of the apostles, is founded on the word—that is true today as it was then. What was the situation then? Gnosticism was opposing its confused religious philosophy to the Christianity of the Church and claimed that this was a secret tradition passed down from the apostles. As against that, the Church's polemic declared that within the Church there were congregations in which the apostles themselves had been at work or that had received letters from the apostles. Within these congregations, the line could be traced back, as it were, to the mouths of the apostles themselves; the man who was now at the head of the congregation could trace his spiritual ancestors, by name, back that far. If there could be any knowledge anywhere of an oral heritage from the apostles, then it must be found in these congregations: they were the true criterion for what alone could rightly be called "apostolic". We can see quite clearly here how in fact succession is equal to tradition: succession is holding fast to the apostolic word, just as tradition means the continuing existence of authorized witnesses. Hans von Campenhausen has also established that in formulating the principle of succession (tradition), over and beyond the mediating role of Gnosticism, the Church had applied to herself a scheme from ancient philosophy, which first practiced the technique of keeping lists of succession in its schools.21 That may be so, though the state of the sources scarcely allows an entirely reliable verdict. As for the rest—must not the word of God and the reality based upon it always make use of human circumstances so as to be able to express itself among men?
If, however, von Campenhausen meant to say here that a later and thus secondary theology of successio/traditio was preceded by a biblical theology,22 then this would have to be called an error. For the understanding of the New Testament as "scripture", and thus any possible formulation of a New Testament biblical principle, is no earlier than the determination of the principle of successio/traditio, and, moreover, it is, to an even greater extent than this latter, determined by Gnosticism through Marcion.23 We should not deceive ourselves: the existence of New Testament writings, recognized as being "apostolic", does not yet imply the existence of a "New Testament" as "Scripture"—there is a long way from the writings to Scripture. It is well known, and should not be overlooked, that the New Testament does not anywhere understand itself as "Scripture"; "Scripture" is, for the New Testament, simply the Old Testament, while the message about Christ is precisely "spirit", which teaches us how to understand Scripture.24 The idea of a "New Testament" as "Scripture" is still quite inconceivable at this point—even when "office", as the form of the παρδοσις, is already clearly taking shape.
This open situation of the existence of recognized New Testament writings without the existence of any New Testament principle of Scripture or any clear notion of the canon lasted until well into the second century—right into the middle of the period of the conflict with Gnosticism. Before the idea of a "canon" of New Testament Scripture had been formulated, the Church had already developed a different concept of what was canonical; she had as her Scripture the Old Testament, but this Scripture needed a canon of New Testament interpretation, which the Church saw as existing in the traditio guaranteed by the successio. "The canon", as von Harnack once put it, somewhat drastically, "was originally the 'rule of faith'; Scripture, in truth, came in between".25 Before the New Testament itself became Scripture, it was faith that expounded "Scripture" (that is, the Old Testament).
On the other hand, however, there is another mistake that must be rejected here. If the Church opposed to Gnosticism the living διαδοχή, which (as we have said) is traditio and successio in one—the word closely linked to the witness, and the witness closely linked to the word—that did not mean that, for her own part, she intended to canonize orally transmitted doctrine alongside Scripture; on the contrary, she did this so as to defend herself, with the help of this principle, against the Gnostics, who maintained they had a παράδοσις. The unbroken διαδοχή (παράδοσις) άποστολιϰή of the Church, in the minds of the early anti-Gnostic theologians, was precisely what demonstrated that the παράδοσις ἄγραφος, the notion of which was propagated by the Gnostics, did not exist (at least, not in the form the latter asserted). However the case may be with the terminological dependence, παράδοσις (διαδοχή) meant something quite different to the two sides, in fact, the very opposite. In Gnosticism, it meant doctrinal content that is allegedly of apostolic origin; in the theology of the Church it meant the close relation of the living faith to the authority of the Church, embodied in the succession of bishops. The Church invoked the διαδοχή, not in order to set unwritten apostolic doctrine alongside Scripture, but precisely in order to dispute the existence of any such secret heritage. For her, παράδοσις signified the fact that in the New Testament community, "Scripture" (= the Old Testament) is subject to living interpretation by means of the faith handed down from the apostles.26
The New Testament writings and the symbolum that summarizes them are the central instrument of this interpretation in faith; yet they are an instrument at the service of this living faith, which has its concrete form in the διαδοχή.27 Or to say it again another way: In the view of the early anti-Gnostic theologians, there is a "tradition" in the Church, insofar as the primary place of the auctoritas apostolica is found in the living word of the preaching Church; but not in the sense that secret information has been preserved within her since the time of the apostles. We might also say: There is tradition in the Church, but no traditions. The concept of tradition belongs to the Church; that of traditions is Gnostic.28
Thus it becomes apparent that "apostolic tradition" and "apostolic succession" define each other. The succession is the form of the tradition, and the tradition is the content of the succession. At the same time, the justification of both principles, which are really one, is to be found in this interconnection: the decisive element by which Catholic Christianity (whether Roman or Greek) is differentiated from that kind of Christian self-understanding which renounces the title "Catholic" and is happy with the gospel (evangelium) as its sole title.29 For giving the living word of proclamation a superior status to mere Scripture is a genuinely New Testament trait, and those Christian theologians who, in the controversy with Gnosticism, interpreted their Church in the way we have portrayed were thereby expounding the sense of a community that in this essential core of its self-awareness was at one with the consciousness reflected in the writings of the New Testament.
The meaning of what we have been saying becomes clear if we relate it to the following statement by Oskar Cullmann, which may be regarded as a classic formulation of Reformed thinking in the matter of the concept of succession: "In the only New Testament passage that talks explicitly about the relation of the apostles to the Church that would follow after them, the section of the 'high-priestly prayer', in John 17:20, already mentioned, the further activity of the apostles is precisely associated, not with the principle of succession, but with the word of the apostles: 'those who believe in me through their word'."30 Can we then treat succession and word as opposites? There is no doubt this is only the case if by "word" we mean exclusively the written word, the book. Yet can we really assume that whenever it talks about the word, the New Testament is thinking about a book? It is a fact that later generations come to faith through the word; but in the perspective of the Bible, not as readers but as hearers of the word. Who is not reminded, in this connection, of those marvelous sentences of Saint Paul, when he says, "But how are men to call upon him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without a preacher? And how can men preach unless they are sent? As it is written, 'How beautiful are the feet of those who preach good news!' " (Rom 10:14—15). In the vision of the New Testament, then, the word is the word that is heard and, as such, preached, not a word that is read.
That is to say: precisely when the true successio apostolica is found in the word, it cannot just be found in a book; rather, as successio verbi, it must be successio praedicantium, and this in turn cannot be without a "sending", a "mission"—that is, without a personal continuity deriving from the apostles. It is precisely for the sake of the word—which in the New Covenant is not supposed to be a dead letter, but viva vox—that a viva successio is demanded. In this respect, the New Testament theology of the word and of Scripture ultimately offers a more profound confirmation of the concept of succession, as formulated on the basis of early anti-Gnostic theology, than does the ever-growing recognition that the rite of appointing to an office by the laying on of hands, taken over from Judaism, must go back to the Jewish beginnings of Christianity.31
Finally, it is precisely and principally in such an understanding of the gift of the word, conferred on the Church, that man is time and again, in all seriousness, put in the situation of a "hearer of the word": a hearer who himself has no power over the word but rather stands in that attitude of pure receiving which is called "faith".32 And such "faith" is torn free from any individualistic narrowing; through the "hearing" it is constantly turned toward the Thou, toward that great fellowship of believers which is called to become "one" in Christ (Gal 3:28).
Summarizing what has been said thus far, we may say that the Church opposes the Gnostic notion of secret unwritten traditions, not in the first place with Scripture, but with the principle of succession. "Apostolic succession" is by its nature the living presence of the word in the personal form of the witness. The unbroken continuity of witnesses is derived from the nature of the word as auctoritas and viva vox.
3. Successio Papalis and Successio Episcopalis in Relation and Distinction to Each Other
The anti-Gnostic theology of succession leads us quite a way beyond what we have examined thus far into the real problem area of the question of "primacy and episcopacy". For so as to demonstrate to the Gnostics that they were wrong, not only was the office of bishop in the Church in general put forward in evidence, but they were referred to the sedes apostolicae, that is (to repeat this yet again) to those sees where there had once been an apostle at work or where people had received apostolic letters. In other words, it is not every episcopal see that is a sedes apostolica, but just a limited number that stand in a unique and singular relation to the apostles. These were centers of apostolic witness, and all the other sees had to take a position in relation to them. That is what Tertullian, for instance, expresses very clearly when he refers individual areas to their corresponding sedes apostolica in the following words: "Proxima est tibi Achaia, habes Corinthum. Si non longe es a Macedonia, habes Philippos; si potes in Asiam tendere, habes Ephesum; si autem Italiae adiaces, habes Romam, unde nobis quoque (= the Africans) auctoritas praesto est."33
Tertullian then explains, in the following sentence, that among the sedes apostolicae, Rome has in turn a particularly distinguished position, since it can call three of the apostles its own—Peter, Paul, and John. The same conception lies behind Saint Irenaeus' famous saying about Rome's potentior principalitas, with which every Church must agree: Irenaeus, too, sees the Church as being covered with a network of sedes apostolicae, among which the see of Peter and Paul quite clearly holds unequivocal preeminence as a criterion of the successio/traditio.34
From this we may now draw a number of important conclusions:
1. Early Church theology uses the word "apostolic", in connection with the question of succession, in a quite precise, narrowly defined sense. It refers only to the clearly limited number of sees that stand in a particular and demonstrable historical relationship with the apostles, not applicable to the other sees.35
2. The apostolic succession of all bishops is not thereby in the least disputed; but it always reaches the majority of bishops, who do not occupy a sedes apostolica, only by the roundabout way of an apostolic see. They are not "directly", but only indirectly apostolic; they preserve their apostolic legitimacy, at any given time, by being in communion with an apostolic see. It was on this basis that the practice of communion in the early Church, which must be seen as the way Church unity was realized at that time, was carried on. The sedes apostolicae were considered the criterion of correct, that is to say Catholic, communion; anyone in communion with them was in the Catholic Church, for these sees, by their very nature, could not be outside it.36 Catholicity was thus measured, not just by numbers, but by the importance of the see; importance, however, depended on apostolicity.
3. In this respect, it may be said that this theology distinguishes two forms of apostolic succession: one direct, the other indirect. The latter needs to be associated with the first in order to remain "Catholic" and, thus, "apostolic" in the full sense.
4. Among the sedes apostolicae, there is in turn the sedes apostolica of Rome, which obviously relates to the other sedes apostolicae roughly as these do to the sees that are not directly apostolic. It thereby represents the ultimate and genuine criterion of Catholicity, sufficient in itself.37
Taking everything together, we may determine that, at the moment when the theology of the successio apostolica was first formulated as such, and when the Church first undertook to define her own nature, the "canon" of her being, in a conscious way, this theology was neither episcopal theology nor certainly papal theology; rather, it was dual, insofar as it distinguished between "episcopacy" and the sedes apostolicae—embodied, above all, in the one see of Rome. If the successio is the concrete form of the word, then that paramount—perhaps scandalous—concreteness that lies in the ultimate connection with the Roman line of succession, has been part of it from the beginning: at this point, all anonymity is abolished; the concrete name makes the inescapable demand that one take up a position; it is the most acute form of that extreme concreteness in which God set out by assuming, not just a name for men, but the flesh of man—the flesh of the Church. Must it not also be the most acute form of scandal that this "foolish" action of God provokes?
Let us return. It is clear that the duality of the earliest theology of succession afforded by the emphasis on the sedes apostolicae has nothing to do with the later concept of patriarchates, to which it may well have supplied starting points. Confusion of the original claim of the sedes apostolica with the administrative claim of the city that is a patriarchal see characterizes the tragedy of the dispute beginning between Constantinople and Rome. The concept of the patriarchate, which, especially from the Council of Chalcedon onward, was set in opposition to the Roman claim, and tried to contain it within the patriarchal way of thinking, misjudges the nature of this claim at its most profound level, since it is based on an entirely different principle. The patriarchal principle is post-Constantinian; its significance is administrative; and hence its practice is closely linked with political and geographical realities; in contrast with that, the Roman claim is understood on the basis of the originally theological theme of the sedes apostolica. To the same degree that νέα 'Ρώμη [new Rome] (which could not consider calling itself "apostolic") blurred the old idea of the sedes apostolica in favor the patriarchal concept, old Rome reinforced its references to the completely different origin and character of its own authority.38
This authority is in fact quite different from a primacy of honor among patriarchs, because it operates on a quite different level, independent of such administrative concepts. The concealing of the old theological idea of the sedes apostolica, which was after all from the outset a part of the Church's understanding of herself, by the idea of the five patriarchates must be regarded as the real evil in the dispute between East and West, an evil that also had its effect upon the West, inasmuch as—despite the retention of the concept of the sedes apostolica—a largely administrative and patriarchal concept of the importance of the Roman See developed that could hardly help any outsider to have a clear grasp of the real essence of the Roman claim, as distinct from any other claims.
Consequently, the real content of the claim made by the sedes Romana is expressed in a central way in the concept of the sedes apostolica, and on the other hand, its relationship to the whole pleroma of the Church is also captured therein. Hence we have the following picture: The Church is the living presence of the divine word; and this presence is given concrete shape in those persons—the bishops—whose fundamental task is that of holding fast to the word and who are thus the personal form of the "tradition" (παράδοσις), and, to that extent, in the "succession" (διαδοχή) of the apostles. Within this succession is highlighted the line of the sedes apostolicae, which is ultimately concentrated decisively in the see of Peter and Paul: this is the norm of all apostolic succession. Thus the "bishops" are referred to Rome in the first instance—it is only their link with Rome that provides them with catholicity and with the full measure of apostolicity, without which they would not be bishops; without fellowship with Rome, no one can be in the Catholica. This necessary reference of the bishops to Rome is the primary relationship to be observed. On the other hand, though, the episcopal see of Rome does not just stand in itself, unrelated. It creates the catholicity of the others, but for that very reason it also needs catholicity. It creates the essential ordering of catholicity, and just for that reason it needs the reality of catholicity. Just as, on one hand, it guarantees catholicity (in accordance with its nature), on the other hand, (real) catholicity is the guarantor for it. Just as the other sees need its apostolic witness in order to be "catholic", so it needs their catholic witness, the witness of real fullness, in order to remain true. Without the testimony of reality, it would be denying its own meaning. A pope excommunicating the entire episcopate is something that does not happen, and cannot happen, for a church that was only Roman would quite simply no longer be catholic. Conversely, an episcopate excommunicating the pope is something that does not happen, and cannot happen in any legitimate manner, because a catholicity that renounced Rome would no longer be catholic. Both together are implicit in the concept of catholicity, correctly understood: the universal claim of the pope and the inner limitation of this claim, which remains linked to the natural law of fullness and, thus, to the divinum ius of the bishops.
That ultimately opens up another important perspective on that question in which the problem of the word becomes critically concentrated—the question of the infallibility of the Church or, otherwise expressed, the relation between episcopal (conciliar) and papal infallibility. It is not possible, within the framework of this article, to go into the details of the complicated controversy that attends this question,39 in which the precision of concept has admittedly often been paid for by a loss of reality. We simply intend to show what light is thrown on this matter by what we have said thus far. It can thus be determined that episcopal/conciliar infallibility, by its nature, can never stand against papal infallibility in a legitimate sense: any "ecumenical" council that opposed the pope would demonstrate thereby that it was not ecumenical, because a council that is held without or against the sedes sancti Petri is not ecumenical—ecumenicity, rather, is essentially dependent upon the participation of this sedes apostolica, which sets the ultimate norm. A majority of bishops has always been determined, in the Church, not just by their externally greater number, but according to the importance of their sees—and no number can ever be great enough to outweigh the decisive importance of the sedes sancti Petri: that would mean setting prof ane calculations in the place of the sacred obligation of tradition. To that extent, a council is never an independent vehicle of infallibility next to or even over against the pope. The pope is indeed himself a bishop, the ecumenical bishop, without whom the episcopate lacks a full quorum and, above all, its "full weight" and would have to be found "too light".
That is why the pope's decrees are irreformable ex sese (D 1839). And, on the other hand, because the pope is the ecumenical bishop, he cannot, of his very nature, stand against the oikumene and should not do so. He is the sign of the true oikumene, which for its own part, however, is his sign, giving him credibility. On the very basis of the inner nature of his infallibility, he needs the witness of the oikumene, that of an episcopate that consists, not of papal officials, and thus of shadows of himself, but of bishops by their own divine right, whose concrete oikumene gives visible credibility to and fulfills his inner and essential oikumene. The council, too, especially after the establishment of papal infallibility, has its own necessary and irrevocable meaning.
Finally, let us turn back again to the formula of religious statistics, "Roman Catholic", from which we started! Basically, this reflects the whole area of problems and tasks we have passed through in the course of these reflections. By saying "Catholic", it differentiates itself from a Christianity of Scripture alone and replaces this with the confession of the authority of the living word, that is, the office of apostolic succession. By saying "Roman", it lends the office a firm direction, centered on the office of the keys of the successor of Peter in the city soaked with the blood of two apostles. Finally, by bringing the two terms together and saying "Roman Catholic", it expresses that dialectic of primacy and episcopacy, comprehending a wealth of relationships, in which one cannot exist without the other. A church that tries to be only "catholic", without association with Rome, loses her very catholicity thereby. A church that—per impossibile—wanted only to be Roman, without being catholic, would similarly be denying herself and would reduce herself to a sect. The "Roman" guarantees true catholicity; the actual catholicity witnesses to the rights of Rome. Thus at the same time, however, the formula expresses the twin breach that runs through the Church: first, the breach between "catholicism" and Christianity of the mere word of Scripture and, then, the breach between Christianity related to the Roman office of Peter, and Christianity that has separated itself from this.
In both cases, it is ultimately the "office" at which the paths divide. Does that not remind us, in a frightening way, that the early dispute between Jesus' disciples concerned the places to the right and left of the Master (Mk 10:35-45; cf. 9:33f.)—that is, the offices in the coming messianic kingdom? And would it not have to remind us, on both sides, of the Lord's saying that the greatest should be like the last and the servant of each and every one (9:35; cf. 10:43f.)? That is not abolishing the office—the commission given to Peter and to the other apostles is not rescinded. Yet it is a demand of ultimate seriousness, directed to both those who, as officebearers, are to preach the word and to those who hear them. To the former, that they try to be, in all reality, servi servorum Dei; to the latter, that they do not refuse to be "last" in an outward sense, so as to know, in humble joy, that in that very fashion, and no other, they are "first". Only if both—those in office and those who are not—seek the spirit of the gospel in purity of heart, without preconditions, can there be any hope of uniting all those who would never have been torn apart, except for the denial of that spirit.












II
The Question of the Concept of Tradition:
A Provisional Response
First Section
Revelation and Tradition:
An Attempt to Analyze the Concept of Tradition
I. Formulation of the Problem
The question of the way the word of revelation uttered in Christ remains present in history and comes to man is among those fundamental questions over which Western Christianity split apart in the century of the Reformation. At the time, the dispute was associated with the concept of "tradition", with which Catholic Christendom attempted to describe one form of the transmission of revelation, in addition to the other in Holy Scripture, thus triggering a double protest. Tradition referred, in the first place, to the so-called consuetudines ecclesiae, things like keeping Sunday holy, turning east to pray, the customs of fasting, the various dedications and blessings, and other such things that determined the concrete form of Church piety in the later Middle Ages. All those many things, some of them uplifting, some astounding, that had made the Church of the later Middle Ages into a rambling, complex house, full of corners and angles, were justified with the term "tradition" and legitimized as a constituent part of concrete Christian reality.1 In the light of his experience of a God who judged and forgave people, Luther, who had been seized by the simplicity of the gospel, with its explosive force, could only see petty trifling in all that—things by which people were deceived about the actual abyss of their existence and which pacified them superficially. More than that, he saw in this the return of the law, the setting of human regulations above God's word, against which Paul had so relentlessly struggled—and which had now once more become a fact of life in the Church.
The Augsburg Confession likewise concerns itself with the matter. It lists a series of regulations that—according to contemporary teaching—had to be kept on pain of mortal sin: no manual work to be done on Sundays and feast days; the observation of the canonical hours of prayer, the commandments for fasting, and so on—and it then continues,
Where did the bishops get the right and power to impose such requirements on Christendom to ensnare men's consciences? In Acts 15:10 St. Peter forbids putting a yoke on the necks of the disciples. And St. Paul said in II Cor. 10:8 that authority was given for building up and not for tearing down. Why, then, do they multiply sins with such requirements? . . . . If, then, bishops have the power to burden the churches with countless requirements and thus ensnare consciences, why does the divine Scripture so frequently forbid the making and keeping of human regulations? Why does it call them doctrines of the devil? Is it possible that the Holy Spirit warned against them for nothing?2
The theme of traditio is here transformed into the theme abusus: a tradition is a human regulation, with which man hides himself from God, no, rebels against him, so as to take his salvation into his own hands instead of hoping for it from the grace of God, which cannot be constrained. Thus, tradition, understood as regulation, is set in opposition to the gospel of grace: "For the chief article of the gospel must be maintained, namely, that we obtain the grace of God through faith in Christ without our merits; we do not merit it by services of God instituted by men."3
The problem with tradition became acute, however, from a second starting point also, one which in any case did not lead to any more positive resolution. When Luther discovered the gospel in the Gospel, he had at the same time the impression that he had set the word of God free from its chains in the ecclesiastical office, which had taken possession of that word and no longer allowed it to be effective in what it said itself, but only as applied according to its own pleasure. This notion, that in the Catholic Church the word of God had been fettered by being linked to the authority of office, that it had been robbed of its active, living power, is expressed time and again in the writings of the Reformers; perhaps most movingly, on a human level, when Melanchthon, ever ready to compromise, added a proviso to his signature of Luther's Smalkad Articles: ". . . However, concerning the pope I hold that, if he would allow the Gospel, we, too, may concede to him that superiority over the bishops which he possesses by human right . . . for the sake of peace and general unity."4
This state of affairs likewise influenced the concept of the Church in the Augsburg Confession, when it is said there, of the Church, that she is the "congregatio sanctorum, in qua evangelium pure docetur et recte administrantur sacramenta" (the assembly of saints in which the Gospel is taught purely and the sacraments are administered rightly).5 The Church is thus determined by two factors: through pure teaching and correctly administered sacraments. Nothing is said about office.
In fact, this silence is no less important for the concept of the Church in the Augsburg Confession than what is actually said. For this silence is quite obviously intentional and represents the virtual opposite to the contemporary Catholic concept of the Church (still valid to this day), which defines the Church by three elements: fides (corresponding to the pure docere)—communio (corresponding to the sacramenta)—auctoritas.6 Office appears here as the criterion for the word. It guarantees the word. In Melanchthon's thinking, it is the other way around: the word appears as the criterion for office, which is ultimately to be tested by the yardstick of the word and is thereby also liable to be rejected. The word has become independent. It stands over and above office, as an entity in itself. Perhaps it is even in this reversal of the relations between word and office that the real opposition lies between the Catholic and Protestant conceptions of the Church, which would then coincide with the opposition between their concepts of tradition. For the rejection of office as a criterion for the word means, logically, reducing the word to Scripture as interpreted by itself—which is now the only remaining authentic form of the word and no longer tolerates any tradition as an independent entity beside itself.
In its struggle with the concept of tradition, the Council of Trent had before it the two starting points of Reformed criticism, as we have just outlined them, and was trying to formulate a reply to them. It is moving to realize how, in view of the Lutheran equation of traditio and abusus, the themes of traditio and reformatio are combined for this Church assembly and how time and again the Fathers find themselves in this dilemma: Should they respond to Luther's attack on tradition first by defining the concept of tradition, or should they first respond with reformatio by rumoring abuses?7 As far as doctrine is concerned, it is well known that Trent rejected both the Reformation's accusations: Trent continued to hold that the word is not an independent reality floating above the Church, but rather is something the Lord passed on to the Church and so is not at the mercy of any vague arbitrariness; rather, it stays just as it is, in his own hands, beyond the reach of human authority. In the view of the Trent Fathers, being anxious about the word that had been committed to the Church must have seemed a kind of scepticism, as if the Church could, as it were, outgrow it, and thus one would have to hasten to the help of the word against the Church, so to speak; there is no question that they felt sure that the Lord, who had established the Church as his body, could also keep her safe for his word.
Today, four hundred years later, we must admit that the opposition dividing Luther and Trent still reveals the dilemma of Western Christianity, as, for instance, it reappears in the correspondence between Harnack and Peterson. Peterson, in thanking Harnack for his essay on "The Old Testament in the Pauline Epistles and the Pauline Communities", also pointed out that Harnack, in the account he gave of the relationship between Scripture and scriptural interpretation, was articulating, not the Protestant, but the Catholic principle. Harnack replied, "It is a truism, that the so-called 'formal principle' of early Protestantism is impossible from the viewpoint of criticism, and as against that the Catholic principle is formally the better one; but in material terms, the Catholic principle of tradition does cause far more damage to history (both as unruly growth and as trimmed by the garden shears of the Magisterium), because luckily the N[ew] T[estament] really does include the best sources."8 As thus articulated in somewhat slovenly fashion, opposing the formal and the material aspects, the old dilemma makes its reappearance: Can the word be handed over to the Church without having to fear that it will lose its own life and power under the shears of the Magisterium or amid the uncontrolled growth of the sensus fidelium? That is the Protestant's question to the Catholic. Can the word be set up as independent, without handing it over to the arbitrariness of the exegete, to be emptied in the disputes of historians, and thus to the complete loss of normative authority? That is the question with which the Catholic will directly respond; and beyond that, his opinion will be that we do not have to think about whether we want to hand the word over to the Church or not: the Lord himself (the Catholic Christian will say) did hand it over to her. (Yet this, if he honestly faces facts, will not of course prevent him from regarding a concern for the purity of the word as a mandate of the utmost gravity, which is not fulfilled by merely calling upon the inerrancy of the Church. To that extent, Luther's struggle for the word will at least stand before his mind as a salutary warning.)
History, however, has not stood still in the four hundred years since the Reformation, even in theology. Two tendencies must be noted with respect to the religious denominations and their theology: on the one hand, after the division, there was a hardening of each in its own position; from then on, the two groups had their own history and in that respect developed farther away from each other. On the other hand, the distancing thus achieved enabled a greater objectivity toward each other, and so in the end there is still an increasingly renewed attempt to get beyond their own particular history and to find the way back to each other. Perhaps the most significant attempt, on the Catholic side, to arrive at a new view of the problem of tradition by going beyond any one-sided Counter-Reformation position was undertaken in our time by J. R. Geiselmann, who taught dogmatics at Tübingen; his efforts bore fruit even in the Council's discussions and gave the Council's struggle with this question that degree of exciting relevance which—as early as the first session—took it far beyond any doctrinal dispute between theologians of various schools and turned it into a self-examination by Catholic Christendom concerning its essential foundations.9 Geiselmann's thesis is well known and need only be outlined here to offer a starting point for reflections that seek to go farther into the question and perhaps lead to a modest step forward.
Geiselmann starts from a new interpretation of the Council of Trent's decrees about the nature of tradition. Trent had established that the truth of the gospel was contained "in libris scriptis et sine scripto traditionibus". That was (and is to this day) interpreted as meaning that Scripture does not contain the whole Veritas evangelii and that no sola scriptura principle is therefore possible, since part of the truth of revelation reaches us only through tradition. Geiselmann took up the point, already made by others, that the first draft of the text provided the formulation that truth is contained "partim in libris scriptis partim in sine scripto traditionibus". Here, then, the doctrine of a division of truth into two sources (Scripture and tradition) was clearly articulated. The Council renounced the use of partim—partim, however, and contented itself with the simple conjunction et. Geiselmann concludes from this that they had turned away from the idea of a division of truth into two separate sources, or had at least not explicitly defined it. And he further concludes that consequently even a Catholic theologian can argue the material sufficiency of Scripture and can also, as a Catholic, hold the opinion that Holy Scripture transmits revelation to us sufficiently. Accordingly, Geiselmann thinks a material sola scriptura thoroughly acceptable even for a Catholic—indeed, he believes he can show that this has much the stronger tradition in its favor and that the Council of Trent, likewise, intended to point us in this direction.10
It is easy to understand how such a thesis could count on widespread agreement in view of the quite new opportunities for contact between Catholic and Evangelical Christians that it seemed to open up.11 I hold it to be quite indisputable that it does indeed represent appreciable progress in objective terms. Nonetheless, as soon as one analyzes it somewhat more closely with respect to both its historical and its factual basis, a whole series of questionable points emerge that make it impossible to stop at that. In the second section, we will attempt a few remarks on the historical side of the problem; meanwhile, we turn directly to the problems of the subject itself, and any investigation of this will probably first of all produce the question: What does "the sufficiency of Scripture" actually mean? Even Geiselmann, as a Catholic theologian, cannot get beyond having to hold fast to Catholic dogmas, and none of them can be obtained by means of sola scriptura—not the early Christian dogmas of the former quinquesaecularis consensus, and still less the new ones of 1854 and 1950. What kind of meaning does talk about "the sufficiency of Scripture" still have, then? Does it not threaten to become a dangerous self-deception, with which we deceive ourselves, first of all, and then others (or perhaps do not in fact deceive them!)? In order to go on maintaining that Scripture contains all revealed truth, on one hand, and, on the other, to maintain that the 1950 dogma is a revealed truth, we would have at least to take refuge in a notion of "sufficiency" so broadly conceived that the word "sufficiency" would lose any serious meaning.
This, however, opens up the second and really decisive question: In concerning ourselves with the idea of the "sufficiency" of Scripture, have we grasped the real problem involved in the concept of tradition at all, or are we lingering over a relatively superficial symptom of an issue that in itself lies much deeper? The introductory reflections from which we started should have made it clear that the answer to this question must clearly be Yes. The question of the sufficiency of Scripture is only a secondary problem within the framework of the far more fundamental decision that we glimpsed a little while ago in the concepts of abusus and auctoritas, and that thus concerns the relationship between the authority of the Church and the authority of Holy Scripture; everything else depends on how we understand that.
To make further progress, it will therefore be necessary to deepen our approach, not being preoccupied with such superficial implications as the sufficiency or insufficiency of Scripture, but presenting as a whole the overall problem of the mode of presence of the revealed word among the faithful. Then we can see that we have to reach beyond the positive sources of Scripture and tradition, to their inner source: the revelation, the living word of God, from which Scripture and tradition both spring and without which neither can be grasped in the importance they have for faith. The question of "Scripture and tradition" remains insoluble so long as it is not expanded to a question of "revelation and tradition" and thereby inserted into the larger context in which it belongs. In what follows, therefore, I should like to unfold the concept of tradition in a positive sense, on the basis of its inner impulse, in thesis form, without going into the details of possible arguments. I do this in the hope that some part of an answer to the Reformers' question may be found in it and that the whole may thus prove to be a part of a conversation, the necessity of which is being recognized with increasing clarity on both sides.
II. Theses on the Relation between Revelation and Tradition
1. Revelation and Scripture
A first thesis concerning our problem area, starting from the patristic understanding of Scripture and revelation, might sound something like this:
The fact that there is "tradition" rests first of all on the incongruence between the two entities "revelation" and "Scripture". For revelation signifies all God's acts and utterances directed to man; it signifies a reality of which Scripture gives us information but that is not simply Scripture itself. Revelation goes beyond Scripture, then, to the same extent as reality goes beyond information about it.12
We could also say that Scripture is the material principle of revelation (perhaps the only one, perhaps one of a number—we may leave that point open for the moment) but is not that revelation itself. The Reformers were still quite aware of that; only in the subsequent disputes between post-Tridentine Catholic theology and Protestant orthodoxy was it noticeably blurred.13
In our own [twentieth] century, Protestant theologians themselves, like Barth and Brunner, have rediscovered this fact, which was entirely self-evident to both patristic and medieval theology.14
What we are saying can also be made clear from a different starting point: you can have Scripture without having revelation. For revelation always and only becomes a reality where there is faith. The nonbeliever remains under the veil of which Paul speaks in the third chapter of his Second Letter to the Corinthians.15 He can read Scripture and know what is in it, can even understand at a purely intellectual level, what is meant and how what is said hangs together—and yet he has not shared in the revelation. Rather, revelation has only arrived where, in addition to the material assertions witnessing to it, its inner reality has itself become effective after the manner of faith. Consequently, the person who receives it also is a part of the revelation to a certain degree, for without him it does not exist. You cannot put revelation in your pocket like a book you carry around with you. It is a living reality that requires a living person as the locus of its presence.
In view of the foregoing, we could say that revelation goes beyond the fact of Scripture in two directions:
a. As a reality that has its basis in God, it always extends upward into God's action.
b. As a reality that happens to man in faith, it extends, as it were, beyond the mediating fact of Scripture, too.
It becomes clear, from this incongruence between Scripture and revelation, that quite independently of the question of whether Scripture is the sole material source or not, there can never be an actual principle of sola scriptura in Christianity (something that, as we said, was still clear in principle to the great Reformers and was only forgotten later, in so-called Protestant orthodoxy). Scripture is not revelation but, in any case, is only a part of this greater reality.
2. The Differing Significance of Scripture in the Old and New Testaments
The specifically Christian problems concerning revelation, Scripture, and tradition are more particularly determined by the twofold shape of the revelation in the Old and the New Covenants, to which the twofold shape of Scripture, in the Old and New Testaments, corresponds. Just as the two covenants differ in their nature, as covenant, so also the fact of Scripture is not given in the same way each time. That is seen quite clearly in the New Testament Scriptures themselves, when they understand by "Scripture" only the Old Testament, which is and remains for them "the Scripture", the meaning of which, so they believe, has come to light in the Christ-event.16 They do not set a new Scripture over against or alongside the old Scripture; rather, they set the Christ-event, as the Spirit that interprets Scripture, over against the one Scripture, that is, the Old Testament. This is a fundamental concept that also determines the form of the oldest creedal statements and without which they cannot be understood: The formula that "Jesus" is the "Christ" signifies quite simply that the Christ-message of the Old Testament has come to fulfillment in the historical Jesus; that you can understand who Jesus is on the basis of the Old Testament and see what the Old Testament means in the light of the Christ-event.
This concept appears very pointedly in Paul's writings, where on this basis he contrasts the Old and the New Covenants as gramma and pneuma—that is, as Scripture and Spirit (2 Cor 3:6-18)—and calls the Lord the Pneuma who makes Scripture comprehensible and who is its meaning, its true, living (not merely literary) content (2 Cor 3:14-18). In doing so, Paul is no doubt referring to the idea of a new covenant as expounded by Jeremiah (31:33f.): No Scripture is needed any more, because the law is written in the heart; no one needs teaching from the outside any more, because God himself teaches men. John is expressing the same idea, starting from Deutero-Isaiah (54:13), when he depicts the age that has begun with Christ as the age in which everyone is taught by God himself; and Peter's speech at Pentecost, handed down to us in Acts (2:14-36), develops the same idea on the basis of Joel (3:1-5). In every case, the age that dawned with the Christ-event appears as the answer to a series of hopes that expected the coming age to render Scripture, in an ultimate sense, quite superfluous through the immediate presence of the divine teacher in man himself. When we survey the antecedent testimony to this idea, it becomes clear that the restriction of the term "scripture" to the writings of the Old Covenant is not a matter of merely temporary terminology that grew out of the lack of any actual New Testament writings and then became meaningless when the development of a New Testament canon began in the second half of the second century. Rather, it expresses a belief whose meaning, since the emergence of actual New Testament Scripture, is harder to discern than before and yet was not abolished or rescinded by this.
One thing is accordingly clear: in the new order of salvation that begins with Christ, "Scripture" holds a different place from what it had in the Old Covenant. We may leave aside here the question of how accurately this represents the self-understanding of the Old Covenant, which was certainly not from the beginning a covenant of the gramma, of Scripture acknowledged as self-sufficient, as it appears in Saint Paul's depiction.17 On the other hand, from Deutero-Isaiah and Jeremiah onward there is really a noticeable longing to go beyond the gramma in a new immediacy of God's Spirit, probably at the same time as the scriptural principle was being ever more strongly developed, more and more turning Scripture into law, which does not bring man alive, but kills him. However this may be, in the New Testament conception, the Old Testament appears as "Scripture" in the proper sense, which has attained its true significance through the Christ-event by being drawn into the living sphere of the reality of Christ.
If Scripture has nonetheless de facto grown in the New Testament, then it can no longer have that conclusive and exclusive sense that, in Paul's view, was attributed to it in the Old Testament; it is, rather, the instrument for opening up the old dispensation into the spacious sphere of the Christ-event. It is, as it were, the arrested process of the new interpretation of Scripture on the basis of Christ. In any case, it carries with it no intention of becoming independent, of closing itself into literal exegesis, but can only have a continuing existence within the spiritual reality of Jesus Christ, who remains with his own every day until the end of the world (Mt 28:20), who through his going away in and through the Cross has come again in the Holy Spirit (as John explains it) and, through the Spirit, reveals to the disciples what they would once have been unable to bear, when the Lord was still visibly dwelling among them (Jn 16:12f.).
3. Christ, the Revelation of God
The reality that comes to be in Christian revelation is nothing and no one other than Christ himself. He is revelation in the proper sense: "He who has seen me has seen the Father", Christ says in John (14:9). Accordingly, receiving revelation is considered equivalent to entering into the reality of Christ, from which emerges that dual objective situation that Paul describes alternately with the words "Christ in us" and "we in Christ".
For this process, receiving individual propositions is secondary: they are only meaningful at all as explanations of the one mystery of Christ. On that basis, light is thrown of its own accord on the question of the sufficiency of Scripture in terms of content, which has so dominated the discussion since Geiselmann's work. We would nonetheless have to ask here: What can "sufficiency in terms of content" mean at all, speaking in Christian terms? Only the reality of Christ is "sufficient". It may be made more or less explicit in material terms—which is not ultimately decisive—and for that reason there certainly may also be instances of material explication after Scripture, which we shall shortly have to consider in more detail.
The same state of affairs can also be considered from another side, and we are then automatically carried a step farther. The act of reception of revelation in which the reality of Christ is appropriated to us is called, in the language of the Bible, "faith". On this basis, we can perhaps understand more clearly how it is that for the New Testament faith means the same as the indwelling of Christ. Bearing in mind what has been established, that for Scripture the presence of revelation means the same as the presence of Christ, we are taken another step forward. For we find that in Scripture, the presence of Christ is more precisely described in two ways. On one hand, it appears, as we heard earlier, as identical with faith (Eph 3:17), in which the individual meets Christ and, in him, enters into the sphere of his saving power. It also lies concealed, however, under the Pauline expression "body of Christ", which is intended to express the way that the community of believers—the Church—represents Christ's active presence in this world, a presence into which he is gathering mankind and through which he enables them to share in his mighty presence.18
According to what we have already said, both of these together signify that believing is entering into the abode of Christ, into the abiding reality of Christ, to which Scripture bears witness but which Scripture itself by all means is not. What may further be concluded from that is that the presence of revelation essentially has to do with the realities of "faith" and "Church", which for their part—as now becomes clear—are closely connected with each other. That, in turn, leads us back to what we said in the first thesis about revelation going beyond Scripture in two directions—in the direction of God, and in the direction of the man receiving it; we now find this initially somewhat indefinite statement taking on concrete meaning in relation to the actual Christian realities.
4. The Nature of Tradition
The explication of the reality of Christ, which is what revelation is and which takes the dual (yet united) presence in faith and in the Church, takes place in proclamation. Proclamation, accordingly, is by its nature interpretation (explication), and is this in dual ways which correspond to the dual form of revelation in the Old and the New Covenant:
a. It is the interpretation of the Old Testament on the basis of the Christ-event and as looking toward the Christ-event.
b. It is the interpretation of the Christ-event itself, on the basis of the Pneuma, and that means at the same time on the basis of the present ecclesiastical situation. This latter is possible because Christ is not dead, but living; not merely the Christ of yesterday, but just as much the Christ of today and of tomorrow. It is precisely in his Church, however, that he is living and present: she is his body, in which his Spirit is at work. This situation requires some further illumination on the basis of the nature of the Church. As the New Testament lets us see, the message of Jesus is at first an immediately eschatological message, directed toward the kingdom of God and not toward the Church. The fact that the Church exists is not in contradiction with this message, yet in the sequence of revelations of Christ it is only a secondary possibility. Similarly, the activity of the Twelve after Pentecost is in the first instance directed, not toward the Church, but toward the kingdom of God: one of the most striking things we can clearly see in the Acts of the Apostles is that the Twelve did not at first undertake their mission among the nations but rather attempted to convert Israel and thus to bring about the precondition for the kingdom. According to the sources, only a series of historical promptings—among which must be mentioned the execution of Stephen, the execution of James, and finally (and decisively) the arrest and flight of Peter—brought the original community to recognize that their efforts with Israel had finally failed and then to go out to the gentiles and, thus, to create the Church instead of the kingdom. It appears from the accounts, especially from the fifteenth chapter of Acts, that they did this as a new decision taken in the Holy Spirit and thereby, opened up that new interpretation of Christ's message on which the Church is essentially founded.19
This process, by which the final establishment of the Church is based upon a decision "in the Holy Spirit", is the reason why there is an ecclesial interpretation of the New Testament, just as there is a christological interpretation of the Old Testament, and why we must note the following factors, which are different even if interwoven in the analogia fidei:
a. There is an Old Testament theology of the Old Testament, which the historian ascertains within the Old Testament and which has of course already developed a number of overlapping layers even there, in which old texts are reread and reinterpreted in the light of new events. The phenomenon of texts growing and developing in new situations, of revelation developing through a new interpretation of the old, quite substantially shapes the inner structure of the Old Testament itself.20
b. There is a New Testament theology of the Old Testament, which does not coincide with the Old Testament's own inner theology of the Old Testament, though it is certainly linked to it in the unity of the analogia fidei.21 We could perhaps on this basis even say in a new way what the analogia fidei between the testaments means. As we said, the New Testament theology of the Old Testament is not in fact identical with the Old Testament's own inner theology of the Old Testament, as it can be historically discerned; rather, it is a new interpretation, in the light of the Christ-event, which is not produced by mere historical reflection on the Old Testament alone. By effecting such a change in interpretation, it is not however doing anything completely foreign to the nature of Old Testament, approaching it only from the outside; rather, it is continuing the inner structure of the Old Testament, which itself lives and grows through such reinterpretations.
c. There is a New Testament theology of the New Testament—which corresponds to the Old Testament theology of the Old Testament: that is, it is the theology that the historian can derive as such from within the New Testament; that, too, is in turn characterized by and derives its structure from the same kind of growth, by the new understanding of the old in a new situation.
d. There is an ecclesial theology of the New Testament, which we call dogmatics. It relates to the New Testament theology of the New Testament in the same way as the New Testament theology of the Old Testament relates to the Old Testament theology of the Old Testament. The particular "extra" element that accordingly distinguishes dogmatics from biblical theology is what we call, in a precise sense, tradition. Here, too, we should note once again that the ecclesial theology of the New Testament, even though it is not simply identical with the inner, historically ascertainable New Testament theology of the New Testament, as it can be ascertained historically, but reaches out beyond this, is nonetheless not something merely exterior to it. For here, too, within the New Testament itself, begins the ecclesial process of interpreting what has been handed down; the ecclesial theology of the New Testament reaches back, as a process, right into the midst of the New Testament, as could be shown most clearly, for instance, in the history of the synoptic tradition.22
Just one other brief remark is necessary. If a moment ago we equated the ecclesial theology of the New Testament with dogmatics, on closer inspection, one further distinction seems necessary. Dogmatics, as a science, always includes, over and beyond the ecclesial interpretation of the New Testament, the private theology of the individual theologian. In this respect, we could probably describe, in a precise sense, only dogma itself as the ecclesial theology of the New Testament. Actually, of course, the scheme thus outlined represents in the first instance only a rough draft that would need many clarifications and distinctions in detail to be regarded as exact. Yet for our question the rough outline may suffice. Summing up what has been said, we can now nonetheless ascertain that the reality called "tradition" has several roots and, accordingly, several layers within it.
First root: the surplus of the reality "revelation" compared with "Scripture".
Second root: the specific character of New Testament revelation as pneuma compared with gramma and, thus, what we might, in the language of Bultmann, call the impossibility of objectivizing it. The practice of the Church, and of medieval theology which followed it in this, expressed this situation by placing fides over scriptura, that is, the creed, as a rule of faith, over the particular details of what was written.23 The creed appears as the hermeneutic key to the Scriptures, which without any hermeneutic would ultimately have to remain silent.
Third root: the character of the Christ-event as present and the authoritative presence of Christ's Spirit in his body, the Church, and associated with this the authority to interpret the Christ of yesterday with the Christ of today, the origin of which we have found in the ecclesial reinterpretation of the message of the kingdom by the apostles.
The following strata then perhaps emerge in what is handed down, corresponding to these three roots of the concept of tradition (or rather, the reality called tradition):
a. At the beginning of everything that is handed down stands the fact that the Father gives away the Son to the world and that the Son for his part allows himself to be handed over (παραδίδоται) to "the nations"—as a sign. This primitive paradosis is continued, in its character as judgment and as bestowing salvation, in the enduring presence of Christ, in the σῶμα Χρίστοῦ—in his body, the Church. In that sense, the entire mystery of Christ's presence is in the first instance the whole reality that is transmitted in tradition, the decisive and fundamental reality that is always antecedent to all individual explications, even those of Scripture, and which represents what in actual fact has to be transmitted.
b. Tradition then exists in concrete form as presence in faith, which in turn, as the indwelling of Christ, is antecedent to all particular explications and is fruitful and living and, thus, explaining itself throughout all ages.
c. Tradition has its organ in the authority of the Church, that is, in those who have authority in her.24
d. Tradition also exists, however, as already articulated in what has, on the basis of the authority of faith, already become the rule of faith (the creed, fides quae). The question of whether certain already articulated assertions were from the beginning transmitted side by side with the Scriptures, that is, whether there is a second material principle besides Scripture, independent of it from the beginning, becomes quite secondary beside this; we would probably have to answer No to this.
5. The Function of Exegesis
In what has been said so far, it has been almost exclusively the limits of the letter of Scripture, the freedom of the Spirit, and the authority of the Church that have been apparent. Yet inherent in all the reflections we have made is also a meaning in the opposite sense, thus related to Luther's legitimate concern, which was our starting point. For if we established that revelation becomes present through proclamation, yet that proclamation is interpretation, then the following can and must now be added to the foregoing:
Tradition is, of its nature, always interpretation: it exists, not independently, but as explication, as interpretation "according to the Scriptures". That holds true even of the proclamation of Jesus Christ himself: that it appeared as fulfillment and thus as interpretation of something, though as authoritative interpretation, of course. It does not come with something absolutely new, something to which Scripture, that is the Old Testament, bears no witness, but proclaims the reality of what has been written and thereby, of course, awakens that to a new life, one that a mere historian cannot obtain from it. What is true of the message of Christ, that it occurs in no other way but that of interpretation, is most certainly true of apostolic proclamation and still more so of the proclamation of the Church: as "tradition", it too ultimately has to remain interpretation "according to the Scriptures", to be aware of owing something to Scripture and being closely linked to Scripture. True, it too is not interpretation in the sense of mere exegetical interpretation, but in the spiritual authority of the Lord that is implemented in the whole of the Church's existence, in her faith, her life, and her worship. Yet it does remain, far more than the Christ-event that founded the Church, interpretation, linked with what has happened and what has been spoken. In this is expressed its connection with the concrete activity of God in this history and its historical uniqueness: the ἐϕάπαξ, the "once only" aspect, which is just as essential to the reality of Christian revelation as the "forever". The unity of the Christ of faith and the Jesus of history is expressed: the fact that the Jesus of history is none other than the Christ of faith, even though faith is always more than history.
From this perspective, it is essential that, just as there is an office of watchman for the Church and for her inspired witness, so also there be an office of watchman for exegesis, which investigates the literal sense and thus preserves the connection with the sarx of the Logos against every kind of Gnosis. In that sense there is then something like an independence of Scripture, as a self-sufficient and in many respects unambiguous criterion vis-à-vis the teaching office of the Church. There is no doubt that Luther's insight was correct and that not enough space was accorded it in the Catholic Church because of the claims of the teaching office, whose inner limitations were not always perceived clearly enough.
On this basis, one would have to assert something like a dual criteriology in matters of faith: on one hand, there is what the early Church called the "rule of faith", and with it the regulatory function of official witnesses vis-à-vis Scripture and its interpretation—that praescriptio of anyone holding Scripture as a possession, about which Tertullian justly observed that it excludes any kind of arbitrary playing off of Scripture against the Church. On the other hand, however, there is also the limitation of the littera scripturae, the literal meaning of Scripture as this can be ascertained historically, which, as we have said, represents in no way an absolute criterion, that is, a criterion existing in and for itself, but rather a relatively independent criterion within the dual counterpoint of faith and knowledge. Whatever can be known unambiguously from Scripture, through academic study or through simply reading it, has the function of a real criterion, against which even the pronouncements of the Magisterium must be tested. This is of course a question of the lower component, that of knowledge, which does not deliver a judgment on faith, but does nonetheless exist as a critical authority and as such does have an urgent task: that of looking after the purity of the ἐϕάπαξ, the witness offered only once, of defending the sarx of history against the high-handedness of Gnosticism, which is always trying to make itself independent.
At this point, a most important task will develop for the reformatio, for which the Church is striving in our moment of history with renewed seriousness, a task that will perhaps open up new possibilities for her also in the dialogue with that struggle for reformatio which ultimately became a breach within Western Christendom. Incorporated into the Church's authoritative office of witness, which derives its rights and power from the presence of the Spirit, from Christ's contemporaneity with all our days, in which he is ever the Christ today, the office of witness that belongs to the unique word of Scripture set down once and for all will have to be restored to rights and power; that office of witness of the scriptural word derives its enduring validity from the uniqueness of the historical act of salvation of Jesus Christ, who once gave up his crucified body, himself, to the Father, and who has thereby forever perfected those who let themselves be sanctified (cf. Heb 10:14; 7:27)—he, the Christ of yesterday, today, and for all eternity (Heb 13:8).
Second Section
On Interpreting the Tridentine Decree on Tradition
Geiselmann's determination to fix the question on the reasons that led to replacing the partim—partim with et and so to defining the search for those factors in the discussion at Trent and in their antecedents that seem to result in a material sufficiency of Scripture has brought about an undue narrowing of the question, which to a large extent obscures the real background to the Tridentine decree.
1. The Pneumatological Setting of the Concept of Tradition in the Original Draft of Cardinal Cervini
a. The Contents
An exhaustive historical assessment of the whole context of the problem would demand an investigation whose compass would necessarily be no narrower than Geiselmann drew in his book.1 That is not our purpose in the present essay. We shall recall here only a few factors of the Tridentine discussion whose consideration might lead to broadening the horizon of this question once again. What seems to me fundamental for understanding the discussion, as also the decree the Council finally decided upon, is the speech by the Cardinal Legate Cervini on February 18, 1546; the lines of that speech are still clearly discernable in the decree just as a glimmer of them is quite often apparent in the other Tridentine determinations.2 Over and beyond that, it has the advantage of allowing the guiding principles to be far more clearly perceived than the decree itself, which became more obscure through various compromises. For understanding the speech, we may in addition draw on a letter from the cardinals legate to Cardinal Alexander Farnese, of February 28, 1546, which contains the same trains of thought (as it was, of course, assuredly inspired by the same author), and offers a few additional clarifications. Cervini explains in this speech that there are three principles and foundations to our faith:
1. The holy books, which were written under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit.
2. The gospel, which our Lord did not write down but taught orally and planted in hearts; some of this was later written down by the evangelists, whereas a great deal simply remained entrusted to the hearts of the faithful.
3. Because the Son of God did not remain with us in bodily form forever, he sent the Holy Spirit, who was to reveal the mysteries to the hearts of the faithful and to teach all truth to the Church to the end of the ages.3
In a second, fuller version of the speech, this line of thought is somewhat further developed. Revelation, we are told here, has been given in various ways at various times.
1. To the patriarchs, whose faith we have in the Scriptures and which we call the Old Testament.
2. In Christ, who implanted his gospel, not in writing, but orally, not in charta but in corde. Some of what came forth from Christ ("quae a Christo emanarunt") was written down, some remained in men's hearts ("quaedam in cordibus hominum relicta fuerunt"). The whole, the evangelium Christi, which exists in this dual way, is all together (after the Old Testament, as the first principle) the "secundum principium fidei nostrae".
3. To this is added the following fact as third principle ("tertium autem"): Because the Son of man was not going to stay with us forever, he sent his Holy Spirit into the world to explain the mysteries of God and what had remained doubtful for men.4
In a similar way, the aforementioned letter to Cardinal Farnese speaks of two steps ("due passi"): one is that the revelation of our Lord was not completely written down, but part of it remained in the hearts of men and in the Church's tradition; the second step is to establish "quello che e suggerito lo Spirito Santo in la chiesa, maxime medianti i concilii, doppo l'ascensione in cielo del Signore" ("what the Holy Spirit has proposed in the Church, most fundamentally through the mediation of the councils, after the Lord's Ascension into heaven").5
We note first of all, then, that contrary to our usual expectations and interpretation, not two, but three principles are asserted: Scripture—gospel—revelation of the Spirit in the Church.
What is further significant here is that "Scripture" is understood to be the Old Testament and that, beside this, which is Scripture in the proper sense, the gospel appears as a second principle. Consequently the Christ-event stands under the more general concept of "gospel", which in turn comprehends both written material and what is inscribed in the hearts of the faithful. Even the second principle, then, offers a spiritual surplus beyond what is written. In this conception, gospel is something other than Scripture, and hence it is only in part written (which should be understood, not as that division of the contents of faith so horrifying to Geiselmann, but in the sense of a determination of dignity: the gospel as such can of its nature only be partly written down). Finally there follows as a third principle—most surprising for us—the revelatory activity of the Holy Spirit throughout the age of the Church. We note, then, that what we commonly call tradition, or conceive to be tradition, does not appear here as a single principle. The beginnings of it are, rather, divided between two principles contrasted with each other: between "gospel" as a principle always only able to be partially converted into Scripture, and the activity of God's Spirit in the age of the Church.
We can further note that the New Testament Scriptures do not appear as one principle alongside apostolic tradition; still less (as is the case with us), do the New Testament Scriptures, together with the Old Testament, stand as one single entity "Scripture", which could be contrasted with "tradition" as a second entity. Rather, the complex of New Testament event and reality appears together as a developing dual yet single principle, that of gospel; as such, it is contrasted, on the one hand, with the Old Testament and, on the other, with the specific events in the subsequent age of the Church. Its inner unity is quite visibly stronger and more important than its division into written and unwritten, so that despite these two forms of realization it can be contrasted as a single principle with the Old Testament. The impossibility of describing the New Testament as Scripture, which was so decidedly felt by Paul and the first Christian centuries, is clearly still in effect here.
The foregoing textual evidence permits one more observation: On the basis of neither of the two starting points that we have been able to note for the concept of tradition—that is, neither from the element pointing toward tradition in the second principle, nor from that in the third—does it appear as a verbal tradition. It stands rather, in both cases, as a real tradition, as the surplus of reality over and beyond the word that witnesses to it. That ought to be immediately obvious with respect to the third, pneumatological principle; yet it is just as clear with respect to the implanting of the gospel in men's hearts, articulated in the second principle, which goes beyond what can be captured in the Scriptures.
What role these thoughts played in the council's considerations can also be perceived from the auctoritates brought forward in Cervini's presence, among which featured John 16:12 (". . . Spiritus Sanctus suggeret . . .") and Philippians 3:15 ("Quicumque perfecti sumus, haec sentiamus, et si quid aliter sentitis, haec quoque Deus vobis revelabit")—both of them passages with a strong pneumatological orientation and focus on the present.6 The fact that such ideas were not foreign to those participating in the Council emerges, furthermore, from a series of other interventions. Thus, we hear the Bishop of Aqui, for instance, say that besides the Holy Scriptures there are many things in the Church of God that, passed down from hand to hand, have come to us from the apostles; as well as still more "quae etsi scripta apostoli nobis non reliquerunt, per Spiritus Sancti revelationem nobis (tradita) sunt" (tradita as a correction for revelata).7 On this basis, tradition could almost be described as the pneumatological component of the Christ-event.
b. The Subsequent Influence of the Draft in Various Council Determinations
Now, it is of course correct that this three-part conception is very muted in the official decree on tradition. That the essentials of it were by no means abandoned, however, can be seen in two other texts from the Council that make use in practice, so to speak, of the realities talked about here.8 Thus, in the introduction to the decree on the Eucharist (Denz 873 a), we read as follows: ". . . sacrosancta synodus, sanam . . . doctrinam tradens, quam semper catholica Ecclesia ab ipso Iesu Christo Domino nostro et eius Apostolis erudita, atque a Spiritu Sancto illi omnem veritatem in dies suggerente (Jn 14:16) edocta retenuit. . . ."
The proper activity of the Council is here described as tradere, and this tradere is in turn given a dual background: on one hand, instruction by Jesus and the apostles (which corresponds to Cervini's concept of the gospel and in the naming of both Jesus and the apostles exhibits approximately the same dual form of this original testimony as [a] written and [b] implanted); on the other hand, there is instruction by the Holy Spirit, which leads us in dies, in the course of time, into truth.
The other text to which we can refer here is found in the preamble to the teaching on purgatory (Denz 983), where we read, ". . . catholica Ecclesia, Spiritu Sancto edocta, ex sacris Litteris et antiqua Patrum traditione in sacris Conciliis et novissime in hac . . . Synodo docuerit". The description of the Council's proper activity as tradere is found in addition in the declarations about the sacrament of ordination (Denz 910).
Finally, however, the three steps are found again in the background to the decree on tradition itself, albeit obscured and attenuated by various insertions intended as supplementary and for other purposes. This decree talks about:
1. The gospel promised by the prophets in the Holy Scriptures and thereby still assigns the term "Holy Scripture" in the narrower sense to the Old Testament.
2. It talks about the promulgation of the gospel by Christ, which was passed on by the apostles in two forms, oral and written; here (in contrast with Cervini's scheme) the pneumatological component appears in the first instance united with the apostolic, in the sense that two kinds of apostolic traditions are distinguished: those that go back to Christ and those that go back to the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. We may note, then, that, in contrast to Cervini's draft, there is a certain process of historicizing, which strengthens the link with the historical beginning and seems at the same time to shift the emphasis from actual to verbal traditions.
3. Following the part of the decree on tradition we have just analyzed, the concept of Holy Scripture is taken up again, and only then is the concept of tradition finally formulated, and it is now described as "vel oretenus a Christo vel a Spiritu Sancto dictatas et continua successione in Ecclesia catholica conservatas". The reference to the apostles is now missing; we might indeed see the whole of it as referring back to what has gone before and say that of course it means the traditions dictated to the apostles and then handed on (the addition of continua successio even suggests this interpretation), yet there remains a certain indeterminate quality that leaves open the possibility of finding here traces of Cervini's third component, the actual pneumatic principle. It is also clear that this concept has been repressed and an attempt made at compatibility with a conception that was more strongly historical in definition.
In view of the foregoing, the inescapable question is what the pneumatological conception of tradition actually means in objective terms and, above all, how the idea of a continuing revelatio, so surprising to us, can be understood as meaningful in light of the unique nature of revelation and its connection with history, which were of course familiar to someone like Cervini and to the patristic and medieval tradition behind him.9 Before we turn to this examination, consideration must first be given to clarifying briefly what main additional themes found their way into the Trent decree on Scripture and tradition and, as we said, partially masked Cervini's conception. Above all we have to ask what theological aims are dominant here, which naturally are only imperfectly expressed in a text that was woven together as a compromise between several conceptions that originally differed widely. Here again, a detailed account would go beyond the limits of this essay; a few summary remarks may suffice.
2. The Linking of Tradition with Ecclesial Life in Various Contributions to the Discussion at Trent
A first complex of themes, under which a series of contributions could be subsumed—which might from their external line of argument appear quite different—is made clear in the idea that was given expression in two of the decree's formulations:
a. "per manus traditae ad nos usque pervenerunt";
b. "continua successione in Ecclesia catholica conservatas".
What lies behind these two formulations, which are so hard to swallow for historians today precisely on account of their supposed historicism? We may say that a decisive role here is played by a concern that repeatedly emerges in the discussion, the consideration that traditions are variable, that a great deal of what was apostolic was abolished, and, on the other hand, ecclesiastical traditions that should not be abandoned have been added.10 The understanding of tradition that is at work in this train of thought is clear, for instance, in the treatise on tradition written for the Council Fathers by Seripando. Seripando speaks there of written traditions contained in Holy Scripture, such as the stipulations of James, the veiling of women, marriage legislation in 1 Corinthians 7, and so on, and points out that such things have often been done away with; he concludes from this that, although these things are close to the word of God, they are only "close at a great distance", since nothing may be taken away from the word of God. He contrasts these with the traditions not contained in the Bible, which are in part apostolic or (he says) derive from ecumenical councils and were observed by the whole Church and in part of particular application and thus variable.11
This text leads to a surprising conclusion: for Seripando (and many others of the Trent Fathers),12 there are traditions in Scripture. "Tradition" is not what is unwritten but occurs within and outside Scripture. That leads to the further question: What properly constitutes the nature of tradition, then, for the Fathers we have mentioned, if being unwritten does not?13 Or, turned the other way around: How must tradition be positively defined, if it is not sufficiently determined by the negative concept of being unwritten?
There are a number of possible approaches to the answer. Seripando himself gives the following definition: "Traditiones, hoc est apostolorum seu sanctorum patrum sanctae et salutares constitutiones."14 A clearer response to our question is offered by a comment by Cervini reported by Massarelli. To the reproach of the Bishop of Chioggia, who quoted the supposed words of Augustine that everything necessary to salvation is written down, Cervini replied as follows: "Verba illa (that is, those of Augustine) formaliter intelligi debent, scilicet ad fidem accipiendam, ut salvi fiamus. Quo vero ad mores et christianam vitam instituendam certe non omnia scripta sunt." And once more, Cervini refers to John 15:26 and 14:26 and thereby suggests the pneumatological factor.15 What is really meant should appear clearly here: Tradition relates to the institutio vitae, to the way the word is made real in Christian living. In other words, it is the form of the reality of the word, without which the word would remain unreal.
Two further groups of interventions lead to the same issue. It is one of the things that strikes us about the discussion at the Council—which is of course understandable, given the situation described in the introduction to the previous section—that the dogmatic discussion of the concept of tradition was continually being overshadowed by the procedural question: Should they first of all attend to the reformatio, the practical reform of the Church (as the emperor wished), or should the dogmatic questions be discussed first (as the pope wished)?16 In itself, that is a procedural question that, although it constantly arose in the debate, did not directly concern the concept of tradition as such. Yet the way in which it is virtually linked with it is nonetheless quite striking, so that, for many speakers, the procedural question of whether they should be talking about abuses or about tradition becomes part of their reasoning for the question in hand.17 The "abuse" problem and the "tradition" problem thus are linked with each other in fact and appear as basically a single question, which simply takes on a positive or negative twist according to circumstance. And indeed that did correspond to the reform point of view, in which the traditiones were the abusus that distorted the Church. The Fathers clearly sensed this and were conscious that in defending the traditions, they were ultimately defending the usus ecclesiae, the manner in which the Church lived out her life in practical terms.
The other group of interventions pointing in the same direction occurs in the declarations that put forward the auctoritas of the Church as decisive and thus in their way speak for a closer association of tradition with institutio christiana.18
With this we can now return to the starting point of this chain of thought and provide an answer to the question of what is actually meant by the formula, "ad nos usque pervenerunt". In truth, this is certainly not intended to define any historicism, which this formula seems to our ears to express, but the Church's adherence to the reality of the institutio vitae christianae, the concrete form of Christian existence in force in the Church at present; this alone is what offers Scripture the place where it becomes real and, as such—that is, as the living reality that goes beyond Scripture—fundamentally apostolic, though it is of course variable in its details, like everything that is living.
3. Tradition and Church Dogma
A second group of themes found expression in the decree in the formula "traditiones tum ad fidem tum ad mores pertinentes". For if, in what we have seen thus far, the concept of tradition has largely seemed to be restricted to what the Council Fathers call consuetudines, observationes, and institutiones, it was most notably the procurator of the Cardinal of Augsburg, Claude Lejay, S.J., who became the advocate of a conception that emphasized, in contrast to the traditiones caeremoniales, precisely the significance of tradition in relation to faith. His treatise on tradition, likewise written for the information of the Fathers, contains the formulation subsequently adopted by the Council, where it says, "Denique multas veritates tum ad fidem tum ad mores pertinentes Ecclesia novit, quas scriptura aperte et expresse non continet." He mentions as examples the terms persona, essentia, and trinitas from the doctrine of the Trinity; consubstantialitas from Logos-Christology; and "two natures" and "one person" from the dogma of Chalcedon. Further, "Christ, the only son of Mary", "two wills in one person in Christ", "a rational soul in addition to the divine Spirit in Christ", "Anna, the mother of Mary", making the sign of the Cross, Sunday observance, praying toward the east—that is, concepts and facts from conciliar tradition and traditional piety.19
Cervini, who immediately, on February 23, 1546, took up Lejay's speech in a positive way,20 had no difficulty in reconciling this approach with his own, as expressed in the letter to Cardinal Farnese already mentioned, where (as we have heard) it is said that the Holy Spirit has spoken in the Church and, since the Lord's Ascension, speaks "maxime medianti i concilii".21 He obviously saw this as emphasizing the right fact, that that extra element represented by the living Church as against the mere written word was related (and does relate) not just to the vita instituenda—or, as he expresses it in this connection, to the caeremonialia— but also to the essentialia fidei, which find their full expression only in tradition. Here too, then, as we see, the dominant interest is not in the historicizing idea of handing on from the beginning, but rather in the notion that the fact of tradition, at work above all in the conciliar practice of the Church, is also of fundamental importance for the fides, for the doctrine believed, and not just for pious practice, the caeremonialia.
4. The Meaning of the Trent Decree
In reviewing the foregoing considerations, we may say that in general it is not hard to detect three differing theological conceptions that were brought together in the final text of the decree on tradition but not smoothed into agreement with each other; rather, they were simply more or less set down side by side, despite their far-reaching differences, and yet, again, are linked to each other by a common basic tendency:
1. Cervini's conception, which we referred to as pneumatological. With its doctrine of the three principia fidei, it puts the emphasis on the dynamic character of the reality of Christ as present in the Church and, thus, understands tradition primarily as being the reality, guided by the Spirit, of the institutio vitae christianae.
2. The conception we might call ceremonial. This understands tradition essentially as the realm of consuetudines, existing alongside fides, as the usus Ecclesiae that the reformers are wrongly trying to dismiss as abusus. For this conception, it is imperative to defend the antiquity and the apostolic dignity of traditions; this concept is restricted by the "ad nos usque pervenerunt", which expresses the notion of variability that makes the limitation necessary. In the pervenire and conservare, the idea of reception by the Church is expressed and asserted as an additional criterion alongside that of antiquity.
3. The conception we might perhaps call dogmatic. In contrast to a shifting of the concept of tradition exclusively into the realm of consuetudo, this emphasizes the extension of the phenomenon of traditio to the realm of fides as well.
These three conceptions have shaped the text and, indeed, have obviously done so in such a way that the guiding line comes from Cervini; the entire text must be understood against the background of Cervini's idea; yet so that they are included in two insertions, the second conception in the ". . . pervenerunt" and ". . . conservatas", and the third in "tum ad fidem tum ad mores".
As against these three conceptions, of which there are in fact different variations but which nonetheless together express the principal and prevailing ideas, the position of Bonuccio and Nacchianti, so greatly emphasized by Geiselmann, appears as mere opposition, so that Bonuccio's opposition obviously related more to the second conception (against overestimating consuetudines; not through pietatis affectus!), while Nacchianti's opposition was primarily directed against the third conception and emphasized the adequacy of the communication of the faith by Scripture.22
Finally, we should add that the second and third conceptions have in common that they set against Cervini's pneumatological view, based on the ever-current presence of salvation a more historicizing view, related to the passing on of what is unique and, thus, to the ἐϕάπαξ. We would in fact have to say that both the view of Cervini, focused on the present, and also the historicizing view of the other groups would each by itself alone be dangerous, if not untenable, but that together, in their mutual competition and self-limitation, they make a correct view possible. In the current text, both perspectives are present, even if scarcely elaborated—the present moment as well as the ἐϕάπαξ—and we would probably do well to understand the text as suggesting that both elements should be considered essential and that both should thereby be recognized as constitutive elements of the Christian reality and also of that part of the reality of Christianity that we call tradition: both the presence of the Spirit and the link with the uniqueness of the history that has occurred.
And thus the answer is finally given to the question of how we are to understand the opinion of the Council of Trent as a whole. The first and most important objective fact seems to me first of all to be that the Council still very clearly saw the connection between the concept of tradition and that of revelation. This, in turn, is connected with the fact that, following patristic and medieval tradition, it still conceived of revelation in a far less material way than was later the case in modern times. It is only thus that we can grasp the idea of the revelation of the Holy Spirit in the Church. On the basis of the branch of medieval theology that was determined by patristic thought, as it is still preserved in a pure state in Cervini's speeches, the assertion that revelation closed with the death of the last apostle must appear as far too simplistic. We cannot of course look into this question in detail here; in objective terms, we might express the solution to the question, as it then appeared, with the help of our contemporary categories, by saying something like: according to this theology, revelation is indeed closed in terms of its material principle, but it is present, and remains present, in terms of its reality. Putting it in another way: We are faced with a concept according to which revelation does indeed have its ἐϕάπαξ, insofar as it took place in historical facts, but also has its constant "today", insofar as what once happened remains forever living and effective in the faith of the Church, and Christian faith never refers merely to what is past; rather, it refers equally to what is present and what is to come.
Clearly, the later process of historicizing and materializing the concept of revelation is indeed already at work in the Trent debates, but it is nonetheless not yet an accomplished fact, although one would perhaps have to say that the compromises the Council made were of decisive significance for its final emergence. Let us finally add that, in accordance with what we have said, four strata in the concept of tradition can be observed in the debates at Trent:
1. the inscription of revelation (= the gospel) not only in the Bible, but in hearts;
2. the speaking of the Holy Spirit throughout the whole age of the Church;
3. the conciliar activity of the Church;
4. the liturgical tradition and the whole of the tradition of the Church's life.
In these four strata, which must be kept in view as the conceptual background of the decree, is expressed the one reality of the Christian present, in which of course the entire postapostolic past of the Church (stretching back, in fact, right into the middle of the apostolic age) is also present as the whole of the life of the Church, in which Scripture is a central element, but by no means the sole element. All in all, it should gradually have become clear that in spite of—indeed, precisely because of—the disharmony and incompleteness of its conception, Trent offers a far greater wealth of testimony than impressed the consciousness of the succeeding centuries; and that today, especially, theological work, on the basis of its new insights, can receive from it new fruitfulness, confirmation in its seeking, and signposts on the way.



III
Biblical Interpretation in Conflict
The Question of the Basic Principles
and Path of Exegesis Today
1. Preliminary Considerations:
The Situation and the Task
a. The Current Problems
In Vladimir Soloviev's story of the Antichrist, the Redeemer's eschatological opponent recommends himself to believers not least by alluding to the fact that he has been awarded a doctorate in theology at Tübingen and that he has written an exegetical work recognized by experts as groundbreaking. The Antichrist as a famous exegete—it is with this paradox that Soloviev, almost a hundred years ago, drew attention to the ambivalence of modern methods of interpreting the Bible. Today, to speak of the crisis of the historical-critical method has become almost a truism. And yet it had set out with enormous optimism. In the new freedom of thought toward which the Enlightenment had advanced, dogma appeared as the one real hindrance to a proper understanding of the Bible in itself. Freed from this inappropriate presupposition, and armed with methodological means guaranteed to ensure strict objectivity, it seemed that we would at last be able to hear once more the voice of the source, pure and undistorted. And in fact, long-forgotten things did come to light once more; the polyphony of history could be heard again behind the homophony of the traditional interpretation. Because the human factor in sacred history came to the forefront in ever more concrete fashion, God's action was at the same time larger and closer.
Yet gradually, the picture became more and more confused. The hypotheses branched out, separated from each other, and became a visible fence that barred the way to the Bible for the uninitiated. The initiate, however, no longer reads the Bible, but dissects it into the elements from which it is supposed to have grown. The method itself seems to require this radicalizing process: it cannot stand still anywhere in the process of getting to the bottom of the human activity in sacred history. It must try to remove the irrational remnant and explain everything. Faith is not a component of this method, and God is not a factor in the historical events with which it deals. Yet because, in the biblical depiction of history, everything is saturated with God's activity, you must begin a complicated anatomy of the words of the Bible: you must try to separate the threads in such a way that you can ultimately hold in your hand what is "actually historical"—that is, what is purely human in the events—and explain, on the other hand, how it came about that the idea of God was woven in everywhere. Thus, in opposition to the history depicted, another, "real" history must be constructed; behind the surviving sources—the books of the Bible—more original sources must be found, which then become the criteria for interpretation. No one can be surprised that in the course of this, hypotheses increasingly branch out and subdivide and finally turn into a jungle full of contradictions. In the end, we find out, no longer what the text says, but what it ought to say and to what components it can be traced back.1
Inevitably, in such a situation, counterreactions have arisen. The more cautious among systematic theologians are looking for a theology that is as independent of exegesis as possible.2 Yet what can be the value of a theology that keeps at a distance from its own foundations? Thus, the radical path known as "fundamentalism" wins adherents, who say that applying the historical method to God's Word is wrong in itself and nonsensical and want to hear the Bible again in its pure literal sense, just as it stands and as the average person understands it, as the word of God. But when do I in fact hear the Bible "literally"? And what is the "normal" way of understanding it, that leaves it entirely to itself? Certainly, fundamentalism can appeal to the fact that the Bible's position, the hermeneutic perspective it has itself chosen, is the viewpoint of the "little ones", of people who are "simple hearted".3 It nonetheless remains true that the demand for "literalism" and "realism" is by no means as unambiguous as might appear. Another way out is offered in taking up the problem of hermeneutics: The explanation of the historical process of development is said to be only one part of the interpreter's task; understanding in today's context is the other. Accordingly, one must investigate the conditions for understanding and come to a realization of the text that goes beyond a historical "anatomy of the dead".4 That is the right way to start, for in fact we are still far from understanding something when we are able to explain the process by which it arose. Yet how can I arrive at an understanding that is not based on what I have arbitrarily posited myself but that allows me to hear the text's message and gives me what I do not have on my own? Once the method, with its anatomy, has turned history into something dead, then who can resurrect it so that it may speak to me as something living? In other words, if "hermeneutics" is to be convincing, we must find the inner harmony between historical analysis and hermeneutic synthesis.
No doubt there are serious attempts in this direction in the hermeneutic debate; yet I certainly do not see any convincing answer.5 When Bultmann employed the philosophy of Heidegger as a vehicle for making the biblical word present, then this was consistent with his reconstruction of what was characteristic of the message of Jesus. Yet was not this reconstruction itself a product of his philosophy? How historically reliable is it? In this way of understanding it, are we in the end listening to Jesus or to Heidegger? Even so, we cannot deny that Bultmann has seriously grappled with the problem of how to approach the message of the Bible.
Yet today, forms of interpretation are appearing that can only be described as symptomatic of the decay of interpretation and hermeneutics. Materialist or feminist interpretations of the Bible cannot seriously claim to be an understanding of this text and its intentions. They are at best an expression of the fact that the real meaning of the Bible is regarded either as completely unknowable or as meaningless for the reality of life today, and hence one no longer inquires about the truth at all but only about what can serve the practical course one has chosen. Combining this course of action with elements of the biblical tradition is then justified by the way that the influx of religious elements reinforces the impetus of the action. A historical method may even serve as a cover for this maneuver, insofar as it dissects the Bible into discontinuous individual parts, which can then be applied in new ways and inserted in a different way into a new montage.6 "Analyses" of Scripture in terms of depth psychology are only in appearance more serious. Here, the events narrated by the Bible are traced back to mythic archetypes, which are said to have arisen from the depths of the psyche, in varying forms, throughout the history of religion and are supposed to point the way for us to a redeeming journey into the healing foundations of our soul.7 Here, too, Scripture is being read contrary to its own intention: it is no longer supposed to be a renunciation of idols but the way in which the eternal myth of salvation is communicated to us in the West. The fact that such forms of "interpretation" are being eagerly taken up today, are indeed, in many cases, regarded as acceptable alternatives in theology, is perhaps the most dramatic sign of the crisis into which exegesis and theology have fallen.
Essentially, this picture applies in similar fashion today both to Evangelical and to Catholic theology, even if the forms of expression differ in detail, in accordance with the differing academic traditions. As far as the Catholic side is concerned, Vatican II did not in fact bring this situation about, but neither was it able to prevent it. The Constitution on Divine Revelation attempted to bring the two sides of interpretation—historical "explanation" and holistic "understanding"—into a well-balanced relationship. In the first place, it emphasized the correctness (indeed, the necessity) of the historical method, which it saw as springing from three elements: paying attention to literary forms, research into their historical (cultural, religious, and so on) context, and the investigation of what people usually call the Sitz im Leben (setting in life) of the text. At the same time, however, the Council's text also insisted on the theological nature of exegesis and mentioned the main points of the theological method in the interpretation of the text: the fundamental presupposition on which the theological understanding of the Bible is based, it said, is the unity of Scripture; the method to follow, corresponding to that presupposition, is the analogia fidei—that is, the understanding of individual texts on the basis of the whole. Then there are two further indications as to method. Scripture is one, on the basis of its continuing historical vehicle, the one people of God. Reading it as a unity therefore means reading it on the basis of the Church as its locus in life and regarding the faith of the Church as the true hermeneutic key. That means, in the first place, that tradition does not obstruct access to Scripture; rather, it opens it up; and secondly, that it is for the Church, through her official organs, to pronounce the decisive word in the interpretation of Scripture.8
This canon of theological methods, however, stands in conflict with the basic methodological direction of modern exegesis; it is precisely what the latter set out to overcome. On its basis, we could say that interpretation is either carried out critically or it is done by means of authority: both together will not work. Expounding the Bible "critically" means setting aside any recognized authority in interpretation. "Tradition" does not then necessarily have to be rejected as an aid to understanding, but it will only count so long as it is based on something that stands up to "critical" methods. "Tradition" cannot in any case be a yardstick for interpretation. Seen as a whole, traditional interpretation is regarded as prescholarly and naive; the historical-critical interpretation alone appears as a true expounding of the text. Thus, ultimately, the unity of the Bible, too, becomes an outdated postulate. From the viewpoint of history, it is said to be discontinuity, and not unity, that applies not only to the relationship of the Old and New Testaments, but even within each Testament.
On such a basis as this, the task of exegesis as defined by the Council appears contradictory—both "critical" and "dogmatic" at the same time, things that are irreconcilable for modern theological thought. Personally, I am in fact convinced that a careful reading of the whole text of Dei Verbum will detect the elements essential for a synthesis between historical methodology and theological "hermeneutics", but the connection between them is not immediately manifest.9 Thus, the reception of this after the Council, in practical terms, brushed aside the theological part of the statement, as being a concession to the past, and understood the text simply as an unqualified official approval of the historical-critical method. The fact that in this way, after the Council, the confessional differences between Catholic and Evangelical exegesis practically disappeared may be set on the positive account of such a one-sided reception of the Council. The negative side to this process consists in the fact that in the realm of Catholicism, too, there is now a total hiatus between exegesis and dogma and that here, too, Scripture has become a word from the past that each person tries in his own way to bring into the present day, without being altogether able to trust the raft he is using for the purpose. Faith declines into a kind of philosophy of life, which each individual attempts to distill for himself from the Bible as well as he is able. Dogma, from which the ground of Scripture has been pulled away, no longer stands. The Bible that has freed itself from dogma has become a document about the past and, thereby, itself belongs to the past.
b. The Task
This situation is not equally obvious everywhere. The methods are not always used in the same radical manner, and the search for corrective factors has long been underway. In this respect, in striving for a better synthesis between historical and dogmatic methods, criticism and dogma, we are not entering new territory. Hardly anyone, on the other hand, would maintain that we have already found a convincing overall conception that does justice to the positive insights of the historical method while at the same time transcending its limitations and opening it up into an appropriate hermeneutic. To accomplish this, the work of at least another whole generation will be necessary. What is said hereafter is intended as part of one such effort, indicating a few steps that may take us farther along this path.
There is no particular need to demonstrate that taking refuge in a supposedly pure literal understanding is of no help and that a merely positivist, rigid ecclesiasticism would also be inadequate. A denial of particular hypotheses that are especially daring and questionable will not do, either. Just as inadequate is a tepid stance, in which one picks out from what is offered by modern exegesis whatever answers are most easily reconciled with tradition. Such caution may be useful, but it does not grasp the root of the problem and remains arbitrary if it cannot explain its reasoning. To arrive at a real solution, we have to go beyond disputes over details and get at the root of it. What is needed is a criticism of criticism, developed, not from outside, but simply from within, from critical thought's potential for self-criticism: a self-criticism of historical exegesis, which could be expanded into a criticism of historical reason, as a continuation and modification of Kant's critique of reason.
I do not presume to undertake so great a task alone and, as it were, at one stroke. Yet we have to begin, even if it is at first just a matter of exploratory expeditions into rather uncharted territory. Self-criticism of the historical method would have to begin with reading its own results diachronically and with moving away from the appearance of quasi-scientific certainty with which its interpretations have hitherto largely been declared. The historical-critical method is in fact based on the attempt to reach a similar degree of accuracy, and thereby of certainty, in its results as is exhibited in natural science. What the exegete has decided can only be called into question by exegetes—that is the rule in practice, which for the most part is presupposed as being absolutely self-evident. Now, the natural science model itself ought of course to lead to the application of Heisenberg's "uncertainty principle" to the historical method as well. Heisenberg showed that a substantial part in determining the result of an experiment is played by standpoint of the observer—that indeed his questioning and examination themselves enter into the "natural process" and change it.10 That is true to an even greater extent in dealings with the witnesses of history: interpretation can never be a simple reproduction of it, "how it actually was". Here, the word "interpretation" puts us on the track of the real matter: any exposition demands an element of "inter", an entering into and a standing in between, an accompanying presence of the interpreter. Pure objectivity is an absurd abstraction. It is not someone who is uninvolved who experiences something; involvement is the presupposition for knowledge. The question is merely how to achieve an involvement in which the self does not drown out the other voices but rather in which an inner understanding with the past allows the ears to be clear for their message.11
The law formulated by Heisenberg for experiments in natural science expresses a fact that is true of the subject-object relationship in general. The subject cannot be neatly excluded from any constellation; we can only attempt to bring it to the best possible state. In dealing with history, this is—as we said—even more the case, since physical processes are present and can be repeated, while historical processes are past and cannot be repeated. Beyond this, they have all the impenetrability and depth of what is human, and in that sense they are far more dependent on the attitude of the perceiving "subject" than are the operations of natural laws. Yet how are we to trace the constellation of the subject? This is where we should employ what I previously called diachronic relationships with the exegetical findings. After some two hundred years of historical-critical work on the texts, we can no longer read their results two-dimensionally; we have to see them in the perspective of their own history. Then it is seen that this history is not just a story of progress from inaccurate results to accurate and objective ones. It becomes clear that it is also, and far more, a story of subjective constellations, whose path corresponds exactly to the development of the history of ideas and reflects this in the form of textual interpretation. In a diachronic reading of exegesis, its philosophical presuppositions become visible of their own accord. From a distance, the observer discovers with astonishment that what apparently were strictly scientific, purely "historical" interpretations nonetheless reflect "their masters' own spirit" more than the spirit of past ages. That should lead, not to scepticism, but certainly to self-limitation and to a purification of method.
2. Self-Criticism of the Historical-Critical Method Following the Paradigm of the Methodological Doctrine of Martin Dibelius and Rudolf Bultmann
a. The Principal Elements of Method and Their Presuppositions
So as not to remain altogether in the abstract realm of general rules, I should like to try to clarify what I have said by an example. I am drawing here upon the dissertation at the University of Basel by Reiner Blank, on Analyse und Kritik der formgeschichtlichen Arbeiten von Martin Dibelius und Rudolf Bultmann (Analysis and criticism of the form-critical work of Martin Dibelius and Rudolf Bultmann).12 This book seems to me an outstanding example of the self-criticism of the historical-critical method I have mentioned: any exegesis that has become self-critical in such a way ceases to pile "results" upon "results", to construct and dispute hypotheses. It looks at the path it has followed so as to recognize its foundations and to purify itself by reflection on these foundations. It does not by any means cancel itself out in doing so. On the contrary, by self-limitation it discovers its proper place. No doubt the form-critical studies of Dibelius and Bultmann have meanwhile been superseded in many respects, and details have been corrected. Even today, however, their basic methodological approaches are decisive for the method and the path of modern exegesis. Their basic components still underlie its historical and theological judgments—indeed, they have to a great extent virtually attained the status of dogma.
Dibelius, like Bultmann, was concerned to overcome the arbitrary attitude into which critical exegesis had fallen in its previous phase—of so-called "liberal theology"—in its judgments about what was "historical" and "unhistorical". Both scholars were therefore looking for strictly literary criteria that would explain in a reliable way the process by which the New Testament text developed and thereby produce a faithful picture of the process of transmission. For this reason, both were searching for "pure form" and for the laws that led from the forms existing at the beginning to the text as we have it. Dibelius assumed, as if it were self-evident, the notion that the mystery of history allows itself to be uncovered when one illuminates the process by which it became what it is.13 But how do we arrive at the "beginning" thus postulated and the course established for further development? Despite all differences in detail, we can discover here a series of fundamental presuppositions common to Bultmann and Dibelius, which they both unquestioningly regard as reliable. Both assume a priority of proclamation over event: in the beginning was the word. Everything develops from proclamation. In Bultmann's writings, this thesis is taken so far that for him, only the word can be original; the word creates the scenario.14 Everything that an event is, is accordingly secondary, a mythical development.
A second axiom is already given along with this, one that has remained constitutive for modern exegesis since Dibelius and Bultmann: the notion of discontinuity—not just that between pre-Resurrection and post-Resurrection tradition, between the pre-Resurrection Jesus and the Church in her formative period, but a discontinuity that holds good in all phases of the tradition, to the point where R. Blank could observe, "Bultmann intended disconnectedness at any price."15 One advantage of this thesis was that in this way the problem of the relation between the Old and New Testaments became less acute. For if discontinuity is continuously at work within the New Testament tradition, then the discontinuity with the Old Testament is no longer actually a problem. The continuity of the two Testaments alleged by the New Testament writings is then simply one of those mystifying elements that the historian can see through, one of those elements with which the later community built its house. Yet at the same time, it is instantaneously clear at this point how far away this going back to what is allegedly original is from what the New Testament actually says. A constitutive element of the latter is the awareness of being in unity with the entire witness of the Old Testament, which only now can be understood as a unity and as a meaningful whole. And indeed, any interpretation of the New Testament has to let itself be measured by the question of whether it can be consistent with this fundamental conviction. When this cannot be done, any possibility of understanding the inner logic of the New Testament writings has been excluded from the outset.
Let us return to Dibelius and Bultmann. Associated with the theory of the word alone being original and that of the discontinuity between the individual phases of its development is the notion that only simple things are original and what is complex is necessarily late. This produces a parameter that is easy to use in determining the stages of development: the more theologically considered and discriminating a concept is, the more recent it is; and the simpler something is, the more we can attribute it to the origin.16 Yet this criterion, by which people regard something as being more developed or less developed is by no means so obvious as at first appears. A judgment about this depends substantially on the exegete's own theological appraisals; ample space is allowed here for arbitariness. Above all, however, we have to dispute the fundamental notion that is based on a simple transfer of the evolutionary model from natural science to the history of the mind.
Mental processes do not follow the law of animal genealogies. In this case, it is frequently the opposite way around: a great breakthrough is followed by generations of imitators, who bring down the bold new beginning to the banality of school theories and bury and obscure it until, by way of many and varied ramifications, it comes to be once more effective. How questionable the proposed criteria are can easily be seen in examples: Who would maintain that Clement of Rome is "more developed" and "more complex" than Paul? That James is more advanced than the Letter to the Romans? That the Didache has progressed beyond the Pastoral Epistles? Let us look at later ages: whole generations of Thomistic scholars have been unable to sustain the greatness of his thought; Lutheran orthodoxy is far more "medieval" than Luther himself. And even between the great, such a scheme of development cannot be maintained. Gregory the Great, for instance, wrote long after Augustine and knew his works, but in his writing everything is translated from the bold view of Augustine into the simplicity of a believing comprehension. Another example: By what criterion could anyone declare whether Pascal is to be placed before or after Descartes, which thinker is to be regarded as more developed? Examples could be produced through the whole of history. All judgments based on the theory of the discontinuity of tradition and on the evolutionist assertion of the priority of the "simple" over the "complex" must therefore from the outset be challenged as having no real foundation.
We must now, however, explain in more concrete terms the criteria used in the attempt to ascertain what is "simple".
There are criteria for this with respect to both form and content. In formal terms, the original forms were sought. Dibelius found them in the paradigm, the narrative example recited orally, which, he said, could be reconstructed as underlying the sermon. Late forms, on the other hand, were [he said] the "novelle" (or story), the "legend", the collection of narrative material, and the myth.17
Bultmann saw the pure form as existing in the apophthegm: "The original individual piece was succinct and rounded off; the interest was devoted to what Jesus said at the end of the scene; information about the situation lay far from this form; Jesus never appeared as initiator. . . . Everything that did not correspond to this form was ascribed by Bultmann to development."18 The arbitrary nature of these rules, which still affect theories of development and judgments about what is genuine, is only too obvious. To be fair, we would have to say, of course, that they are not so arbitrary as they might sound when you first hear them. For the identification of "pure form" is based on an idea, with respect to content, of what comes first: and we must now test this idea.
We have already met one element of this: the theory of the priority of the word over the event. This conceals two other pairs of opposites: the pitting of "word" against cult and eschatology against apocalypse. Closely connected with this is the antithesis between Jewish and Hellenistic. For Bultmann, for instance, the idea of the cosmos, the mystical adoration of God, and religious worship were Hellenistic. The consequence is simple: What is Hellenistic cannot be Palestinian and, thus, cannot be original. Whatever has to do with the cult, with the cosmos, with "mysticism", must be excluded as a later construction. The rejection of "apocalyptic" as the supposed opposite of "eschatology" leads to yet another element: the alleged antagonism of the prophetic against the "legal" and, thus, in turn against what is cultic and what is cosmic. That then also means that "ethics" is regarded as incompatible with what is eschatological and prophetic; in the beginning, there was no "ethics" but, rather, an "ethos".19 Here, some of Luther's basic choices are surely also still having an effect: the dialectic of law and gospel, which advises ascribing ethics and cult to the realm of the law and thereby sets them in a dialectical opposition to Jesus, who as the one who brings the gospel completes the line of promise and thus overcomes the law. In this respect, in order to understand modern exegesis and arrive at a correct judgment about it, one would have to reflect again on Luther's view of the relationship between the two Testaments; in place of the previous model of analogy, he set a dialectical structure. Perhaps this turning point is the real rift dividing the old and the new exegesis.
However that may be, in Luther's case this all still remained in a very subtle balance; even for Jesus himself, and thus also for Christian life, both sides of the dialectic remain essential—Jesus is not only pure justification by grace, but is also an "example", and in that sense the ethical element belongs in his figure. In the cases of Bultmann and Dibelius, on the one hand, the whole has degenerated into a scheme of development whose simplicity is scarcely tolerable, even if it has contributed to its impact. With these presuppositions, the picture of Jesus is determined in advance. Accordingly, Jesus has to be conceived as being strictly "Jewish"; everything "Hellenistic" has to be removed from him. Apocalyptic, sacramental, and mystical elements are excluded; what remains is a strictly "eschatological" prophet, who actually proclaims nothing of substance at all, but only calls "eschatologically" in watchfulness for the wholly other, for the transcendent, which he sets before men as a challenge in the form of expectation of the imminent end of the world. Two tasks arose for exegesis from this point of view: it must explain how we got from the unmessianic, unapocalyptic, prophetic Jesus to the apocalyptic community that worshiped him as Messiah; to a community in which Jewish eschatology, Stoic philosophy, and mystery religions were joined together into a syncretistic phenomenon—that, in fact, is how Bultmann describes primitive Christianity.20 The second task consists of relating Jesus' original message to Christian life today, thereby making it possible to "understand" his call.
The first task was easy to accomplish in principle in accordance with the scheme of development, even though in detail it required the application of a high level of learning. The productive factor responsible for the contents of the New Testament is seen, not in particular people, but in the collective entity, the "community". Romantic ideas about "the people" and the people's way of shaping traditions play an important role here.21 Besides that, there is the Hellenization theory and recourse to the history of religions school of thought. In this connection, the work of Gunkel and of Bousset retained decisive importance.22 The second task was more difficult. Bultmann approached it with his theory of demythologization, although he was not nearly so successful here as he was with his theories on form and development. If we were to characterize somewhat roughly Bultmann's way of appropriating Jesus' message today, we might say that the Marburg scholar posited a correspondence between the unapocalyptic prophetic element and fundamental ideas of the early Heidegger. Being a Christian, in Jesus' sense, then substantially coincides with that way of living in openness and watchfulness that is described in Heidegger. The question inevitably arose whether one could not arrive at such general and largely formal statements by some easier way.23
But what interests us here is not Bultmann the systematic theologian, whose influence came in any case to an abrupt end with the rising tide of Marxism. Here we are concerned with Bultmann the exegete, who for his part accounts for a basic consensus on the methodology of academic exegesis that is still operative. It has become apparent, in our analysis, that Bultmann the exegete is also a systematic theologian and that his exegetical results are not the product of historical perception but arise from a network of preliminary systematic choices. Karl Barth was correct in observing that "Bultmann is an exegete. But I do not think that one can discuss anything with him in exegetical terms, because he is at the same time a systematic theologian of such dimensions that one could hardly deal with any text, without certain axioms of his thought becoming immediately apparent, with absolutely everything being decided by the question of their validity."24
b. The Philosophical Origins of the Method
At this point the question arises of why, for Dibelius and Bultmann, their essential categories of judgment—pure form, the oppositions between Semitic and Greek, cultic and prophetic, apocalyptic and eschatological, and so on—were so convincing that they believed they had before them, in its purity, the instrument for obtaining historical knowledge. Why is this network of categories, by and large, assumed and applied unquestioningly even today? Most of them have in the meantime become a simple academic certainty, which precedes any detailed research and appears to be legitimized by its matter-of-course application. Yet what about those who founded the method? Certainly, Dibelius and Bultmann were already part of a tradition; we have already referred to their dependence on Gunkel and Bousset.
Yet what thinking guided them in this process? With this question, the self-criticism of the historical method passes into a self-criticism of historical reason, without which our analysis would get stuck in superficialities. First, we may say that in the history of religions school of thought, the evolutionary model was transferred to the analysis of biblical texts. This was an attempt to apply the methods and models of natural science in the realm of history as well. Bultmann understood this idea more generally, by attributing to the so-called world view of natural science a kind of dogmatic character. Thus, for him, the non-historical character of the miracle stories, for instance, was now beyond question; one only needed to explain how miracle stories came about. This conception of the world view of natural science was, on the one hand, vague and not well thought out; on the other hand, it offered an absolute standard for what could have happened and for what only had to be explained in its development. In the latter category belonged everything that does not happen in the average person's experience today.25 There could have been what there always is, and therefore, for everything else, historical processes had to be discovered, the reconstruction of which became the true task of exegesis.
I think we have to go another step farther, however, in order to understand the fundamental, systematic decision that produced the individual categories for judgment. The real philosophical presupposition of the whole system seems to me to lie in the change in philosophy brought about by Kant. After that, the voice of being in itself cannot be heard by man; he can hear it only indirectly in the postulates of practical reason, which have remained, so to speak, the narrow crack through which man makes contact with what is real, with his own eternal determination. For the rest, he has to limit himself, for the content of his rational activity, to the realm of the categorial. From this comes the restriction to what is positive, what is empirical, to the "exact" sciences, in which by definition what is entirely different, the wholly other, a new beginning on another plane cannot occur. Translated into theological terms, this means that revelation has to withdraw into the pure formality of the "eschatological" attitude, which corresponds to the Kantian gap.26 For the rest, however, it has to "explain" everything: What might otherwise appear as direct proclamation from the divine can only be myth, whose laws of development can be discovered. It is on the basis of this fundamental conviction that Bultmann—and with him, the greater number of modern exegetes—read the Bible. This is a conviction that things cannot have happened the way they are related in the Bible, and it finds methods by which we may expose what must have happened in reality. To that extent, modern exegesis presents a reductio historiae in philosophiam, a reduction of history to philosophy and by philosophy.
The real question is therefore this: Can we read the Bible differently?—Or, more correctly: Do we have to agree with the philosophy that makes this kind of reading obligatory? The debate about modern exegesis is, at heart, not a debate among historians, but a philosophical debate. Only in this way can it be carried on correctly; otherwise, it remains a battle in the fog. In this respect, the exegetical question is identical with the contemporary dispute about basic principles in general. Such a dispute cannot be carried on casually or won with a couple of suggestions. It demands, as I said, the considered and critical dedication of an entire generation. Nor can it simply retreat to the Middle Ages or to the Fathers, setting them in opposition to the spirit of modern times. And yet it cannot, on the other hand, renounce the insights of the great believers of all ages, either, and act as if the history of thought only seriously began with Kant. In my view, the more recent debate about the problem of biblical hermeneutics to a large extent suffers from this restriction of its horizons. Patristic exegesis cannot be dismissed by labeling it "allegorical", nor can the philosophy of the Middle Ages be dispensed with by categorizing it as "precritical".
3. Some Basic Elements of a New Synthesis
After pointing out the task of a self-criticism of the historical method, we are now confronted by the positive task of associating its instruments with a better philosophy, one that contains fewer preset requirements alien to the text, one that is less arbitrary and offers more presuppositions in favor of a real listening to the text. This positive endeavor is, no doubt, even more difficult than the critical one. I should like simply to try, at the end of my reflections, to cut a couple of paths into the thicket, which may perhaps suggest how and where we may find our way here.
1. In the dispute over theological method in his time, Gregory of Nyssa urged the theological rationalist, Eunomius, not to confuse theology with physiology (ϕεολογεῖν is not ϕυσιολογεῖν).27 "The mystery of theology is one thing, and the science of nature another", he says. You cannot, he says, "enclose within a child's hand, as it were, the uncompassable nature of God". Gregory is alluding thereby to a famous saying of Zeno, "The open hand is perception, the closing hand is intellectual assent, the hand completely closed upon the object is the judgment of the understanding, the hand clasped by the other hand is systematic science."28 Modern exegesis, as we have seen, has relegated God to the wholly incomprehensible, other-worldly, and, thereby, forever ineffable, but only so as then to be able to treat the text of the Bible itself as something entirely worldly, following methods from natural science. It practices ϕυσιολογεῖν toward the text; it lays claim, as "critical" scholarship, to a precision and a certainty similar to those of natural science.
This claim is false, because it is based on a failure to recognize the dynamics and the depth of the word. Only when we take from it its own character as word and forcibly stretch it on the framework of a few fundamental hypotheses are we able to subject it to such exact rules. In this connection, R. Guardini talked about the false certainty of modern interpretation, "which has produced the most significant isolated results but has lost its proper subject and has thereby ceased to be theology at all".29
In contrast, a marvelous saying by Gregory of Nyssa remains a valid signpost: "These trembling and twinkling lights of the divine word are stars that sparkle over the eyes of the soul. . . . But now, let what we hear about Elijah happen to our soul, too, let our senses, too, be snatched up into the fiery chariot . . . then we would not have to give up hope of drawing near to these stars—to the divine thoughts, I mean."30 Thus the word should not be discussed with just any kind of enthusiasm; but preparation must be required to open up the inner dynamics of the word, and that can only be carried on through a sympathetic understanding, a readiness to experience something new, to be taken along on a new path. It is not the closed hand that is required, but the open eye . . .
2. Accordingly, the exegete must not approach the interpretation of the text with a ready-made philosophy or with the dictates of a so-called modern or "scientific" world view, which predetermines what may and may not be. He must not exclude, a priori, the possibility that God could speak, as himself, in human words in the world; he must not exclude the possibility that God, as himself, could act in and enter into history—however improbable this may seem to him. He must be ready to let himself be taught by the phenomenon itself. He must be ready to accept that this may occur in history: a real beginning, which cannot as such be derived from what was already given, but opens up from itself.31 Nor may he deny to man the capacity to hear things beyond the range of the categories of pure reason, the ability to transcend himself into the open and infinite truth of being.
The problem confronting us, which was expressed by Kant with such clarity of perception, had in any case been seen quite clearly by the Fathers and by the great medieval theologians. Thus, Gregory of Nyssa once said, "The creature as a whole is incapable of . . . putting itself outside itself. It remains constantly within itself. Whatever it may see, it sees itself."32
Thomas Aquinas remarks, in the same sense, that human perception can attain, not to truth in itself, but always a human reality, which does of course lead to the discovery of other truths. In other words, spiritual truths are only ever grasped metaphorically, by means of other things.33 What is, however, characteristic of the great theologians is that they never make this, their philosophical conviction, into a yardstick by which to tell what may be true in the biblical accounts; rather, they expand their thinking on the basis of the phenomenon of the biblical word as they encounter it.
Gregory of Nyssa does this in two ways: Man, who finds himself imprisoned in the dungeon of his creaturely being and perceptions, bears within himself nonetheless the longing to break out and carries in himself the pointer toward unending love. And it is just here that God shows himself within man's own self. He himself is a mirror of God, and whenever he perceives himself completely, he perceives more than himself: the reflection of the pure light within him. Man cannot in fact transcend himself, but God can enter into him. In the dynamic of his being, man can at the same time go beyond himself; he becomes more like God, and resemblance is knowledge—we know what we are, no more and no less. With this comes a second idea in Gregory: this entering of God into man took a historical form in the Incarnation. The individual human monads are forced open in the new agent, the new Adam. God wounds the soul—the Son is this wound, and we are thereby laid open. The new agent, the Adam who is becoming one in the Church, is in touch with the Son and, thus, with the threefold God himself, from within.34
Thomas Aquinas framed these two ideas in metaphysical terms in the principles of analogy and participation and thus made possible an open philosophy, which is able to accept the biblical phenomenon in all its radicalism. We need to think further in the direction of an open philosophy of that kind today, in contrast to the dogmatism of a world view supposedly based on natural science, in order to rediscover the presuppositions for an understanding of the Bible.35
3. Accordingly, the relationship between event and word must be seen in a new light. For Dibelius, Bultmann, and the mainstream of modern exegetics, the event is something irrational; it lies in the realm of sheer facticity, which is made up of chance and necessity. The fact, then, as such, cannot be a vehicle of meaning. Meaning lies only in the word, and when events themselves seem to be vehicles of meaning, they must be regarded as illustrations of the word and as referring back to it. Judgments resulting from this starting point are indeed to a large degree convincing to people nowadays, corresponding to our contemporary structures of plausibility, yet they are by no means necessarily based on the structure of reality itself. They are self-evident only on the presupposition that the methodological principle used in natural science, that everything that occurs can be explained causally, on the basis of purely immanent functional connections, is not only valid as a method, but is true in itself. Then, indeed, there is only "chance and necessity"—nothing else: then we may regard facts simply as bruta facta. Yet something that is useful as a methodological principle in natural science is no more than a platitude as a philosophical principle and an absurdity as a theological principle. In this case, if even for the sake of scientific curiosity, experiments must be undertaken with precisely the contrary principle: that something else can also be the case.
Here again, Thomas Aquinas, who sums up the philosophical thinking of more than a millennium and a half, may serve to suggest the opposite kind of model. For him, it is the case that nature, the heavenly bodies, things in general, life, and time follow a course—that is, a movement directed toward a goal. When things have reached their goal, then we can discover the true meaning that lay hidden, so to speak, within them. This meaning, which comes to light at the end of the movement, transcends whatever meaning might be revealed in the individual sections of the course followed. "This new meaning thus presupposes the existence of a divine providence, the existence of a (salvation-) history that arrives at a goal."36
God's action thus appears as a principle by which history becomes comprehensible. The unifying principle of the whole of past and present "history, however, the only thing that gives meaning to it, is the historical Christ-event. This also gives the future its unity."37
"The eras of human history are united by one act"38—by the Christ-act; the relationship of man to God is based on this act. "The whole of history, and the whole of Scripture, must be considered on the basis of this act."39 That means, then, that actions which took place in the Old Testament were based on a future act and can only be properly understood from that perspective. This in turn signifies that word, reality, and history are not divided from one another. "For the word of God brings about what it denotes; on the basis of that word, there can be no division between act and word."40
In other words, the event itself may be a "word", corresponding in this way to biblical terminology.41 Two important basic rules for interpretation follow from that:
a. Word and event must be regarded as equally original, if we wish to remain within the Bible's own perspective. The dualism between word and event, which banishes the event into wordlessness—that is, of meaninglessness—in reality deprives the word, too, of its power to communicate meaning, because it is then left standing in a world empty of meaning. This leads to a docetic Christology, in which reality—that is, the concrete bodily existence of Christ and of man in general—is removed from the realm of meaning. With that, the essence of the biblical witness is missed.
b. This kind of dualism, however, also cuts the biblical word off from creation and abolishes the interrelationship of meaning between the Old and New Testaments in favor of a principle of disconnectedness. Whenever the connection between word and event is allowed to drop, there is no longer any unity in Scripture. A New Testament that is separated from the Old is itself abolished, however, because according to its own claim, it exists only through this unity. Hence, the principle of discontinuity must be countered by the principle of the analogia scripturae on the basis of the interior claim of the biblical text itself; the mechanistic principle must be countered by a teleological principle.42 Certainly, texts have to be referred back to their historical setting and interpreted in their historical context. Then, however, in a second process of interpretation, they must also be seen from the perspective of the movement of history as a whole and of Christ as the central event. Only harmony between the two methods results in understanding the Bible. If, in the Fathers and the Middle Ages, the first process of interpretation was largely lacking, and thereby the second one easily fell into arbitrariness, today it is the second we are lacking. The first process is thereby rendered trivial—indeed, here too, the denial of any interconnected meaning then leads to methodological arbitrariness. One of the tasks of any appropriate interpretation is that of recognizing the inner self-transcendence of the historical word in question and thereby the inner correctness of rereadings in which the Bible event and meaning are progressively intertwined with one another. Methods can and must be found that correspond to this task. In this sense the exegetical maxim of Thomas Aquinas holds true, "It is the task of the good interpreter to look, not at the words, but at the meaning."43
4. In order to show the basis for the self-transcending of individual Scripture passages within the whole and to render the process methodologically accessible, tradition has formulated a second principle, over and above that of being christologically centered: The "christological" view is supplemented by a genuinely "theological" view, in the strict sense of the word.44 That means that all of what is said in Scripture is human utterance and has to be interpreted as such in the first instance. Yet these human utterances are based on "revelation", that is to say, on being touched by an experience which goes beyond the writer's own inventory of experience. God is speaking through human words, and thus arises the strange incongruity between the concrete words and the One from whom they come. In contemporary theological language, it is customary to call the Bible simply "revelation". That would never have occurred to people in the past. Revelation is a dynamic process between God and man, which consistently becomes reality only in an encounter. The biblical word bears witness to the revelation but does not contain it in such a way that the revelation is completely absorbed in it and could now be put in your pocket like an object. The Bible bears witness to the revelation, and yet the concept of revelation as such goes beyond that. In practical terms, this means that a passage can signify more than its author himself was able to conceive in composing it.45 That is of course true of great poetic texts, and it is with even stronger reason true of the biblical word. There is a surplus of meaning in an individual text, going beyond its immediate historical setting, and that is why there was the possibility of taking it up in a new historical context and setting it within a wider matrix of signification—the right of "rereading" it.
That is why Scripture as a whole has its own status; it is more than a text pieced together from what the individual authors may have intended to say, each in his own historical setting. We still do not yet possess the whole, even if we have all the constituent parts. Therefore, what M. Büber relates about his work with F. Rosenzweig on their joint translation of the Bible should be valid for interpretation. They paid close attention to the layers of sources that have now been detected, to which they referred with the usual abbreviations. Yet they did not, after all, want to translate individual voices; what was ultimately decisive for them was the concrete entirety of the biblical text, to which they referred with the abbreviation "R". From a technical, exegetical point of view, that ought simply to stand for "redactor". Yet they translated it, for themselves, as "Rabbenu"—our Master. The text as a whole is "our master". In its entirety, it expresses a purpose that goes beyond what we may suppose were the intentions of the individual sources.46 Interpretation can, of course—and perhaps must—concern itself with J, E, P, and so on, but the ultimate goal of a correct interpretation must be R, that is, to understand the concrete biblical text as a whole that is meaningful in itself.
5. In the past hundred years, exegesis has achieved great things, yet it has also produced great errors, and these have in addition to some extent become academic dogmas, so that to criticize them is judged by many to be sacrilege, especially when this is done by non-exegetes. So great an exegete as H. Schlier warned his colleagues against wasting their time on what is futile.47
Just recently, J. Gnilka gave this warning a practical application by opposing an exaggerated emphasis on the history of tradition.48 Along the same lines, I should like to formulate the following desiderata:
a. The time seems to have come for a thorough reconsideration of the methods of exegesis. Scholarly exegesis has to recognize the philosophical element in a series of its fundamental principles, and on that basis it must also reappraise the results that are based on these axioms.
b. Exegesis can no longer be studied in a unilinear, synchronous way, after the fashion of scientific experiments that depend, not on their history, but solely on the accuracy of the measurements taken. Exegesis must recognize its own character as a historical discipline. Its history is a part of what it is; by critically assigning each of its positions a place in its history as a whole, it will, on the one hand, recognize the relativity of its judgments and, on the other, be better placed to glimpse a real, if always imperfect, understanding of the biblical word.
c. Philological and literary methods of study are—and will remain—of decisive importance for correct exegesis. Yet a knowledge of the philosophical implications of the process of interpretation must be part of their actual application, especially in the case of a text that makes this claim. Self-critical study of its own history, by exegesis, must also be a study of the essential philosophical alternatives of human thought. It is not enough, in doing this, to look at the last 150 years. The great outlines of patristic and medieval thought should also be taken into consideration. It is equally imperative to reflect on the fundamental determinations of the Reformation with their determinations for the history of interpretation.
d. At present we do not need any new hypotheses about Sitz im Leben, about possible sources, or about associated processes of transmission. We need a critical view of the exegetical landscape already available, so that we may return to the text and distinguish between those hypotheses that can take us farther and those that are useless. Only if these preconditions are fulfilled can there be renewed and fruitful cooperation between exegesis and systematic theology; only in this way can exegesis really be of help in understanding the Bible.
e. Finally, the exegete must recognize that he does not stand on neutral ground above or outside history and the Church. Such a supposed direct apprehension of the purely historical can only lead to mistaken conclusions. The first requisite for any exegesis is that of taking the Bible as one book. If this is done, then exegesis has already taken up a position that cannot follow from purely literary considerations. It has recognized this literature to be the product of a coherent history and this history to be the proper place for an understanding of it. If exegesis wishes to be theology, it must go a step farther: it must recognize that the faith of the Church is the kind of sympathy without which the text remains a closed book. It must recognize this faith as a hermeneutic key, as a locus of understanding that does not do dogmatic violence to the Bible, but offers the only chance we have of allowing it to be itself.
And thereby we have come back to our starting point. The dead ends of the critical method have once more made it clear that any understanding demands someone who understands—the key, without which a text has nothing to say to the present day. Bultmann's great achievement remains that of showing clearly how necessary hermeneutics are, even if he remained trapped in presuppositions that to a large extent invalidate his solutions. Perhaps the problems of current attempts can help us to understand again that faith is in fact the spirit from which the Scriptures were born and, hence, the only door by which we may enter into them.

Endnotes
Introduction
1 See this passage.
Back to text.
2 See this passage.
Back to text.
3 See this passage.
Back to text.
4 See this passage.
Back to text.
5 See this passage.
Back to text.
6 See this passage.
Back to text.
7 Schriftauslegung im Widerstreit, QD 117 (Freiburg im Breisgau: Herder, 1989), 24. Back to text.
8 See this passage.
Back to text.
9 See this passage.
Back to text.
10 See this passage.
Back to text.
11 "First Message of His Holiness Benedict XVI at the End of the Eucharistic Concelebration with the Members of the College of Cardinals in the Sistine Chapel", Wednesday, April 20, 2005, no. 5. Back to text.
I
1 Pacian of Barcelona, Epist. I, 4, Enchiridion fontium historiae ecclesiastique antiquae, coll. C. Kirch (1941), 627: "Christianus mihi nomen est, catholicus cognomen." For catholicity as a concrete mark of the true Church, particularly emphatic in Augustine's writings, see F. Hofmann, Der Kirchenbegriff des hl.Augustinus (Munich, 1933); J. Ratzinger, Volk und Haus Gottes in Augustins Lehre von der Kirche (Munich, 1954). Back to text.
2 We should mention as attempts at a new development of the tractate De episcopo: K. Rahner, "Primat und Episkopat", Stimmen der Zeit 161 (1957/1958): 321-36; H. Schauf, De corpore Christi mystico (Freiburg, 1959), 305-10, 298-301 (reproducing the arguments of C. Schrader); K. Hofstetter, "Der römische Primatsanspruch im Lichte der Heilsgeschichte", Una Sancta 11 (1956): 176-83; O. Karrer, "Das kirchliche Amt in katholischer Sicht", Una Sancta 14 (1959): 39-48; F. Amiot and J. Colson, art. "Évêque", in Catholicisme 4:781-820; J. Gewieß, M. Schmaus, and K. Mörsdorf, art. "Bischof", in Lexikon fur Theologie und Kirche, 2nd ed., cols. 491-505, with an extensive bibliography. See also the collection "Was ist ein Bischof?" in Herder-Korrespondenz 12 (1957-1958), 188-94. Back to text.
3 Denzinger (hereafter abbreviated as D) 1827, 1831. Back to text.
4 D 1832, 1836. Back to text.
5 D 1839. Back to text.
6 The two ordered spheres of "communion" and "doctrine" are expressly set side by side in D 1827: ". . . ita ut, custodita cum Romano Pontifice tam communionis quam eiusdem fidei professionis unitate, Ecclesia Christi sit unus grex sub uno summo pastore." Back to text.
7 D 1828. Back to text.
8 Ibid. Back to text.
9 CIC can. 329 §1. Back to text.
10 O. Rousseau, "La Vraie Valeur de l'Épiscopat dans l'Église d'après d'importants documents de 1875", Irénikon 29 (1956): 121-50; a substantial part of this essay may be found in German translation in: Una Sancta 12 (1957): 219-28; this includes (221-24) the complete text of the "Collective Declaration", which may now also be found in Neuner-Roos, 5th ed. (Regensburg, 1958), no. 388a [a passage from the declaration is also included in Neuner and Dupuis, The Christian Faith in the Doctrinal Documents of the Catholic Church, 6th ed. (New York: Alba House, 1995), no. 841]. Rousseau quite rightly pointed out that this is a text that ought also to find a place in Denzinger. Back to text.
11 In the German translation of Rousseau in Una Sancta 12 (1957): 227, n. 6 refers to a similar position being taken by Cardinal van Roey; and n. 4, p. 224, to a corresponding declaration by the English bishops and by Cardinal Dechamps. The texts of the twofold papal approval are on p. 225 (cf. also Neuner-Roos, no. 388a). Back to text.
12 D 1785f.; cf. H. U. von Balthasar, The Theology of Karl Barth, trans. Edward T. Oakes, S.J. (Communio Books; San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1992), 306 and 302-25 generally. Back to text.
13 D 1790: ". . . signa sunt certissima et omnium intelligentiae accommodata". For the "resistere posse", D 1791. Back to text.
14 Schauf, De corpore Christi mystico, 307. Back to text.
15 This is the position of one of the earliest papalists, Herveus Natalis; quotations from L. Hödl, De iurisdictione: Ein unveröffentlichter Traktat des Herveus Natalis O.P. († 1323) über die Kirchengewalt, Mitteilungen des Grabmann-Instituts, ed. M. Schmaus, no. 2 (Munich, 1959), 11. On the prehistory of papalism, see J. Ratzinger, "Der Einfluß des Bettelordensstreites auf die Entwicklung der Lehre vom päpstlichen Universalprimat", in Theologie in Geschichte und Gegenwart (Schmaus Festschrift), ed. J. Auer and H. Volk, 697-724 (Munich, 1957); on the further history of this problem, see F. Cayré, Patrologie et histoire de la théologie 2 (Paris, 1955), 620ff., 681-96. Back to text.
16 Schauf, De corpore Christi mystico, is critical of this; his own suggested solution starts from the biblical concept of a multitude of witnesses and is thus based more on a theology of the word and thereby tends in the same direction as what I am trying to say here. Yet I should like to note, contrary to Schauf, that alongside this (and even before it) a development of the matter on the basis of the concept of communio is quite possible and legitimate; these are two aspects that, corresponding to the dual structure of the Church, based on word and sacrament, do not exclude but complement each other. Back to text.
17 M.-J. Le Guillou, O.P., "Église et communion: Essai d'ecclésiologie comparée", Istina 6 (1959): 33-82, with a full bibliography. For the historical aspect, W. Eiert, Abendmahl und Kirchengemeinschaft in der alten Kirche, hauptsächlich des Ostens (Berlin, 1954); J. Ratzinger, Volk und Haus Gottes. Back to text.
18 See the passage from the Vatican Council mentioned above in n. 6:D 1827. Back to text.
19 H. von Campenhausen, Ecclesiastical Authority and Spiritual Power in the Church of the First Three Centuries, trans. J. A. Baker (London: Black, 1969), 149-77. Back to text.
20 Cf. E. Caspar, Die älteste römische Bischofsliste, Schriften der Königsberger gelehrten Gesellschaft, Geisteswiss. Klasse 2:4 (1926); T. Klauser, "Die Anfänge der römischen Bischofsliste", Bonner Zeitschrift für Theologie und Seelsorge 8 (1931): 193-213, esp. 196.—For a systematic view of the connection between tradition and succession, see: G. Söhngen, "Überlieferung und apostolische Verkündigung", in Die Einheit in der Theologie (Munich, 1952), 305-23. Back to text.
21 Campenhausen, Ecclesiastical Authority, 168. L. Koep, in the article "Bischofsliste", in RAC 2:407-15, esp. 407ff., lays more emphasis upon Jewish precedents. For the further development of this idea, we should probably refer to Roman legal thought. Cf. G. Tellenbach, article "Auctoritas A", in RAC 1:904-9. P. 906: "Tertullian the jurist introduced into Christian teaching the concept from Roman private law according to which any legal precursor is seen as 'auctor'—that is, as guarantor and witness—for the possessor of a thing. The apostles, as those who first received the teaching . . . , pass this on to the communities or their leaders, and they in turn to their successors. The apostles and the early bishops are thus the auctores of the later ones: the legitimate line of succession vouches for the faith and the continuance of apostolic auctoritas. Tradition and auctoritas enter into a firm relationship with each other." Tellenbach also refers to U. Gmelin's book Römische Herrscheridee und päpstliche Autorität (1937). Back to text.
22 That is suggested on pp. 161f. When it is said on p. 162 that even Irenaeus is much more of a biblical theologian than is usually recognized or admitted, it is correct in that Irenaeus uses Scripture to a great extent and that his spirituality is wholly fed from this source; yet the use of Scripture and theology based on a scriptural principle nonetheless remain two separate things. Back to text.
23 Cf. A. von Harnack, Dogmengeschichte, 5th ed., vol. 1 (Tübingen, 1931), 372ff.; A. Jülicher and E. Fascher, Einleitung in das Neue Testament, 7th ed. (Tübingen, 1931), 478ff. Back to text.
24 See esp. the fundamental expositions of this in 2 Corinthians 3; also the important account given by G. Schrenk in ThWNT I, 766ff. Back to text.
25 Dogmengeschichte 2:87, n. 3. Cf. also H. Bracht, "Die Rolle der Tradition in der Kanonbildung", Catholica 12 (1958): 16-37. Back to text.
26 This by no means excludes revealed truths that are publicly transmitted in the Church but do not find a place in the New Testament. Back to text.
27 We cannot elaborate here on the consequences of this for present-day systematic theology. Some important pointers in this direction are given by K. Rahner, Über die Schriftinspiration (Freiburg, 1958), esp. 80-84. Back to text.
28 We do not of course mean to say that the idea of traditions cannot also appear in a legitimate sense for the Church; it is simply being maintained that this was first formulated in Gnosticism and, accordingly, in a Gnostic sense. Worth consulting on this question is J. N. Bakhuizen van den Brink, "Traditio im theologischen Sinn", Vigiliae Christianae 13 (1959): 65-86. Back to text.
29 Thus it would be not least on this basis that the question would be decided whether and to what extent a Church (for instance, the Anglican Church) should be seen as belonging to the Catholic form of the Christian faith. Back to text.
30 Petrus: Jünger-Apostel-Märtyrer (Zürich, 1952), 248f. [trans. as Peter: Disciple, Apostle, Martyr, rev. ed. (London, 1962)]. Related to this is what Karl Barth says about the problem of succession in Kirchliche Dogmatik I, 1 (Zürich, 1947), 97-101. On the position of the German United Evangelical-Lutheran Church, cf. their "Erklärung zur Apostolischen Sukzession", published in the Informationsdienst der VELKD, 1958, pp. 4-13; P. Brunner, Vom Amt des Bischofs (Berlin, 1955) is enlightening; also Brunner, art. "Bischof IV", in LThK, 2nd ed., II, 505f. Back to text.
31 Cf. E. Lohse, Die Ordination im Spätjudentum und im Neuen Testament (Göttingen, 1951); O. Linton, "Kirche und Amt im NT", in Ein Buch von der Kirche, ed. Aulen, Fridrichsen, et al., 110-44 (Göttingen, 1951); A. Volkmann, "Evangelisch-katholische Gedanken zur Frage der Successio Apostolica", Una Sancta 10 (1955): 42-54; W. Richter, "Apostolische Sukzession und die Vereinigte Evangelisch-Lutherische Kirche Deutschlands", Una Sancta 14 (1959): 48-54. The latter two Evangelical theologians propound (especially in connection with Lohse) notions of the successio apostolica that tend strongly toward the Catholic. On what is said here against Cullmann, cf. O. Karrer, Um die Einheit der Christen (Frankfurt, 1953), 166f. Back to text.
32 Cf. R. Guardini, "Evangelisches Christentum in katholischer Sicht heute", Una Sancta 13 (1958): 225-33. Back to text.
33 De praescript. haer. 36, 2 (CChL I, 216). Back to text.
34 Adv. haer. 3, 3, 1 and 2 (PG 7, 844ff., esp. 848). The same conviction is already apparent in Hegesippos; cf. Eusebius, HE IV, 22, 2f. P. Batiffol, especially, cast light on the early Church's theology of the sedes apostolicae, particularly in L'Église naissante et le catholicisme (Paris, 1909); Batiffol, Le Siège apostolique (Paris, 1924). Back to text.
35 This fact seems to me decisive in judging the controversial question of who was in fact the author of the so-called Edict of Callistus discussed in De pudicitia; Posdimann, above all, sought to demonstrate its non-Roman origin (esp. in Paenitentia secunda [Bonn, 1940], 349-67). When, in 21, 5 (CChL II, 1326), the author of the edict is addressed with apostolice, it must be said that this refers unambiguously to Rome. The term apostolicus could not be used arbitrarily as ironical hyperbole; rather, it had a definite and limited meaning with respect to a bishop, one that everyone could understand: it indicated the occupant of a sedes apostolica—that is, in the West, the See of Rome. The fact remains that Tertullian, by using the word in this context, imbues it with mordant irony. In any case, H. Bacht, in art. "Apostolisch", in LThK, 2nd ed., I, 758, is right in agreeing with L.-M. Dewailly that the history of the term "apostolic" has still to be written. Back to text.
36 L. Hertling, "Communio und Primat", in Miscellanea historiae Pontificia VJI (Rome, 1943), 3-48. Back to text.
37 This awareness is reflected, for instance, quite clearly in Tertullian, Adv. Praxean 1, 5 (CChL II, 1159): "Nam idem tunc episcopum Romanum, agnoscentem iam prophetias Montani, Priscae, Maximillae et ex ea agnitione pacem ecclesiis Asiae et Phrygiae inferentem, falsa de ipsis prophetis . . . adseverando et praecessorum eius auctoritates defendendo coegit et litteras pacis revocare iam emissas et a proposito recipiendorum charismatum concessare." It has often been remarked that the conduct of Pope Victor in the dispute about Easter can only be explained on the basis of that kind of awareness. Cf. Hertling, "Communio und Primat"; Le Guillou, "Église et communion", esp. p. 39. Back to text.
38 Cf. H. Wagenvoort and G. Tellenbach, art. "Auctoritas", in RAC I, 902-9, esp. 908f. Back to text.
39 Cf. T. Spácil, "Der Träger der kirchlichen Unfehlbarkeit", in ZkTh 40 (1916): 524-52; contra, A. Straub, "Gibt es zwei unabhängige Träger der kirchlichen Unfehlbarkeit?" ZkTh 42 (1918): 254-300; see also: H. van Laak, Institutionum theol.fundamentalis repetitorium (Rome, 1921); W. Bartz, Die lehrende Kirche: Ein Beitrag zur Ekklesiologie M. J. Scheebens (Trier, 1959), esp. 140f. Back to text.
II, First Section
1 That becomes clear in the lists of traditiones compiled at the time of the Council of Trent; cf. the material cited in n. 19 to the second section. Back to text.
2 The Augsburg Confession, article 28, 42, 49, in The Book of Concord: The Confessions of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, trans. and ed. Theodore G. Tappert, 88-89 (Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1959). Back to text.
3 Art. 28, 52, in ibid., 89. Back to text.
4 Ibid., 316-17. Back to text.
5 Art. 7, 1, in ibid., 32. Back to text.
6 On this point and what follows, see: J. Ratzinger, "Das geistliche Amt und die Einheit der Kirche", Catholica 17 (1963): 165-79. Back to text.
7 For references, see nn. 16 and 17, section 2 below (53 and 55). Back to text.
8 Reprinted in E. Peterson, Theologische Traktate (Munich, 1951), 295f. Back to text.
9 See the account of R. Laurentin, L'Enjeu du Concile: Bilan de la première session (Paris, 1963), 27-45; Y. Congar, Vatican II: Le Concile au jour le jour (Paris, 1963), 63-71; J. Ratzinger, Die erste Sitzungsperiode des Zweiten Vatikanischen Konzils (Cologne, 1963), 38-50 [part 1 of the English translation Theological Highlights of Vatican II (New York: Paulist Press, 1966)]. Back to text.
10 See, above all, the summarizing account in R. Geiselmann, Die Heilige Schrift und die Tradition (Freiburg, 1962), esp. 91-107, 274-82. Among Geiselmann's earlier work on the same subject, his article: "Das Konzil von Trient über das Verhältnis der Heiligen Schrift und der nichtgeschriebenen Traditionen", in Die mündliche Überlieferung, ed. M. Schmaus, 123-306 (Munich, 1957), is particularly important. Back to text.
11 H. Küng, in his essay, "Karl Barths Lehre vom Wort Gottes als Frage an die katholische Theologie", in Einsicht und Glaube, ed. J. Ratzinger and H. Fries, 105 n. 25, 2nd ed. (Freiburg, 1963), gives a survey of everyone who agreed in principle with Geiselmann. Back to text.
12 This statement is not intended to mean that Scripture is merely an account, without any substance, of facts that remain entirely outside of it. Rather (as, hopefully, what follows will show), the view that the reality of revelation is a reality of the word—that in the word, the proclamation of the reality of revelation comes to me—should remain fully valid. It nonetheless remains true that the mere word before us, available to us, is not yet itself the reality of revelation, which is never just "available" to us. What is said here is simply intended to point to the difference between the word and the reality that occurs within it, a difference not abolished by the nature of revelation as word. Back to text.
13 See G. Gloege, "Schriftprinzip", in RGG, 3rd ed., V, 1540-43. Further bibliography there. LThK VII, 1104-15; J. R. Geiselmann, "Offenbarung", in H. Fries, Handbuch zum Begriff der Offenbarung; see M. Vereno, R. Schnackenburg, and H. Fries, in Theologische Grundbegriffe II (Munich, 1963), 242-50, and the bibliographical material offered in each case. Back to text.
14 See W. H. van de Pol, Das reformatorische Christentum (Einsiedeln, 1956), 117-92. Back to text.
15 See on these ideas A. Oepke's important article "ἀποϰαλὐπτω", in ThWNT III, 565-97. Back to text.
16 See on this the valuable information provided by G. Schrenk, article "γραφή—γράμμα", in ThWNT I, 749-69, esp. 767ff. Back to text.
17 See, for instance, the assessment by G. von Rad, in Theologie des Alten Testaments II (Munich, 1960), 402-24 [trans. as Old Testament Theology II (London and Edinburgh, 1962)]. Back to text.
18 H. Schlier, "Die Kirche nach dem Brief an die Epheser", in Die Zeit der Kirche, 3rd ed. (Freiburg, 1962), 159-86. Back to text.
19 Compare this account with E. Peterson's remarks (still fundamental in this area) in "Die Kirche", in Theologische Traktate (Munich, 1951), 409-29; H. Schlier, "Die Entscheidung für die Heidenmission in der Urchristenheit", in Zeit der Kirche, 90-107. It seems certain to me that both the analysis of the synoptic tradition, in regard to Jesus' message and its eschatological orientation, and an investigation of the history of primitive Christianity based on the material in the Acts of the Apostles leave no room for any solution save this to the question of the relation between the message of the kingdom and the proclamation of the Church. This does not, in my view, mean (as is often feared) that the Cross is reinterpreted as an accidental event, of secondary importance in itself, which could actually have been avoided; on the contrary, the Cross-structure of the Church becomes more radical, because only in this way does the seriousness of human freedom, and, along with it, the seriousness of Christ's Passion as well as the absolute origination of the Church from the Cross, receive its full weight. Back to text.
20 See H. Groß, "Motivtransposition als Form- und Traditionsprinzip im Alten Testament", in Exegese und Dogmatik, ed. H. Vorgrimler, 134-52 (Mainz, 1962), and the literature mentioned there; G. von Rad, Theologie des Alten Testaments II (Munich, 1960), 332-39, 396-401. Back to text.
21 The non-identity of the two theologies of the Old Testament was pointed out very harshly by R. Bultmann, "Weissagung und Erfüllung", in Glauben und Verstehen II (Tübingen, 1952), 162-86; the necessary corrections to this, in which the historical basis for what systematic theology calls analogia fidei becomes clear, are found in Von Rad, Theologie des Alten Testaments, 329-424, esp. 420 n. 25 and 422 n. 29. On the subject of the analogia fidei between the two Testaments, see also E. Przywara, Alter und Neuer Bund (Vienna and Munich, 1956). Back to text.
22 See, for example, the instructive account in G. Bornkamm, Jesus von Nazareth (Stuttgart, 1956). On the technical question touched on here, see H. Schlier, "Über Sinn und Aufgabe einer Theologie des Neuen Testaments", in H. Vorgrimler, Exegese und Dogmatik (Mainz, 1962), 69-90. Back to text.
23 As far as patristics is concerned, the best thing to be found on this question is still in Harnack, Lehrbuch der Dogmengeschichte, 5th ed., II (1931), 84-116. On 87 n. 3, Harnack actually says: " 'Canon' was originally the rule of faith; Scripture did in truth intervene, but did so in such a way that its authority had a significance that lay still farther back, namely, in the Old Testament and the sayings of the Lord." I have tried to show that this finding still held true for the Middle Ages, and that (along with the concept of revelatio, about which we shall talk in the second section) assigning a superiority of fides (= the creed) over Scripture represented the essential form of the concept of tradition, in my essay, "Wesen und Weisen der auctoritas im Werk des heiligen Bonaventura", in Die Kirche und ihre Ämter und Stände (Festgabe Kardinal Frings), ed. Corsten, Frotz, and Linden, 58-72 (Cologne, 1960). Back to text.
24 This line of thought cannot be developed in more detail here—as would really need to be done—because we are concerned simply with showing the basis for the concept of tradition as such. In view of the constraints of our subject, I have been content, in the preceding theses, to develop the matter to the point where it becomes clear that tradition has to do with "Church" (cf. theses 4 and 5). What that means in particular could only be further illuminated by an analysis of the concept of the Church, which must simply be presupposed here as already given. See my article on office and the unity of the Church, cited in n. 6 above, in which I try to make a few remarks on this subject. Back to text.
II, Second Section
1 Unfortunately, Geiselmann drew his account of the medieval evidence only at second hand, so that its historical value remains open to question. See my remarks in the Theologisch-praktische Quartalschrift, 1963, pp. 224-27. These are not affected by Geiselmann's new and spirited attacks in the Tübinger Theologische Quartalschrift 144 (1964): 31-69, which can no longer be described as making a positive contribution. The account by Y. Congar in La Tradition et les traditions: Essai historique (Paris, 1960) is valuable; and J. Beumer, Die mündliche Überlieferung als Glaubensquelle (Freiburg, 1962) is also important. On Trent, besides Jedin's fundamental work, see above all E. Ortigues, "Écriture et traditions apostoliques au concile de Trente", RSR 36 (1949):271-99; K. D. Schmidt, Studien zur Geschichte des Konzils von Trient (Tübingen, 1925), 152-209. Back to text.
2 The speech has been transmitted in two versions: a shorter version in the Acts in CT V, 11, a longer one in Massarelli's diary (Diarium III) in CT I, 484f. The two versions are entirely consistent, however, as to content. In the following analysis, the two versions will be presented one after the other. On Cervini's position at the Council, see H. Jedin, Geschichte des Konzils von Trient II (Freiburg, 1957), 38-40. The account of the historical course of the discussions, in Jedin, 42-82, may be presupposed as the background of the theological analysis. Back to text.
3 CT V, 11 ". . . tria esse principia et fundamenta nostrae fidei: primum libros sacros . . . , secundum esse evangelium, quod Christus Dominus Noster non scripsit, sed ore docuit et in cordibus illud plantavit, cuius evangelii nonnulla evangelistae scripto mandarunt, multa quoque relicta sunt in cordibus hominum. Tertium, quia non semper filius Dei corporaliter nobiscum mansurus erat, misit Spiritum Sanctum, qui in cordibus fidelium secreta Dei revelaret et ecclesiam quotidie et usque ad consummationem saeculi doceret omnium veritatem, et si quid in mentibus hominum dubii occurrisset, declararet." Back to text.
4 CT I, 484. The formulation on p. 485, 14-16: "Nihil tamen inter scripturas sacras et apostolicas traditiones differt; illae enim scriptae, hae per insinuationem habentur, utraeque tamen a spiritu sancto eodem modo emanatae", is also noteworthy. Similarly, CT V, 11, 19: ". . . ab eodem spiritu et illos (sc. libros) et istas (sc. traditiones) descendisse." Back to text.
5 CT X, 373. Back to text.
6 CT V, 14 and 15. An investigation of all the auctoritates from Scripture and the Fathers that serve as witnesses to the reality of tradition in this collection would in itself be instructive for what was understood by tradition here. H. Holstein has pursued this in a remarkable study: "La Tradition d'après la Concile de Trente", RSR 47 (1959): 367-90; on this point, 375. He finds two lines of thought in the texts: the Irenaeus line, for which the witness of the apostles is that of their personality, their life, and their office. Besides that, the line of Tertullian—Cyprian—Basil—Augustine, which might be called the "ceremonial" line. Origen, he says, belongs to both lines. There is indeed in this collection of testimonies a series of texts relating to observationes, consuetudiones and institutiones, which suggest an understanding of tradition along these lines; yet there are also texts that emphasize that the gospel is written in the hearts of the faithful, and time and again there are also some that point to the Church as the place where the truth of Christ is. Back to text.
7 CT I, 483 (February 18, 1546). We find Cervini coming back to this statement on February 26 (CT V, 18). Cf. also a statement by the Bishop of Fano, CT V, 10: "Cum iam receperimus scripturas sacras, necessario recipiendae sunt traditiones, quae ab eodem Spiritu Sancto quo scripturae dictatae sunt." Back to text.
8 My attention was first drawn to this fact by a study completed under my supervision by C. Limbach, to whom I am likewise indebted for further textual references. Back to text.
9 I have attempted a brief outline of this background in my work "Offenbarung—Schrift—Überlieferung", Trier Theologische Zeitschrift 67 (1958): 13-27; see further J. Beumer, "Der theoretische Beitrag der Frühskolastik zum Problem des Dogmenfortschritts", ZkTh 72 (1952): 205-26; J. de Ghellinck, "Pour l'histoire du mot 'revelare' ", RSR 6 (1916): 149-57. Back to text.
10 This is the place for something Cervini said on the February 26, 1546, repeated in I, 33 and V, 18, that not all traditions going back to the apostles have to be accepted, but only those that "ab ecclesia receptae ad nos usque pervenerunt" (V, 18). This statement, which anticipates the formulation of the conciliar dogma, may at the same time be taken as an authentic commentary precisely on this difficult formulation, in which, accordingly, it is essentially a matter of emphasizing the receptio ecclesiae. A statement by the Bishop of Bertorino was reported under the date of March 23 (I, 523f.), according to which he emphasized that the written traditions had in part been altered, that among the unwritten ones were some (he said) that had been changed and some that had not (the admixture of water with the wine, chrismation, aural confession), and that besides those there were, finally, quite unalterable things like the descensus ad inferos, the perpetual virginity of Mary, and the replacement of the Sabbath by Sunday. Other things had been preserved in the East and changed in the West. Under the date of March 27 is noted a statement by the Bishop of Bitonto (I, 39), asserting the view that some things were passed on by the apostles to be kept forever (such as what belonged to the fides), some things had ceased (the stipulations of Saint James), and some were meant as counsel. Thus some things were even written in Scripture that were not kept, because they were merely advice: If someone asks you for your tunica, give him your pallium also; if anyone strikes you on the cheek, offer him the other one—without doubt, a somewhat remarkable solution to the problem of the Sermon on the Mount! Finally, there are similar lines of thought to be found in what Lejay says, too, as in the speech of February 23 (CT V, 13), where it says, among other things, "Nam illae (sc. 'traditiones') quae ad fidem pertinent, eadem sunt recipiendae auctoritate qua recipitur evangelium, alia autem non ita, cum earum plurime immutatae fuerint, ut de bigamis, de esu sanguinis et similia." Incidentally, Bonuccio said something similar in I, 525 (March 23, 1546): ". . . ecclesia traditiones apostolorum quandoque mutavit, verbum autem Deum numquam mutavit neque mutare potest." Back to text.
11 Seripando, De traditionibus (February or March 1546), CT XII, 517-21, esp. 521. In content, the final idea is very close to Cervini's notion of the receptio ecclesiae. Back to text.
12 Cf. the text cited in n. 11 above. Back to text.
13 In the text of the decree, by the way, this idea does not appear; rather, at the first mention of tradition, the contrast is drawn between in libris scriptis and sine scripto traditionibus. The second mention is not so exclusive but leads in the same direction through the contrast, "omnes libros . . . nec non traditiones ipsas". Nonetheless, the positive concept of tradition, which lies behind this statement, was not without effect, even for the decree. Back to text.
14 CT XII, 517. Back to text.
15 CT I, 494f. (February 26, 1546). This saying, supposedly of Augustine, also played a role elsewhere in the discussion. Seripando alludes to it as follows (De traditionibus, CT XII, 521, 47-53): "Pensandum denique, ne in traditionibus externis vera religio et salutis spes statuatur, de quibus Augustinus: Omnia, quae pertinent ad veram religionem quaerendam et tenendam, divina Scriptura non tacuit." Not everything is, indeed, written down (Jn 21:25!), "electa sunt autem, quae scriberentur, quae saluti credentium sufficere videbantur." More than elsewhere in the debates at Trent, the real concern of the Reformers is being addressed: It is not external practices that save—what is decisive for salvation is encountered in the word of Scripture. The "sufficiency" of Scripture that is being talked about here is, of course, something different from the material sufficiency asserted by Geiselmann and of much more radical significance. Unfortunately, it has not yet been possible to establish Augustine's text (CT I, 494, suggests De doctrina christiana II, 9, and De peccatorum meritis et remissione II, 59). In this connection, H. Schauf's references to the so-called "Dusseldorf Conversations on Religion", in "Schrift und Tradition" (Antonianum 39 [1964]: 200-209), are enlightening. In the passages Schauf provides, the sufficiency of Scripture for salvation is likewise asserted in connection with Augustine, although its sufficiency for the ordering of the universal Church is disputed. Such an alternative does in fact seem to make much better sense and to be much more fundamental from the viewpoint of the concerns of reform than the alternative of the material sufficiency or insufficiency of Scripture. Back to text.
16 For the dispute about the procedural question, compare once more Jedin, Geschichte des Konzils von Trient II, 9-82. Back to text.
17 Thus, even in the great speech by Cervini analyzed at the beginning (I, 484), in which Cervini unfolds the Council's dilemma: If it turns to the traditiones, then the Fathers would be surprised, "quasi reformationem fugiamus; si ipsam reformationem sumimus, iterum obiicient, traditiones relinquendas non esse." This is similar to what is found in two interventions by the Bishop of Astorga on February 23, 1546, CT V, 13 and 19; in Seripando, De traditionibus (I, 484: ". . . traditiones prius pertractandas consulit; tantam enim conformitatem abusus, qui ex sacris libris descendunt, cum iis, qui a traditionibus orti sunt, habent, ut sacris libris et traditionibus absolutis duo illa abusuum genera simul pertractari valeant"); and in Bonuccio (I, 484: First of all the Holy Scriptures, the apostolic canons, the general councils, and the papal decretals should be dealt with. "Hisque susceptis ad abusus ex eisdem dependentes devenire"). Back to text.
18 Thus, with particular clarity in Alfons de Castro, CT I, 484: "Quoniam ultra traditiones apostolicas ecclesiae auctoritatem habemus, quae ecclesiae auctoritas tanta apud nos est, ut aliqui eam maioris roboris quam sacros libros esse sentiant." The same at I, 491, 45f. In substance, a series of statements by Lejay follow the same line, especially CT XII, 524 (treatise De traditionibus ecclesiae, February or March 1546). Back to text.
19 CT XII, 523. Lejay is obviously basing what he says here on lists of traditions, such as were often compiled at that time (thus, by Eck, Driedo, Cano, Soto, Nogarola). On this, see Y. Congar, "Traditions apostoliques non écrites et suffisance de l'Écriture", Istina 6 (1959): 219-306, esp. 289ff. Back to text.
20 CT V, 14. Back to text.
21 CT X, 373. Back to text.
22 In any case, according to what Cervini says, the Bishop of Chioggia seems finally to have dropped his theory of the sufficiency of Scripture, which was generally rejected. In Cervini's letter of February 27, 1546, to Cardinal Farnese, we read: ". . . Chioggia, che (quasi quasi) voleva dire queste traditioni essere superflue, perorando, che tutto quello che era necessario alla salute era scritto, et allegando etiam S. Agostino sopra l'ultimo capitulo di S. Giovanni a questo proposito. Pure, per non potte negare, che molte cose, appartenenti almeno alli sacramenti, non ci fussero venute ex traditione, et per consequente, che non tutte le cose necessarie alla nostra salute erano scritte, poichè ebbe fatte molte distintioni, concluse, che ancor lui accettava queste 'che in la chiesa fusse qualche traditione apostolica non scritta'; (et con queste parole diceva, che se ne facesse il decreto); credo che molti sono restati scandalizati di lui" (CT X, no. 315, p. 399, 4-11). See also CT I, 494 n. 9, and 495 n. 2; CT V, 18 n. 5, and 19 n. 1. The same disposition against Nacchianti as appears here is reflected in Massarelli's remark, at I, 494, 18, who calls him "novarum rerum cupidus" and reports, "Reprehensus est a multis" (I, 494, 22). Under these circumstances (quite apart from the other well-known reasons, which we need not repeat here), the significance attributed to him by Geiselmann seems quite implausible. Back to text.
III
1 With refreshing directness and yet with a great knowledge of literature, C. S. Lewis has described this situation in Fern-Seed and Elephants and Other Essays on Christianity, ed. W. Hooper (London: Collins Fontana, 1975). E. Kastner also offers reflections on the problem based on great knowledge of the subject in Die Stundentrommel vom heiligen Berg Athos (Inselverlag, 1956). Also important for a diagnosis of the situation is J. Guitton, Silence sur l'essentiel (Paris, 1986), 47-58. For a survey of the history of historical-critical exegesis, see W. Kümmel, Das Neue Testament: Geschichte der Erforschung seiner Probleme (Freiburg and Munich, 1958). Back to text.
2 On the Evangelical side, Paul Tillich's Systematic Theology may serve as an example (Chicago, 1951-1963); it is not by chance that here the index of biblical references for all three volumes requires barely two pages; on the Catholic side, there is the later work of K. Rahner, who succeeded at any rate in keeping the Grundkurs des Glaubens (Freiburg, 1976) largely independent of exegesis (see, e.g., p. 25). Back to text.
3 Cf. Guitton, Silence sur l'essentiel, 56ff.; R. Guardini, Das Christusbild der paulinischen und johanneischen Schriften, 2nd ed. (Würzburg, 1961), p. 15. Back to text.
4 Thus expressed by Kästner, Stundentrommel, 121; some related thoughts in L. Kolakowski, Die Gegenwärtigkeit des Mythos (Munich, 1973), 95f. Back to text.
5 We must here refer especially to the studies of P. Ricoeur, for example, Hermeneutik und Structuralismus I (1973); Hermeneutik und Psychoanalyse (1974). A helpful survey showing just where the question stands now is offered by P. Stuhlmacher, Vom Verstehen des Neuen Testaments: Eine Hermeneutik (Göttingen, 1986). Significant approaches are further to be found in P. Toinet, Pour une théologie de l'exégèse, preface by I. de la Potterie (Paris, 1983); R. Laurentin, Comment réconcilier l'exégèse et la foi (Paris, 1984); P. Grech, Ermeneutica e Teologia biblica (Rome, 1986); P. Grelot, Évangiles et histoire (Paris, 1985). In 1979 the Theologische Quartalschrift (Tübingen) devoted an entire issue (pp. 1-71) to a discussion of this question, in the form of a debate about J. Blank's article, "Exegese als theologische Basiswissenschaft" (2-23). Unfortunately this contribution is not productive, since it seems to attribute the problems surrounding exegesis exclusively to a dogmatism that has not yet risen to the level of historical thought. Back to text.
6 Characteristic of this are the new forms of materialist and feminist interpretation of the Bible; cf., e.g., K. Füssel, "Materialistische Lektüre der Bibel", in Methoden der Evangelien-Exegese, Theologische Berichte XIII (Einsiedeln, 1985), 123-63. Back to text.
7 The principal representative of this depth-psychology exegesis, which is steadily gaining ground, is E. Drewermann. Cf. G. Lohfink and R. Pesch, Tiefenpsychologie und keine Exegese (Stuttgart, 1987). Back to text.
8 See esp. Dei Verbum 11 and 12 and also J. Gnilka, "Die biblische Exegese im Lichte des Dekretes über die Göttliche Offenbarung", MThZ 36 (1985): 1-19. Back to text.
9 Cf. Gnilka "Biblische Exegese", 1-9; see also A. Grillmeier's commentary on the third chapter, in LThK, Ergänzungsband [supplementary volume] II, 528-58. Back to text.
10 Cf. W. Heisenberg, Das Naturbild der heutigen Physik (Reinbek, 1955), esp. 15-23. Back to text.
11 I am basing myself here on Stuhlmacher, Vom Verstehen des Neuen Testaments, who formulates his own answer to these problems in a "hermeneutic of agreement with the biblical texts" (222-56). Back to text.
12 Basel, 1981, vol. XVI of Theologischen Dissertationen, ed. Bo Reicke. Back to text.
13 Cf. Blank, "Exegese als theologische Basiswissenschaft", 72. As opposed to this, Kästner, Stundentrommel, 120, speaks of the "superstition . . . that anything and everything can be understood on the basis of its origins". Back to text.
14 Cf. Blank, "Exegese als theologische Basiswissenschaft", 97. Back to text.
15 Ibid., 154. Back to text.
16 Cf. ibid., 89-183. Characteristic of the practically universal acceptance of this rule (to mention just one example) is the way that L. Oberlinner adopts as a criterion for dating, as a matter of course and without reflection, the "no doubt more developed thought (in comparison with Paul, for instance), in, for example, ecclesiology and in eschatology" that he sees in the synoptic Gospels (review of J. Carmignac, La Naissance des Évangiles synoptiques [Paris, 1984], in Theol. Rev. 83 [1987]: 194). By what criteria is one thought to be described as "more developed" and another as "less"? That does, after all, depend on the standpoint of the observer. And even if the criterion were appropriate, who can demonstrate that a conclusion about "earlier" or "later" can be drawn from it? Back to text.
17 Blank, "Exegese als theologische Basiswissenschaft", 11-46. Back to text.
18 Ibid., 98. Back to text.
19 M. Dibelius, "Die Unbedingtheit des Evangeliums und die Bedingtheit der Ethik", Christliche Welt 40 (1936): 1103-20, esp. 1107 and 1109; Dibelius, Geschichtliche und übergeschichtliche Religion im Christentum (Göttingen, 1925); see on this Blank, "Exegese als theologische Basiswissenschaft", 66-71. Back to text.
20 Cf. R. Bultmann, Urchristentum, 2nd ed. (Zürich, 1954) [trans. as Primitive Christianity (London, 1960)]; cf. Blank, "Exegese als theologische Basiswissenschaft", 172ff. Back to text.
21 Cf. Blank, "Exegese als theologische Basiswissenschaft", 111, 175. Back to text.
22 Cf. W. Klatt, Hermann Gunkel—Zu seiner Theologie der Religionsgeschichte und zur Entstehung der formgeschichtliche Methode (1969). Back to text.
23 Cf. the questions posed in the debate about demythologizing. The most important contributions to this discussion have been brought together in the five volumes of Kerygma und Mythos, ed. H. W. Bartsch (Hamburg, 1948-1955). Back to text.
24K. Barth, Kirchliche Dogmatik III, 2 (1959), 534; quoted here by Blank, "Exegese als theologische Basiswissenschaft", 148. Back to text.
25 Some brilliant analyses on this subject are found in P. Berger, A Rumor of Angels: Modern Society and the Rediscovery of the Supernatural (New York, 1969). Just one quotation here: "The present, however, remains strangely immune from relativization. In other words, the New Testament writers are seen as afflicted with a false consciousness rooted in their time, but the contemporary analyst takes the consciousness of his time as an unmixed intellectual blessing. The electricity- and radio-users are placed intellectually above the Apostle Paul" (p. 58; Berger's italics). On the question of world view, there are some important considerations in H. Gese Zur biblischen Theologie (Munich, 1977), 202-22. Back to text.
26 Cf. Blank, "Exegese als theologische Basiswissenschaft", 137: "The non-historical nature of the miracle-stories was for him [= Bultmann] beyond question." On the background in Kantian philosophy and a criticism of it, see J. Zöhrer, Der Glaube an die Freiheit und der historische Jesus: Eine Untersuchung der Philosophie Karl Jaspers' unter christologischem Aspekt (Frankfurt, 1986). Back to text.
27 Gregory of Nyssa, Contra Eunomium 10, ed. W. Jaeger, 227, 26 (PG 45, 828C); see also Hom. 11 in Cant., PG 44, 1013. C. E. Kästner, Stundentrommel, 117, expresses it quite similarly: ". . . anyone can feel it: science and the results of research fall away, in comparison with what those wood-carvers thought out unscientifically. The gains have been obtained fraudulently and are meager. The organ used by those others who were searching was the more noble of the two: an eye—whereas historical research is only something for grasping. It wants to 'grasp' things; it says so itself." Back to text.
28 That is how H. U. von Balthasar expresses it, in his introduction to Gregor von Nyssa, Der versiegelte Quell: Auslegung des Hohen Liedes, 3rd ed. (Einsiedeln, 1984), 17. Back to text.
29 R. Guardini, Das Christusbild der paulinischen und johanneischen Schriften, 2nd ed. (Würzburg, 1961), 14. The reflections about methodology that Guardini develops on pp. 7-15 of this book are, in my opinion, among the most important yet expressed on the problem of method in the interpretation of Scripture. Guardini had already commented at length on these problems, in the early part of his career, in the article: "Heilige Schrift und Glaubeswissenschaft", Die Schildgenossen 8 (1928): 24-57. M. Theobald offers a critical discussion of Guardini's exegetical theory and practice in "Die Autonomie der historischen Kritik—Ausdruck des Unglaubens oder theologische Notwendigkeit? Zur Schriftauslegung Guardinis", in Auslegung des Glaubens: Zur Hermeneutik christlicher Existenz, ed. L. Honnefelder and M. Lutz-Bachmann, 21-45 (Berlin-Hildesheim 1987). Back to text.
30 Gregory of Nyssa, Hom. 10 in cant., PG 44, 980B-C. In W. Jaeger's edition, ed. H. Langerbeck (Leiden, 1960), VI, 295, 5-296, 3. In H. U. von Balthasar's German translation (cf. n. 28 above), 78. Back to text.
31 Cf. Guardini, Christusbild, 11. Back to text.
32 Von Balthasar, introduction to Gregor von Nyssa, Der versiegelte Quell, 16; cf. von Balthasar, Presence and Thought: An Essay on the Religious Philosophy of Gregory of Nyssa, trans. Mark Sebanc (Communio Book; San Francisco: Ignatius Press, 1995). Back to text.
33 Summa theol. I, q. 88, art. I resp.; cf. q. 84, art. 7; see also q. 13, art. 6. On this point, see M. Arias-Reyero's important study, Thomas von Aquin als Exeget (Einsiedeln, 1971), 176 and 204, on which I rely in what follows. Back to text.
34 Von Balthasar, introduction to Gregor von Nyssa, Der versiegelte Quell, 10-24. Back to text.
35 There is a wealth of material on this in Arias, Thomas von Aquin, esp. pp. 192-206. Back to text.
36 Ibid., 85; he gives here extensive references to the writings of Saint Thomas. Back to text.
37 Ibid., 106. Back to text.
38 Ibid., 107. Back to text.
39 Ibid. Back to text.
40 Ibid., 102. Back to text.
41 On this point, cf. J. Bergmann, H. Lutzmann, and W. H. Schmidt, "dābār&rdquo, in Theol. Wörterbuch zum AT, ed. G. J. Botterweck and H. Ringgren, 2:89-133 (1977); O. Procksch, "λέγω ϰτλ.", in ThWNT IV, esp. 91-97. On the unity of word and reality in Thomas' thought, see Arias, Thomas von Aquin, 102, 246f., etc. Back to text.
42 On the proper understanding of teleology, see R. Spaemann and R. Löw, Die Frage Wozu? Geschichte und Wiederentdeckung des theologischen Denkens (Munich and Zürich, 1981). Back to text.
43 "Officium est enim boni interpretis non considerare verba, sed sensum." In Matt. XXVII, I, no. 2321, ed. R. Cai (Turin and Rome, 1951), 358; cf. Arias, Thomas von Aquin, 161. Back to text.
44 Cf. Arias, Thomas von Aquin, 153-262. Back to text.
45 On this point I must refer to my analysis of the concept of revelation in Bonaventure's thought: J. Ratzinger, The Theology of History in St. Bonaventure, trans. Zachary Hayes, O.F.M., 2nd ed. (Chicago: Franciscan Herald Press, 1989) 57-59; and to a few references in my lecture, "Buchstabe und Geist des Zweiten Vatikanums in den Konzilsreden von Kardinal Frings", Internationale kath. Zeitschrift 16 (1987): 251-65. See also K. Rahner and J. Ratzinger, Revelation and Tradition, trans. W. J. O'Hara (New York: Herder and Herder, 1965), 35-39. Back to text.
46 M. Buber, Zu einer neuen Verdeutschung der Schrift (Ölten, 1954), 7f. and 40f. Back to text.
47 H. Schlier, "Was heißt Auslegung der Heiligen Schrift?" in Besinnung auf das Neue Testament: Exegetische Aufsätze und Vorträge II (Freiburg, 1964), 35-62, here 62; cf. Gnilka, Biblische Exegese", 14. Back to text.
48 Gnilka, "Biblische Exegese", 14. Back to text. 















