




 HABITS: CREATE WHAT YOU
NEED TO SUCCEED IN LIFE
 
By
Bryan Oliver
 
To get additional life changing tips and hacks
Join the FLIGHT Crew at
www.flight4success.com
 
 
© 2015 by Bryan Oliver. All Rights Reserved.
Publisher: Flight4Success PublishersEditor: Zain HemaniFirst Edition 
 












 
DEDICATIONS
I dedicate this book to two people who have been inspirations and a strong support to me. 
To my dad. You have been an inspiration and a constant source of encouragement and stability throughout my entire life. I love you with all my heart.
To my wife, Darci. You have been so patient with me as I embarked on this authoring adventure and I so appreciate all your support and love you give me and our family. I love and appreciate all you are.
 












Why You Should Read This Book
The following pages are home to time-tested habits whose intended audience is recent college graduates and those who are early in their career. However, the habits discussed are not time sensitive, so they can be mastered regardless of what stage in life you may find yourself in. Each chapter contains an explanation of the habit followed by a Reality Check. This is designed to give real world examples of how these habits were applied to my life and the lives of others. These habits are interrelated and provide a powerful foundation for your future endeavors. Learning to create strong and healthy habits is not only essential, but it is the fundamental difference between those who achieve their goals and those who provide excuses.  This book is more than just my experiences; it is the culmination of relationships I've built for 18 years with people ranging from wide-eyed students to experienced executives. However, like a horse taken to water, the choice is and always will be yours to take action. 
 
In this book, you will learn ten habits to help reframe your mindset and move you forward in a short and easy to read format. Learn one or all ten; again, the choice is yours. Nevertheless, prepare yourself to create habits that will help you succeed in life. 












About the Author
Let me start by admitting that when I started my career, I was a mess. I didn't understand the potential of possessing strong, disciplined habits. Little drive and laziness can linger relentlessly, but all of that changed when one day I was introduced to the habit of learning. That single habit changed the course of my career and, ultimately, my life. 
Thank you for having this conversation with me; let's get you moving toward your dreams!
 
Bryan is a Strategic Leader for a Dallas-based management consulting firm, AustinCSI, as well as an author, coach, and founder of www.flight4success.com - a site dedicated to help future leaders shape our world through FLIGHT - Focus, Leadership, Intentions, Goals, Habits, and Thoughts. In his 18 years of experience in the areas of leadership, organizational development, and management, he has coached some of the best and brightest men and women in the United States. He is married to his lovely wife Darci and has four children. Bryan enjoys playing guitar, cooking, and playing tennis when he is not writing
 












 
Contents
Habit # 1: Surround yourself with healthy, like-minded people
Habit #2: Provide value
Habit #3: Do more than what's expected
Habit #4: Understand personality styles
Habit #5: Do what you know, not what you feel
Habit #6: Practice servant leadership
Habit #7: Be a professional learner
Habit #8: Exercise
Habit #9: Protect your thoughts
Habit #10: Take action
Putting It All Together
Conclusion












Habit # 1: Surround yourself with healthy, like-minded people
Consider this: The five people you spend the most time with have the highest potential to shape your future. Now stop for a moment and think about who you hang out with. Who are you surrounded by at school or work? Your friends and colleagues subconsciously affect several areas of your life, including the income you make, where you live, and even your health. I am not suggesting getting rid of your friends, but if you are not at a place where you want to be or at least headed in that direction, I suggest that you sit down and evaluate what you want your life to look like in five, ten, and twenty years. Are the people in your life helping you move toward or away from those goals? Some tough decisions may need to be made with regard to your sphere of influence.
 
Think about some of the habits you currently have—good or bad—and see if those are similar to some of the people you are surrounded by. Are they helping you move forward in life, or are they holding you back? While there are some people you will need to steer clear of, you can start influencing your peers with some of the habits you've learned thus far.  You'll be surprised how quickly they notice a change in you. I recommend that you seek out a mentor who is at a place where you want to be. Most successful people didn't get to where they are alone. They surrounded themselves with healthy, like-minded people that challenged them to be better and guide them on the journey toward success. They also understand that they have a responsibility to pay that forward. Likewise, it will be your responsibility to groom and shape our future generations as you achieve success. 
 
Reality Check
When I first started my career, I met someone who greatly influenced my future. His name was Joe. Although we were about the same age, he owned a house, drove a luxury car without a car payment, and had no credit card debt. I, on the other hand, lived in an apartment, drove an okay car with a car payment, and had a large amount of debt. 
 
One day, I asked Joe how he got to be where he was at such a young age. He was more than willing to share, and this is what he told me. He said when he was in high school, his friends called him "Lunch Box Joe." Each day his parents would give him lunch money for school, but Joe would save his lunch money and pack a lunch box. Between working part-time and saving his lunch money, he was able to buy his first house at the age of 18. 
 
I was shocked. I couldn't figure out whether I wanted to go to the beach or watch television at 18, let alone decide and afford to buy a house. Over the next several years, I got to see how Joe acted and the choices he made. He read a lot and listened to positive and transformational recordings every chance he got—especially in the car. The most important things I learned from him were the habits and discipline it took to achieve the level of success Joe achieved. He didn't have more talent or opportunity than I did, but he had reached a level of success that I never thought was possible. 
 
Today, Joe continues to be grounded and happy with a wonderful family. He is an executive at a large international company, lives in a beautiful home that he paid for in cash, and still has no debt. I am grateful to Joe for showing me how to think and act differently. 
 
I have been fortunate to be surrounded by people, younger and older, who are a positive influence and teach me every day. Over the last 15 years, I have been very selective with whom I spend my time with, because as positive as someone can be to move me forward, the wrong person can have an equally negative affect on your life. Be selective and protect you and your family's future. If you do not already have someone in your life that is where you want to be, go find your Joe. You will become a different person in the process.
 










Habit #2: Provide value
Hard work is essential and imperative to get ahead, but it will only get you so far. Beyond that, you have to create value that is worth more to your employer and customer than they perceive they are paying for. Value is realized when the worth or usefulness of something becomes self-evident and sought after.
 
Early in life, to build self-esteem, we are told we receive an A for effort. While that is effective in early childhood development, that mentality alone will not produce value as an adult—especially in the business world. In the business world, you must provide greater value than your competition; all of the time. This is true in calculating measurable or perceived value.    
 
Let's review measurable value first. Imagine a lovable coworker that everyone enjoys being around. They brighten the office with their demeanor and are encouraging to all. They treat people with dignity and respect and are fun to be around. In immeasurable ways, they add value to the office, making their perceived value is high. However, if the same person habitually fails to produce results, they're often late, or are unprepared for meetings, their measurable value is considerably low. 
 
Another perspective is perhaps you've worked with someone who produces excellent results and is at the top of their game. Their numbers are stellar and continue to trend upward. However, they are difficult to work with and often enable unnecessary conflict amongst the team. Not interested in building team cohesiveness, they focus solely on getting themselves ahead. This behavior makes them valuable for little other than the results they produce. While their measurable value is high, their perceived value is low. 
 
Many new to the workforce are eager to please, but as the novelty fades, maintaining the pursuit of excellence can be more challenging. This ultimately causes some to become complacent. It takes emotional maturity, stamina, and drive to get to a point where providing value becomes a habit. Providing value is something that must consciously be on the forefront of your mind and must be practiced in order to be successful in your career. 
 
How do you know if you're providing perceived and/or measurable value? The answer is simple: All one has to do is ask. Asking your manager, peers, clients, or even those outside of your business relationships can piece together a mirror for you to view your measurable and perceived value. Part of your growth will come from having the emotional maturity to receive criticism and look for ways to increase your perceived value.
 
Perceived value is never more apparent than in the job interview process. In this process, your measurable value is tenuous at best because the evaluation and decision is based on brief interactions. While education and experience listed on a resume may get you an interview, the perceived value of how you answer to situational and cultural scenarios plays a vital role in the final hiring decision. Creating habits that add to your overall success, like providing perceived value, will go a long way toward increasing your value and ultimately your net worth in the marketplace.
 
Reality Check
If you've recently graduated from college and are just getting started in your career, you may think it will take some time before you can add significant value to your company. Let me tell you about Asma. Asma joined our firm straight out of college. Shy in nature, she was extremely smart and eager to make a change. She began her career in an entry level position and was excited to have her first job right out of college. After just a few months, she started to notice there were other colleagues that had similar questions as she did. She was learning a lot from the leaders in the firm and she, along with her peers, wanted to know what it would take to become a leader. Like an antenna, she was constantly tuned in for advice from leaders around her, and she soon began to implement that advice in her daily life. To ensure results, she sought immediate feedback so she knew she was on the right track.  
 
Shortly thereafter, Asma had an epiphany; what if a program was created for young consultants to learn leadership skills that are used in business every day? She began to put the pieces together for this program to present the idea to the managing partners of the firm. For Asma, it wasn't enough to just have a good idea. She needed to show what value this would bring to individuals in the program, clients, and the firm. She came up with a proposal, presented it, and it was accepted. 
 
In addition to her day job, she began to design the program. Working with the leaders of our firm to understand the needs of our clients and her peers, Asma created a program that we now call our Emerging Leaders Program, or ELP for short. In addition to this, she leads and was instrumental in the design of our internship program. She has provided significant value to our clients, our firm, and for those individuals that are part of the EL and Internship programs.  
 
Consider this: Asma saw a need and took action on something that she thought would provide value. She consulted with experts in her field so she could create a program that would grow beyond her own efforts. The leaders that come out of this program will have a lasting impact on hundreds, if not thousands, of individuals in the years to come. The measurable value Asma brought was creating and driving the ELP and internship programs. Her perceived value is that of a trusted advisor and contributor who will continue to provide measurable value in the future. What value are you providing to your company and to your clients? 










Habit #3: Do more than what's expected
If you are going to succeed in life and achieve anything of significance, you will need to do more than what's expected. Be prepared to be tired, work more hours than others, work with little to no recognition for your effort, and be prepared to stop focusing on what you want and instead focus on what other people want.
 
According to the founder of Mary Kay, "There are four kinds of people in the world: Those that make things happen, those who watch things happen, those that wonder what happened, and those that don't know that anything happened." Most people fall into the latter three categories. Since you are here to learn to create the habits to succeed, let's shine a light on the first kind of person. 
 
Many people leave college expecting an exciting job that blossoms into a handsomely-paying career they will love for years to come. However, many recent graduates quickly become disillusioned when entry level jobs do not meet their expectations. The reality is that most recent college grads do not obtain their dream job right away. Instead, they work hard to build some experience and, if they're lucky, get their foot in the door and start building a career on the path to their dream job.
 
Let's take a look at the mindset above. What expectations does this person have? Are those expectations realistic? Throughout your career, significant focus should be placed on who you are becoming in addition to improving your skills and job performance. One way to improve job performance is by doing more than what's expected of you. I see too many people, both young and experienced, get caught up in only working toward a title and focusing on minimum requirements. I know this because not only have I seen it happen where I've worked, but I was once guilty of the same thought process—and I paid for it. 
 
Avoid this cycle of mismanaging expectations by training yourself to do whatever is needed as often as needed and confirming what the given expectations are. Take it a step further by having the humility to work without recognition, and do all things with integrity. Your ability to self-motivate during these times is what will set you apart from your peers. In order to be truly successful, you will have to do more than what is expected. 
 
Reality Check
The summer after graduating from high school, I got a job at a surf shop in Newport Beach, California. On my breaks, I would go down the boardwalk to a local convenience store. Working there was a young man with Down syndrome named Charlie. Every day when I'd walk in, he'd say, "Hi Mr. Bryan! Are you having a great day?" I'd match his enthusiasm and energy and reply back with a smile on my face, "Yes, Charlie, it's a great day!" The greeting alone is not what made Charlie special. Not only did he make everyone that walked through the door feel important, he was always helping them find what they needed as if they were the only one in the world that mattered. 
 
One day in particular, I had come in as usual and Charlie was helping a couple find what they needed. There was a specific suntan lotion they wanted but couldn't find. Overhearing the conversation, I leaned over and told Charlie that we carried that specific brand of suntan lotion at the surf shop where I worked. He smiled and disappeared from the store. 
Both the couple and I just stood there and wondered where Charlie went. They resumed their shopping, and I did mine. Several minutes later, Charlie appeared and yelled, "I got it!" Everyone in the store looked over at him. In his hand was the bottle of suntan lotion the customer was looking for.
 
Instead of referring the customers to the surf shop to go buy the suntan lotion, he ran and purchased it himself so they wouldn't have to. The couple was very grateful, and you could see the look of pride on Charlie's face. Over the years. I've thought about Charlie and the lesson he taught me that day. Implementing the habit of doing more than what's expected can have a profound impact on the relationships you create and service you provide in your business. 










Habit #4: Understand personality styles
This habit, above all others, has had the most profound effect on my career. Your personality—how you tend to think, feel, and behave—is shaped by your genetic makeup as well as your life experiences. Our personalities determine the way we interact with people in our life. Understanding the power of our personality will help prepare us to attain success. 
 
Part of being a successful and competent individual in the workplace is knowing your strengths, weaknesses, communication, and learning styles. There are many excellent personality assessments that can assist you in discovering more about yourself. As you learn more about your own personality type, it is imperative that you learn more about the personality types of others. 
 
There are four basic personalities. Depending on the personality test you take, the names may be different. The four main personality types are:
●       Type A
●       Analytical
●       Feeler
●       Expressive
 
People who are Type A tend to focus on fact rather than emotion. They are driven to see measurable results, and their intensity may make them quick to offend, even though that may not be their intention. Type A personalities like to act quickly and are enthusiastic about tackling projects and seeing results. If you want something done, call the Type A personality.
 
Analytical personalities like to amass details and comb through them first rather than acting hastily. They value accuracy in their work and expect the same precision and excellence from others. They relate to Ben Franklin's motto, "Everything has a place and everything in its place."
 
People with Feeler personalities are people-centric and value meaningful relationships.  This personality style makes for great team players, as these personalities are patient and seek to interact with their coworkers on a personal level. They are revealing when it comes to the events of their life, hope to know others, and are sensitive to the feelings of others. If you need someone to talk to, go find the Feeler personality. They can talk through issues with you and are willing to help if they can.
 
Those with Expressive personalities are creative and astute in the art of persuasion. Because they are enthusiastic and friendly, expressive personalities value communication with others and thrive when lines of communication are open. Expressive personalities long for recognition and often need support to reign in their many ideas in order to achieve specific goals.
 
It is important to remember that no one person fits perfectly into one category. Each individual is likely to express characteristics that are indicative to all four types, with a greater emphasis on one or two. These categories are not meant to put people into behavioral boxes. Instead, they are meant to help us better understand each other's tendencies. These characteristics can help understand the deeper motivations of each member on your team, including the most important person—yourself. 
 
To understand your own personality and where you tend to lean, consider taking an in-depth personality test like Myers-Briggs or Strengthsfinder 2.0. Learning your personality type will be an ongoing process and study for the remainder of your career. Once you've gained a basic framework of your personality, the next step is to learn about the other three styles and how they work together. As a leader, you will need to understand your team's personality style and tendencies in order to place them in positions to achieve highest degree of success.
 
Reality Check
Earlier in my career, working extra hours wasn't hard because I was learning and I enjoyed the mental stimulation. Knowing this, one of my earlier managers asked me if I'd be interested in being a lead for a particular project. I accepted, not realizing I had just changed the course of my career. In this project, I spent time with the project manager and began to become interested in what he did. Naturally, I asked a lot of questions, and he answered all of them happily. One evening, the project manager called in sick. Taking initiative, I asked him if I could run the team and act as project manager for the night. He agreed, and that night I took over all duties and work ran smoothly. The next day I revealed my experience to the project manager and let him know how much fun I had the night before. He gladly let me take over some of the responsibilities for the next several weeks. He monitored my work, and reported the progress back to my manager.
 
One morning, my manager called me into his office and revealed that one of our star project managers had a failing project. He needed me to fly down to Pasadena, California, to help fix the problem. I was simultaneously excited and scared. I knew the project manager, and he was a strong Type A personality who commanded attention. Because I had been reading a lot of books and listening to motivational speakers, I knew I had to stretch myself if I was going to grow and advance. Off to Pasadena I went.
 
Arriving in Pasadena, my manager called me and told me the truth of why I was there. The project manager in Pasadena was removed from the project because he had butted heads with the client. The truth was that not only did I need to complete the project, I also needed to fix the relationship with the client. My first meeting was with the head of the department. She was about 20 years my senior and very stoic. She revealed that due to the mishap of the other project manager, she wanted results and she wanted them fast. She was definitely a Type A personality. I got the information I needed from her, clarified what she was looking for, and went on my way to produce the results. 
 
One part of my responsibilities was to meet with each client during the day before the evening's activities. Some had very specific and detailed requirements, and others had to step into the process of what we were doing and assure them everything was going to be okay. Even still, others wanted to talk about everything under the sun regarding their job duties. Each user had their own unique set of needs, and I had to quickly learn to adapt to their concerns. 
 
After gathering the necessary information and speaking to the clients, our team began performing. In order to make sure the customers had a smooth transition, I arrived at 7am after a full night of activities. I met each user as they walked in the door, walked them through their new system, and showed them where their files were. Some appreciated the efforts, and others didn't even want to talk. Learning about people's personality types helped me a lot during this difficult process.
 
Thankfully, the project ended successfully and the client was happy with the results. This experience taught me so many valuable lessons, and learning personality styles and how they interact with each other allowed me to navigate a complex situation.









Habit #5: Do what you know, not what you feel
How often do we know what's good for us, yet we fail to act? The discipline of acting on what we know to be true, rather than what we feel, helps tackle the uncertainties of life. Growing up, it seemed that most of my decisions were rooted in reacting inappropriately to my emotions—doing what I felt instead of doing what I knew I should do.
 
At the time I started college in Southern California, I was an avid surfer and loved my time at the beach. I distinctly remember driving up the freeway to get to class, getting off the exit, and at the stop light I was faced with a decision. Do I go left, or do I go right? You see, class was to my right, and the beach was to my left. I always had my surfboard with me, so I didn't have to worry about heading back home. How convenient was that? Do you think I planned to go surfing the whole time even though my intention was to go to class? Needless to say, my grades that semester were average at best, but it didn't stop there. I took the habit of doing what I felt into my work life. If there was a hard task in front of me, I would procrastinate and work on something easier until right before the hard task was due. Then I'd scurry around frantically trying to get my assignment completed. In hindsight, I see that this unhealthy behavior was really a lack of discipline. 
 
Rather than acting on what I knew to be true, I took the path of least resistance and did what I felt. For example, a healthy discipline that many successful people embody is waking up early. For those wishing to start their day earlier, it's natural to know they have much to accomplish early in the morning but still feel the urge to hit snooze when the alarm goes off. There is a relatively easy fix for this issue: If you intend to wake up early, have a purpose for getting up. It may be to workout, meditate, or get a jump start on your work. Yes, you will be tired at first, however, give it 30 days of consistent effort and you will find that you may even start waking up before your alarm.
 
A 2013 study by Wilhelm Hoffman, a professor at the University of Cologne, showed that people with high self-control or people that do what they know are happier than those without. People with strong self-discipline tend to not waste time on behaviors that are detrimental to their wellness and instead practice healthy habits in their daily routine. Rather than allowing limiting emotions or impulses to dictate their behavior, they remain committed to the disciplines that they had thoughtfully formulated were good for their overall health and success. Though self-discipline can be difficult to learn, it is, in fact, a learned behavior that can be developed over time. 
 
Reality Check
In this Reality Check, I am going to share with you my morning routine and how I structure my workday. I will tell you that this routine is executed with a specific goal in mind. Once the goal is complete, I adjust my routine based on my next goal.
 
I am an early riser, so I choose to get up earlier than most. Monday-Saturday, I am up at 3:50 AM. I reserve Sunday to get up naturally, without the alarm, and I usually sleep in until between 5 or 6 AM. 3:50 in the morning may seem like an odd time to set my alarm, but the reason I do this is so that I can begin writing at 4am. I'll write for 45 minutes, head to the gym and or for a run for 30 min, and then come home and get ready for work. 
 
Once at work, I structure my day to focus on the most difficult tasks first. Since my brain is functioning at its best early, I give myself every opportunity to give my best to what is most important or difficult. So I don't have to think about what needs to be done when I get into the office, before I leave work the previous day I write my to-do list for the following day. When I get into the office, I work my list. I don't negotiate what I feel like doing or not. If it's on the list, I do it. 
 
This routine accomplishes two things for me. First, it has created a habit for me to produce results first thing in the morning. Second, I start my day with a feeling of accomplishment, which goes a long way in motivating me to want to continue to achieve more the remainder of the day. Am I perfect at this? Unfortunately, no, and never will be, as I am a work in progress and there are days that I fail to execute this routine as planned. When I do fail, I forgive myself, adjust, and move on. 
 
Though my routine may seem a little extreme for some, this type of routine is the norm for professionals performing at the highest levels. In fact, the highest performers have routines that far exceed the one described in terms of discipline and complexity. You can search the internet and find hundreds of examples to inspire you. Find someone you admire or want to be like and model them while determining what works best for you. Try this for at least 30 days and see how different your life is after that time. If you are not a morning person, find the time of day when your mind and body excel. Explore a similar routine during your peak performance time.










Habit #6: Practice servant leadership
What is a leader? Fundamentally, a leader is someone who guides others toward a common goal or way of thinking. 
 
Over the years, I have witnessed different types of leaders who are modeled and influenced by varying ideologies concerning how they should lead. I've experienced leaders who utilized command and control to get results and others who embraced creativity and cultivated morale. Styles of leadership and ways of thinking can become habits over time, so it is crucial to distinguish between a leader and a servant leader. 
 
Leaders not only mobilize their team; they also instill in them a sense of leadership. A leader's pinnacle of success is defined by their ability to help others find the servant leader in them. As Gandhi once stated, "A sign of a good leader is not how many followers you have, but how many leaders you create." 
 
Like Gandhi, the leaders that we revere enact real change, are less concerned with elevating themselves, and are more concerned with making a real difference in the quality of life around them. Before all else, they serve tirelessly in their roles and realize the value of inspiring others along the way. In a managerial role, servant leaders build relationships with their employees to foster a safe space for growth, and their desire to serve goes beyond seeking recognition. They encourage productivity and the success of their colleagues while understanding the larger vision of the organization. In order to have the greatest impact, it's not enough to just guide the individual; we must go a step further and awaken the servant leader that is dormant in others. 
 
One myth of leadership is that leaders who don't take a strong stance of authority will be taken advantage of. On the contrary; servant leaders treat people with respect and encourage an environment conducive to loyalty and emotional engagement while focusing on the well-being of others. Servant leaders motivate their employees to grow by being a mentor and coach rather than carrying a big stick and demanding results with intimidation and fear. Some of the toughest leaders I've worked with challenged me to be better each day without the use of menacing behavior. Instead of micromanaging, they showed me my errors and simultaneously encouraged me to work harder. Like a parent guiding a child, they always had my best interest in mind. In return, I found myself going above and beyond in order to help make them and our team successful.
 
Reality Check
Below is an account of the impact a leader can have on an employee and the ripple effect that servant leadership can have.
 
"Keith was the best boss I've ever had. He was a servant leader. Rather than using his power as my employer to treat me as his inferior, he went out of his way to serve and lead me in a way that built our relationship on trust and mutual respect. We had weekly one-on-one meetings to make sure we were communicating clearly on projects, that I felt comfortable in my role, and to address any questions we had for each other. At the end of each meeting, he'd ask, "What can I do for you?" Though I rarely had a request for him, his humility in asking this question made me feel like a valued partner in our workplace. By serving well in his role and sincerely caring about my success and well-being, I grew to respect him as my boss and also as an individual. 
 
"It didn't take long for me to feel intensely loyal to both my boss and my team because his servant leadership created such a healthy work culture. Working for someone like Keith made me want to do my job well out of loyalty and respect to my superior rather than from a place where I feared failure and reprimand. This created space for me to learn and grow in my role without being afraid to take risks or be misunderstood.
 
"In my role as a manager, I have been intentional about serving my team of associates in this manner. I take one-on-one time with them to understand their gifts, frustrations, and to appreciate their personalities so I can understand how to serve them better. I have worked to show them that I am available to serve them, but I've also sought to empower them to be self-starters, letting them know that there is room to grow and grace for their mistakes." 
- Anonymous, Non-Profit Manager
 
No matter the role or organization you serve, the time to begin practicing your leadership skills is now. You don't have to have supervisory responsibilities to begin making this a habit. If you are seeking to become a successful leader, you must intentionally practice these behaviors and develop your style over time. 










Habit #7: Be a professional learner
The desire to continue learning is necessary for growth and success. In recent decades, having a college degree has become the norm in the workplace. While commendable and necessary, a college degree alone will not set you apart from your peers. Our world is always changing, circumstances are always shifting, and it is crucial to take an active role in the continuation of your education. 
 
This looks different for everyone—some may choose to obtain advanced degrees, while others may choose to take a foreign language course or certificate specific boot camp. Others may commit to listening to educational audio books. Let me pause here to stress the importance of this last point. I highly recommend you turn off your radio and turn your car into a rolling university. I spend about an hour a day in the car commuting to and from work 5 days a week. Subtracting holidays and vacation that is about 230 hours a year of education during your driving time. If you have a longer commute, you'll benefit that much more. What's important is not the method you choose to continue your learning; it's that you continue to stimulate your intellectual curiosity in a way that keeps you focused and inspired. 
 
This is a habit that applies to both the freshly minted associate and the seasoned executive. With the exception to a few outliers, history has proven time and again that the young associate will not become the seasoned executive without this habit. Consider this quote from Harry S. Truman, "Not all readers are leaders, but all leaders are readers." It is difficult to remain relevant in your field if you are unaware or uninformed of what your competition is doing and what innovative changes are happening in your industry. Additionally, being well-rounded in your knowledge on various topics can increase your value in the marketplace, especially for those who are striving to become subject matter experts in their field. 
 
Reality Check
I have come across many amazing people in my life that have modeled this habit. One in particular was Jack. As our most senior technical engineer, Jack was the guy that everyone went to when they had a question on just about any subject. He could speak to you about art, culinary options, politics, travel, business, or any other subject you'd care to discuss. He was truly the most interesting man.
 
I asked Jack why he knew so much and how he learned everything he knew. He said when he was little, he idolized his grandfather, who would sit down with him and talk about everything under the sun. One day, Jack asked his grandfather a very similar question, "Grandpa, how do you know so much?" Knowing this was a teachable moment, Jack's grandfather told him that if he set a goal to learn just one new thing every day, he'd know everything in the world. Being young and impressionable, Jack did just that. 
 
He started learning one new thing every day and created a habit that carried on into his adult life. However, he also told me that along the way he learned that if he would become an expert in just one or two areas, his value in the market place would significantly increase. Not only was Jack the most senior engineer, but he was also the highest paid engineer in the company and served as an advisor to the executive leaders.
 
My belief is this: Become a jack of all trades and master of two. What this means is, learn as much as you can in as many areas as you can, but, focus your attention on two areas where you are the subject matter expert. If you are not sure where to focus your attention, consider what you do each day that excites you. Exploring different areas will give you other perspectives, and you will learn that you can apply them to your areas of expertise, even if they are not closely related.










Habit #8: Exercise
I am sure most of you reading this book know how important the habit of exercise is, but let me give you something more substantial than just telling you to get up and move around. Everybody knows how important exercise is, but according to the Center for Disease Control, more than one-third of U.S. adults are obese. I struggled with putting this habit in here because I know there are thousands of websites and books out there that talk about a specific type of exercise program or the latest diet.  I will not reinvent the wheel in this chapter and will instead talk with you about goal setting and success in terms of exercise.
 
The focus of this habit boils down to two points. First, if you are going to start becoming more productive and do what it takes to succeed, you are going to need the energy required to keep up with the work needed to reach your goals. Exercise is key to increasing your energy levels and giving you the stamina to endure a rigorous schedule. Second, there will be times during your journey when you will be pushed to your limits. This can and will cause stress. You need to have a way to release this stress before it affects your health and those around you. Studies have shown that exercise leads to better brain function and stress management. Do yourself a favor and create an exercise routine that allows you to blow off steam. You will have a clearer mind, and those around you will thank you for it.
 
Reality Check
It was September 2014, and I was in the middle of a project and dealing with an incredible amount of stress. On top of it, I had gotten so busy over the past several years that I had gained a significant amount of weight. My energy was low, stress was high, and I walked around most days in a fog. I kept thinking, "How did I let myself get to this point? I know what it takes to succeed, be healthy, and have a positive attitude. What is wrong with me?"
 
All of this came to a head one Saturday morning. I was doing some work and started to have problems breathing and was feeling nauseous. I had no idea what was happening. Then, I started to get violently ill. Hearing me from the other room, my wife came running into the bathroom and saw I was as pale as a sheet. She said, "I'm taking you to the emergency room!" 
 
Stubbornly, I said "No, I'll be fine." The truth was I wasn't fine. In fact, I was just the opposite. I was scared. I literally thought it was the end. I heard this voice inside my head say, If you don't change something you will not make it another five years. That incident woke me up and affirmed what I had known all along—something needed to change. No longer was I going do what I felt. Instead, I was going to do all that I knew it would take to be healthy. I made a plan to relieve the stress and gain the energy I needed.
 
The following Thursday, I attended an early morning men's bible study. There I met Chris. He was positive and full of energy. I asked him what his secret was and he told me about a 24-day challenge he was doing. Figuring I had nothing to lose, I tried it. I started exercising, and within 10 days I started noticing changes. My clothes were fitting a little better, I had more energy, and my stress level was going down. By March of 2015, I had lost twenty-three pounds, had more energy than I'd had in years, and significantly more mental focus. Creative ideas started popping up in my head and clearer than they had in the past. This is when the dream I once had of writing a book became an action plan, and the idea for this book was born. Getting on a regular exercise program was the catalyst to an idea that has now grown into a mission I call #flight4success.










Habit #9: Protect your thoughts
Your mind is your most valuable asset. How you think and what your inner voice is telling you will have a profound effect on your decisions and actions. To be double minded is to, "be wavering or undecided in mind." In order to reach your goals, you will need to focus your mind in a specific direction and control your thoughts. Habits 1, 5, and 7 will help you do just that. You will need to get intentional about what you want and what it will take for you to get what you want. 
 
What does it mean to be intentional? It means you are deliberate in your thoughts and actions. In Habit 5, you learned about doing what you know and not what you feel. This is part of being intentional—setting a goal, making a choice to do something, and acting on it without wavering. Habit 7 taught you to be a professional learner. The books you read or listen to and the speakers you learn from shape your thought process. You have the choice to influence how you think. You are in control. You will see this point in this section's Reality Check.
 
Finally, Habit 1 talked about surrounding yourself with like-minded people. As I mentioned before, those you spend time with have an influence on how you think. Doesn't it make sense to be around people who build you up and are positive instead of being around those who are always seeing the negative side of life or telling you things like, "Why do you want to do that? You don't have the experience.", "Why do you work so hard?", or "You're too young or too old for that." How you think and what you say to yourself shapes and controls your actions, so please, protect those precious thoughts of yours.
 
Reality Check
During my career, I've had a few different positions, including one as a Dean for a small technical college. I was able to speak to hundreds of students from all walks of life, and I learned so much from them. One student in particular impressed me. Her name was Annie. On the outside, Annie looked like she had her life together. She was always smiling, had straight A's, and would often tutor her classmates. One day, Annie came to see me about her class schedule and we got to talking about her life and her goals. I said to her, "Annie, you have so much going for you. You have perfect grades, you are always happy and smiling, and I always see you helping others. How do you do it?"  
 
She told me something that I had read before, but the words didn't resonate until that day. She said, "I decide every morning that I am going to succeed today. I decide how I'm going to think and how I'm going to react to situations and people around me. You see when I was six, my dad died, and it was just me and my mom. She didn't go to college and couldn't really get a job that made a lot of money, and because of that she worked three jobs to support us. She is my hero, and I decided when I was a junior in high school that I was going to do whatever it takes to be able to provide for her when she gets older. I started to read books and learned how our thoughts shape our future. A book I read told me to wake up each day and decide how my day was going to look by writing it down and expecting things to happen. At the beginning it didn't go so well but, the more I did this the better I got at it, and I started to see positive outcomes. Now, it's just become a habit. I get up, I visualize how my day will be, and I take the necessary action." 
 
Needless to say, I was blown away by the wisdom Annie had at such a young age. What I learned from Annie is that all of us have a champion within us. I lost touch with Annie after I left the college, but I am certain she is succeeding in whatever she has set her mind to do.
You live in an age where everything you need to learn to succeed is easily accessible. You have to make the choice to move in the direction of success. My friend, you were born with the ability to think and achieve anything you want. Protect your thoughts, focus your thoughts, and take action.










Habit #10: Take action
While creating and learning good habits are essential to your success, without the habit of action it's all theory. Getting into the habit of taking action is a crucial component to achieving what you want in any area. There are a multitude of reasons why people don't take action, but most often it's because of fear. We make excuses, justify our inability to take action, and even blame others. At the end of the day, our fears hold us back from achieving what we want. This is probably the easiest habit to execute in concept, but in reality it is the most difficult because of fear. For many of us, fear is a debilitating emotion that holds us back from doing what we were meant to do. I wish I had magic formula for taking action. The simple fact is, you have to go out there and do it. Work through the fear. The more you take action, the better you will get at making this a habit.  
 
Reality Check
The habits you have learned in this book are those I have personally used and have coached others to create. For the better part of the last 15 years, I've thought about writing a book to share my experiences and what I've learned from others throughout my career. I knew exactly what I wanted to say and who I wanted to share this information with, so I spent a lot of time writing this book in my head. Nothing was put on paper, and ideas just swirled around in my thoughts. I had been coaching people on these habits, so at least I was able to share with some. I knew I could make a greater impact by writing a book on the subject, but I was missing one habit that would take the words out of my head and onto paper—action. As you read earlier, by March of 2015 I was in the habit of regular exercise and was feeling great with my weight loss. Renewed energy started to bring forth new ideas and ambition about writing this book. All I had to do was take action. 
 
I knew nothing about writing and publishing a book, so I did what I've always done and researched it. After a month of research, I had learned a lot, but still no book was started. What was I waiting for? 
 
I realized it was nothing more than fear that was keeping me from taking action. I wasn't doing what I knew, I was doing what I felt—fear. I thought, Will people want to hear what I have to say? Will it be of value to them? What if they don't like it? 
 
I remembered a book I read several years ago called Feel the Fear and Do It Anyway by Susan Jeffers, PhD. I highly recommend you read this in order to further clarify the role fear plays in our successes and failures. In this book, Dr. Jeffers writes, "The only way to get rid of the fear of doing something is to go out and do it." I have heard this phrase in my head for many years since reading that book. Sometimes I listened, and other times I didn't. I can tell you this, when I listened to this advice and took action, I created successful situations in my life and career.  
 
Realizing my fear and armed with the wisdom of Dr. Jeffers, I got up early the next morning and began to write. In my research, I learned that writers need to forget about being perfect and finishing the book in one sitting and just write. The writing process, as most anything you will do to succeed, is a journey that will breed confidence. Throughout your life, you will have fear and doubt. That is okay and very normal. I encourage you to work through the fear, because succeeding is not achieving through an absence of fear; it's working through the fear. Eventually, the fear will lessen and your confidence will grow. Now find something you've wanted to do and take action.










Putting It All Together
Several years ago, I used to race road bikes. I started by just wanting to get in shape, and at first I trained on my own. After a couple of months, I thought I was in pretty good shape. Growing up, I'd played several competitive sports. Competing seemed like a logical next step. I decided to join a racing team. 
 
What an eye opener! My first ride out with the team was a humbling experience.  The course we set out on had a slight incline, and I was doing well keeping up with them. My heart rate was a little high but manageable. I was feeling really good. Little did I know, for the rest of the team, it was just a stretch of their legs. After about a mile, someone jumped off the front and the race was on. Once a part of the group, I now saw them slowly disappear in the distance. 
 
What happened? I was in pretty good shape, but they just took off as though I was standing still. Being a bit stubborn and knowing that most of the team was at a higher race level than me, I shrugged it off and enjoyed the rest of my ride that day. I was excited about my first race, which was just a few days away. 
 
Saturday morning, I woke up early and was so excited. I did everything right. I had checked my bike the night before and made sure everything was in the best working order. I had established a pre-race routine which included carb-loading the night before and good pre-race meal. I arrived early as officials and volunteers were setting up the course and started my warm up. Being a Cat 5 (beginner) racer, my race was the first one up. The announcer came over the bullhorn to inform racers to line up for the first race. My heart was racing, and I was so excited to start. I positioned myself about mid-way in the pack of riders so I could conserve some energy by utilizing the drafting technique I had learned.
 
Riders ready! Set! And then, the start gun went off!
 
If I thought the ride the previous day was fast, it was nothing compared to what I was about to experience. My mid-pack position quickly turned to back of the pack to falling off the back of the pack. Within a quarter of a mile, the riders were gone. Once again, I was riding alone. Huffing and puffing, I tried to claw my way back to the pack, to no avail. The bike race was a Criterium, which meant we were racing on an oval course about a mile long for about 50 minutes.   
 
Still trying to catch up, I started to hear an odd sound. It sounded like a swarm of bees. The sound grew louder. I looked behind me and saw the group of 30 or so racers coming at me. I remembered reading that I should move to the far left to let the group pass. I never thought I would ever get lapped, but alas, I did—3 times! Yes, I was passed by the same group 3 times in one race. Needless to say, I felt a bit defeated. 
 
After the race, I was talking to one of my teammates. He told me about periodization. Since I had no idea what that was, I did some research and decided to get a coach to help me. While I never became a star racer, I learned a lot and I was eventually able to at least keep up with the pack.
 
So what is periodization, and how can you apply it to the creation of your habits? Periodization is a strategy used by many top athletes to incrementally build strength over time on their way to achieving peak performance for a given competition. Relating this to the cycling story above, I started periodization training by building my base. I started by riding short distances at a low intensity. Gradually, over the course of about 8 weeks, I slowly increased my mileage but kept my intensity low. What I was doing was giving my body a chance to build muscle, flexibility, and endurance without adding stress. The next 4-week phase built strength. I slightly increased my mileage and slowly increased my intensity. The added stress on my body increased my muscle strength while continuing to increase my endurance. 
 
The next phase created power. Over the following 4 weeks, I incorporated sprints into my workouts to engage the fast twitch muscles needed at the start of a race and during times when the race would speed up. The final phase before competition focused on becoming race ready. This meant that my workouts were shorter in length but higher in intensity. As usual, I started slow and gradually increase the intensity over the next 8 weeks. I entered a few races in order to practice for the race I was shooting for. 
 
At the conclusion of this phase, I was almost ready for my race. In the week leading up to the race, I tapered down my workouts in order to give my body a chance to recover while I fueled my body the necessary carbs and proteins. Once the race was done, I rested for a week. This meant no workouts or just some light riding. From there, I started the process over again for the next race. Periodization can be applied to your business and life in the very same manner it is used for sports. Let me show you how.
 
Start by focusing on a 90-day period. Pick any two habits you just learned about; one of them needs to be the habit of taking action. I'll use do more than what's expected as an example. For the first 30 days, pick one area of your life where you can do more than what's expected and take the action to do that. This can't be something you do when it's convenient. You need to take the action whenever possible in just this one area. When you hit the 30-day mark, you will notice this has started to become part of your way of thinking and acting in that one area. For the next 30 days, add another area where you can go above and beyond, making sure to continue doing what you did the first 30 days. The final month, do the same thing and add a third item. Over time, it will become automatic for you to start thinking in a way that you are seeking out how you can do more than what's expected rather than just doing what is required. As time goes by, add more habits to your repertoire. This takes practice and time, so be patient with yourself. As you progress, apply the same method to each habit.
 
Some of you will already have some of the habits listed, but I encourage you to strengthen and improve upon those as you are working on the new habits. Don't expect to be perfect at all 10 habits right away. Building and maintaining these habits is a life long journey. In the process, you will discover new habits that will take you to that next level. Continue to learn and grow and you will become the person you were meant to be.










Conclusion
Now that you have learned about these 10 habits and how they can be applied in the real world, the choice is yours to create them. If this is all new to you, start slow and gradually add more as you gain knowledge and confidence. Understand that you will either have these habits or, by default, their counter parts. If you are not intentionally pursuing the creation of a good or healthy habit, you will be creating the opposite habit. In the words of my favorite poet, Neil Peart, "If you choose not to decide, you still have made a choice." Again, the choice is yours to create what you need to succeed in life. 
 
If this book was helpful to you, please take a moment to leave a review on Amazon. The link will take you directly to this book's page to make reviewing easy for you. Also, please take a moment to subscribe to the FLIGHT Crew at www.flight4success.com for the latest updates, insights, and new book samples from my next book Focus: Get 8 Hours Of Work Done In 2. You can also follow me on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram.
I wish you all the success you desire. 
Keep Reaching For New Heights!
Bryan
 
 
















