



 
Happy Like a Greek
Fill Your Life with Joy, the Mediterranean Way
By 
Karen Guttridge
 







Text copyright © 2016 Karen Guttridge
The author reserves all rights. No part of this ebook may be used or reproduced in any manner without written permission except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews.
While all attempts have been made to verify the information provided in this publication, neither the author nor the publisher assumes any responsibilities for errors, omissions or contrary interpretations of the subject matter therein.
This book is for entertainment purposes only. The views expressed are those of the author alone and should not be taken as expert instruction or commands. The ideas and suggestions herein are provided as general information only and should not be construed as medical advice or care. Please consult your doctor or other health professional to determine what's best for you.
The reader is responsible for his or her own actions.
 
 







Table of contents
Eat Mediterranean
Eat Mindfully
Honour the Lunch Hour..s!
It's All About the Simple Things
Stop and Smell the Roses
How Much Money Do You Need To Be Happy?
Stay Connected
Connect to Community
Focus on Family
Help Others
Help Your Neighbours and Trade Favours
Be Curious
What is Curiosity?
Why Does Being Curious Make Us Happier?
How to Develop Curiosity
One Mediterranean Month - 30 tips to boost your happiness
About the Author

 







What do you want most in life? Ask any number of people and I'll wager that the most common answer will be "to be happy."
If you think about it, you seek happiness in everything you do. Whether you strive for success at work, more money, a new relationship, the latest phone, car or whatever, you want these things because you believe that they will make you happy. And some of them do, especially relationships. 
But, more often than not, this behaviour gets you into trouble. By chasing happiness you end up in a race for more and better and faster. Happiness is always 'just around the corner'. After every spending spree your spike of happiness fades faster than a fake tan.
You can't work out why you're feeling so stressed and empty when you have everything you could possibly want.
You're missing the point.
There is your way. And there is the Greek way.
There's only one way to be happy. 
Happiness is when your life fulfils your needs.
But that begs the question "What are my needs? How can I find out what they are?"
This book will help you to find out.
'Everyone chases after happiness, not noticing that happiness is right at their heels.' 
-Bertolt Brecht
Many behaviours that make up the Mediterranean lifestyle contribute to the long, healthy lives of the people but you don't need to move there to profit from it.
Go fully Mediterranean with my complete 'Like a Greek' series:
Eat Like a Greek
Happy Like a Greek 
Happy Like an Ancient Greek
De-stress Like a Greek
 
 







 
 
Eat Mediterranean
 







Is it possible that what we eat can affect not only our physical health, but our levels of happiness too?
There is growing evidence that it can. A survey by the Food and Mood project, led by the mental health charity Mind, discovered that nearly 90% of people who took part found that changing their diet improved their mental health. Participants who cut out fast food and fizzy drinks - generally junk food - and followed a Mediterranean diet rich in fresh fruit and vegetables plus beans, nuts and olive oil reported feeling happier.
In 1999, a group of doctors started looking into the effect of the Mediterranean diet on heart disease, diabetes and cancer in a group of 15,000 people. Uniquely, they also monitored their mental health.
The results suggested that the diet could prevent the occurrence of depression.
Charles Reynolds at the University of Pittsburgh found similar results. 
He was interested in whether a course of psychotherapy could help to prevent the development of future mental health problems. He ran his study with a group of people who exhibited various risk factors known to be linked to the development of depression. Half the group received psychotherapy whilst the remaining participants received instructions on healthy eating.
Two years later the results came in. The people undergoing the psychotherapy had a reduced risk of developing depression but so had the healthy eating group who also reported feeling generally 'happier'.
Looking after ourselves by paying attention to our nutrition in this way could be part of the reason for the reported boost in feelings. 
"Preparing more healthy meals is, in itself, a rewarding experience that boosts self-confidence," Dr Reynolds observed. "You might then believe that you can cope with other difficulties and respond adequately."
But - whatever the reason - and although the link is by no means proven and more study is needed, it does appear that regular consumption of a Mediterranean-style diet seems to markedly improve our mood. There is room for cautious optimism.
Many scientists believe it's all to do with inflammation.
The first thing to realise is that, far from being the big baddie, inflammation is essential in order for the body to be able to heal itself. When your body detects injury or something harmful or irritating, it will spring into action and try to remove the disturbance. An army of cells stream to the site of harm and 'attack' the potential invader.
Imagine you've just been bitten by an insect. Your body will sense the irritation and send in the troops in the form of a stream of white blood cells which act to limit the spread of any foreign material. The area swells with the accumulation of these cells and also reddens with the increased flow of blood. This is what we call inflammation. Generally it is short lived or acute and after a few days the symptoms subside and all is well.
Thus, inflammation is not infection itself but your body's response to infection.
By contrast, long term or chronic inflammation is a different story. As the name suggests, it never turns off. The white blood cells are scooting around acting everywhere, as though your entire body is in urgent need of repair. This type of inflammation has been linked to a whole host of conditions such as heart disease, arthritis and cancer.
Chronic inflammation has been linked to our diet.
Harvard Medical School's Family Health Guide states that "what you eat can fuel or cool inflammation".
We are discovering that overly processed foods which are high in sugar and saturated fat can spur inflammation. This has led to the labelling of such foods as 'pro' inflammatory. By contrast, 'anti' inflammatory foods do not provoke the unwanted response. 
Dr Cannon, Harvard Professor of Medicine says that the ideal anti-inflammatory diet is "probably very close to the Mediterranean diet."
 







Eat Mindfully
 
I was nineteen years old and on holiday in Greece when a snail headed my way skewered on the end of the long, curved fingernail of yiayia (grandmother) Maria.
I recoiled in horror. The old lady hooted with laughter and, not to be deterred, tried me for size with a fat, juicy olive instead. Delivered fingernail style. 
Then, to my eternal relief she pushed the tiny bowl of glistening olives that lay on the table between us, over towards me.
I took an olive. I understood that there was to be a lesson here so I watched and learnt.
Maria lifted the olive, still fingernail-spiked, towards her mouth and nibbled mouse-like at its tip. I followed suit. And waited. Again she took a few more tiny pecks of the fruit and we continued taking turns in this way until our olives were no more.
Maria grinned and smacked her lips in satisfaction.
I didn't know it then, but it was my first experience of mindful eating.
 
Mindless Eating
I'm sure you can relate to having eaten a plate of food and not really tasted any of it. Not, in fact, even noticed that you were 'picking' away. We live fast and eat fast. 
I once observed a colleague at work in front of her computer. She had a glass bowl on her desk into which she'd tipped a large bag of mixed nuts and raisins. Throughout the morning she picked constantly at the contents of the bowl. Every time she used the computer mouse she popped a snack into her mouth. Click, crunch. Click, crunch.
At midday she scooped the jacket from the back of her chair and headed for the door. "Great - lunch!" She declared. "Haven't eaten a thing since last night."
If you find that most of your meals are usually rushed, taken on the go or eaten mindlessly in front of a screen then it's well worth trying a different approach; one which allows you to experience the full pleasure of food; the taste, the smell and the sensation of every bite. 
In order to tap into this pleasure you'll need to slow down and pay attention. Even if you can only manage it once a day. 
When I was writing this chapter I suddenly realised that I was typing away with one hand and... eating a slice of peanut butter and banana toast with the other! I've been experimenting with mindful eating for the past year and the practice has done wonders for me but it seems I have to stay vigilant! As soon as I realised what I was doing I saved the document and took my snack outside into the sunshine. I noticed three things. 
Firstly, I'd eaten half my toast but couldn't actually recall doing so.
Secondly, I couldn't recall having tasted my snack.
Thirdly, the only evidence I had that I'd been eating was a slight 'heaviness' in my stomach. I wasn't yet full, but I knew I'd been eating something.
This is how I went on to finish my snack and what eating mindfully means to me: 
I paused first to look at the food on my plate. This created a feeling of anticipation for what was to come. Then, I lifted the toast and put it to the smell test. The components of my snack - toast, peanut butter and banana - are all foods which carry a fairly powerful aroma. By now I was eager to dig in and take a bite.
I didn't though. Not yet.
There is one more stage to my mindful eating; if possible, I take a tiny amount of each ingredient with a fork and taste them separately, taking note of the textures too.
After looking at my food before beginning and then taking the time to smell I'm always astonished by the incredible flavours that come through in my tiny taste test.
Here, I had the soft, sweet banana, the rich peanut butter with its mix of creaminess and crunchiness and the combined crispiness and inner doughiness of the toasted base.
Once I take the first proper bite, which in this case involved sinking my teeth through all three components together, it may sound faintly ridiculous but I'm almost excited by the food. I'm stirred. A tiny, buzzing thrill.
All that remained was to focus fully on the food, on the eating process and to chew thoroughly and slowly. This is the only way to stay completely in tune with my body and experience the signals of having eaten enough. If I bring in any distractions such as checking my phone, watching TV or reading the newspaper, then I'll mindlessly carry on eating until the food has all gone. Every time. 
Food for thought...
The thing is ... mindful eating forces us to pay full attention to the present moment, to tune into our immediate senses, thoughts and feelings. It allows us to relax and experience the pleasure of the moment. A tiny pocket of joy.
Appreciating these little bursts of happy pockets throughout the day is guaranteed to make you feel better.
It's a simple skill but it does take a bit of practice and may be hard at first. Especially if you try to eat every meal in this way. 
I manage to eat mindfully perhaps 3-4 times a week. It's not ideal but I know that I would be putting myself under pressure (not adding to my happiness!) if I attempted to do more. As it is, I enjoy and look forward to my few mindful meals and isn't that what it's all about?
 
Jon Zabat Kinn, founder of the Center for Mindfulness in Medicine has an ingenious way for you to experience eating mindfully at its deepest level. 
It involves just a single raisin.
The Raisin Meditation
Take a single raisin and place it in the palm of your hand.
With your eyes, examine the raisin carefully. What do you see? Take in the shape, the size, the colour, the wrinkled ridges. 
Move the raisin between your fingers. How does it feel? Soft? Warm? Sticky?
Lift the raisin towards your nose and smell it. It's at this point that you may start to feel a little anticipation building; you realise perhaps that you're looking forward to eating the raisin.
Now place the raisin in your mouth and let it rest, lying still on your tongue. For the moment, resist any urge to chew.
Begin to explore the raisin with your tongue. Notice what happens to your taste sensations. 
Bite very gently into the raisin. Notice taste. Notice texture. Take another bite and stop. Hold the released flavours in your mouth. How would you describe the flavour? Are you surprised by the intensity? 
When you are ready, resume chewing as slowly as possible before finally swallowing the raisin.
Repeat this exercise daily for at least a week. Mindfulness is a skill which gets easier with practice.
And try the opposite for comparison! Toss a raisin into your mouth and eat it as you've always done. Gone in a flash. In fact, I'll wager that you've never eaten a single raisin before -only handfuls! What a difference...
Jon Kabat Zinn says, "When we taste with attention, even the simplest foods provide a universe of sensory experience, awakening us to them."
I sometimes do the raisin test with a Cadbury's chocolate button, as a quick reminder to myself that I can be satisfied with less.
I pop a button in my mouth and eat it as normal which means it's gone in a flash and there I am reaching for another one.
I take another button and this time I let it melt in my mouth for as long as I can. No chewing; just slowly melting. The flavour is so much stronger, the sensation creamier. It's so satisfying. 
Try it yourself. You will see how it takes less food to get you to that psychological satisfaction level.
If you're anything like me, if a task appears too difficult, then you're unlikely to see it through. So instead of putting pressure on yourself to eat all your meals mindfully, at first just choose one meal a week or every few days, whatever you feel you can manage. 
How about serving your mindful meal on special dishes? Perhaps it's time to drag out some of that crockery you save for 'best'. Treat it as a special occasion, to celebrate the taste of food!
This may seem obvious but - sit down. If fact, why not incorporate that one completely and from now on only ever eat anything if you're seated? That goes for everything.
And, of course, no television, no computer, no mobile phone...
Once seated before your food, remember to look and smell before tasting.
Put your knife and fork down between bites to begin retraining yourself how to slow down while you eat. 
You are remembering to chew very slowly, aren't you? 







Honour the Lunch Hour..s!
 
To the Greeks, lunch is sacred.
In my book Eat Like a Greek I describe the traditional Greek practice of taking a long lunch break. In the Mediterranean, eating at your desk or snacking on the run is relatively unheard of.
When I was a late teenager, I once stayed with a family in Athens for a few weeks. They would all leave for work early in the morning but head back home around 1pm for a family lunch. And it wasn't just a sandwich. There was salad, roasted chicken and potatoes, lots of greens and maybe some fish, often octopus. There was a little wine.
Sometimes, the food had been prepared the night before or occasionally mother or grandma was around in the morning to get the meal going. 
It was a chaotic, noisy, laughter-filled affair often followed by a snooze before returning to the office a couple of hours later.
To be honest, I thought it was a little lazy, a little overindulgent and unhealthy. I now realise it was the exact opposite.
Later in the afternoon they'd go back to the office or factory and work until about 7 or 8 p.m.
Aside from boosting your work capacity for the rest of the afternoon, this break in the day can also affect how you feel for a long time afterwards.
You may not have much control over the length or timing of your company's allocated lunch breaks but if you want to boost your happiness then you can (and must!) decide how you spend that time.
 
Lunch Long Like a Greek
Try to ensure you do at least one of the following suggestions:
 - Move away from your desk or work space. Stretch, take a few deep breaths, roll a few muscles and relax. Even better, go outside into the fresh air. 
 - Socialise. Don't spend your lunch breaks alone. Arrange to meet a friend for lunch occasionally. It will set you up for the afternoon. 
 - Eat! Go regularly to your favourite lunch haunts. Order and enjoy beautiful food.
 - Take a real break from work and screens. Ideally, avoid checking your e-mails or messages.
 - If you have time for a walk as well then so much the better. Fresh air gives a boost to body, mind and soul.
Relax, refuel, refresh.
 
 







 
 
It's All About the Simple Things
 







Stop and Smell the Roses 
 
'Enjoy the little things, for one day you make look back and realize they were the big things.' ~Robert Brault
It can be easy to rush through life without stopping to notice much.
My quest to adopt the Mediterranean lifestyle often threw up challenges. One question I'd been mulling over was: "Do I take time to stop and enjoy the simple things around me?"
After spending my first six months here, I thought I did.
One morning, I went for my usual jog around the banana plantations. I was listening to a meditative piece through my earphones and making an effort to look with fresh eyes at the sights I now knew so well; the huge, waxy leaves of the banana trees, the tiny buds forming on the silvery olive trees, the flat, blue sea glistening beyond. If you'd asked me, I'd have replied "Yes, definitely! I'm noticing, I'm looking!" 
As I rounded a corner, a chap sitting on a rock beckoned me towards him. He didn't say a word but I followed his finger as he pointed upwards, above my head. There, sitting on a telephone wire, was the most gloriously coloured bird, a bee eater. 
"Is beautiful," the chap said, gazing at the creature. 
Yes, it was. And I nearly missed it. I obviously wasn't half as good at paying attention as I thought I was. 
A similar thing happened a few months later which resulted in me discarding my earphones on my runs for good. 
Again, it took the efforts of a kindly chap who urged me to stop and raised a finger to his lips - "Shh." 
I pulled out my earphones and listened. I strained to hear a sound. I waited. 'Cuckoo... cuckoo...'
 
Appreciation is such a simple thing, yet so easy to overlook. We get so wrapped up in daily doing and rushing through tasks as quickly as possible that we become blind to the world around us. Our senses become dulled. We miss so much.
Stop whatever you're doing right now and - wherever you are - just look. What can you see? Really see? Look closely, at the tiny details. Notice scents and sounds. Stay with the feeling. 
Spend a few minutes with this exercise and I almost guarantee that you'll feel a tiny tingle of pleasure, of contentment. Get into the habit of regularly 'appreciating' like this and all those feel good moments will give you a positive boost both mentally and physically.
I make a point of practising this sort of focused attention when I'm out on one of my regular hikes. I'll look closely at a single flower, a tree, a pebble. It's about savouring the beauty around me and almost letting it soak down into my body.
I'm sitting at my computer in a UK library right now. I look up and there is the dark, leaden sky through the window. I can hear the murmur of voices of the folk in the room. 
Not much to appreciate there, you may think. But wait...
There's a big cloud forming in the sky; it looks like a black sheep...no, a truck...but then...
A baby strapped into a pushchair is gazing my way as her mother searches through the books. I lift my notepad ready to play peek-a-boo. The baby is delighted.
For a few moments, I've dipped into a tiny pocket of happiness. 
The Greeks have taught me this: There is beauty and value and moments of meaning all around you, no matter how small or obscured they may be. 
The happiness researchers call it "Savouring." And - by all accounts - it makes us happier.
The key to effective savouring is focused attention. Take your time and use all your senses. 
You can do it anywhere, or even compare your experience of completely different environments such as a busy street and an open meadow.
 
Exercise - Appreciate the simple things
Make a list of 28 things that are simple pleasures for you.
For the next 2 weeks, choose an item from your list every morning and do it that day.
When you're immersed in each activity make sure you're truly appreciating each moment by using all your senses as I explained earlier.
Just do one thing at a time and don't hurry through it. Slow down and appreciate it.
Below is a list of some of my simple pleasures to get you going. Maybe you'll relate to a few of these and can add them to your own list. The important thing is only to choose activities that you personally find pleasurable.
The feeling of sand between my toes
Reading for an hour
A beautiful sunset or sunrise (or any beautiful view)
Walking in the rain and, rather than curling in against it, embracing it
Five minutes of deep breathing or meditating 
A picnic
Making eye contact and smiling at a stranger
Walking in a forest
Skinny Dipping 
The smell of lavender
The smell of orange blossom
The smell of fresh-cut grass
Relaxing outdoors on a sunny day 
Fresh, clean bed sheets
A glass of Champagne
A cold beer
An uncluttered room
Laying back and looking up at clouds
Watching the ocean
Getting a massage
Sinking into a hot bubble bath
A gentle breeze
Walking in fresh snow
Eating a square of dark chocolate
Wearing luxurious underwear
Receiving a hand-written letter (for which I also have to write one!)
 
"Be thankful," urge my Mediterranean friends. "We are breathing, seeing, eating, enjoying. Life is good."
 







How Much Money Do You Need To Be Happy?
 
Greek villagers are extraordinarily content with 'just enough'. Just enough food, clothing, furniture.
They are not wealthy folk. In terms of money, that is.
But they do exude a happiness that I just don't see that often any more. 
"Money doesn't buy happiness." It's an old adage that many of us like to quote but few of us really believe. Do you? Do you, really?
When I was younger I definitely didn't hold with that. I'd toil away all week with the aim of filling my purse for the weekend. Then, I'd hit the shops, eager for the buzz of buying, the thrill of the chase. The feeling never lasted, of course, but I kept on going; if only I could find that one purchase that would make me happy for longer. Properly happy.
I've long ago ditched the idea that money equates with happiness but it made me think - what's the link? How much money do we all actually need?
Research shows that to be happy we need enough income to meet our basic needs plus a little bit spare. For fun. More money than this has very little effect on increasing your happiness.
The pursuit of stuff is never going to make you happy.
The more money you spend, the more you have to earn and this is taking up the time you could be spending on the things that really matter to you.
My friend Jane downsized to cut her expenses. She sold her house and bought a flat, exchanged her car for a smaller, more economical one and ditched her credit cards. This meant that she could quit her job as a management consultant which - ironically - she was only doing so she could manage her outgoings. She's now retrained as a personal trainer, has a dramatically reduced income but says she's never been happier.
Can Money Ever Make Me Happier?
Happily, yes!
During the Ikarian study which focused on a group of Greek islanders and their astonishing longevity, it became apparent that in common with the rest of Greece they held many festivals and celebrations. For these, people would pool their money and buy food and wine. If there was money left over, they gave it to the poor. And here is the key.
Money can make you happier if you spend it on other people or on creating experiences with other people. So you'd be better off buying a surprise gift for a neighbour or booking a day out with friends than buying that new outfit.
 
 







 
 
Stay Connected
 







Connect to Community
 
Everyone thinks I'm an extrovert. I tend to be lively and chatty when I'm in a group and people describe me as outgoing. And in many ways I am. But that's not the definition of an extrovert, although if you ask a bunch of people, I bet that's what they'd say.
It's commonly thought that extroversion describes how outgoing someone is and that introversion is the same as being shy.
Not so.
Extroverts gain energy from being with other people. When they spend too much time alone, their energy dips.
Introverts recharge by spending time alone. Being around people for extended periods of time will drain their energy.
Do you get the urge at times to head off into the sunset and just be alone, to escape? I know I do. I need to recharge.  I find it mentally draining to be constantly connected to other people - too much interaction is exhausting. I crave my 'time out'. To me, spending time alone is as vital as air.
Time alone can definitely be good for us - but we do need to reconnect. 
Happiness researchers tell us that social connections are one key to happiness. This is because we were born with a basic instinct, a drive to connect with others. Way back, sticking together in a group increased our odds of survival. So we are social animals; thriving on good relationships with friends, family and people in general.
Long term solitude causes our stress levels to soar. 
People who spend lots of time alone will often foster these crucial connections by having a pet.
And who can forget Tom Hanks in Castaway? Tom gets stranded on a desert island after his plane crashes in the South Pacific and his unbearable enforced isolation sees him form a deep bond with a volleyball. He talks to the ball which he nicknames Wilson. In one scene he is distraught after losing the ball and screams out Wilson's name in despair at the loss of his 'pal' of four years.
It's only a movie but it carries an important message - relationships matter.
Tucked away below the church in my village is one of three kafeneio, all lying within spitting distance of each other. This is the Greek coffee house, a sparsely furnished and smoke-filled space where the menfolk gather every morning and evening without fail. 
It's a meeting place for card games, backgammon, Greek coffee, ouzo, raki and loudly expressed political and sports debates. Crucially, the men share their worries, personal problems and ideas with friends; it's their support network.
You may think such behaviour is outmoded, that there's no place for the Greek-style kafeneio in today's society. Whatever your thoughts, there's no denying the tremendous sense of support and community that the villagers receive.
The point I'm making is that we should strive to build our own networks, not through a male-only/single sex refuge but with a group of trusted family and friends with whom to share successes and failures, air our problems and bounce around ideas.
In the past, people stayed put more than they do today. When I was growing up I lived in the same house in the same town where everyone seemed to know everyone else. People were in and out of our back door all the time. My mother would take forever on a shopping trip not because she was determined to visit every store within sight as I do now but because she was chatting to friends and neighbours.
This is why we all love to indulge in a bit of old fashioned living and devour books on traditional village life in France, Italy and Greece where the commitment to family and community is so much greater than the ties to the workplace.
Although we can't turn back the clock, there are ways to connect with your community.
It starts with a decision to Get Involved.
Social events and gatherings are one obvious way to pull everybody together. These are held frequently in Greek villages where folk sing and dance the night away and feel a deep sense of connection.
Specific interest groups are another way to connect. People have always loved to join things and be part of like-minded groups.
In 1986, social psychologists McMillan & Chavis coined the term, 'Sense of Community'.
"Sense of community is a feeling that members have of belonging, a feeling that members matter to one another and to the group, and a shared faith that members' needs will be met through their commitment to be together". (McMillan, 1976).
They went on to describe the four factors that contribute to a sense of community.
The four factors are:
1.      Membership 
2.      Influence
3.      Integration and Fulfilment of Needs
4.      Shared Emotional Connection
Of all the groups that I've been part of, the ones that meet these 4 criteria have given me the most happiness and the ones I still go to.
Further on in this chapter I'll explain how I managed to squeeze these 4 factors into a running group I led.
There are two main ways to create a sense of community in your life:
Join an existing club or group
Start a new club or group
Give it a go. Visit your local leisure centre, library, community centre or search online and select one club or group that sparks your interest. Make the call, send the email and go to a meeting. If it turns out it's not for you then nothing is lost. Try another group. 
I am a group lover. Over the past few years I've joined walking groups, book clubs, sport's teams, nature groups and many more. I get enormous pleasure from these meet ups.
Start a new club or group
How about starting your own community? It may sound grand but it can be as simple as starting up a sewing group in your home one night a week.
Starting your own club requires some effort to keep everything running smoothly but can be hugely rewarding.
Several years ago, I started a running group for beginners. 
This is how I managed to incorporate the essential factors of membership, influence, integration and fulfilment of needs and shared emotional connection into my group:
Membership - do I 'fit in'?
Membership is the feeling of belonging or of having things in common. 
When I started my beginner's running group the obvious commonality was that, aside from myself, everyone was new to the sport. 
We decided to wear pink t shirts - it's amazing how that simple act united us. A uniform colour for our gang!
We also had a members only Facebook page where we could all meet up online and share stories, thoughts, triumphs, niggles and, of course, lots of photographs.
Influence - Members must feel as if they matter within the group
Each meeting we made sure to celebrate our successes, however small and every person got a mention. 
Each week one person choose the 'theme' of the run - one particular idea that was popular was to have what we called '3s' to mull over during our jog. Then we'd all reveal what we'd come up with later over coffee! It's important that these 3s are interesting questions and not problems.
These are some of the things we 'considered'...
What are your 3 favourite books and why?
Top 3 cities you'd like to visit
3 things we don't know about you...
Coffee talk was always super interesting!
Integration and fulfilment of needs - am I getting what I wanted out of this?
By joining a group a member has to get what they hoped to get by joining.
With my running group - I simply asked them. Each member received a mini questionnaire on joining. One of the questions was "The top 3 things I hope to achieve by joining this course are..."
Often, your group will solve a problem of some sort. For example, my runners wanted to tackle the various issues of getting fit, losing weight, finding a buddy to run with etc
What problems could your group solve?
Talk to your members, either directly or via email so you get to understand their dreams and needs.
Shared Emotional Connection
Group members love to build up a bank of shared experiences together. 
My running group members decided to raise a certain amount of money for a particular charity. Entering each event together and watching the coffers mount up created a real bond.
We also held seasonal events at Easter, Christmas and Halloween which again created a bank of fun memories.
What kinds of experiences can you come up with for the members of your group?
 
 







Focus on Family
 
For a Greek, family forms the basis of their whole social structure. Family members help each other through life's problems and may assist with finances and job seeking.
Older family members are respected and very much involved in day to day family life and decisions. 
As one Greek friend joked with me: "It's all the Ancient Greeks fault. If you didn't look after your parents in those days you were thrown in jail!"
The family effect is powerful enough to keep youngsters in check; I rarely see gangs of troublesome teenagers - I don't think they dare as any wrongdoing would bring dishonour to the entire family.
The villagers are big on family get-togethers which nearly always involve eating and drinking with lots of animated conversations followed by games and dancing. 
It a rare Greek who places work and career ahead of spending time with family.
Why work hard, strive for success and make lots of money if you don't take time to enjoy it?
I'm reminded of that story about the businessman and the Mexican fisherman. It was written by Heinrich Boll. There are a few variations of it going around.
It goes something like this...
An American investment banker was visiting a small, coastal Mexican village when a small boat with just one fisherman docked at the pier. Inside the boat were several large yellowfin tuna. The American complimented the Mexican on the quality of his fish and asked how long it took to catch them.
The Mexican replied, "only a little while". The American then asked why didn't he stay out longer and catch more fish? The Mexican said he had enough to support his family's immediate needs. The American then asked, "But what do you do with the rest of your time?"
The Mexican fisherman said, "I sleep late, fish a little, play with my children, take siestas with my wife, Maria, stroll into the village each evening where I sip wine, and play guitar with my amigos. I have a full and busy life." The American scoffed, "I am a Harvard MBA and could help you. You should spend more time fishing and with the proceeds, buy a bigger boat. With the proceeds from the bigger boat, you could buy several boats, eventually you would have a fleet of fishing boats. Instead of selling your catch to a middleman you would sell directly to the processor, eventually opening your own cannery. You would control the product, processing, and distribution. You would need to leave this small coastal fishing village and move to Mexico City, then LA and eventually New York City, where you will run your expanding enterprise."
The Mexican fisherman asked, "But, how long will this all take?"
To which the American replied, "15 - 20 years."
"But what then?" asked the Mexican.
The American laughed and said, "That's the best part. When the time is right you would sell your company stock to the public and become very rich, you would make millions!"
"Millions - then what?"
The American said, "Then you would retire. Move to a small coastal fishing village where you would sleep late, fish a little, play with your kids, take siestas with your wife, stroll to the village in the evenings where you could sip wine and play your guitar with your amigos."
 
How to have more family time
Every week, fortnight or month, depending on which best suits your family members, have a family meal. You can all take turns in hosting it and everyone can have a hand in preparing the meal. Put someone in charge of ensuring that the less mobile family members can get to the venue.
If, like me, your family members live quite some distance from each other - in different countries even - then your get-togethers may have to be much less frequent, but they can still happen.
Make it a regular occurrence; fix the dates in your diary so everyone can plan ahead and knows to keep the time free.
To encourage younger family members to join in, get the conversation going at the table with questions such as...
... Name one great thing that happened this week.
... If you had a whole month free to do as you wished, what would you do?
... What 3 things would you take to a desert island?
You'll probably find that it's not just the youngsters who have fun with this!
 
Sending cards/notes/writing letters
If you and your family do have distance between you, then sending notes, cards (for no reason other than to connect) is a great way to feel closer.
Emails, texts and social media are great but nothing beats the thrill of receiving a hand-written letter in the post. 
 







Help Others
 
We're often told that to make ourselves feel happier, we should help others.
And it seems that 100 hours per year is the magical number. 
That's 2 hours a week.
Studies suggest that if we volunteer for just 2 hours per week, this is enough to make us feel happy and fulfilled. Devoting less time is not as effective. Neither, surprisingly, is doing more; perhaps if we make too many demands on our time, we are more likely to become drained by the commitment rather than energised.
"...we scientists have found that doing a kindness produces the single most reliable momentary increase in well-being of any exercise we have tested" - Professor Martin Seligman, University of Pennsylvania.
Neuroscience research shows that when we do nice things for others, our brains light up in areas associated with pleasure and reward.
All well and good but how do we put it all into practice? Let's face it, helping others often seems like a huge task. 
The best volunteering opportunities are those that match your interests, passions and skills.
If you love baking, then making batches of cakes for charity fun days could work for you. My friend's father runs football sessions for youngsters in his area and when I lived in the UK my neighbour Sam used to go to the old folks home and give advice on using phones and computers.
My contribution involved the outdoors, as that's where I love to be. I led weekly Health Walks for seniors in a country park not far from my house. The more your volunteering efforts match your own interests, skills and causes you care about, the more you will enjoy the process.
One of the best set ups I've come across is the Green Gym concept in the UK. This gives people a way to enhance their fitness and health whilst at the same time improving the great outdoors. Participants are guided in practical activities such as planting trees, sowing meadows and establishing wildlife ponds. The emphasis is very much on health and fitness - volunteers warm up first and cool down after the work is done.
There are lots of easy ways to give your time to help others. 
 - Donate clothing, furniture, and other possessions to those in need. 
 - Enter charity bike rides, walks or 5K runs (or marathons and triathlons!)
Or volunteer to help at these events. They always need volunteers on the day of the event to man the registrations tables, water stations and more.
 - Volunteer at a soup kitchen or homeless shelter.
 - Be a literacy volunteer and teach adults to read.
Simply google 'volunteering + your area' to find databases of volunteering opportunities. I did a quick google search around the area I used to live. The search returned 50264 opportunities within 30 miles of my old house.
The Right Thing to Do
I want to mention philotimo (or filotimo) here. This hard to define Greek word literally means 'friend of honour'. It covers a host of positive traits such as respect, courage, hospitality and pride in community but what it all boils down to is 'doing the right thing' or 'doing good' and to gain more satisfaction from giving than from taking.
I love the definition that author Andreas Deffner came up with in his book Filotimo:
"Two or three positive thoughts, a litre of joy of life, 500 grams of hospitality, a whole ripe friendship, ten drops of helpfulness, a little pride, dignity and sense of duty".
The Greek Saint Paisios defined philotimo as "that deep-seated awareness in the heart that motivates the good that a person does". 
The message is: 'Embrace philotimo!'
In most situations, we know in our hearts what is the right thing to do.
 
 







Help Your Neighbours and Trade Favours
 
Trading is big in my village. Not just in the tiny row of shops but between households.
There is a Mediterranean saying which goes:
'One hand washes the other and together they wash the face'
The meaning is that people can achieve more if they help each other rather than going it alone (one hand).
Villagers often trade favours, not money. The carpenter fixes the mechanic's front door; the mechanic fixes the carpenter's car. The shepherdess brings mounds of creamy cheese to her neighbour; in exchange the neighbour shares her bakes, her wine, her lemons.
This strengthens relationships resulting in a happier neighbourhood for everyone.
When my friend Kathy moved into her village she was puzzled to find littles piles of fruit and vegetables on her doorstep some mornings. "I guess someone has left it for me?" she said. "But who? And where do I pay?" 
"It's how it works," I told her. "Everyone shares. If you have too many lemons, you pass them on. Same goes for a glut of tomatoes in your garden or anything you have that exceeds your needs." 
Costas gave me cuttings from his fig trees, with instructions on how to grow a strong set of roots ready for planting.
Last week as I wandered back home from a visit to the bakers, I spotted the old lady who lives in a tiny house on the outskirts of the village. She was brushing her step, the dust billowing onto her black dress and turning her tights and shoes a powdery grey.
On spotting me, she hastened inside her front door and emerged again almost immediately bearing two oranges and a pomegranate which she dropped into my shopping bag.
And recently I was out walking with friends when a chap working in the nearby plantation began snapping bananas off a tree. As we walked by he peeled down the skins and offered them our way. This really was food to go! 
And it happens all the time. 
Skirting an orchard a few weeks ago a voice issued from its depths. 'Ela! Ela!' Come! Come!'
A chap emerged from amongst the trees, his arms laden with juicy oranges which he thrust into our hands. He turned and rushed back into the orchard, only to re-emerge laden with yet more fruit. Oranges fell to the ground and rolled into the verges as we struggled to hold on to it all. 
'Efharisto, thank you,' we smiled and tried to move on. Our chap wasn't finished though and appeared for the third time, his arms sagging with yet another load of oranges. We stuffed them into every one of our pockets, inside shirts and even down trousers.
These small kindnesses are incredibly life enriching. They make the world a better place.
In fact, a whole movement has been created to try and encourage more of us to do this sort of thing.
We can help others via Random Acts of Kindness (RAKs) - acts of giving in some small way with no expectation of receiving anything back.  
It's a win/win situation. Your kindness benefits someone and you feel good for having helped out.
So where do you begin?
You don't have to make a big gesture to make a difference. Never underestimate the impact of a single, small act of kindness.
There are simply hundreds of things you could do. For ideas, search online for suggested RAK lists.
Here are some of my favourite RAKs, most of which I've done.
The first few involve putting pen to paper.
 - Whenever you see a pretty, amusing or otherwise appealing card in a shop - buy it. Collect them then select one every so often to send to someone with some thoughtful words. 
 - Send a handwritten thank you note to a person who has helped you. 
 - Write someone a letter. Not an email or a phone message but a real letter, on paper. 
 - Put sticky notes with uplifting quotes on the mirrors in restrooms.
 - Bring cakes (or a healthy treat, if you prefer) to work.
 - Leave your newspaper behind for someone else to read at the coffee shop, the doctor's office, or on transport. 
 - Go a step further and leave a copy of a book, with a note for the next reader, on the bus or the train. I actually found a £5 note inside a book at my local bookstore once. It had a note attached saying 'Buy yourself a book - enjoy!'
 - Buy an inspirational book for a friend.
 - For no particular reason, send flowers to a friend.
 - Play board games with senior citizens at a nursing home.
 - Put together a small herb garden for someone in a large glass bowl.
 - Make a meal for a neighbour, especially if they've been feeling under the weather or have just had a baby.
 - Smile at everyone. A lot.
 
 







Be Curious
 
'Curiosity is one of the great secrets of happiness'. Bryant H. McGill
Has it ever crossed your mind that the key to a richer life could lie simply in cultivating your curious nature? Me neither, until my Mediterranean experience.
In general, Greeks are exceptionally friendly and curious. 
At first, it can seem a little intrusive but take it as it's intended - as genuine interest.
One day last year, I made a trip into the mountains to visit a village famed for its lace. Wandering around the tiny streets, I was hailed by a portly, old man from the interior of his shady sitting room 'Ela! Come! Holidays? English?'
The old gent was perched on a stool made by local craftsmen, who fashion the legs from the thick stems of wild fennel plants; they look similar to chunky lengths of bamboo. His legs were splayed and both hands rested atop the walking cane planted vertically before him. I entered the cool room and he grabbed my arm in order to steady himself and hoist himself up. His wife sat silently in the corner working on a beautiful piece of lacework which tumbled down in folds around her feet.
'I live here,' I explained in my halting Greek.
'You live here? Good! Very good! Do you have children? Where are they? And your husband - where is he? What job do you do? How much money you earn here?'
According to Todd Kashdan, Professor of Psychology at George Mason University in Virginia, curiosity is one ingredient to a fulfilling life. Allowing ourselves to be led by our natural curiosity will enable us to be open to newness and change and thus more opportunities to discover the things that make us tick.
So, go on, ask yourself: I wonder...?
 
 







What is Curiosity?
 
Curiosity is a state of genuinely wanting to know more about something. Being curious about a subject, a person or a situation of some kind sets us on a voyage of discovery. 
When we are curious, we actively seek answers, information, skills or purpose in life. 
The key word here is 'actively'. You can be interested in lots of things, but what do you take an 'active interest' in? What do you actually DO something about? For example, you can be interested in watching tennis, but if you play tennis, then you take an active interest in it. Or even if you memorise all the statistics for the players, you are actively interested. 
Being actively curious in this way can substantially boost your happiness levels as you are more open to exploring unfamiliar areas, taking new directions and - along the way - you may even find out what is meaningful to you.
Having meaning and purpose in life makes us happier.
Do you remember being curious as a child? In the street where I grew up we were always exploring and discovering. We formed adventure clubs and scoured the nearby woods; a harmless gang of children trying to make sense of our world. "I wonder..." we would say, "I wonder what would happen if...?" In this way we discovered that the sycamore tree made the best bows but birch the best arrows. That we could use a shiny belt buckle to focus the sun's rays and set fire to a dry leaf. And nothing could beat the thrill when we decided to return day after day to watch what happened to a slimy mass of frog spawn we'd spotted in a tiny pond.
Some people manage to hang on to this childhood curiosity. They constantly wonder and ponder about their world. Their vocabulary is peppered with the words 'how', 'what', 'why', 'where' and 'when'. 
But for many of us, our innate sense of curiosity gets lost. We fear asking questions in case we look stupid. We want to fit in, to conform. So we stick with what we know and don't rock the boat. Instead of embracing uncertainty and the chance for growth we do everything to avoid it.
We settle for security and comfort at the expense of true happiness.
The good news is that curiosity is something that can be encouraged and developed. 
It all starts with wanting to know more.
 
 







Why Does Being Curious Make Us Happier?
 
"Of course we all want to be happy in life," says professor of psychology, Todd Kashdan. "But really, that's only part of the equation. What we're searching for is meaning, fulfilment. Curiosity is a key ingredient to finding that fulfilment."
As I said earlier, when we're curious we are more driven to explore, to discover and grow, all of which lead ultimately to finding meaning and purpose in life and the holy grail... happiness.
Curiosity can expose us to opportunities that we might have otherwise overlooked or ignored.
Two eminent psychologists, Martin Seligman and Christopher Peterson, undertook a classification of human character strengths and virtues. They finally came up with a list of 24 basic strengths that humans can possess. Curiosity was one of the five strengths most highly associated with overall life fulfilment and happiness.
What are you curious about? A clue lies in your current passions. If you have a passion for something, then you'll be curious about it.
Say you're passionate about cake decoration. It's likely then, that you're keen to know as much as you can about it; eager to improve your skills, learn new techniques and keep up to date with new cake decorating tools. Your passion fuels your ongoing curiosity, or zest to know more.
It also works the other way around. Curiosity can lead to passion; the very fact that something sparks your curiosity, that your interest is naturally drawn to it, suggests you're on the right track to discovering your passions and potential future hobbies.
Curious people are rarely bored. There are always new things that attract their attention and fill their lives with variety. 
Curious people tend to reap unforeseen rewards for their efforts and these can end up boosting their happiness. Their interest in others leads to new relationships, friendships and can even advance their careers.
My friend Alison who lives in London is often labelled as 'lucky'. She has a great job which she loves as PA to a successful businesswoman. She travels a lot and earns well. You may think that Alison is ambitious and determined... and you'd be right. But the real secret to her charmed life lies in her curiosity.
"I met my future boss at a charity function," says Alison. "I love striking up conversations with people I haven't met before. I know some people find it hard but once you start doing it you find out so many amazing things, often things that you can try yourself, that you can't wait to meet the next new person! I went geocaching (which I'd never heard of before) after a conversation with one chap and a lady I started talking to on the train introduced me to the idea of a ghost hunting weekend which I did with my sister who loves that stuff."
So, what about the job?
"Ah, yes, I was watching a fashion show at the charity event I mentioned," she said, "and I asked a lady standing nearby which had been her favourite outfit so far. We started chatting and we somehow got around to her hobby, which was building doll's houses. I thought that was so cool! I'd recently read The Miniaturist, a book about a doll's house, so we chatted on... By the end of the event she'd invited me to send her my CV. It honestly wasn't my intention at the outset. I had no idea who she was, that she owned a company or that she had a vacancy in that company. I was just really interested in listening to her talk about her unusual hobby."
 
 







How to Develop Curiosity
 
Curious people ask questions. Sounds so simple, doesn't it?
But as we saw earlier, our natural curiosity can be dampened by our daily habits, by our tendency to 'play safe'. 
To reawaken your natural quest for knowledge, try these suggestions:
Be a tourist! 
Visit the information office in your town, grab some maps and lists of attractions and off you go. Look at the familiar through the eyes of a newcomer. I guarantee you'll discover facts and places you had no idea existed.
Challenge your thoughts
Try something you've always thought you wouldn't enjoy. I'm not talking about a big undertaking such as bungee jumping or deep sea diving to conquer fears or phobias - try a food or a hobby you're not sure about. I always used to say that I didn't have an artistic bone in my body and so avoided anything arty and crafty. One day I was at a seminar and the leader presented each of us with a tile to decorate with a handful of shiny beads. Although it's never going to become a passion of mine, I was surprised how much I enjoyed creating my mini mosaic.
Talking of passions, do make time to explore yours. What do you love doing? 
Now that we've whetted your appetite, here are 6 ideas which will really start to develop your newly stimulated curiosity muscle:
Start by asking questions
For many of us, conversations with strangers are a particular source of awkwardness, so this is an excellent place to start.
Make a point to learn one interesting thing about someone you meet on any given day
If you're anything like me, you often find yourself not paying full attention to what someone is saying as you're striving to formulate in your mind what you'll say next! Nothing hampers the flow of real conversation more. It's almost as if we're terrified of gaps appearing in the conversation so we want our 'fillers' ready and waiting. Relax. Make a point of really listening. Suppress your tendency to think ahead and give the person you are talking to the time to expand, to flesh out their ideas. Just be open to wherever the conversation may go.
The Greeks listen intently, simply peppering the conversation with responses which encourage you to talk on...and on. "And then what?" "Why did you do that?" "Did you like it?" "Why?" "Why not?"
For the duration of the exchange, you can feel like the most interesting person in the world.
Learn something new every day 
In a Gallup poll of over 130,000 people, one of the factors that affected how much a person enjoyed their day was "learned something yesterday." There's even a popular thread on the online community site Reddit entitled 'Today I Learned' where people satisfy their curious natures!
If recent programmes on the BBC are anything to go by, then learning something new also helps us to stay younger by challenging the development of new neural pathways in the brain. I'm all for that!
If you can only manage a mere 10 minutes a day to put aside for learning, just do it. 
Enrol on a course
Online is fine. I love Udemy - I've completed several courses there - many are inexpensive and I've learned a lot!
Read
Diversify. Pick up a magazine on a subject you wouldn't normally go for. Choose a book from a section at the library you don't normally look in. Devouring non-fiction material is my favourite way to learn new things. And reading is my preferred way to absorb it. 
You may prefer the medium of video or audio...
Watch videos
For every subject in which you possess a flicker of interest, YouTube will have a video for you. 
Listen to podcasts
I find that this is a brilliant way to add enjoyment (and a little welcome distraction!) to my daily run. Many podcasts are delivered in 30 minute episodes which perfectly suits my morning's exercise.
Be open every day. What do I mean? Expect opportunities to arise, welcome uncertainty. 
By embracing the unfamiliar, who knows where that could lead?
 
 







Final words
In this book, I've given you lots of information on how you can boost your happiness. Reading equips you with lots of information to get you thinking but real results come from taking action, from trying out some of the suggestions.
It's easy to become overwhelmed and think "Where do I start?" but you don't have to do it all at once.
Read through this book once more, and this time take notes on the ideas that appeal to you most and start with these. Fancy trying some mindful eating? Or taking a few minutes today to enjoy a simple pleasure? Or maybe your first step will be finding a club or group to join? It doesn't matter how you begin, as long as you do something. Starting is almost always the most difficult step.
If the idea of trying a few Mediterranean dishes appeals to you then download my first book in this series: Eat Like a Greek. 
If you prefer a plan to follow then go now to the next page One Mediterranean Month.
Here you'll find 30 days of daily actions to get you on the Happy Road.
Enjoy!
 
 







 
 
One Mediterranean Month - 30 tips to boost your happiness
 







As you'll see, some actions appear more than once. Several times, in fact. It's only by constant repetition that you'll start to see results; to discover what sort of actions hold most appeal to you and which ones seem to boost your mood the most.
Change the days around to best suit your schedule. Many of you (but by no means all) will have more free time at weekends so some tasks may be better done then.
1 If you haven't already, download my book Eat Like a Greek. Head to the chapter titled: 'Going Nutty and Dippy' and choose a dip to make tomorrow.
2 Make a Mediterranean dip.  
3 Go online or visit your local library and note down any clubs in your area that interest you.
4 Choose a simple pleasure from the list you made after reading the chapter titled: 'All About the Simple Things' and do it today.
5 Call or send a query email to a couple of the clubs you found on Day 3.
6 Perform a Random Act of Kindness.
7 Make the most colourful salad ever.  
8 Choose a simple pleasure from the list you made (see day 4) and do it today.
9 Learn something new today.
10 Try the raisin meditation.
11 Go online or visit your local library and search for volunteering opportunities. Remember you don't have to start by committing to a weekly slot. It can be a one off - such as helping out at a charity race.
12 Drink nothing but water or herbal tea for the day.
13 Go for a walk at lunch time.
14 Make enquiries about suitable volunteering options you came up with.
15 Buy a hobby magazine that you've never considered before.
16 Choose a simple pleasure from the list you made and do it today.
17 Arrange to meet a friend for lunch one day this week.
18 Perform a Random Act of Kindness.
19 Learn one interesting thing about someone you meet today.
20 Eat one of your meals mindfully today.
21 Invite your neighbours round to share food. It doesn't have to be complicated. Sandwiches, soup or simply cake is fine.
22 Learn something new today.
23 Perform a Random Act of Kindness. 
24 Go through your wardrobe and have a clear out for the charity shop.
25 Make a soup of your choice and add some beans.
26 Choose a non-fiction book from the store or library on a topic you know very little about.
27 Eat one of your meals mindfully today.
28 Learn one interesting thing about someone you meet today.
29 Perform a Random Act of Kindness.
30 Start planning a family get-together. The bigger the better!
 







About the Author

Fuelled by wanderlust and the odd cake, Karen likes nothing better than donning boots and rucksack, seeking out the back roads and enjoying the freedom to go wherever her feet can. She currently lives on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus where she spends her time nurturing geckos, trying not to gorge on too much fried halloumi and writing her books from a tiny balcony overlooking the sea.
I'd love to hear from you. Find me here: www.karenkeepsfit.com
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/karen.guttridge.7
Twitter: @happy_rambler
Email : karenguttridge@gmail.com















