
















 How to Make a Website for Beginners 
   
 Learn How to Make Your Own Website from Scratch with WordPress! 
   
   
   
 By  
 Jackson Smith  
 Copyright 2017 Jackson Smith 
 Kindle Edition 
   










License Notes 
   
 No part of this Book can be reproduced in any form or by any means including print, electronic, scanning or photocopying unless prior permission is granted by the author. 
 All ideas, suggestions and guidelines mentioned here are written for informative purposes. While the author has taken every possible step to ensure accuracy, all readers are advised to follow information at their own risk. The author cannot be held responsible for personal and/or commercial damages in case of misinterpreting and misunderstanding any part of this Book 
 










 
 Table of Contents 
 
 Introduction 
 Planning  Your Website 
 Determine the Theme of Your Website Content 
 Deciding on a Name for Your Website 
 Getting Inspired from Other Websites 
 Buying Domains and Hosting Them Properly 
 Step One: Choose the Perfect Domain Name 
 Step Two: Choose A Domain Name Provider 
 Step Three: Choose Your Domain Name 
 Step Four: Register Your Domain with The Domain Provider You Have Chosen 
 Step Five: Choose A Hosting Service 
 Step Six: Setting Up Name Servers for Your Website 
 Installing WordPress 
 1. Clear the Cache on Your Web Browser 
 2. Wait It Out 
 Configuring Your WordPress Setting and an Introduction to Search Engine Optimization 
 Website Themes and Installing WordPress Plugins 
 Choosing Your Personal WordPress Theme 
 Adding Plugins to Your Website 
 Installing Google Analytics on Your Site and Setting Up an Automated Newsletter 
 Installing Google Analytics 
 Setting Up Your Own Automated Newsletter 
 The Ten Most Common Ways to Monetize Your Website 
 1. Affiliate Marketing 
 2. PayPerClick Advertising 
 3. Sell Ad Space on Your Website 
 4. Sell Your Own Digital Products 
 5. Accepting Donations from Your Website Visitors 
 6. Accept Sponsored Articles and Posts 
 7. Generate "Leads" For Other Companies 
 8. Build Up an Email List 
 9. Setting Up Your Own eCommerce Website 
 10. Flipping Websites 
 Top Five Ways to Gain Traffic to Your Website 
 Create Great Content 
 Create a Podcast 
 Video Marketing 
 Document Sharing 
 What to Do 
 Where to Submit Documents 
 Utilize Infographics 
 Conclusion 
 Author's Afterthoughts 
 
   
   
   









 Introduction 
   
 The ability to make your own website is one of the most important fundamental skills that is needed in today's high tech modern world. As time passes, this  skill becomes even more important as today's technology grows. These days it seems that every person and every company has a website! 
 Luckily, in today's age  few skills are needed to build your own website fr0m scratch. Back in the 1990's, in order to build a website, it was necessary   to not only build it manually, but to also  learn coding as well  in order to get your website to do what you want it to do. Learning how to program websites can be very frustrating and can take years to learn. 
 In today's world, we live in the era of WordPress  making it  unnecessary to know how to build a website manually. It is no longer necessary to spend years learning coding or programming. WordPress is a website building system that is extremely easy to use and  can even enable the user to build  sites using his  own domain name. 
  Over 15% of all websites currently online today are made with WordPress. With your own WordPress website, you can easily build any type of website based upon what you want it to do and how you want it to look. This type of website doesn't require much work  and  it can be built in just a matter of minutes. 
 This book will show you how to build your own website based upon your needs and without countless hours of coding required.  You will learn how to build your own WordPress website from scratch in an easy to follow, step-by-step fashion, and even learn of different ways to monetize your website. 
 So, let's get started!  
 









 Planning  Your Website 
   
 Before you can even begin thinking of building your website, you need to plan  what you want it to look like. Understand that building your own website is going to be a journey within itself and the more it is  planned and laid out, the better it will come out once it is finished. Building your own website is going to take some preparation on your part and in this section, you will learn how to plan out your site so you don't waste  precious time in the process. 
 









 Determine the Theme of Your Website Content 
 The first question that you should ask yourself before jumping in to build your website is what kind of content do you plan to publish on your site? Are you going to create a blog? Are you creating a company website for your business? Are you going to write about the things that interest you the most? 
 Once you have a basic concept in your mind,  grab a pen and a piece of paper. Sit down and write out what your content is going to be about. I highly recommend coming up with content ideas that you are passionate about  and that you have the most knowledge in. Once you have written down your ideas, go back over them and choose the topic on which you can write the most information. This is the core  content that you will want to utilize  when it comes to building  your website. 
 









 Deciding on a Name for Your Website 
 Now that you have started to get your creative juices flowing, the next thing to do is decide on a name for your website. The best way to do this is to use a pen and paper and write down as many names that interest you as possible. However, when creating these names, make sure to come up with names that are easy to remember, short, and of course, unique. 
 I highly recommend  staying away from website names that aren't generic and that aren't obvious. 
 Some great website names  include: 

 Epinions 
 Teva 
 Petfoodio 
 DamnDelicious 

 









 Getting Inspired from Other Websites 
 There are a number of different online websites and blogs that can be looked at online to get inspiration  to build your own website. You may already know of your favorite websites off of the top of your head. 
 When looking at these other blogs and website, make sure  to  carefully examine the design of the  website and especially  how the content is structured. Take note of  what  is most appealing about these sites. Keep this in mind when building your own site so you can have a website that you are proud of and that your own visitors will like as well.  
 









 Buying Domains and Hosting Them Properly 
  
 Before you can even begin to think about building your website, the first thing that you are going to have to worry about is purchasing a domain name and hosting the domain name. In this section I will walk you through this process step-by-step so we can start the building blocks of website development. 
 









 Step One: Choose the Perfect Domain Name 
 The first thing that you are going to have to do is choose a provider and  purchase your domain name from them. This is going to help to  establish your presence online and also give  the basic framework of your future site. Every website ever built has started here and yours will be no different. 
 Now, what you will first have to do is decide on an actual name for your domain. This name is going to reflect your niche for your site and be used for future branding purposes. This is going to be your unique address where potential customers will be able to find you and your products. 
 While you are thinking of these special domain names, make sure that you write each idea that you have down. 
 There are many reasons  you will want to purchase your own unique domain name. Some of these reasons include: 

 The ability to keep this domain name regardless of any changes in the company you host your domain with. Since visitors can visit your site using the direct URL, they will never know the difference if you change hosting companies. 
 Having your own domain name will give your business credibility. Without your own domain name, it is harder for visitors to take your business seriously or for them to even see it as a professional business. This can, in the end, help to attract important people to your website such as sponsors and business contacts. 
 Having your own domain name that matches your business is similar to having your own phone number: it makes it easier to remember. The easier it is to find your site online, the more traffic you will have directed to it. 

 









 Step Two: Choose A Domain Name Provider 
 Once you have thought of different domain names that you wish to have,  the next step that you need to take is to choose a domain name provider. These are the companies that you will purchase your domain from and even host your domain with if you so choose. There are many different kinds of domain name providers out there but the best ones I recommend include: 

 NameCheap 
 GoDaddy 
 SquareSpace 
 Wix 

 Each of these domain name providers make it easy to purchase your very own  domain for just a few dollars  a year. Typically, your own domain will range in price but most domains are offered for less than $10 a year if that particular name is available. 
 









 Step Three: Choose Your Domain Name 
 While you may have already chosen a name that you wish for your domain name, you  must see if it is even available. Most domains, if they are being named via a long tail keyword tend to be more readily available. 
 Once you have decided on a domain name, the next step is  to figure out is whether to purchase a .COM, .NET or .ORG address. 
 What is the difference between these names? 
 There are several difference between these names and it is important for you to know the difference before purchasing your own domain. The main difference between these names are listed below. 
 .Com 
 A .com domain is one that can be purchased by any person and any company. It is considered to be one of the most popular domains that  can be purchased, and thus there is some competition when it comes to popular names. These types of names hold appeal worldwide and even locally as they can last 1 to 10 years on average and are the types of domains that many people often turn to when searching for something online. 
 .Net 
 A .net domain is another domain that can be purchased by any person and any company that wishes to own one. A .net domain is often purchased when a person wishes to conduct networking through it, but in truth, it can be used for any purpose. It is a domain name that is appealing to both small business owners and corporations. However, it does have its limitations such as the fact that spaces and special characters cannot be used when coming up with the domain name. 
 .Org 
 While this type of domain name can be purchased by any person who wish to buy it, it is more likely to be purchased by large organizations, though it is open for purchase by anybody. Specifically, most non-profit organizations tend to purchase these domains. Moreover, this type of domain can be registered privately, giving it more of an appeal to those who want to keep the details of their domain anonymous. 
 









 Step Four: Register Your Domain with The Domain Provider You Have Chosen 
 Once you have chosen the particular domain you want and have checked to see if that name is available, the next step is to register your domain with the domain provider you have chosen. This is easy enough to do as all you have to do is pay the allotted fee for the domain. Most domain name providers charge no more than $11 a year for the domain. 
 









 Step Five: Choose A Hosting Service 

 The next thing that you are going to want to do is choose a hosting service to host your domain on. Now, this is going to be an important step for you to take as it will have an effect on what you are going to be able to do with your website. 
 To choose the right hosting service, it is ultimately  going to depend on what you are looking to do with your website. There are a few things that you are going to have to consider when it comes to choosing the right hosting service. 
 Choose whether  your website will  host advertisements or  if you are looking to offer an ad-free experience to your users. 
 What kind of uploading space you want to have on your site. This is extremely important especially if you are going to build a website to hold a lot of videos or photos as this will determine the price of your hosting. 
 How reliable your hosting is for your website needs. The one thing that you should always look for when it comes to hosting is reliability  in running your site. Make sure the hosting company offers a way to recover lost data and never has any gaps in availability. 
 Look at speed of access. Make sure that your website speed isn't too slow as you can possibly deter people from visiting your website at all. You want to make sure that you go with a hosting company that offers a few speed packages to boost the speed of your website. 
 The allotted bandwidth that is provided.  Keep in mind  that most hosting companies  often have a limit on the amount of traffic that you can receive to your website on any given day. So, if your own website exceeds those limits, your site will go down temporarily. While you obviously may not want this to happen, you can choose hosting companies that off more bandwidth limits. 
 Choose  a hosting company that is compatible with WordPress. This is essential since that is the kind of site you are going to learn how to build in this book. You want to make sure that you choose a hosting company that not only offers  the option to build your website via WordPress, but  also offers support for it as well. 
 The last thing to consider about a hosting company is obviously price. There are many hosting companies out there that will have different price packages available to go along with your website needs. Each price package is going to have its own limitations on available bandwidth, total space, and file size. So ultimately you will need to determine your own website needs before determining what you are willing to pay to host your website. 

 









 Step Six: Setting Up Name Servers for Your Website 
 Once you have purchased your domain name and have purchased the hosting, the next important step  is to set the name servers. The reason you want to do is this is so that your domain name will appear exactly as the name of your website with your hosting company and this is something that will have to be set up manually. 
 Every domain host will have different protocols when it comes to  this and the best solution will be to ask your web host directly. However, these are the basic steps. 

 Go to your account. 
 Click on manage domains. 
 Click on the name of the domain that you have recently purchased. 
 Transfer the DNS setting to the Web Host. 
 Choose custom DNS settings if that is an option for you. 
 Type in the URL of the location 0f your web host. Click save and you are set. 

 The moment this is done your traffic will go directly to your website the when people type the domain name into the address bar in their search engine. 
 With your domain name purchased and the hosting set up, there isn't much left for you to do but begin building your own website! 
 









 Installing WordPress 
   
 So, before we actually begin to install WordPress, we need to understand what WordPress even is. WordPress is an online open source website building tool that is probably considered to be the easiest and perhaps most powerful content management system for blogs and websites that exists today. 
 The next step in the website building process is to install WordPress on your domain. You need to understand that when I say install WordPress, it does not mean that you need to install it on your PC as many website hosting companies will invite you to do. The good news is that once you install WordPress on your domain, you never have to worry about doing it again. 
 There are multiple ways that you can download WordPress onto your domain, but perhaps the easiest and most effective way is to do so from the dashboard of your web host. There should be an area that you can click to manage your domains. In this area, you should be able to access settings such as upgrading your hosting package, opening up support tickets, and adding add-ons to your domain. This is the area that you are going to run your business from so make sure that you familiarize yourself with it as much as possible. 
 The area that you will want to access is your cPanel. Once there,  scroll down until you find a button that reads, "WordPress" and under that you will need to click the Install option. Once you are at the install window you will need to configure a few options as follows: 

 Choose the Protocol: on this option make sure that you select the http:// option 
 Choose the Domain: pick the domain name that you want to install WordPress. 
 Site Name: pick the name of your future website. Don't worry, you can always change this later on. 
 Site Description: this is going to be the tagline of your site. For this section I highly recommend using one keyword to target. 
 Admin Username: Pick a username that visitors to your site will get to know you by. Don't just choose admin. 
 Admin Password: this is going to be the password that you use to access your website. Make sure  to pick a password that will be hard for others to figure out. 
 Admin Email: pick an email address that  can receive alerts for your website. Any email will suffice. 
 Auto Upgrade: check this option so you don't have to manually install WordPress updates on your website. 

 Finally press Install and now your website will have access to WordPress. To double check that you have done it correctly, type your domain into your web browser. What you should see upon typing in your domain is a plain website without any information listed upon it except for a post title that reads, "Hello World." 
 If by chance you aren't seeing this default installation, there are a few things you can try before you have to reach out to support. 









 1. Clear the Cache on Your Web Browser 
 There are many different ways that you can do this but of course it will ultimately depend on what web browser you are using. If you are unsure of how to do this for your particular web browser, I highly suggest looking up instructions on Google and following them precisely. This is something that will only take you a few minutes to do. Once your cache is clear I highly recommend that you reload your browser to see if the default WordPress installation appears. 









 2. Wait It Out 
 Sometimes it just takes some time for the default browser to appear when you look up your domain. It can take up to 24 hours to appear, but it can take even longer than that. I suggest waiting at least a day if you need to for your WordPress installation to appear. 
 If none of these  solutions have worked for you, then I suggest contacting your hosting support or even going as far as contacting WordPress support if  need be. 
 









 Configuring Your WordPress Setting and an Introduction to Search Engine Optimization 
   
 Once you have installed WordPress onto your website and have successful logged in to the admin dashboard, the next thing that you will want to do is configure a few settings within your dashboard and begin to get your feet wet in the world of Search Engine Optimization. Be jumping into the setting section of your dashboard, make sure that you are working with the latest version of WordPress that is currently available. Not only will using the most updated version of WordPress help to keep your website secure, but it will also ensure that your site is running as smoothly as possible. 
 Now, it is time to update some of  the settings. To do this, go to the left-hand sidebar of your dashboard and look for the "Settings" option. From there you will want to click on the subsection that you wish to modify. In this section, you will find the most important setting so make sure that you familiarize yourself with this section. 
 Here is a list of different settings subcategories that you are going to want to update as soon as possible. 
 1. General Settings 
 In this section, you will be able to modify a few crucial components of your website such as the website title, the tagline  (if using) and the email that you want website notifications sent to. This section should be  filled in when you initially install WordPress, but you can update it as you see fit. 
 2. Reading Settings 
 This is the section that you will have to decide what to display on the homepage of your site. Here you can choose between showing blog posts or a static homepage. You can even choose to have your latest blog posts show up. 
 3. Discussion Settings 
 In this section, you will be able to configure the options for people to comment on your blog posts. If you are running a blog that will encourage a discussion by your visitors, you can allow people to comment on your posts, and you will be able to configure whether or not you want these comments to appear on your website right away or whether you want the option of approving them before they appear. 
 If you have a business website set up and don't want users to leave any comments, you can turn this option off as well. If the option is set to "off", then visitors to your site won't have the option to leave a comment on any of your posts. 
 4. Permalinks Settings 
 If you are not sure what a permalink is, it is simple the URL that is designated to a blog post or blog page. So, in other words, when configuring these settings, you want to  decide what the URL of each blog post or page is going to be? This is an important setting to configure for SEO or Search Engine Optimization Purposes. 
 









 Website Themes and Installing WordPress Plugins 
   
 The next step in building your WordPress website is setting up your own custom website theme and installing a few essential plugins that are needed for your website to run smoothly. WordPress itself makes it incredibly easy to switch up the look of your site by utilizing themes that are incredibly easy to install. 
 









 Choosing Your Personal WordPress Theme 
 When it comes to themes, there are literally thousands of free themes that are available for download online and best of all many of these themes can be accessed directly from your WordPress dashboard. To add a new theme to your website, just go to the left-hand sidebar and scroll down until you see the option "Appearance." Once there hold your mouse over the option and click on the option "Themes." 
 Once you  are in the Themes section, go to the top section of the page and click "Install Themes." Once there head to the search section and here you will find the various free themes that you can use to personalize your website. You can even customize your search by checking the various options available to find specific colors and features that are offered with different themes. 
 If you have found a particular theme that you like, click on the Theme preview itself. Once there, click the "Install" option and it will automatically install for you. Once your new theme has been updated, refresh your web browser before heading to the main page of your site. There you should be able to see the new theme. If you are satisfied with it, go back to your dashboard and begin customizing it to your liking. 
 









 Adding Plugins to Your Website 
  
 Once you have a theme set up, the next thing to do is begin to add plugins to your website. Plugins are one feature exclusive to WordPress and that help to give you the ability to do pretty much whatever you want with your site, without having to write any coding or hire a professional programmer to do it for you. 
  Plugins are pieces of software that are developed to be installed on your website to accomplish a certain task. Think of plugins as a sort of app to enable your website to do various things such as coming up with a price comparison chart, setting up a contact form, setting up a review post, subscribing to your social media profiles, adding in a forum, setting up an e-commerce store etc. 
 To install a plugin on your website, you will need to head to the left-hand section of your WordPress dashboard. Once there, scroll down to the "Plugins" option. Click on it and once you are on the plugins screen you should see a list of plugins that are currently installed on your website. To add new plugins head to the top of your plugins page and click, "Add New" option. In the search section, search for the specific features that you are looking for in a plugin. Once you have found a plugin that meets the needs of your website, just click on the install option and it will install automatically onto your site. As soon as the plugin is installed, click the Activate option for it to begin running. 
 However, once your plugin is installed, your work is still not completed. From here you will need to configure your plugin via the plugin options menu so that it will do exactly what you want it to do. To do this just head back to the Plugins section listed on the left-hand side of your WordPress dashboard and find the plugin you have recently installed. Click on the "Settings" option and configure it as you wish. 
 There are a few plugins that I highly recommend you install on your website the moment you install WordPress. These plugins will not only help to ensure that your website runs smoothly, but also give it a professional feel to those who visit your website. 
 1. CometCache 
 This is the perfect plugin to download if you want to increase your website speed naturally. It is incredibly easy and simple to use and just as effective. It is so easy that you can download it in just under 2 minutes. Since website visitors expect your website to load as quickly as possible, this is the perfect plugin to use to do just that. 
 2. Simple Author Box 
 This plugin attaches a responsive author box at the bottom of your pages and posts. This author box also allows you to attach social media icons to your posts which allows your visitors to share your posts to their friends with ease. 
 3. SI Captcha Anti-Spam 
 This plugin allows you to add a secure image CAPTCHA which can help prevent spam from appearing in the comments section from humans and bots alike. It can also be used for websites that contain lost password options, registration, WooCommerce websites and login forms. 
 4. Contact Form 7 
 If you wish for your website visitors to have the option to contact you directly, then this is the perfect plugin for you to download. This form allows visitors to fill in their information allowing you to personally contact them. Not only does this help to give your website a more professional look, but it also gives  the ability to keep your personal email anonymous. 
 5. All-In-One SEO Pack 
 This is the perfect plugin  if you plan on using SEO practices to rank your website. It allows you to fully configure your website titles and gives you full control of on page search engine optimization on all of your posts and pages. 
 6. Google XML Sitemaps 
 What many website owners just starting out don't realize is that in order for your website to be ranked within the search engines, you need to generate a sitemap for it. This can be complicated if you do not know how to do it from scratch, but with the help of this plugin, you can have a sitemap generated for your site automatically. This plugin will help search engines find your website and update them within the search engine as soon as you update it. 
 7. Exclude Pages from Navigation 
 This plugin gives you the option to exclude pages from your main menu bar on the current page you are editing. Upon installation, this plugin will include a checkbox that you can check off or on within the page or the post you are editing. 
 8. Tweet, Like, Google +1 and Share 
 If you wish to include social media share links within your posts and pages, then this is the perfect plugin  to install on your site. This will add not only simple social media icons to your posts and page, but it will also include attractive and professional designs to make your posts more shareable. 
 Every one of these plugins included in this list are free for download. You can do everything you need to do with these simple plugins. Additionally, they all have premium downloads available if necessary. 
 









 Installing Google Analytics on Your Site and Setting Up an Automated Newsletter 
   
 In this section, I will explain a few advanced things that you will want to do with your site to get it up and ready for business when it launches. In this section, I will explain the importance of setting up tracking and an email list to those who visit your website. 
 









 Installing Google Analytics 
 Installing Google Analytics onto your site is incredibly important for any person who wants to build a website. It allows you to see firsthand important data regarding your visitors. You will be able to  know where your visitors came from, what pages are the most popular upon your website, what keywords your visitors typed in the search engine to find your website, and what referral websites your website is currently linked to. 
 While there are plenty of tracking programs out there that you can use for your website, there is none that are as good and as powerful as Google Analytics. It is one tool that you NEED in your website building arsenal. 
 To set up Google analytics on your website, just follow these easy steps. 

 Go to www.google.com/analytics and sign up for your free account using your GMAIL. 
 Once you have set up your free account, set up a property, which is going to be your website. 
 Once you have set up a website, retrieve your Google Analytics tracking code. To do this click on your website and go to the Admin section. From there head on over to the Property section and click on "tracking info." 
 Click on "tracking code" and copy the code given. 
 Head over to your WordPress dashboard and on the left-hand corner, scroll down to the appearance option. Allow your mouse to hover over it and scroll down to the editor section. 
 On the editor screen go to the right-hand side until you find the "header.php section." Click on it and look for the code <head> section of the page. 
 Paste your tracking code directly underneath this section and click "update file." 
 Reload your website and go to the main page. 
 Go back to your Google Analytics and look at the Real-Time data. Your computer should now show up as a visitor on your website. 

 You should now be able to track every visitor that comes to your website. 
 









 Setting Up Your Own Automated Newsletter 
   
 No website can truly be complete until you set up your own personal newsletter for subscribers. Every viable business in the world needs to have an email list in order to be successful and yours will be no different. This is going to be the main way that you will be able to make money with your site and is the one thing that will set you apart from your competition. 
 There are many advantages to setting up your own email marketing list such as: 

 Your mailing list can be used even if something happens to your website. 
 It is a much more personal way for you to communicate with the visitors on your website. 
 It can help you build trust with your website visitors. 
 It is the easiest way to promote affiliate products or your own products for sale  in order to make money. 

 In order to set up your own email marketing list, find a company that offers that service. The best programs that I recommend include Mail Chimp or Aweber. Once you have your own account set up with either of these companies (each offers a free trial before paying monthly for the service), you can begin crafting professional looking newsletters to your subscribers. 
 Here are a few tips to making the most out of your email newsletters: 

 Set up your email list as soon as you set up your website. The sooner your email list is set up, the sooner you can begin collecting email addresses. 
 Offer a freebie for your audience as soon as they sign up. I highly recommend offering something that won't take you too much time to put together such as an eBook or a free training series. 
 Always ask your subscribers to "white list" your email address so it isn't blocked by spam filters within their email service. 
 Make sure that the sign-up form for your newsletter is easily seen on your website. You want to make sure that visitors signing up to your list a top priority. 
 Make sure that you update your subscribers on new content on your site every week by sending out broadcasts. This will help your visitors to stay up-to-date with all of your content. 
 While it is true that your email campaign is a platform for you to utilize in order to sell and promote various products in order to make money, you don't want to promote products in every newsletter that you send out. Sell to your visitors sparingly and instead focus on delivering high quality and useful content to them instead. 

 









 The Ten Most Common Ways to Monetize Your Website 
   
 Once your website is built and ready to go, it is time to take the next step which is to officially monetize it. There are many different ways to monetize your site and no one way is the right way. Making money with your own website isn't easy, but  the following are ten different ways that  will make this easier for you. 
 









 1. Affiliate Marketing 
 Affiliate marketing is perhaps one of the most popular, if not fastest way, to make money with your own website. The best way to utilize affiliate marketing is to find products to promote that are within your specific niche. Once you have chosen these products, you can just endorse it within the content of your website, within your email newsletters, and to  visitors of your website.  If people like the product that  much, they will click on the affiliate link you are promoting and purchase the product. In turn you will gain a commission from these sales. 
 You need to keep in mind that the commission for these products will range depending on what they are and sales price. Most products have a commission of 30% or can even be as much as 90%. While it may not seem like a lot of money at first, if you gain 20 sales in a day, that amount can add up quickly. 
 









 2. PayPerClick Advertising 
 Another great way to monetize your website is to utilize pay-per-click advertising. The most popular platform for this kind of advertising is Google Adsense. Google Adsense is a platform run by Google that allows website owners and publishers to utilize Google's massive advertising network  to run ads on your own site and earn money in the process. 
 One of the many reasons  Adsense is so popular is how simple it is to use. The moment you sign up for an account with Adsense, you can get a special code for each ad you want and you can easily embed it into a post on your website. The ads  that are then displayed on your website are relevant to your niche and will show ads that your visitors are going to be interested in. 
 The way that this type of monetization works is that you are paid every time a person clicks on these ads. While you are not paid  a great deal of money for these ads, if you have plenty of traffic, you can easily make a couple thousand dollars every month. 
 









 3. Sell Ad Space on Your Website 
 Instead of turning to Google Adsense to monetize your site, another  option is to offer ad space directly on your website. The only way this method of monetizing your website is viable is if you get  plenty of traffic to your website on a daily basis. The best part about this method is that you can charge whatever you want for this space, whether it is a monthly price or a one-time price. 
 Typically, you will want to charge those interested per one thousand impressions their ad gets on their website. So, for example, let's say you are charging someone $5 per 100,000 visits a month, that cost will equate to $500 a month just for you. If you get even more traffic than that you can earn as much as $5,000 a month! 
 









 4. Sell Your Own Digital Products 
 It is true that for you to make the most money with your own website, you will need to offer products that you have created directly. The main reason for this is that there is no middle man involved between you and potential customers. That means there is no other person taking a cut of the money that you earn. 
 This is a very straightforward approach because as soon as you sell any of your products, you can earn money on  them immediately. However, as simple as that may sound, it is a bit more complicated than that. 
 5. Creating your own digital products and then publishing them will require a ton of time on your part. There  are also a number of additional "hidden costs" to making these products such as time involved and monetary costs in hiring others to help you put these products together.  Other things that you need to consider as well  are how you are going to collect payment, how are you going to ship products out if they are physical products and figuring out taxes as well. 
 









 5. Accepting Donations from Your Website Visitors 
 This is a great option for people who don't have a  large number of people visiting their website but have a strong community of visitors that they are engaged with. If you have this type of community aspect with your own site, simply ask your readers to help you keep your site going and contribute. 
 What you need to keep in mind is that this kind of monetization isn't going to put you on the road to great wealth. What it can do is help you to cover some of the short-term expenses that it takes to  maintain your website and will help to support your website in every way such as helping to cover costs of creating products, covering the cost of research and even helping to cover the cost of hosting your website every month. 
 









 6. Accept Sponsored Articles and Posts 
 Another common way to make money with your website sometimes means   increasing the amount of people visiting your website on a monthly basis. Once you have built a steady stream of traffic to your website, there are going to be websites that will contact you to feature your site. These sites will feature your content on their own company website, especially if it is relevant to their own niche. 
 Not only is this a great way to promote your website, but it is a great to build your monthly visitors in the process. 
 









 7. Generate "Leads" For Other Companies 
 Online businesses, and most businesses for that matter, thrive financially when they have new leads coming to their website every day.  With that in mind, it is no secret that many of these businesses are always on the lookout for ways to help grow their customer base. This is a great way for you to become the middle-man and introduce both those interested in a niche and a company that is offering what the customer needs without much work on your part. 
 This type of monetization works similarly to affiliate marketing, but in your case, you don't have to worry about promoting one product in order to gain a commission. Your customers are more interested in finding more information that you can give them at this point. 
 









 8. Build Up an Email List 
 Without an email list, most websites will fail to make money. There is a saying online which is, "the money is in the list" and it is one saying that you want to live by especially when building your website. An email list is usually comprised of subscribers who read your blog posts loyally and the main goal of this list is going to be to convert these strangers into passionate subscribers who want to stay up-to-date with your latest content. 
 The thing that you need to understand is that building up an email list is a long-term strategy to making money with your website. Even though it takes some time to build up, it is one of the best long-term money making methods that you can utilize today. 
 When building your email list, you want to make sure  to create a relationship with your followers by offering helpful information that will help them in whatever they are coming to you for. Never spam your followers with offers that they don't want. Doing this will abuse the trust you have with your readers and sabotage your long-term business goals. 
 









 9. Setting Up Your Own eCommerce Website 
 Remember, when building your own website, you don't just have to make it about content alone. A website can be whatever you want it to be and another great way to monetize your website is to turn it into an eCommerce site. This website will be built in such a way that you can center it on selling tools and products in your own online store. 
 One thing  to realize about this method is that there are literally thousands of other eCommerce websites out there, meaning that competition is going to be tough. Make sure that you find your own unique niche and come up with your own unique marketing strategy to make it work. 
 









 10. Flipping Websites 
 Another great way to monetize your website is to flip it for a much larger profit down the line. The way this method of monetization works is   creating a site, building it up and then selling it for a larger profit than you first put into it. 
 Don't get me wrong. This is a great profit opportunity, especially if you have a website that is currently getting traffic and making money. It makes it more appealing and more buyers are willing to purchase it especially if they don't have to do too much work in order to make money. However, I am more for building something that is your own and that will help you make money in the long run. Still, this is a great method to utilize if you want to make a quick  return. 
 









 Top Five Ways to Gain Traffic to Your Website 
  
 Once you have your website, the next thing you are going to have to worry about is driving traffic to it. Without traffic, you will not make a dime with your website nor will you be able to promote whatever it is that are trying to promote. You could have the best product in the world, but without traffic it will never be seen. In this section, you will learn my personal top ways to gain money to your website as easily as possible. 
 









 Create Great Content 
 Perhaps the best way to start driving traffic to your own website is to create the best content possible. However, you cannot just create ordinary content. You need to make sure that you create content that is as high quality as possible. 
 To start creating content, first come up with your own ideas for your own content. There are many ways to do this but the ways that I recommend the most include: 
 1. Reddit 
 Reddit is a great place to come with ideas for your own content. You can find a variety of subreddits that are related to your niche so you can see exactly what is a popular topic being discussed in your niche right now. This is also another great way to get visitors to visit your website. 
 2. Google News 
 One of the most important tools that you can utilize when coming up with your own unique content is to utilize the news to your advantage. The best tool for you to use is Google news and search for a keyword that is relevant to your niche. With the help of Google news, you will see what topics within your niche are being discussed most not only by the press, but also by popular websites within your niche as well. 
 3. Buzzsumo 
 Buzzsumo is a website where you can see  what type of content within your niche is being shared the most on popular social media platforms. To use this tool just search a specific keyword and get some ideas of the type of content you should write. 
 4. Google's Top 10 Results 
 While this is not a strategy that is considered to be new,  it is nonetheless effective. To utilize this method, Google keywords related to your niche or the desired topic that you wish to write about. Take a close look at the top ten sites and what their content contains to give you an idea of what to write for your own content. 
 5. Q and A Websites 
 Another great way to come up with ideas for your topic is to utilize Q and A websites to your advantage. You can see in real time what questions people are asking and what kind of solutions they want. Once you see these questions for yourself you can then draft your own content that will answer  these questions for them. 
 









 Create a Podcast 
 Not everybody has time to stop and read a new article on your website. This is when creating your own podcast can come in handy. A podcast is a way to broadcast content on the Internet. It has been shown that 20% of all people who go  online, listen to podcasts as they search the web. 
 This is a great way to take advantage of this 20% to bring traffic to your own website.  Just turn your articles into audio versions and upload them onto the most popular podcast distribution websites. 
 In order to make your own podcast, you are going to need a few things: 

 A basic computer 
 A good quality microphone 
 An audio program such as audacity 
 A topic related to your niche 
 The ability to format your audio and content so that it is easy for viewers to listen to 
 An editing software to edit your podcast 
 Your website 
 Subscription buttons to place on your website 

 









 Video Marketing 
   
 Another great way to drive traffic to your website is to utilize the hottest trend in marketing today which is video marketing. It has been shown that people tend to remember about 15-20% of what they hear, but 30-40% of what they see and hear. With the help of videos, you can drive a great amount of traffic back to your website with ease. 
 There are many different ways that you can make videos today, but the most popular methods include: 
 1. Actually Getting in Front of The Camera 
 One way to create videos to bring traffic to your website includes getting right in front of the camera and explaining a few key points from the article you wish to talk about. When using this method, make sure that you create a script that you can use to read to keep your video as organized as possible. Once you have created your video, just upload it to a video sharing platform and promote the video on your own website. 
 2. Use Microsoft PowerPoint 
 Another thing that you can do is to create a video by using a PowerPoint presentation that you have prepared in advance. 
 3. Record Your Computer Screen to Make a Compelling Video 
 Another great way is to inform  people about your article by using a screen capture software. Whether you want to record a presentation, create a tutorial using a special kind of software, or  want to do a thoroughly reviewed video, then this is the perfect method for you to utilize. There are different kinds of screen recording software that you can use, but the main programs that I recommend using are: 

 Camtasia 
 OBS 
 TinyTake 
 Screenr 
 Ezvid 

 Regardless of how you make your videos make sure that you follow these tips: 
 Make Sure to Keep Your Videos Short and To the Point-as a rule of thumb you want to keep your videos below the 5 minute mark. Any longer and viewers are most likely to end the video before it's actually finished. 
 Never Ignore Audio Quality-one of the most important parts of your video is audio quality. If your audio is bad, many viewers will shut the video off so they don't have to hear it. That is why you want to use a high quality microphone. Even if you are creating a video of your computer screen,  make sure to add some nice background music that goes with the feeling of your video. 
 Make Sure to Create a Strong Call to Action-an important part of your video is to give your viewers something to do towards the end of your video. This is called your call to action and you want to make sure that you include a call to action at the end of every video such as asking for your viewers to subscribe, visit a website, or to leave a comment. 
 Upload to Various Video Websites-While it is true that YouTube is known for having the most traffic out of any video site online today, that does not mean that you should just upload to that platform alone. Upload to various other video platforms such as YouNow, Vimeo, Metacafe, and Daily Motion. 
 









 Document Sharing 
   
 This is one way to gain traffic that many web users don't utilize on their own websites. Document sharing is creating an electronic file such as a word or .pdf file to share useful information across different websites. Document sharing is a way to help increase brand awareness in the niche of your choice which can help increase the visibility of your own website when searched in a search engine. Thus it can help bring in  lots of traffic to your site as well as increase  the keywords your site ranks for in the search engines. 
 There are plenty of document sharing sites online today. However, the most popular sharing sites gets up to 5 million visits every single day and that number is  continuing to grow at least by 20% each year. These sites are quickly becoming the go-to site to obtain more information regarding a specific problem  requires a solution. 
 With just a little bit of work and effort on your part, you can generate a massive amount of traffic back to your site for many years to come. 
 









 What to Do 
 In order to utilize document sharing sites to your advantage, there are a few things that you are going to have to do. What you will have to do includes: 
 1. Find an article on your website that is a minimum of 700 words. 
 2. Copy only HALF of this article into a Microsoft word document. 
 3. At the end of your article within your word document, paste a link that links back to the main article on your website. 
 4. Include a sentence at the end of your article that says, "To continue reading the rest of this article, click here." 
 5. Save your article in word as a .pdf file so that it can be easily shared on these document sharing websites. 
 









 Where to Submit Documents 
 As I have stated previously, there are thousands of different document sharing websites out there. However the best websites with the most amount of traffic include: 

 Srcibd 
 Docstoc 
 Google Docs 
 Calameo 
 Issuu 
 Slide Share 

 If you are going to include the full article instead of just half as I recommended, make sure that you include a strong call to action in the middle and end of your article for the best results. I also recommend including various pictures that will link back to your website or to a sales pages as well. 
 









 Utilize Infographics 
   
 Back in the early days of online marketing, infographics were highly popular and  to this day they still remain a highly popular way to generate traffic to your website. Infographics are a perfect tool to use if you want to transfer content quickly and make it visually interesting to those who see it. They are a great way for you to share complex information in an easily understandable format that is user friendly. 
 So, how do you create an infographic? 
 This is what you will want to do: 
 1. Think of a Layout 
 The first thing that you are going to have to do is come up with a basic layout for your infographic so you know exactly what you want it to include. This is something that you can do on a simple sheet of paper or within a word document. 
 2. Create It for Free 
 The next thing that you will want to do is create your infographic. If you don't want to waste any money on it, then you can always make it for free. Best of all you don't need to be a graphic designer in order to do it. There are various online tools that you can use to create an infographic such as: 

 Canva 
 Picktochart 
 Venngage 
 Easel.ly 

 The main problem with many of these free tools is that many of these programs offer the same templates and layouts to every person, so the chances of you having a similar infographic to someone else is actually quite high. 
 3. Hire A Designer to Create on For You 
 This is an option for those who have a bit of money to invest in their website. If you don't have any graphic design expertise, then hiring an experienced designer who has created infographics before is the best option. You can find people who provide this type of service on various websites such as: 

 Fiverr 
 Dribble 
 Upwork 

 When hiring someone to create your infographic, make sure that you check out samples of their work beforehand and have a sketch ready to make the job easier for them. 
 









 Conclusion 
 As you can see from the help of this book, creating your own WordPress website from scratch (without any coding necessary) is incredibly easier than you may have been led to believe. While your own WordPress website may not be quite as versatile as websites that are made from scratch with coding and programming manipulation, it is easier to make these sites, it can be up and running in just a matter of minutes, and it is extremely convenient for people with no coding or programming experience. 
 I hope that by the end of this book you have learned a thing or two about building your own WordPress website from scratch. I hope that you have seen how easy it is to do for yourself and feel encouraged to building your own website. I also hope that you have learned a few other things that you weren't expecting  such as how to monetize your site and how to drive traffic to your website. 
 Now it is time for you get out there and start building your own website from scratch. Don't forget to check out the WordPress official website  for constant updates and answers to any question that you may have. 
 Good luck! 









 Author's Afterthoughts 
   
  
 Thanks ever so much to each of my cherished readers for investing the time to read this book! 
 I know you could have picked from many other books but you chose this one. So a big thanks for downloading this book and reading all the way to the end. 
 If you enjoyed this book or received value from it, I'd like to ask you for a favor. Please take a few minutes to post an honest and heartfelt review on Amazon.com. Your support does make a difference and helps to benefit other people. 
 Thanks!  




