
























Page 
                i
















How 
                to Write & Publish a Scientific Paper























5th 
                Edition























Robert 
                A. Day























ORYX 
                PRESS
                1998















 






















Page   
                ii
















The   
                rare Arabian Oryx is believed to have inspired the myth of the   
                unicorn. This desert antelope became virtually extinct in the   
                early 1960s. At that time, several groups of international   
                conservationists arranged to have nine animals sent to the   
                Phoenix Zoo to be the nucleus of a captive breeding herd. Today,   
                the Oryx population is over 1,000, and over 500 have been   
                returned to the Middle East.























©   
                1979, 1983, 1988, 1994, 1998 by Robert A. Day  
                Published by The Oryx Press  
                4041 North Central at Indian School Road  
                Phoenix, Arizona 85012-3397























All rights   
                reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or   
                transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or   
                mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any   
                information storage and retrieval system, without permission in   
                writing from The Oryx Press.























Published   
                simultaneously in Canada























Printed   
                and bound in the United States of America























The   
                paper used in this publication meets the minimum requirements of   
                American National Standard for Information Science—Permanence   
                of Paper for Printed Library Materials, ANSI Z39.48, 1984.























Library   
                of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data























Day,   
                Robert A., 1924-  
                How to write & publish a scientific paper / by Robert A.   
                Day. —  
                5th ed.  
                p.cm.  
                Includes bibliographical references and index.  
                ISBN 1-57356-164-9 Case 1-57356-165-7 Paper (alk. paper)
















  





















Page   
                v
















Contents



























Preface
























ix
























Acknowledgments
























xv


























Chapter  
                      1 What Is Scientific Writing?
























1


























Chapter  
                      2 Origins of Scientific Writing
























4


























Chapter  
                      3 What Is a Scientific Paper?
























8


























Chapter  
                      4 How to Prepare the Title
























15


























Chapter   
                      5 How to List the Authors and Addresses 
























22


























Chapter   
                      6 How to Prepare the Abstract 
























29


























Chapter  
                      7 How to Write the Introduction
























33


























Chapter  
                      8 How to Write the Materials and Methods Section
























36


























Chapter  
                      9 How to Write the Results
























42


























Chapter  
                      10 How to Write the Discussion
























45


























Chapter   
                      11 How to State the Acknowledgments 
























49















  





















Page   
                vi




















Chapter   
                        12 How to Cite the References
























51
























Chapter  
                      13 How to Design Effective Tables
























61


























Chapter  
                      14 How to Prepare Effective Graphs
























70


























Chapter  
                      15 
                      How to Prepare Effective Photographs
























84


























Chapter  
                      16 How to Keyboard the Manuscript
























92


























Chapter  
                      17 Where and How to Submit the Manuscript
























109


























Chapter  
                      18 The Review Process (How to Deal with Editors)
























117


























Chapter  
                      19 The Publishing Process (How to Deal with Proofs)
























130


























Chapter  
                      20 Electronic Publishing Formats: CD-ROM and Distributed  
                      Printing
























139


























Chapter  
                      21 The Internet and the World Wide Web
























142


























Chapter  
                      22 The Electronic Journal
























151


























Chapter  
                      23 E-mail and Newsgroups
























154


























Chapter  
                      24 How to Order and Use Reprints
























158


























Chapter  
                      25 How to Write a Review Paper
























163


























Chapter  
                      26 How to Write a Conference Report
























168


























Chapter  
                      27 How to Write a Book Review
























172


























Chapter  
                      28 How to Write a Thesis
























178















  





















Page   
                vii




















Chapter   
                        29 How to Present a Paper Orally
























182
























Chapter  
                      30 How to Prepare a Poster
























189


























Chapter  
                      31 Ethics, Rights, and Permissions
























193


























Chapter  
                      32 Use and Misuse of English
























200


























Chapter  
                      33 Avoiding Jargon
























215


























Chapter  
                      34 How and When to Use Abbreviations
























222


























Chapter  
                      35 A Personalized Summary
























227


























Appendix  
                      1 Selected Journal Title Word Abbreviations
























230


























Appendix  
                      2 Abbreviations That May Be Used Without Definition in  
                      Table Headings
























233


























Appendix  
                      3 Common Errors in Style and in Spelling
























234


























Appendix  
                      4 Words and Expressions to Avoid
























238


























Appendix   
                      5 Prefixes and Abbreviations for SI (Système   
                      International) Units
























244


























Appendix  
                      6 Accepted Abbreviations and Symbols
























245


























Appendix  
                      7 Sample Submission Requirements for an Electronic Journal
























248


























Glossary  
                      of Technical Terms
























250


























References
























257













 
                                                                     
         －－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－－                                                          
                                                      
        颠 牛  收 集
                                                      
        2002.10.27
                                                      
        huangzhiman@263.net 
        


  




























Page 
              1
















Chapter 
                1
                What Is Scientific Writing?























State 
                your facts as simply as possible, even boldly. No one wants 
                flowers of eloquence or literary ornaments in a research 
                article.
—R. B. McKerrow























The 
                Need for Clarity























The key 
                characteristic of scientific writing is clarity. Successful 
                scientific experimentation is the result of a clear mind 
                attacking a clearly stated problem and producing clearly stated 
                conclusions. Ideally, clarity should be a characteristic of any 
                type of communication; however, when something is being said for 
                the first time, clarity is essential. Most scientific 
                papers, those published in our primary research journals, are 
                accepted for publication precisely because they do contribute 
                new knowledge. Hence, we should demand absolute clarity 
                in scientific writing.























Receiving 
                the Signals























Most 
                people have no doubt heard this question: If a tree falls in the 
                forest and there is no one there to hear it fall, does it make a 
                sound? The correct answer is no. Sound is more than 
                "pressure waves," and indeed there can be no sound 
                without a hearer.












  





















Page 
                2
















And, 
                similarly, scientific communication is a two-way process. Just 
                as a signal of any kind is useless unless it is perceived, a 
                published scientific paper (signal) is useless unless it is both 
                received and understood by its intended audience. Thus, 
                we can restate the axiom of science as being: A scientific 
                experiment is not complete until the results have been published 
                and understood. Publication is no more than 
                "pressure waves" unless the published paper is 
                understood. Too many scientific papers fall silently in the 
                woods.























Understanding 
                the Signals























Scientific 
                writing is the transmission of a clear signal to a recipient. 
                The words of the signal should be as clear and simple and well 
                ordered as possible. In scientific writing, there is little need 
                for ornamentation. The flowery literary embellishments—the 
                metaphors, the similes, the idiomatic expressions—are very 
                likely to cause confusion and should seldom be used in writing 
                research papers.























Science is 
                simply too important to be communicated in anything other than 
                words of certain meaning. And that clear, certain meaning should 
                pertain not just to peers of the author, but also to students 
                just embarking on their careers, to scientists reading outside 
                their own narrow discipline, and especially to those 
                readers (the majority of readers today) whose native language is 
                other than English.























Many kinds 
                of writing are designed for entertainment. Scientific writing 
                has a different purpose: to communicate new scientific findings. 
                Scientific writing should be as clear and simple as possible.























Language 
                of a Scientific Paper























In 
                addition to organization, the second principal ingredient of a 
                scientific paper should be appropriate language. In this book, I 
                keep emphasizing proper use of English, because most scientists 
                have trouble in this area. All scientists must learn to use the 
                English language with precision. A book (Day, 1995) wholly 
                concerned with English for scientists is now available.























If 
                scientifically determined knowledge is at least as important as 
                any other knowledge, it must be communicated effectively, 
                clearly, in words of certain meaning. The scientist, to succeed 
                in this endeavor, must















  





















Page 
                3
















therefore 
                be literate. David B. Truman, when he was Dean of Columbia 
                College, said it well: "In the complexities of contemporary 
                existence the specialist who is trained but uneducated, 
                technically skilled but culturally incompetent, is a 
                menace."























Although 
                the ultimate result of scientific research is publication, it 
                has always amazed me that so many scientists neglect the 
                responsibilities involved. A scientist will spend months or 
                years of hard work to secure data, and then unconcernedly let 
                much of their value be lost because of lack of interest in the 
                communication process. The same scientist who will overcome 
                tremendous obstacles to carry out a measurement to the fourth 
                decimal place will be in deep slumber while a secretary is 
                casually changing micrograms per milliliter to milligrams per 
                milliliter and while the typesetter slips in an occasional 
                pounds per barrel.























English 
                need not be difficult. In scientific writing, we say: "The 
                best English is that which gives the sense in the fewest short 
                words" (a dictum printed for some years in the Instructions 
                to Authors of the Journal of Bacteriology). Literary 
                devices, metaphors and the like, divert attention from the 
                substance to the style. They should be used rarely in scientific 
                writing. 














   
                Page 
              4
















Chapter 
                2
                Origins of Scientific Writing























For 
                what good science tries to eliminate, good art seeks to 
                provoke—mystery, which is lethal to the one, and vital to the 
                other.
—John Fowles























The 
                Early History























Human 
                beings have been able to communicate for thousands of years. Yet 
                scientific communication as we know it today is relatively new. 
                The first journals were published only 300 years ago, and the 
                IMRAD (Introduction, Methods, Results, and Discussion) 
                organization of scientific papers has developed within the past 
                100 years.























Knowledge, 
                scientific or otherwise, could not be effectively communicated 
                until appropriate mechanisms of communication became available. 
                Prehistoric people could communicate orally, of course, but each 
                new generation started from essentially the same baseline 
                because, without written records to refer to, knowledge was lost 
                almost as rapidly as it was found.























Cave 
                paintings and inscriptions carved onto rocks were among the 
                first human attempts to leave records for succeeding 
                generations. In a sense, today we are lucky that our early 
                ancestors chose such media because some of these early 
                "messages" have survived, whereas messages on 
                less-durable materials would have been lost. (Perhaps many have 
                been.) On the other hand, communication via such media was 
                incredibly difficult. Think, for example, of the distributional 
                problems












  





















Page 
                5
















the U.S. 
                Postal Service would have today if the medium of correspondence 
                were 100-lb rocks. They have enough troubles with ½-oz 
                letters.























The 
                earliest book we know of is a Chaldean account of the Flood. 
                This story was inscribed on a clay tablet in about 4000 B.C., 
                antedating Genesis by some 2,000 years (Tuchman, 1980).























A medium 
                of communication that was lightweight and portable was needed. 
                The first successful medium was papyrus (sheets made from the 
                papyrus plant and glued together to form a roll sometimes 20 to 
                40 ft long, fastened to a wooden roller), which came into use 
                about 2000 B.C. In 190 B.C., parchment (made from animal skins) 
                came into use. The Greeks assembled large libraries in Ephesus 
                and Pergamum (in what is now Turkey) and in Alexandria. 
                According to Plutarch, the library in Pergamum contained 200,000 
                volumes in 40 B.C. (Tuchman, 1980).























In 105 
                A.D., the Chinese invented paper, the modern medium of 
                communication. However, because there was no effective way of 
                duplicating communications, scholarly knowledge could not be 
                widely disseminated.























Perhaps 
                the greatest single invention in the intellectual history of the 
                human race was the printing press. Although movable type was 
                invented in China in about 1100 A.D. (Tuchman, 1980), the 
                Western World gives credit to Johannes Gutenberg, who printed 
                his 42-line Bible from movable type on a printing press in 1455 
                A.D. Gutenberg's invention was effectively and immediately put 
                to use throughout Europe. By the year 1500, thousands of copies 
                of hundreds of books (called "incunabula") were 
                printed.























The first 
                scientific journals appeared in 1665, when coincidentally two 
                different journals commenced publication, the Journal des Sçavans 
                in France and the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal 
                Society of London in England. Since that time, journals have 
                served as the primary means of communication in the sciences. 
                Currently, some 70,000 scientific and technical journals are 
                published throughout the world (King et al., 1981).























The 
                Imrad Story























The early 
                journals published papers that we call "descriptive." 
                Typically, a scientist would report that "First, I saw 
                this, and then I saw that"















  





















Page 
                6
















or 
                "First, I did this, and then I did that." Often the 
                observations were in simple chronological order.























This 
                descriptive style was appropriate for the kind of science then 
                being reported. In fact, this straightforward style of reporting 
                is still used today in "letters" journals, in case 
                reports in medicine, in geological surveys, etc.























By the 
                second half of the nineteenth century, science was beginning to 
                move fast and in increasingly sophisticated ways. Especially 
                because of the work of Louis Pasteur, who confirmed the germ 
                theory of disease and who developed pure-culture methods of 
                studying microorganisms, both science and the reporting of 
                science made great advances.























At this 
                time, methodology became all-important. To quiet his critics, 
                many of whom were fanatic believers in the theory of spontaneous 
                generation, Pasteur found it necessary to describe his 
                experiments in exquisite detail. Because reasonably competent 
                peers could reproduce Pasteur's experiments, the principle of reproducibility 
                of experiments became a fundamental tenet of the philosophy 
                of science, and a segregated methods section led the way toward 
                the highly structured IMRAD format.























Because I 
                have been close to the science of microbiology for many years, 
                it is possible that I overemphasize the importance of this 
                branch of science. Nonetheless, I truly believe that the 
                conquest of infectious disease has been the greatest advance in 
                the history of science. I further believe that a brief retelling 
                of this story may illustrate science and the reporting of 
                science. Those who believe that atomic energy, or molecular 
                biology, is the "greatest advance" might still 
                appreciate the paradigm of modern science provided by the 
                infectious disease story.























The work 
                of Pasteur was followed, in the early 1900s, by the work of Paul 
                Ehrlich and, in the 1930s, by the work of Gerhard Domagk (sulfa 
                drugs). World War II prompted the development of penicillin 
                (first described by Alexander Fleming in 1929). Streptomycin was 
                reported in 1944, and soon after World War II the mad but 
                wonderful search for "miracle drugs" produced the 
                tetracyclines and dozens of other effective antibiotics. Thus, 
                these developments led to the virtual elimination of the 
                scourges of tuberculosis, septicemia, diphtheria, the plagues, 
                typhoid, and (through vaccination) smallpox and infantile 
                paralysis (polio).























As these 
                miracles were pouring out of our medical research laboratories 
                after World War II, it was logical that investment in research 
                would















  





















Page 
                7
















greatly 
                increase. This positive inducement to support science was soon 
                (in 1957) joined by a negative factor when the Soviets flew Sputnik 
                around our planet. In the following years, whether from hope of 
                more ''miracles" or fear of the Soviets, the U.S. 
                government (and others) poured additional billions of dollars 
                into scientific research.























Money 
                produced science. And science produced papers. Mountains of 
                them. The result was powerful pressure on the existing (and the 
                many new) journals. Journal editors, in self-defense if for no 
                other reason, began to demand that manuscripts be tightly 
                written and well organized. Journal space became too precious to 
                waste on verbosity or redundancy. The IMRAD format, which had 
                been slowly progressing since the latter part of the nineteenth 
                century, now came into almost universal use in research 
                journals. Some editors espoused IMRAD because they became 
                convinced that it was the simplest and most logical way to 
                communicate research results. Other editors, perhaps not 
                convinced by the simple logic of IMRAD, nonetheless hopped on 
                the bandwagon because the rigidity of IMRAD did indeed save 
                space (and expense) in the journals and because IMRAD made life 
                easier for editors and referees (also known as reviewers) by 
                "indexing" the major parts of a manuscript.























The logic 
                of IMRAD can be defined in question form: What question 
                (problem) was studied? The answer is the Introduction. How was 
                the problem studied? The answer is the Methods. What were the 
                findings? The answer is the Results. What do these findings 
                mean? The answer is the Discussion.























It now 
                seems clear to us that the simple logic of IMRAD does help the 
                author organize and write the manuscript, and IMRAD provides an 
                easy road map for editors, referees, and ultimately readers to 
                follow in reading the paper. 















  





















Page 
                8
















Chapter 
                3
                What Is a Scientific Paper?























Without 
                publication, science is dead.
—Gerard Piel























Definition 
                of a Scientific Paper























A 
                scientific paper is a written and published report describing 
                original research results. That short definition must be 
                qualified, however, by noting that a scientific paper must be 
                written in a certain way and it must be published in a certain 
                way, as defined by three centuries of developing tradition, 
                editorial practice, scientific ethics, and the interplay of 
                printing and publishing procedures.























To 
                properly define "scientific paper," we must define the 
                mechanism that creates a scientific paper, namely, valid (i.e., 
                primary) publication. Abstracts, theses, conference reports, and 
                many other types of literature are published, but such 
                publications do not normally meet the test of valid publication. 
                Further, even if a scientific paper meets all the other tests 
                (discussed below), it is not validly published if it is 
                published in the wrong place. That is, a relatively poor 
                research report, but one that meets the tests, is validly 
                published if accepted and published in the right place (a 
                primary journal or other primary publication); a superbly 
                prepared research report is not validly published if published 
                in the wrong place. Most of the government report literature and 
                conference literature, as well as institutional bulletins and 
                other ephemeral publications, do not qualify as primary 
                literature.















  





















Page 
                9
















Many 
                people have struggled with the definition of primary publication 
                (valid publication), from which is derived the definition of a 
                scientific paper. The Council of Biology Editors (CBE), an 
                authoritative professional organization (in biology, at least) 
                dealing with such problems, arrived at the following definition 
                (Council of Biology Editors, 1968):























An 
                acceptable primary scientific publication must be the first 
                disclosure containing sufficient information to enable peers (1) 
                to assess observations, (2) to repeat experiments, and (3) to 
                evaluate intellectual processes; moreover, it must be 
                susceptible to sensory perception, essentially permanent, 
                available to the scientific community without restriction, and 
                available for regular screening by one or more of the major 
                recognized secondary services (e.g., currently, Biological 
                Abstracts, Chemical Abstracts, Index Medicus, Excerpta Medica, 
                Bibliography of Agriculture, etc., in the United States and 
                similar services in other countries).























At first 
                reading, this definition may seem excessively complex, or at 
                least verbose. But those of us who had a hand in drafting it 
                weighed each word carefully, and we doubt that an acceptable 
                definition could be provided in appreciably fewer words. Because 
                it is important that students, authors, editors, and all others 
                concerned understand what a scientific paper is and what it is 
                not, it may be helpful to work through this definition to see 
                what it really means.























"An 
                acceptable primary scientific publication" must be 
                "the first disclosure." Certainly, first disclosure of 
                new research data often takes place via oral presentation at a 
                scientific meeting. But the thrust of the CBE statement is that 
                disclosure is more than disgorgement by the author; effective 
                first disclosure is accomplished only when the disclosure 
                takes a form that allows the peers of the author (either now or 
                in the future) to fully comprehend and use that which is 
                disclosed.























Thus, 
                sufficient information must be presented so that potential users 
                of the data can (1) assess observations, (2) repeat experiments, 
                and (3) evaluate intellectual processes. (Are the author's 
                conclusions justified by the data?) Then, the disclosure must be 
                "susceptible to sensory perception." This may seem an 
                awkward phrase, because in normal practice it simply means 
                published; however, this definition provides for disclosure not 
                just in terms of visual materials (printed journals, microfilm, 
                microfiche) but also perhaps in nonprint, nonvisual forms. For















  





















Page 
                10
















example, 
                "publication" in the form of audio cassettes, if that 
                publication met the other tests provided in the definition, 
                would constitute effective publication. And, certainly, the new 
                electronic journals meet the definition of valid publication. 
                (Or, as one wag observed: "Electronic publishing has the 
                capability to add a whole new dementia to the way people obtain 
                and read literature.") What about material posted on a Web 
                site? Some publishers have taken the position that this indeed 
                is "publication'' and that this would bar later 
                publications in a journal. Here is how the American Society for 
                Microbiology states its policy (Instructions to Authors, Journal 
                of Bacteriology, January 1998):























A 
                scientific paper or its substance published in a conference 
                report, symposium proceeding, or technical bulletin, posted on a 
                host computer to which there is access via the Internet, or made 
                available through any other retrievable source, including CD-ROM 
                and other electronic forms, is unacceptable for submission to an 
                ASM journal on grounds of prior publication. A manuscript 
                whose substance was included in a thesis or dissertation posted 
                on a host computer to which there is access via the Internet is 
                unacceptable for submission to an ASM journal on the grounds of prior 
                publication.























Regardless 
                of the form of publication, that form must be essentially 
                permanent, must be made available to the scientific community 
                without restriction, and must be made available to the 
                information retrieval services (Biological Abstracts, 
                Chemical Abstracts, Index Medicus, etc.). Thus, publications 
                such as newsletters, corporate publications, and 
                controlled-circulation journals, many of which are of value for 
                their news or other features, cannot serve as repositories for 
                scientific knowledge.























To restate 
                the CBE definition in simpler but not more accurate terms, 
                primary publication is (1) the first publication of original 
                research results, (2) in a form whereby peers of the author can 
                repeat the experiments and test the conclusions, and (3) in a 
                journal or other source document readily available within the 
                scientific community. To understand this definition, however, we 
                must add an important caveat. The part of the definition that 
                refers to "peers of the author" is accepted as meaning 
                prepublication peer review. Thus, by definition, scientific 
                papers are published in peer-reviewed publications.























I have 
                belabored this question of definition for two reasons. First, 
                the entire community of science has long labored with an 
                inefficient, costly















  





















Page 
                11
















system of 
                scientific communication precisely because it (authors, editors, 
                publishers) has been unable or unwilling to define primary 
                publication. As a result, much of the literature is buried in 
                meeting abstracts, obscure conference reports, government 
                documents, or books or journals of minuscule circulation. Other 
                papers, in the same or slightly altered form, are published more 
                than once; occasionally, this is due to the lack of definition 
                as to which conference reports, books, and compilations are (or 
                should be) primary publications and which are not. Redundancy 
                and confusion result. Second, a scientific paper is, by 
                definition, a particular kind of document containing certain 
                specified kinds of information in a prescribed (IMRAD) order. If 
                the graduate student or the budding scientist (and even some of 
                those scientists who have already published many papers) can 
                fully grasp the significance of this definition, the writing 
                task should be a good deal easier. Confusion results from an 
                amorphous task. The easy task is the one in which you know 
                exactly what must be done and in exactly what order it must be 
                done.























Organization 
                of a Scientific Paper























A 
                scientific paper is organized to meet the needs of valid 
                publication. It is, or should be, highly stylized, with 
                distinctive and clearly evident component parts. The most common 
                labeling of the component parts, in the basic sciences, is 
                Introduction, Methods, Results, and Discussion (hence, the 
                acronym IMRAD). Actually, the heading "Materials and 
                Methods" may be more common than the simpler 
                "Methods," but it is the latter form that was fixed in 
                the acronym.























I have 
                taught and recommended the IMRAD approach for many years. Until 
                recently, however, there have been several somewhat different 
                systems of organization that were preferred by some journals and 
                some editors. The tendency toward uniformity has increased since 
                the IMRAD system was prescribed as a standard by the American 
                National Standards Institute, first in 1972 and again in 1979 
                (American National Standards Institute, 1979a). A recent 
                variation in IMRAD has been introduced by Cell and 
                several other journals. In this variation, methods appear last 
                rather than second. Perhaps we should call this IRDAM.















  





















Page 
                12
















The basic 
                IMRAD order is so eminently logical that, increasingly, it is 
                used for many other types of expository writing. Whether one is 
                writing an article about chemistry, archeology, economics, or 
                crime in the streets, the IMRAD format is often the best choice.























This is 
                generally true for papers reporting laboratory studies. There 
                are, of course, exceptions. As examples, reports of field 
                studies in the earth sciences and clinical case reports in the 
                medical sciences do not readily lend themselves to this kind of 
                organization. However, even in these "descriptive" 
                papers, the same logical progression from problem to solution is 
                often appropriate.























Occasionally, 
                the organization of even laboratory papers must be different. If 
                a number of methods were used to achieve directly related 
                results, it might be desirable to combine the Materials and 
                Methods and the Results into an integrated 
                "Experimental" section. Rarely, the results might be 
                so complex or provide such contrasts that immediate discussion 
                seems necessary, and a combined Results and Discussion section 
                might then be desirable. In addition, many primary journals 
                publish "Notes" or "Short Communications," 
                in which the IMRAD organization is abridged.























Various 
                types of organization are used in descriptive areas of science. 
                To determine how to organize such papers, and which general 
                headings to use, you will need to refer to the Instructions to 
                Authors of your target journal. If you are in doubt as to the 
                journal, or if the journal publishes widely different kinds of 
                papers, you can obtain general information from appropriate 
                source books. For example, the several major types of medical 
                papers are described in detail by Huth (1990), and the many 
                types of engineering papers and reports are outlined by 
                Michaelson (1990).























In short, 
                I take the position that the preparation of a scientific paper 
                has less to do with literary skill than with organization. A 
                scientific paper is not literature. The preparer of a scientific 
                paper is not an author in the literary sense.























Some of my 
                old-fashioned colleagues think that scientific papers should be 
                literature, that the style and flair of an author should be 
                clearly evident, and that variations in style encourage the 
                interest of the reader. I disagree. I think scientists should 
                indeed be interested in reading literature, and perhaps even in 
                writing literature, but the communication of research results is 
                a more prosaic procedure. As Booth (1981) put it, 
                "Grandiloquence has no place in scientific writing."















  





















Page 
                13
















Today, the 
                average scientist, to keep up with a field, must examine the 
                data reported in a very large number of papers. Therefore, 
                scientists (and of course editors) must demand a system of 
                reporting data that is uniform, concise, and readily 
                understandable.























Other 
                Definitions























If 
                "scientific paper" is the term for an original 
                research report, how should this be distinguished from research 
                reports that are not original, or are not scientific, or somehow 
                fail to qualify as scientific papers? Several specific terms are 
                commonly used: "review paper," "conference 
                report," and ''meeting abstract."























A review 
                paper may review almost anything, most typically the recent work 
                in a defined subject area or the work of a particular individual 
                or group. Thus, the review paper is designed to summarize, 
                analyze, evaluate, or synthesize information that has already 
                been published (research reports in primary journals). 
                Although much or all of the material in a review paper has 
                previously been published, the spectre of dual publication does 
                not normally arise because the review nature of the work is 
                usually obvious (often in the title of the publication, such as Microbiology 
                and Molecular Biology Reviews, Annual Review of Biochemistry, etc.). 
                Do not assume, however, that reviews contain nothing new. From 
                the best review papers come new syntheses, new ideas and 
                theories, and even new paradigms.























A 
                conference report is a paper published in a book or journal as 
                part of the proceedings of a symposium, national or 
                international congress, workshop, roundtable, or the like. Such 
                conferences are normally not designed for the presentation of 
                original data, and the resultant proceedings (in a book or 
                journal) do not qualify as primary publications. Conference 
                presentations are often review papers, presenting reviews of the 
                recent work of particular scientists or recent work in 
                particular laboratories. Some of the material reported at some 
                conferences (especially the exciting ones) is in the form of 
                preliminary reports, in which new, original data are reported, 
                often accompanied by interesting speculation. But, usually, 
                these preliminary reports do not qualify, nor are they intended 
                to qualify, as scientific papers. Later, often much later, such 
                work is validly published in a primary journal; by this time, 
                the loose ends have been tied down, all essential experimental 
                details are recorded















  





















Page 
                14
















(so that a 
                competent worker could repeat the experiments), and previous 
                speculation has matured into conclusions.























Therefore, 
                the vast conference literature that appears in print normally is 
                not primary. If original data are presented in such 
                contributions, the data can and should be published (or 
                republished) in an archival (primary) journal. Otherwise, the 
                information may effectively be lost. If publication in a primary 
                journal follows publication in a conference report, there may be 
                copyright and permission problems (see Chapter 31), but 
                the more fundamental problem of dual publication (duplicate 
                publication of original data) normally does not and should not 
                arise.























Meeting 
                abstracts, like conference proceedings, are of several types. 
                Conceptually, however, they are similar to conference reports in 
                that they can and often do contain original information. They 
                are not primary publications, nor should publication of an 
                abstract be considered a bar to later publication of the full 
                report.























In the 
                past, there has been little confusion regarding the typical 
                one-paragraph abstracts published as part of the program or 
                distributed along with the program of a national meeting or 
                international congress. It was usually understood that the 
                papers presented at these meetings would later be submitted for 
                publication in primary journals. More recently, however, there 
                has been a trend towards extended abstracts (or "synoptics"). 
                Because publishing all of the full papers presented at a large 
                meeting, such as a major international congress, is very 
                expensive, and because such publication is still not a 
                substitute for the valid publication offered by the primary 
                journal, the movement to extended abstracts makes a great deal 
                of sense. The extended abstract can supply virtually as much 
                information as a full paper; all that it lacks is the 
                experimental detail. However, precisely because it lacks 
                experimental detail, it cannot qualify as a scientific paper.























Those 
                involved with publishing these materials should see the 
                importance of careful definition of the different types of 
                papers. More and more publishers, conference organizers, and 
                individual scientists are beginning to agree on these basic 
                definitions, and their general acceptance will greatly clarify 
                both primary and secondary communication of scientific 
                information. 















  




























Page 
                45
















Chapter 
                10
                How to Write the Discussion























It is 
                the fault of our rhetoric that we cannot strongly state one fact 
                without seeming to belie some other.
                —Ralph Waldo Emerson























Discussion 
                and Verbiage























The 
                Discussion is harder to define than the other sections. Thus, it 
                is usually the hardest section to write. And, whether you know 
                it or not, many papers are rejected by journal editors 
                because of a faulty Discussion, even though the data of the 
                paper might be both valid and interesting. Even more likely, the 
                true meaning of the data may be completely obscured by the 
                interpretation presented in the Discussion, again resulting in 
                rejection.























Many, if 
                not most, Discussion sections are too long and verbose. As Doug 
                Savile said, "Occasionally, I recognize what I call the 
                squid technique: the author is doubtful about his facts or his 
                reasoning and retreats behind a protective cloud of ink" (Tableau, 
                September 1972).























Some 
                Discussion sections remind one of the diplomat, described by 
                Allen Drury in Advise and Consent (Doubleday & Co., 
                Garden City, NY, 1959, p. 47), who characteristically gave 
                "answers which go winding and winding off through the 
                interstices of the English language until they finally go 
                shimmering away altogether and there is nothing left but utter 
                confusion and a polite smile."















  





















Page 
                46
















Components 
                of the Discussion























What are 
                the essential features of a good Discussion? I believe the main 
                components will be provided if the following injunctions are 
                heeded:























1. Try to 
                present the principles, relationships, and generalizations shown 
                by the Results. And bear in mind, in a good Discussion, you discuss—you 
                do not recapitulate—the Results.























2. Point 
                out any exceptions or any lack of correlation and define 
                unsettled points. Never take the high-risk alternative of trying 
                to cover up or fudge data that do not quite fit.























3. Show 
                how your results and interpretations agree (or contrast) with 
                previously published work.























4. Don't 
                be shy; discuss the theoretical implications of your work, as 
                well as any possible practical applications.























5. State 
                your conclusions as clearly as possible.























6. 
                Summarize your evidence for each conclusion. Or, as the 
                wise old scientist will tell you, "Never assume anything 
                except a 4% mortgage."























Factual 
                Relationships























In simple 
                terms, the primary purpose of the Discussion is to show the 
                relationships among observed facts. To emphasize this point, I 
                always tell the old story about the biologist who trained a 
                flea.























After 
                training the flea for many months, the biologist was able to get 
                a response to certain commands. The most gratifying of the 
                experiments was the one in which the professor would shout the 
                command "Jump," and the flea would leap into the air 
                each time the command was given.























The 
                professor was about to submit this remarkable feat to posterity 
                via a scientific journal, but he—in the manner of the true 
                scientist—decided to take his experiments one step further. He 
                sought to determine the location of the receptor organ involved. 
                In one experiment, he removed the legs of the flea, one at a 
                time. The flea obligingly continued to jump upon command, but as 
                each successive leg was removed, its jumps became less 
                spectacular. Finally, with the removal of its last leg, the flea 
                remained motionless. Time after time the command failed to get 
                the usual response.















  





















Page 
                47
















The 
                professor decided that at last he could publish his findings. He 
                set pen to paper and described in meticulous detail the 
                experiments executed over the preceding months. His conclusion 
                was one intended to startle the scientific world: When the 
                legs of a flea are removed, the flea can no longer hear.























Claude 
                Bishop, the dean of Canadian editors, tells a similar story. A 
                science teacher set up a simple experiment to show her class the 
                danger of alcohol. She set up two glasses, one containing water, 
                the other containing gin. Into each she dropped a worm. The worm 
                in the water swam merrily around. The worm in the gin quickly 
                died. "What does this experiment prove?" she asked. 
                Little Johnny from the back row piped up: "It proves that 
                if you drink gin you won't have worms."























Significance 
                of the Paper























Too often, 
                the significance of the results is not discussed or not 
                discussed adequately. If the reader of a paper finds himself or 
                herself asking "So what?" after reading the 
                Discussion, the chances are that the author became so engrossed 
                with the trees (the data) that he or she didn't really notice 
                how much sunshine had appeared in the forest.























The 
                Discussion should end with a short summary or conclusion 
                regarding the significance of the work. I like the way Anderson 
                and Thistle (1947) said it: "Finally, good writing, like 
                good music, has a fitting climax. Many a paper loses much of its 
                effect because the clear stream of the discussion ends in a 
                swampy delta." Or, in the words of T.S. Eliot, many 
                scientific papers end "Not with a bang but a whimper."























Defining 
                Scientific Truth























In showing 
                the relationships among observed facts, you do not need to reach 
                cosmic conclusions. Seldom will you be able to illuminate the 
                whole truth; more often, the best you can do is shine a 
                spotlight on one area of the truth. Your one area of truth can 
                be illuminated by your data; if you extrapolate to a bigger 
                picture than that shown by your data, you may appear foolish to 
                the point that even your data-supported conclusions are cast 
                into doubt.















  





















Page 
                48
















One of the 
                more meaningful thoughts in poetry was expressed by Sir Richard 
                Burton in The Kasidah:























All Faith 
                is false, all Faith is true:
                Truth is the shattered mirror strown
                In myriad bits; while each believes
                His little bit the whole to own.























So exhibit 
                your little piece of the mirror, or shine a spotlight on one 
                area of the truth. The "whole truth" is a subject best 
                left to the ignoramuses, who loudly proclaim its discovery every 
                day.























When you 
                describe the meaning of your little bit of truth, do it simply. 
                The simplest statements evoke the most wisdom; verbose language 
                and fancy technical words are used to convey shallow thought. 















  




























Page 
                49
















Chapter 
                11
                How to State the Acknowledgments























Life is 
                not so short but that there is always time enough for courtesy.
                —Ralph Waldo Emerson























Ingredients 
                of the Acknowledgments























The main 
                text of a scientific paper is usually followed by two additional 
                sections, namely, the Acknowledgments and the References.























As to the 
                Acknowledgments, two possible ingredients require consideration.























First, you 
                should acknowledge any significant technical help that you 
                received from any individual, whether in your laboratory or 
                elsewhere. You should also acknowledge the source of special 
                equipment, cultures, or other materials. You might, for example, 
                say something like "Thanks are due to J. Jones for 
                assistance with the experiments and to R. Smith for valuable 
                discussion." (Of course, most of us who have been around 
                for a while recognize that this is simply a thinly veiled way of 
                admitting that Jones did the work and Smith explained what it 
                meant.)























Second, it 
                is usually the Acknowledgments wherein you should acknowledge 
                any outside financial assistance, such as grants, contracts, or 
                fellowships. (In these days, you might snidely mention the 
                absence of such grants, contracts, or fellowships.)















  





















Page 
                50
















Being 
                Courteous























The 
                important element in Acknowledgments is simple courtesy. There 
                isn't anything really scientific about this section of a 
                scientific paper. The same rules that would apply in any other 
                area of civilized life should apply here. If you borrowed a 
                neighbor's lawn mower, you would (I hope) remember to say thanks 
                for it. If your neighbor gave you a really good idea for 
                landscaping your property and you then put that idea into 
                effect, you would (I hope) remember to say thank you. It is the 
                same in science; if your neighbor (your colleague) provided 
                important ideas, important supplies, or important equipment, you 
                should thank him or her. And you must say thanks in print, because 
                that is the way that scientific landscaping is presented to its 
                public.























A word of 
                caution is in order. Often, it is wise to show the proposed 
                wording of the Acknowledgment to the person whose help you are 
                acknowledging. He or she might well believe that your 
                acknowledgment is insufficient or (worse) that it is too 
                effusive. If you have been working so closely with an individual 
                that you have borrowed either equipment or ideas, that person is 
                most likely a friend or a valued colleague. It would be silly to 
                risk either your friendship or the opportunities for future 
                collaboration by placing in public print a thoughtless word that 
                might be offensive. An inappropriate thank you can be worse than 
                none at all, and if you value the advice and help of friends and 
                colleagues, you should be careful to thank them in a way that 
                pleases rather than displeases them.























Furthermore, 
                if your acknowledgment relates to an idea, suggestion, or 
                interpretation, be very specific about it. If your colleague's 
                input is too broadly stated, he or she could well be placed in 
                the sensitive and embarrassing position of having to defend the 
                entire paper. Certainly, if your colleague is not a coauthor, 
                you must not make him or her a responsible party to the basic 
                considerations treated in your paper. Indeed, your colleague may 
                not agree with some of your central points, and it is not good 
                science and not good ethics for you to phrase the 
                Acknowledgments in a way that seemingly denotes endorsement.























I wish 
                that the word ''wish" would disappear from Acknowledgments. 
                Wish is a perfectly good word when you mean wish, as in "I 
                wish you success." However, if you say "I wish to 
                thank John Jones," you are wasting words. You may also be 
                introducing the implication that "I wish that I could thank 
                John Jones for his help but it wasn't all that great." 
                "I thank John Jones" is sufficient. 















  




























Page 
                51
















Chapter 
                12
                How to Cite the References























Manuscripts 
                containing innumerable references are more likely a sign of 
                insecurity than a mark of scholarship.
                —William C. Roberts























Rules 
                to Follow























There are 
                two rules to follow in the References section, just as in the 
                Acknowledgments section.























First, you 
                should list only significant, published references. References 
                to unpublished data, abstracts, theses, and other secondary 
                materials should not clutter up the References or Literature 
                Cited section. If such a reference seems absolutely essential, 
                you may add it parenthetically or as a footnote in the text. A 
                paper that has been accepted for publication can be listed in 
                Literature Cited, citing the name of the journal followed by 
                "In press."























Second, 
                check all parts of every reference against the original 
                publication before the manuscript is submitted and perhaps again 
                at the proof stage. Take it from an erstwhile librarian: There 
                are far more mistakes in the References section of a paper than 
                anywhere else.























And don't 
                forget, as a final check, make sure that all references cited in 
                the text are indeed listed in the Literature Cited and that all 
                references listed under Literature Cited are indeed cited 
                somewhere in the text.















  





















Page 
                52
















Reference 
                Styles























Journals 
                vary considerably in their style of handling references. One 
                person looked at 52 scientific journals and found 33 different 
                styles for listing references [M. O'Connor, Br. Med. J. 1 (6104):31, 
                1978]. Some journals print titles of articles and some do not. 
                Some insist on inclusive pagination, whereas others print first 
                pages only. The smart author writes out references (on 3" 
                by 5" cards, usually) in full or keys the full information 
                into a computer file. Then, in preparing a manuscript, he or she 
                has all the needed information. It is easy to edit out 
                information; it is indeed laborious to track down 20 or so 
                references to add article titles or ending pages when you are 
                required to do so by a journal editor. Even if you know that the 
                journal to which you plan to submit your manuscript uses a short 
                form (no article titles, for example), you would still be wise 
                to establish your reference list in the complete form. This is 
                good practice because (1) the journal you selected may reject 
                your manuscript, resulting in your decision to submit the 
                manuscript to another journal, perhaps one with more demanding 
                requirements, and (2) it is more than likely that you will use 
                some of the same references again, in later research papers, 
                review articles (and most review journals demand full references), 
                or books. When you submit a manuscript for publication, make 
                sure that the references are presented according to the 
                Instructions to Authors. If the references are radically 
                different, the editor and referees may assume that this is a 
                sign of previous rejection or, at best, obvious evidence of lack 
                of care.























Although 
                there is an almost infinite variety of reference styles, most 
                journals cite references in one of three general ways that may 
                be referred to as "name and year," 
                "alphabet-number," and "citation order.''























Name 
                and Year System























The name 
                and year system (often referred to as the Harvard system) has 
                been very popular for many years and is used in many journals 
                and books (such as this one). Its big advantage is convenience 
                to the author. Because the references are unnumbered, references 
                can be added or deleted easily. No matter how many times the 
                reference list is modified, "Smith and Jones (1998)" 
                remains exactly that. If there are two or more "Smith and 
                Jones (1998)" references, the problem is easily handled by















  





















Page 
                53
















listing 
                the first as "Smith and Jones (1998a)," the 
                second as "Smith and Jones (1998b)," etc. The 
                disadvantages of name and year relate to readers and publishers. 
                The disadvantage to the reader occurs when (often in the 
                Introduction) a large number of references must be cited within 
                one sentence or paragraph. Sometimes the reader must jump over 
                several lines of parenthetical references before he or she can 
                again pick up the text. Even two or three references, cited 
                together, can be distracting to the reader. The disadvantage to 
                the publisher is obvious: increased cost. When "Smith, 
                Jones, and Higginbotham (1998)" can be converted to 
                "(7)," composition (typesetting) and printing costs 
                can be reduced.























Because 
                some papers are written by an unwieldy number of authors, most 
                journals that use name and year have an "et al." rule. 
                Most typically, it works as follows. Names are always used in 
                citing papers with either one or two authors, e.g., "Smith 
                (1998)," "Smith and Jones (1998)." If the paper 
                has three authors, list all three the first time the paper is 
                cited, e.g., "Smith, Jones, and McGillicuddy (1998)." 
                If the same paper is cited again, it can be shortened to 
                "Smith et al. (1998).'' When a cited paper has four or more 
                authors, it should be cited as "Smith et al. (1998)" 
                even in the first citation. In the References section, some 
                journals prefer that all authors be listed (no matter how many); 
                other journals cite only the first three authors and follow with 
                "et al." The "Uniform Requirements for 
                Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals" 
                (International Committee of Medical Journal Editors, 1993) says, 
                "List all authors, but if the number exceeds six, give six 
                followed by et al."























Alphabet-Number 
                System























This 
                system, citation by number from an alphabetized list of 
                references, is a modification of the name and year system. 
                Citation by numbers keeps printing expenses within bounds; the 
                alphabetized list, particularly if it is a long list, is 
                relatively easy for authors to prepare and readers (especially 
                librarians) to use.























Some 
                authors who have habitually used name and year tend to dislike 
                the alphabet-number system, claiming that citation of numbers 
                cheats the reader. The reader should be told, so the argument 
                goes, the name of the person associated with the cited 
                phenomenon; sometimes, the reader should also be told the date, 
                on the grounds that an 1897 reference might be viewed 
                differently than a 1997 reference.















  





















Page 
                54
















Fortunately, 
                these arguments can be overcome. As you cite references in the 
                text, decide whether names or dates are important. If they are 
                not (as is usually the case), use only the reference number: 
                "Pretyrosine is quantitatively converted to phenylalanine 
                under these conditions (13)." If you want to feature the 
                name of the author, do it within the context of the sentence: 
                "The role of the carotid sinus in the regulation of 
                respiration was discovered by Heymans (13)." If you want to 
                feature the date, you can also do that within the sentence: 
                ''Streptomycin was first used in the treatment of tuberculosis 
                in 1945 (13)."























Citation 
                Order System























The 
                citation order system is simply a system of citing the 
                references (by number) in the order that they appear in the 
                paper. This system avoids the substantial printing expense of 
                the name and year system, and readers often like it because they 
                can quickly refer to the references if they so desire in 
                one-two-three order as they come to them in the text. It is a 
                useful system for a journal that is basically a "note" 
                journal, each paper containing only a few references. For long 
                papers, with many references, citation order is probably not a 
                good system. It is not good for the author, because of the 
                substantial renumbering chore that results from addition or 
                deletion of references. It is not ideal for the reader, because 
                the nonalphabetical presentation of the reference list may 
                result in separation of various references to works by the same 
                author.























In the 
                First Edition of this book, I stated that the alphabet-number 
                system "seems to be slowly gaining ascendancy." Soon 
                thereafter, however, the first version of the "Uniform 
                Requirements for Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical 
                Journals" (the "Vancouver" system) appeared, 
                sponsoring the citation order system for the cooperating 
                journals. The "Uniform Requirements" (International 
                Committee of Medical Journal Editors, 1993) have been adopted by 
                several hundred biomedical journals. Thus, it is not now clear 
                which citation system, if any, will gain "ascendancy." 
                The "Uniform Requirements" document is impressive in 
                so many ways that it has had and is having a powerful impact. It 
                is in substantial agreement with a standard prepared by the 
                American National Standards Institute (1977). In this one area 
                of literature citation, however, other usage remains strong. For 
                example, the Council of Biology Editors decided to use the name 
                and year system















  





















Page 
                55
















in the 6th 
                edition of Scientific Style and Format (Style Manual 
                Committee, Council of Biology Editors, 1994). In the text, Scientific 
                Style and Format endorsed both "name and year" and 
                "citation order." It also showed how the ''Uniform 
                Requirements" system of simplified punctuation could be 
                used in "name and year" as well as "citation 
                order." In addition, the 14th edition of The Chicago 
                Manual of Style (1993), the bible of most of the scholarly 
                publishing community, appeared with its usual ringing 
                endorsement of alphabetically arranged references. In its more 
                than 100 pages of detailed instructions for handling references, 
                it several times makes such comments as (page 522): "The 
                most practical and useful way to arrange entries in a 
                bibliography is in alphabetical order, by author."























Titles 
                and Inclusive Pages























Should 
                article titles be given in references? Normally, you will have 
                to follow the style of the journal; if the journal allows a 
                choice (and some do), I recommend that you give complete references. 
                By denoting the overall subjects, the article titles make it 
                easy for interested readers (and librarians) to decide whether 
                they need to consult none, some, or all of the cited references.























The use of 
                inclusive pagination (first and last page numbers) makes it easy 
                for potential users to distinguish between 1-page notes and 
                50-page review articles. Obviously, the cost, to you or your 
                library, of obtaining the references, particularly if acquired 
                as photocopies, can vary considerably depending on the number of 
                pages involved.























Journal 
                Abbreviations























Although 
                journal styles vary widely, one aspect of reference citation has 
                been standardized in recent years, i.e., journal abbreviations. 
                As the result of widespread adoption of a standard (American 
                National Standards Institute, 1969), almost all of the major 
                primary journals and secondary services now use the same system 
                of abbreviation. Previously, most journals abbreviated journal 
                names (significant printing expense can be avoided by 
                abbreviation), but there was no uniformity. The Journal of 
                the American Chemical Society was variously abbreviated to 
                "J. Amer. Chem. Soc.," "Jour. Am. Chem. 
                Soc.," "J.A.C.S.," etc.















  





















Page 
                56
















These 
                differing systems posed problems for authors and publishers 
                alike. Now there is essentially only one system, and it is 
                uniform. The word "Journal" is now always abbreviated 
                "J." (Some journals omit the periods after the 
                abbreviations.) By noting a few of the rules, authors can 
                abbreviate many journal titles, even unfamiliar ones, without 
                reference to a source list. It is helpful to know, for example, 
                that all "ology" words are abbreviated at the 
                "1." ("Bacteriology'' is abbreviated "Bacteriol."; 
                "Physiology" is abbreviated "Physiol.," 
                etc.) Thus, if one memorizes the abbreviations of words commonly 
                used in titles, most journal titles can be abbreviated with 
                ease. An exception to be remembered is that one-word titles (Science, 
                Biochemistry) are never abbreviated. Appendix 1 lists the 
                correct abbreviations for commonly used words in periodical 
                titles.























Citation 
                in the Text























I find it 
                depressing that many authors use slipshod methods in citing the 
                literature. (I never stay depressed long—my attention span is 
                too short.) A common offender is the "handwaving 
                reference," in which the reader is glibly referred to 
                "Smith's elegant contribution" without any hint of 
                what Smith reported or how Smith's results relate to the present 
                author's results. If a reference is worth citing, the reader 
                should be told why.























Even worse 
                is the nasty habit some authors have of insulting the authors of 
                previous studies. It is probably all right to say "Smith 
                (1997) did not study. . . ." But it is not all right to say 
                "Smith (1997) totally overlooked. . . ." or 
                "Smith (1997) ignored. . . ."























Some 
                authors get into the habit of putting all citations at the end 
                of sentences. This is wrong. The reference should be placed at 
                that point in the sentence to which it applies. Michaelson 
                (1990) gave this good example:























We have 
                examined a digital method of spread-spectrum modulation for 
                multiple-access satellite communication and for digital mobile 
                radiotelephony.1,2























Note how 
                much clearer the citations become when the sentence is recast as 
                follows:























We have 
                examined a digital method of spread-spectrum modulation for use 
                with Smith's development of multiple-access communication1 
                and with Brown's technique of digital mobile radiotelephony.2















  





















Page 
                57








































Examples 
                of Different Reference Styles























So that 
                you can see at a glance the differences among the three main 
                systems of referencing, here are three references as they would 
                appear in the References section of a journal.























Name 
                and Year System























Day, R. A. 
                1998. How to write and publish a scientific paper. 5th ed. 
                Phoenix: Oryx Press.























Huth, E. 
                J. 1986. Guidelines on authorship of medical papers. Ann. 
                Intern. Med. 104:269-274.























Sproul, 
                J., H. Klaaren, and F. Mannarino. 1993. Surgical teatment of 
                Freiberg's infraction in athletes. Am. J. Sports Med. 21:381-384.























Alphabet-Number 
                System























1. Day, R. 
                A. 1998. How to write and publish a scientific paper. 5th ed. 
                Phoenix: Oryx Press.























2. Huth, 
                E. J. 1986. Guidelines on authorship of medical papers. Ann. 
                Intern. Med. 104:269-274.























3. Sproul, 
                J., H. Klaaren, and F. Mannarino. 1993. Surgical treatment of 
                Freiberg's infraction in athletes. Am. J. Sports Med. 21:381-384.























Citation 
                Order System























1. Huth EJ. 
                Guidelines on authorship of medical papers. Ann Intern Med 1986; 
                104:269-74.























2. Sproul 
                J, Klaaren H, Mannarino F. Surgical treatment of Freiberg's 
                infraction in athletes. Am J Sports Med 1993; 21:381-4.























3. Day RA. 
                How to write and publish a scientific paper. 5th ed. Phoenix: 
                Oryx Press, 1998.























In 
                addition to its nonalphabetical arrangement of references, the 
                citation order system is markedly different from the others in 
                its advocacy of eliminating periods after abbreviations (of 
                journal titles, for example), periods after authors' initials, 
                and commas after authors' surnames. If you plan to submit a 
                manuscript to any journal using this system of citation, you 
                should obtain a copy of the Uniform Requirements for 
                Manuscripts Submitted to Biomedical Journals. Individual















  





















Page 
                58
















copies are 
                available without charge from the Secretariat Office, Annals of 
                Internal Medicine, American College of Physicians, Independence 
                Mall West, Sixth St. at Race, Philadelphia, PA 19106.























Electronic 
                Creation of Footnotes, References, and Citations























Most 
                word-processing programs make it easy to number citations and 
                place references at the end of your document. Merely place your 
                cursor wherever you want the citation number to appear, and 
                select your program's footnote or endnote command to insert the 
                citation number. The number is automatically placed, and a 
                window appears in which to key the reference item. You can 
                select the type style and size of both the citation and the 
                reference. Reference preferences are also available, including 
                location, type style, and size.























Some 
                publications prefer the superscript numbering scheme, in which 
                the numbers are smaller than the body text and raised above the 
                text line, as shown in the following example:























This was 
                the most startling conclusion to arise from the Wilson study.5























In 
                Microsoft Word, the default number will be inserted 
                automatically in 9 point type and raised 3 points from the 
                baseline of the text. Merely place the cursor where you want the 
                number to appear and choose the Footnote command. Notes can be 
                placed at the foot of the page on which their superscript 
                reference appears, or at the end of the paper as preferred by 
                most journals. The program automatically maintains the numbering 
                scheme even when a citation number is added to or deleted from 
                an earlier section of text. The citation numbers can be Arabic, 
                roman numerals, lower case or capital letters, or symbols.























Citation 
                and Reference Software























EndNote is 
                a software application that provides formats for many of the 
                standard reference styles accepted by journals. At the touch of 
                a key, EndNote allows an entire bibliography to be formatted in 
                a selected style. If your manuscript is rejected by one 
                publication, you can reformat the references to meet the 
                requirements of another journal, again, at the touch of a key. 
                In addition, EndNote can reformat the text citations as















  





















Page 
                59
















well as 
                the Literature Cited section at the end of the manuscript. 
                EndNote and other similar applications bring great accuracy and 
                ease of use to the compiling of references. Once a reference has 
                been entered fully and correctly, it need never be keyed in 
                again; unless changed in some way, it will always be correct.























Citation 
                of Electronic Sources























With so 
                much current work listed electronically on the Internet, 
                citations these days may require that you also list the 
                electronic source. Because the World Wide Web is such a volatile 
                medium, a site may quickly cease being updated and disappear 
                well before the publication of your paper; or the person or 
                organization maintaining the site may move it to another 
                location with a different electronic reference or URL (Uniform 
                Resource Locator). Readers of your paper, using the old site 
                address, will be frustrated when they cannot access the site. 
                The only answer to this problem is for the author of an article 
                to keep a print copy of an electronic URL as an archived 
                reference, should anyone ask for it.























Another 
                problem lies in the nature of Web "pages," which can 
                vary greatly in length. A long Web document will lack page 
                numbers to refer to if you wish to pinpoint an exact location 
                for the facts you wish to cite. A general way around this 
                problem is to name the heading under which the reference occurs. 
                One can also count the paragraphs down from the top or up from 
                the bottom, whichever is shorter.























Several 
                Web sources provide models for electronic citation formats. The 
                International Standards Organization (ISO) <www.iso.ch/infoe/guide.html> 
                offers a lengthy final draft of standards for bibliographic 
                references for electronic documents or parts of documents (ISO 
                690-2:1997). This draft can be ordered online from the ISO 
                catalogue via the ISO Web site. A University of Toronto Web site 
                <www.fis.utoronto.ca/internet/citation.htm> lists a 
                variety of models and formats, including those from the 
                International Standards Organization. Other helpful sites 
                include the following:























<www.askanexpert.com/p/cite.html> 
                offers students help on citation formats along with hints on 
                grammar and styling.























<www.uvm.edu/~xli/reference/apa.html> 
                lists examples of APA (American Psychological Association) 
                citation styles for electronic sources.















  





















Page 
                60
















<www.famu.edu/sjmga/ggrow> 
                is a downloadable APA style guide for the Macintosh.























<www.uvm.edu/~ncrane/estyles/mla.html> 
                allows users to reach Xia Li and Nancy Crane, authors of a 
                popular book on Web citations, and lists the MLA (Modern 
                Language Association) models for electronic citations.























<www-dept.usm.edu/~engdept/mla/rules.html> 
                cites electronic materials with new guidelines.























ISO 
                (International Standards Organization) Draft for Electronic 
                Citations























The ISO is 
                an international group that develops international standards for 
                the presentation, identification, and description of documents. 
                The organization's final draft (ISO 690-2:1997) of standards for 
                electronic citations can be ordered online from the ISO 
                catalogue at <www.iso.ch/infoe/guide.html>. The 
                draft gives examples of reference styles for entire documents, 
                electronic monographs, databases, and computer programs. It also 
                lists examples of electronic citations for journal articles, 
                personal e-mail communications, and listserv communications.























Print 
                Style Manuals for Electronic Citation























The 
                journal you are writing for can usually provide you with a model 
                for formatting electronic references that you refer to in your 
                article. Several hardcopy reference works can also give 
                guidance. The most important of these are Electronic Styles: 
                A Handbook for Citing Electronic Information (Revised 
                edition, 1996) by Xia Li and Nancy Crane, the 14th Edition of The 
                Chicago Manual of Style (1993), and the 6th Edition of Scientific 
                Style and Format (1993) by the Council of Biology Editors. 















  




























Page 
                61
















Chapter 
                13
                How to Design Effective Tables























A 
                tabular presentation of data is often the heart or, better, the 
                brain, of a scientific paper.
                —Peter Morgan























When to 
                Use Tables























Before 
                proceeding to the "how to" of tables, let us first 
                examine the question "whether to."























As a rule, 
                do not construct a table unless repetitive data must be 
                presented. There are two reasons for this general rule. First, 
                it is simply not good science to regurgitate reams of data just 
                because you have them in your laboratory notebooks; only samples 
                and breakpoints need be given. Second, the cost of publishing 
                tables is very high compared with that of text, and all of us 
                involved with the generation and publication of scientific 
                literature should worry about the cost.























If you 
                made (or need to present) only a few determinations, give the 
                data in the text. Tables 1 and 2 are useless, yet they are 
                typical of many tables that are submitted to journals.























Table 1 is 
                faulty because two of the columns give standard conditions, not 
                variables and not data. If temperature is a variable in the 
                experiments, it can have its column. If all experiments were 
                done at the same temperature, however, this single bit of 
                information should be noted in Materials and Methods and perhaps 
                as a footnote to the table, but not in a column in the table. 
                The data presented in the table can be presented in the text 
                itself in a form that is readily comprehensible to the reader, 
                while at the same time avoiding the substantial additional















  





















Page 
                62
















typesetting 
                cost of tabulation. Very simply, these results would read: 
                "Aeration of the growth medium was essential for the growth 
                of Streptomyces coelicolor. At room temperature (24°C), 
                no growth was evident in stationary (unaerated) cultures, 
                whereas substantial growth (OD, 78 Klett units) occurred in 
                shaken cultures."



























Table 
                        1. Effect of aeration on growth of Streptomyces 
                        coelicolor

















Temp 
                        (°C)








No. 
                        of expt








Aeration 
                        of growth medium








Growtha










24








5








+b








78










24








5








-








0






a 
                As determined by optical density (Klett units).


b 
                Symbols: +, 500-ml Erlenmeyer flasks were aerated by 
                having a graduate student blow into the bottles for 15 min out 
                of each hour; -, identical test conditions, except that the 
                aeration was provided by an elderly professor.





















Table 
                        2. Effect of temperature on growth of oak (Quercus) 
                        seedlingsa

















Temp 
                        (°C)








Growth 
                        in 48 h (mm)



















-50















0



















-40















0



















-30















0



















-20















0



















-10















0



















0















0



















10















0



















20















7



















30















8



















40















1



















50















0



















60















0



















70















0



















80















0



















90















0



















100















0






aEach 
                individual seedling was maintained in an individual round pot, 
                10 cm in diameter and 100 m high, in a rich growth medium 
                containing 50% Michigan peat and 50% dried horse manure. 
                Actually, it wasn't "50% Michigan"; the peat was 100% 
                "Michigan," all of it coming from that state. And the 
                manure wasn't half-dried (50%); it was all dried. And, come to 
                think about it, I should have said "50% dried manure 
                (horse)"; I didn't dry the horse at all.

















Table 2 
                has no columns of identical readings, and it looks like a good 
                table. But is it? The independent variable column (temperature) 
                looks reasonable enough, but the dependent variable column 
                (growth) has a suspicious number of zeros. You should question 
                any table with a large















  





















Page 
                63
















number of 
                zeros (whatever the unit of measurement) or a large number of 
                100s when percentages are used. Table 2 is a useless table 
                because all it tells us is that "The oak seedlings grew at 
                temperatures between 20 and 40°C; no measurable growth occurred 
                at temperatures below 20°C or above 40°C."























In 
                addition to zeros and 100s, be suspicious of plus and minus 
                signs. Table 3 is of a type that often appears in print, 
                although it is obviously not very informative. All this table 
                tells us is that "S. griseus, S. coelicolor, 
                S. everycolor, and S. rainbowenski grew 
                under aerobic conditions, whereas S. nocolor and S. greenicus 
                required anaerobic conditions." Whenever a table, or 
                columns within a table, can be readily put into words, do it.























Some 
                authors believe that all numerical data must be put in a table. 
                Table 4 is a sad example. It gets sadder when we learn (at the 
                end of the footnote) that the results were not statistically 
                significant anyway (P = 0.21). If these data were worth 
                publishing (which I doubt), one sentence in the Results would 
                have done the job: "The difference between the failure 
                rates — 14% (5 of 35) for nocillin and 26% (9 of 34) for 
                potassium penicillin V — was not significant (P = 
                0.21)."























In 
                presenting numbers, give only significant figures. 
                Nonsignificant figures may mislead the reader by creating a 
                false sense of precision; they also make comparison of the data 
                more difficult. Unessential data, such as laboratory numbers, 
                results of simple calculations, and columns that show no 
                significant variations, should be omitted.










 

















Table 
                        3. Oxygen requirements of various species of Streptomyces 













Organism




Growth 
                        under aerobic
                        conditionsa








Growth 
                        under anaerobic conditions






Streptomyces 
                griseus




+








-






S. 
                coelicolor




+








-






S. 
                nocolor




-








+






S. 
                everycolor




+








-






S. 
                greenicus




-








+






S. 
                rainbowenski




+








-






a 
                See Table 1 for explanation of symbols. In this experiment, the 
                cultures were aerated by a shaking machine (New Brunswick 
                Shaking Co., Scientific, NJ).









  





















Page 
                64



 

















Table 
                        4. Bacteriological failure rates

















Nocillin








K 
                        Penicillin










5/35 
                        (14)a








9/34 
                        (26)






a 
                Results expressed as number of failures/total, which is then 
                converted to a percentage (within parentheses). P = 0.21.

















Another 
                very common but often useless table is the word list. Table 5 is 
                a typical example. This information could easily be presented in 
                the text. A good copyeditor will kill this kind of table and 
                incorporate the data into the text. I have done this myself 
                thousands of times. Yet, when I have done it (and this leads to 
                the next rule about tables), I have found more often than not 
                that much or all of the information was already in the text. 
                Thus, the rule: Present the data in the text, or in a table, or 
                in a figure. Never present the same data in more than one 
                way. Of course, selected data can be singled out for discussion 
                in the text.























Tables 1 
                to 5 provide typical examples of the kinds of material that 
                should not be tabulated. Now let us look at material that should 
                be tabulated.










 

















Table 
                        5. Adverse effects of nicklecillin in 24 adult patients

















No. 
                        of patients




Side 
                effect















14











Diarrhea















5











Eosinophilia 
                (³5 eos/mm3)















2











Metallic 
                tastea 















1











Yeast 
                vaginitisb 















1











Mild 
                rise in urea nitrogen















1











Hematuria 
                (8-10 rbc/hpf)


a 
                Both of the patients who tasted metallic worked in a zinc mine.


b 
                The infecting organism was a rare strain of Candida albicans that 
                causes vaginitis in yeasts but not in humans.

















How to 
                Arrange Tabular Material























Having 
                decided to tabulate, you ask yourself the question: "How do 
                I arrange the data?" Since a table has both left-right and 
                up-down dimensions, you have two choices. The data can be 
                presented either horizontally or vertically. But can does 
                not mean should; the data should be organized so that the 
                like elements read down, not across.















  





















Page 
                65
















Examine 
                Tables 6 and 7. They are equivalent, except that Table 6 reads 
                across, whereas Table 7 reads down. To use an old fishing 
                expression, Table 6 is "bass ackward." Table 7 is the 
                preferred format because it allows the reader to grasp the 
                information more easily, and it is more compact and thus less 
                expensive to print. The point about ease for the reader would 
                seem to be obvious. (Did you ever try to add numbers that were 
                listed horizontally rather than vertically?) The point about 
                reduced printing costs refers to the fact that all columns must 
                be wide or deep in the across arrangement because of the 
                diversity of elements, whereas some columns (especially those 
                with numbers) can be narrow without runovers in the down 
                arrangement. Thus, Table 7 appears to be smaller than Table 6, 
                although it contains exactly the same information.










 

















Table 
                        6. Characteristics of antibiotic-producing Streptomyces 


























Determination















S. 
                        fluoricolor








S. 
                        griseus








S. 
                        coelicolor








S. 
                        nocolor 



















Optimal 
                        growth temp (°C)















-10








24








28








92



















Color 
                        of mycelium















Tan








Gray








Red








Purple 



















Antibiotic 
                        produced















Fluoricil-
                        linmycin








Strepto-
                        mycin








Rholmonde-
                        laya








Nomycin



















Yield 
                        of antibiotic (mg/ml)















4,108








78








2








0






a 
                Pronounced "Rumley" by the British.





















Table 
                        7. Characteristics of antibiotic-producing Streptomyces 













Organism




Optimal 
                        growth temp (°C) 








Color 
                        of mycelium








Antibiotic
                        produced








Yield 
                        of antibiotic (mg/ml)






S. 
                fluoricolor













-10
























Tan











Fluoricillinmycin













4,108













S. 
                griseus













24
























Gray











Streptomycin













78













S. 
                coelicolor













28
























Red











Rholmondelaya













2













S. 
                nocolor













92
























Purple











Nomycin













0













a 
                Where the flying fishes play.









  





















Page 
                66
















Words in a 
                column are lined up on the left. Numbers are lined up on the 
                right (or on the decimal point). Table 7, for example, 
                illustrates this point.























Table 8 is 
                an example of a well-constructed table (reprinted from the 
                Instructions to Authors of the Journal of Bacteriology). 
                It reads down, not across. It has headings that are clear enough 
                to make the meaning of the data understandable without reference 
                to the text. It has explanatory footnotes, but they do not 
                repeat excessive experimental detail. Note the distinction here. 
                It is proper to provide enough information so that the meaning 
                of the data is apparent without reference to the text, but it is 
                improper to provide in the table the experimental detail 
                that would be required to repeat the experiment. The detailed 
                materials and methods used to derive the data should remain in 
                the section with that name.



























Table 
                        8. Induction of creatinine deiminase in C. neoformans 
                        and C. bacillisporus













N 
                sourcea













  
                        C. neoformans
                        NIH 12
































C. 
                        bacillisporus
                        NIH 191



































Total
                        enzymeb















Sp 
                        act
                        (U/mg of
                        protein)

















Total
                        enzyme















Sp 
                        act
                        (U/mg of
                        protein)






Ammonia













0.58
























0.32
























0.50
























0.28













Glutamic 
                acid













5.36
























1.48
























2.18
























0.61













Aspartic 
                acid













2.72
























0.15
























1.47
























0.06













Arginine













3.58
























2.18
























3.38
























2.19













Creatinine













97.30
























58.40
























104.00
























58.30













a 
                The inoculum was grown in glucose broth with ammonium sulfate, 
                washed twice, and then transferred into the media with the N 
                sources listed below.


b 
                Enzyme units in cell extract obtained from ca. 1010 
                cells.

















Note that 
                these tables have three horizontal rules (lines) but no vertical 
                rules. Virtually all tables are constructed this way. 
                Occasionally, straddle rules (as below ''NIH 12" and "NIH 
                191" in Table 8) are used. Vertical rules are not used 
                because they are difficult to insert in most typographical 
                systems.























Exponents 
                in Table Headings























If 
                possible, avoid using exponents in table headings. Confusion has 
                resulted because some journals use positive exponents and some 
                use negative exponents to mean the same thing. For example, the Journal 
                of 















  





















Page 
                67
















Bacteriology 
                uses "cpm x 103" to refer to thousands 
                of counts per minute, whereas The Journal of Biological 
                Chemistry uses "cpm x 10-3" for the 
                same thousands of counts. If it is not possible to avoid such 
                labels in table headings (or in figures), it may be worthwhile 
                to state in a footnote (or in the figure legend), in words that 
                eliminate the ambiguity, what convention is being used.























Marginal 
                Indicators























It is a 
                good idea to identify in the margin of the text the location of 
                the first reference to each table. Simply write "Table 
                3" (for example) in the margin and circle it. This 
                procedure is a good check to make sure that you have indeed 
                cited each table in the text, in numerical order. Mainly, 
                however, this procedure provides flags so that the compositor, 
                at the page makeup stage, will know where to break the text to 
                insert the tables. If you do not mark location, a copyeditor 
                will; however, the copyeditor might miss the first reference to 
                a table, and the table could then be placed far from the primary 
                text mention of it. Moreover, you might want to make passing 
                reference to a table early in the paper but would prefer to have 
                the table itself appear later in the paper. Only by your 
                marginal notes will the copyeditor and compositor know where you 
                would like the table to appear.























Titles, 
                Footnotes, and Abbreviations























The title 
                of the table (or the legend of a figure) is like the title of 
                the paper itself. That is, the title or legend should be concise 
                and not divided into two or more clauses or sentences. 
                Unnecessary words should be omitted.























Give 
                careful thought to the footnotes to your tables. If 
                abbreviations must be defined, you often can give all or most of 
                the definitions in the first table. Then later tables can carry 
                the simple footnote: "Abbreviations as in Table 1."























Note that 
                "temp" (Tables 1, 2, 6, and 7) is used as an 
                abbreviation for "temperature." Because of space 
                limitations in tables, almost all journals encourage 
                abbreviation of certain words in tables that would not be 
                abbreviated in the text. Capitalize any such abbreviation used 
                as the first word in a column heading; do not use periods 
                (except after "no."). Get into the habit of using the 
                abbreviations in Appendix 2 so that you can















  





















Page 
                68
















lay out 
                tables properly. This is particularly helpful in designing 
                camera-ready tables.























Camera-Ready 
                Copy























Once you 
                have learned how to design effective tables, you can use modern 
                word-processing equipment to prepare camera-ready tables. 
                More and more authors are doing this, either on their own or 
                after being pushed by journal editors. The advantages to the 
                author, to the journal, and to the literature are substantial. A 
                camera-ready table is reproduced photographically, saving you 
                the laborious chore of reading proof of the table. (The camera 
                doesn't make typographical errors.) The advantage to the journal 
                is that the cost of reproducing the table has been reduced 
                because there is no need to keyboard the material, read proof, 
                or make corrections. The advantage to the literature is that 
                published data will contain fewer errors. Any errors in your 
                original copy will of course remain, but the ubiquitous 
                printer's errors of the past, to which tables were especially 
                susceptible, can be avoided by submission of acceptable 
                camera-ready copy.























Other 
                parts of the manuscript can also benefit from use of 
                camera-ready copy. That way you will get what you want, 
                not what a copyeditor or compositor thinks you want. 
                Camera-ready copy works beautifully for complicated mathematical 
                and physical formulas, chemical structures, portions of genetic 
                maps, diagrams, and flow charts. Why not try it?























One final 
                caution: Be sure to read the Instructions to Authors for the 
                journal to which you plan to submit your manuscript before 
                you put your tables in final form. The journal may well 
                outline the types of tables it will accept, the dimensions of 
                tables, and other guidelines for preparing effective tables.























Most 
                journals insist that each table be typed on a separate page and 
                that the tables (and figures) be assembled at the back of the 
                manuscript. Tables should not be submitted as photographs.























Finally, 
                "camera ready" means just that. The page must be clean 
                (no smudges or extraneous marks). The ink should be black. 
                Dot-matrix printers will not produce acceptable 
                camera-ready copy. You must use a laser (or inkjet) printer.















  





















Page 
                69
















Computer-generated 
                Tables























These 
                days, most authors familiar with desktop publishing techniques 
                can easily create their own tables electronically. Word and Word 
                Perfect will allow you to create a table directly into a file, 
                using the word-processing application. In Word, you can create a 
                table merely by choosing the Insert Table option. You can also 
                transform text into a tabular format by highlighting the text 
                you wish to convert and clicking the Convert Text to Table 
                option in the Table menu. The menu will allow you to select the 
                number of columns you need, the number of rows, and the required 
                column width. All these items can easily be changed if you find 
                that your table needs adjusting. You can also split a table to 
                insert text, add gridlines, and sort text in tables by ascending 
                or descending order.























Once you 
                have created your table format, key in the text in each box. The 
                tab key will shift you from one box to the next. You can choose 
                the typeface and size. If you align your table flush left with 
                the text, it does not necessarily need to line up with the right 
                side of the page as well. Your alignment will depend on the 
                number of columns the table includes and how wide the data in 
                each column need to be. Too much space between the data in each 
                column can make the table hard to read.























Data for 
                tables can also be created in Excel or other spreadsheet 
                programs. Excel can also convert your data into a table format. 
                Some journals will accept tables set within your word-processing 
                program as part of your manuscript. Others prefer that you print 
                the table as camera-ready copy (see "Camera-Ready 
                Copy," above). Camera-ready tables must be printed on at 
                least 24-lb. paper by a laser printer set at 600 dpi (dots per 
                inch). Naturally, the table should be smudge free and labeled 
                clearly with the table number and heading. 















  




























Page 
                70
















Chapter 
                14
                How to Prepare Effective Graphs























A good 
                illustration can help the scientist to be heard when speaking, 
                to be read when writing. It can help in the sharing of 
                information with other scientists. It can help to convince 
                granting agencies to fund the research. It can help in the 
                teaching of students. It can help to inform the public of the 
                value of the work.
                —Mary Helen Briscoe























When to 
                Illustrate























In the 
                previous chapter, I discussed certain types of data that should 
                not be tabulated. They should not be turned into figures either. 
                Basically, graphs are pictorial tables.























The point 
                is this. Certain types of data, particularly the sparse type or 
                the type that is monotonously repetitive, do not need to be 
                brought together in either a table or a graph. The facts are 
                still the same: The cost of preparing and printing an 
                illustration is high, and we should consider illustrating our 
                data only if the result is a real service to the reader.























This bears 
                repeating because many authors, especially those who are still 
                beginners, think that a table, graph, or chart somehow adds 
                importance to the data. Thus, in the search for credibility, 
                there is a tendency to convert a few data elements into an 
                impressive-looking graph or table. My advice is don't do it. 
                Your more experienced peers and most journal editors will not be 
                fooled; they will soon deduce that (for example) three















  





















Page  
                71
















or four  
                curves in your graph are simply the standard conditions and that  
                the meaning of the fourth curve could have been stated in just a  
                few words. Attempts to dress up scientific data are usually  
                doomed to failure.























If there  
                is only one curve on a proposed graph, can you describe it in  
                words? Possibly only one value is really significant, either a  
                maximum or a minimum; the rest is window dressing. If you  
                determined, for example, that the optimum pH value for a  
                particular reaction was pH 8.1, it would probably be sufficient  
                to state something like "Maximum yield was obtained at pH  
                8.1." If you determined that maximum growth of an organism  
                occurred at 37ºC, a simple statement to that effect is  
                better economics and better science than a graph showing the  
                same thing.























If the  
                choice is not graph versus text but graph versus table, your  
                choice might relate to whether you want to impart to readers  
                exact numerical values or simply a picture of the trend or shape  
                of the data. Rarely, there might be a reason to present the same  
                data in both a table and a graph, the first presenting the exact  
                values and the second showing a trend not otherwise apparent.  
                (This procedure seems to be rather common in physics.) Most  
                editors would resist this obvious redundancy, however, unless  
                the reason for it was compelling.























An example  
                of an unneeded bar graph is shown in Fig. 1. This figure could  
                be replaced by one sentence in the text: "Among the test  
                group of 56 patients who were hospitalized for an average of 14  
                days, 6 acquired infections."























When is an  
                illustration justified? There are no clear rules, but let us  
                examine the types of graphs in common use in scientific writing,  
                with some indications for their effective use.























When to  
                Use Graphs























Graphs  
                (which are called line drawings in printing terminology) are  
                very similar to tables as a means of presenting data in an  
                organized way. In fact, the results of many experiments can be  
                presented either as tables or as graphs. How do we decide which  
                is preferable? This is often a difficult decision. A good rule  
                might be this: If the data show pronounced trends, making an  
                interesting picture, use a graph. If the numbers just sit there,  
                with no exciting trend in evidence, a table should be  
                satisfactory (and certainly easier and cheaper for you to  
                prepare). Tables are also preferred for presenting exact  
                numbers.















  





















Page  
                72








































Figure  
                1. 
                Incidence of hospital-acquired infections. 
                (Courtesy of Erwin F. Lessel.)























Examine  
                Table 9 and Fig. 2, both of which record exactly the same data.  
                Either format would be acceptable for publication, but I think  
                Fig. 2 is clearly superior to Table 9. In the figure, the  
                synergistic action of the two-drug combination is immediately  
                apparent. Thus, the reader can quickly grasp the significance of  
                the data. It is also obvious in the graph that streptomycin is  
                more effective than is isoniazid, although its action














Table  
                9. Effect of streptomycin, isoniazid, and streptomycin plus  
                isoniazid on Mycobacterium tuberculosisa 


Treatmentb













Percentage  
                        of negative cultures at:

























2  
                        wk








4  
                        wk








6  
                        wk








8  
                        wk






Streptomycin













5
























10
























15
























20













Isoniazid













8
























12
























15
























15


























Streptomycin 
                        + isoniazid
























30
























60
























80
























100













aThe  
                patient population, now somewhat less so, was described in a  
                preceding paper (61).


bHighest  
                quality available from our supplier (Town Pharmacy, Podunk, IA).









  





















Page  
                73








































Figure  
                2. 
                Effect of streptomycin (),  
                isoniazid (),  
                and streptomycin plus isoniazid (   
                ) on Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 
                (Courtesy of Erwin F. Lessel.)























is  
                somewhat slower; this aspect of the results is not readily  
                apparent from the table.























How to  
                Prepare Graphs























In earlier  
                editions of this book, I gave rather precise directions for  
                using graph paper, India ink, lettering sets, etc. Graphs had  
                been prepared with these materials and by these techniques for  
                generations.























Now,  
                however, we all live in a world revolutionized by the computer.  
                The graphic capabilities of computers have increased greatly in  
                recent















  





















Page  
                74
















years.  
                And, now that ink jet and laser printers have largely replaced  
                the inexpensive but poor-quality dot-matrix printers, most  
                scientific laboratories have the capability of producing  
                publication-quality graphs by computer methods (see  
                "Creating Graphics Electronically for Scientific  
                Papers," below).























The  
                techniques of producing graphs electronically vary from program  
                to program. However, the principles of producing good  
                graphs, whether hand-drawn in the old way or computer-drawn by  
                the most modern programs, do not vary. The size of the letters  
                and symbols, for example, must be chosen so that the final  
                printed graph in the journal is clear and readable.























The size  
                of the lettering must be based on the anticipated photographic  
                reduction that will occur in the printing process. This factor  
                becomes especially important if you are combining two or more  
                graphs into a single illustration. Combined or not, each graph  
                should be as simple as possible. "The most common disaster  
                in illustrating is to include too much information in one  
                figure. The more points made in an illustration, the more the  
                risk of confusing and discouraging the reviewer" (Briscoe,  
                1990).























Figure 3  
                is a nice graph. The lettering was large enough to withstand  
                photographic reduction. It is boxed, rather than two-sided  
                (compare with Fig. 2), making it a bit easier to estimate the  
                values on the right-hand side of the graph. The scribe marks  
                point inward rather than outward.























Size  
                and Arrangement of Graphs























Examine  
                Fig. 4. Obviously, the lettering was not large enough to  
                withstand the reduction that occurred, and most readers would  
                have difficulty in reading the ordinate and abscissa labels.  
                Actually, Fig. 4 effectively illustrates two points. First, the  
                lettering must be of sufficient size to withstand reduction to  
                column or page width. Second, because width is the important  
                element from the printer's point of view, it is often advisable  
                to combine figures "over and under" rather than  
                "side by side." If the three parts of Fig. 4 had been  
                prepared in the "over and under" arrangement, the  
                photographic reduction would have been nowhere near as drastic,  
                and the labels would have been much more readable.























The  
                spatial arrangement of Fig. 4 may not be ideal, but the  
                combination of three graphs into one composite arrangement is  
                entirely proper.















  





















Page  
                75








































Figure  
                3. Effect of spermidine on the transformation of B. subtilis  
                BR 151. Competent cells were incubated for 40 min 
                with spermidine prior to the addition of 5 µg of donor DNA  
                per ml (   
                ) or 0.5 µg of donor DNA per ml (  
                ). 
                DNA samples of 5 µg (   
                ) or 0.5 µg per ml ()  
                were incubated for 20 min prior to the addition of cells. 
                (Mol. Gen. Genet. 178:21-25, 1980; courtesy of Franklin  
                Leach.)























Whenever  
                figures are related and can be combined into a composite, they  
                should be combined. The composite arrangement saves space and  
                thus reduces printing expense. More important, the reader gets a  
                much better picture by seeing the related elements in  
                juxtaposition.























Do not  
                extend the ordinate or the abscissa (or the explanatory  
                lettering) beyond what the graph demands. For example, if your  
                data points range between 0 and 78, your topmost index number  
                should be 80. You might feel a tendency to extend the graph to  
                100, a nice round number; this urge is especially difficult to  
                resist if the data points are percentages, for which the natural  
                range is 0 to 100. You must resist this urge, however. If you do  
                not, parts of your graph will be empty; worse, the live part of  
                your graph will then be restricted in dimension, because you  
                have wasted perhaps 20% or more of the width (or height) with  
                empty white space.















  





















Page  
                76








































Figure  
                4. 
                Dose-effect relationship of cefazolin and cephradine (44).























In the  
                example above (data points ranging from 0 to 78), your reference  
                numbers should be 0, 20, 40, 60, and 80. You should use short  
                index lines at each of these numbers and also at the  
                intermediate 10s (10, 30, 50, 70). Obviously, a reference stub  
                line between 0 and 20 could only be 10. Thus, you need not  
                letter the 10s, and you can then use larger lettering for the  
                20s, without squeezing. By using such techniques, you can make  
                graphs simple and effective instead of cluttered and confusing.























Symbols  
                and Legends























If there  
                is space in the graph itself, use it to present the key to the  
                symbols. In the bar graph (Fig. 1), the shadings of the bars  
                would have been a bit difficult to define in the legend; given  
                as a key, they need no further definition (and additional  
                typesetting, proofreading, and expense are avoided).























If you  
                must define the symbols in the figure legend, you should use  
                only those symbols that are considered standard and that are  
                available in most typesetting systems. Perhaps the most standard  
                symbols are open and closed circles, triangles, and squares        
                ().  
                If you have just one curve, use open circles for the reference  
                points; use open triangles for the second, open squares for the  
                third, closed circles for the fourth, and so on. If you need  
                more symbols, you probably have too many curves for one graph,  
                and you should consider dividing it into two. If you must use a  
                few more symbols, every typesetter has the multiplication sign  
                (x). Different types of connecting lines (solid, dashed) can  
                also be used. But do not use different types of  
                connecting lines and different symbols.















  





















Page  
                77
















Graphs  
                must be neatly drawn. In printing, these ''line shots" come  
                out black and white; there are no grays. Anything drawn too  
                lightly (plus most smudges and erasures) will not show up at all  
                in printing; however, what does show up may show up very black,  
                perhaps embarrassingly so. Fortunately, you can determine in  
                advance what your printed graphs will look like, simply by  
                making photocopies. Most office photocopiers seem to act like  
                printers' cameras.























What I  
                have said above assumes that you will make the graphs yourself.  
                If so, these directions may be useful. If someone else in your  
                institution prepares the graphs, you may be able to provide  
                reasonable instructions if you are aware of the essential  
                elements. If you are not experienced in graph-making, and such  
                talent is not readily available in your institution, you should  
                probably try to find a good commercial art establishment.  
                Scientists are sometimes surprised that a commercial artist can  
                do in minutes, at reasonable cost (usually), what it would take  
                them hours to do. Graph-making is not a job for amateurs.























As to the  
                legends, they should normally be typed on a separate  
                page, not at the bottom or top of the illustrations themselves.  
                The main reason for this is that the two portions must be  
                separated in the printing process, the legends being produced by  
                typesetting and the illustrations by photographic processes.























Creating  
                Graphics Electronically for Scientific Papers























Today's  
                technology allows scientists to easily display any number of  
                data variables within a single graphic. Unfortunately, the ease  
                with which complex charts and graphs can be created  
                electronically often leads to confusing or deceptive graphics.  
                Software programs offer a wide choice of templates and formats  
                but cannot help you choose the ones most appropriate to your  
                data. Although they can make the creation of detailed  
                illustrations easier and quicker, graphics software applications  
                do not relieve authors of their responsibility for designing  
                useful illustrations that communicate data accurately and  
                effectively.























Effective  
                information design focuses on what the graphic is supposed to  
                convey in terms of its data content. It includes the typography  
                used for the graphic display, the weight of lines, and the  
                visual arrangement of the data.















  





















Page  
                78
















Software  
                for Graphs and Charts























Charts and  
                graphs can be prepared by using cross-platform applications such  
                as these:























•  
                Excel: Data from Excel can be converted into chart format  
                within the Excel program. Excel data can also be exported to  
                DeltaGraph Pro (see below) or to slide-making programs such as  
                PowerPoint and Persuasion (see below).























•  
                Microsoft Office: Data from Excel or Word can be converted  
                into chart format by using Microsoft Chart in the Microsoft  
                Office collection of programs.























•  
                DeltaGraph Pro: DeltaGraph Pro is a program devoted  
                exclusively to graph-making. It contains a wide library of chart  
                types, with extensive documentation on how to format each type.























•  
                Word: This word-processing program contains the tools for  
                formatting tables but not graphs.























Software  
                for Slides























PowerPoint  
                and Persuasion are slide programs with similar functions; both  
                are available for either Mac or PC. PowerPoint is part of  
                Microsoft's Office Suite and has the advantage of connectivity  
                between applications within it. Adobe's Persuasion can easily  
                import data from other applications. If run from a computer,  
                these applications contain facilities for switching to video or  
                QuickTime movies. They also include functions for outlining and  
                for printing handouts. Word-processing applications can print  
                overhead slides on acetate sheets made for laser printers. If  
                you wish to convert your computer slide show to 35-mm  
                photographic slides, you can select a function that will provide  
                the digital information that can be converted to slides by a  
                service bureau. The package Astound differs from PowerPoint and  
                Persuasion in that is has animation functions that could be  
                useful in a lecture or presentation.























Software  
                for Illustrations























There are  
                two different types of illustration software. Draw or illustration  
                programs are based on geometric shapes and curves rendered  
                on the screen through mathematical calculations. Color or  
                gray-level tints can















  





















Page  
                79
















be  
                included. Draw applications are best used for linear drawings.  
                Draw programs include Adobe Illustrator and Macromedia FreeHand.  
                These programs are not designed for amateurs or beginners.  
                Although Illustrator and FreeHand are similar in functions,  
                FreeHand has better typographic features. Illustrator is popular  
                because it works well with other Adobe applications. An  
                easy-to-use, inexpensive draw program for the Macintosh is  
                SmartSketch. ChemDraw is a draw program for creating chemical  
                structures. While other draw programs can be substituted,  
                ChemDraw has basic defaults for typefaces, bond length and  
                thickness, line thickness, and other parameters for chemical  
                structure creation.























Paint  
                programs use electronic brushes, erasers, and pencils in a  
                painter-like manner to create new illustrations or to clean up  
                or retouch existing photographs and drawings. Paint programs are  
                pixel-based. Pixels are the tiny rectangular or square blocks  
                that compose a graphics-based computer screen. When you  
                "paint" on a computer screen, you are actually turning  
                each pixel on or off, permitting it to display black, white, or  
                an assigned color. Adobe's PhotoShop is the best-known paint  
                program; it works with Illustrator for importing and exporting  
                images between the two programs. PhotoShop is a high-end program  
                aimed at the knowledgeable and experienced user. For the  
                less-sophisticated user, Adobe has a much less expensive and  
                easier-to-use program, Photo Deluxe, which has many of the  
                PhotoShop functions. Either of these programs can be used to  
                retouch photographs or drawings that are washed out, too light  
                or dark, or poorly color balanced. Paintshop Pro for Windows is  
                a similar application.























Formats  
                for Electronic Graphics























Graphics  
                used in computer applications come in several different file  
                formats. The most commonly used graphics formats for Windows are  
                PIC, TIFF (Tag Image File Format), EPS (Encapsulated  
                PostScript), and WMF; those for Macintosh include PICT, TIFF,  
                and EPS. Fortunately, most graphics programs will allow you to  
                save your file in your choice of a number of different formats.  
                Journals usually accept TIFF or PICT files from PhotoShop or  
                other paint programs, and EPS files from FreeHand or  
                Illustrator. Before you create graphics electronically, check  
                with the publication you plan to submit to for their format  
                preferences.















  





















Page  
                80
















Computer-Generated  
                Graphs























One of the  
                most serviceable aids to scientific writing and publishing is  
                the use of electronic applications for creating graphs. Excel, a  
                spreadsheet program, contains some formats for charts and  
                graphs. Data entered into cells in the program's column-and-row  
                format can be converted to a chart or graph by using another  
                feature of the program. Spreadsheet programs offer a limited  
                number of styles. Many people use spreadsheet programs such as  
                Excel, Lotus, or others to record ongoing data as they are  
                developed. The data in a spreadsheet program can also be  
                exported to a charting program for a wider variety of formats.























DeltaGraph  
                Professional is a software program specifically designed for  
                charts and graphs. Many formats are available, although it is  
                wisest to stick with simple two-dimensional designs. Data placed  
                in Excel or other spreadsheet applications can be imported into  
                DeltaGraph. Formats include standard pie, bar, and line graphs  
                but also include paired XY scatter chart and line formats as  
                well as polar graphs. Slide show programs also have a facility  
                for producing graphs, although these are oriented to business  
                use and are generally inappropriate for scientific use.























Choosing  
                the Right Graph Type























Initially,  
                you must analyze your data carefully to determine the clearest,  
                least ambiguous format for displaying the data so that their  
                information can be quickly grasped by the reader. The graphic  
                format you choose should clarify the numerical information for  
                the reader by allowing easy comparisons and by conveying the  
                concepts covered in the associated text. When you select a chart  
                format in DeltaGraph, Excel, or other software program, choose  
                the format that presents the data most clearly and simply,  
                without unnecessary or confusing design elements. Most graphs  
                used for scientific descriptions are based on the following  
                types of configurations:























•  
                Bar charts to compare relative proportions and amounts and  
                show trends and changes over time.























•  
                Tables make comparisons of proportions and amounts.























•  
                Pie charts illustrate proportions and show changes over  
                time.























•  
                Line graphs show trends and changes over time.















  





















Page  
                81
















•  
                Multi-plot charts display correlations between events.  
                Multi-plot charts can be constructed in the following ways: (1)  
                by combining line and vertical bar data; (2) by using a double  
                vertical bar graph, with each bar representing two data sets,  
                one on the bottom and one on top; (3) by using a line chart with  
                individual lines representing each data variable; or (4) by  
                using a scatter plot with two distributions.























Consistency  
                in Representing Data























The  
                measurement intervals you choose should stay the same throughout  
                the graph. For example, if a time-line graph represents yearly  
                increments, make each time interval on the x-axis equal to all  
                others, both in measurement and in the period of time  
                represented. If you are using lines, ensure that each plot line  
                in the graph has the same visual weight as the others. Vary the  
                visual weight only if you wish to make one particular variable  
                plot in the data set more highly featured when compared to the  
                others. An alternative is to create lines of equal weight and  
                color, in which each line uses a different symbol at the node  
                point. Define each data set clearly, either with a legend or by  
                using called-out text next to each line.























Preparing  
                Graphs for Publication























There are  
                many advantages to creating graphs electronically for  
                publication. One is the ability to work in the final width  
                specified by the publication for reproduction. Small graphs are  
                usually one column in width; large graphs can be two columns  
                wide, if necessary. Make sure that all the text is large enough  
                to be read easily but not so large that it dominates the page  
                and confuses the viewer. Most publications prefer a sans serif  
                typeface such as Helvetica for labels and captions. Numbers are  
                easier to read and reproduce in a sans serif type. Final type  
                size (if the graph will be reduced) should be no smaller than 8  
                points. Boldface type can be used for important labels, such as  
                axis names.























When  
                creating bar graphs, avoid using patterns to differentiate  
                between data sets. Black, white, and two or three levels of gray  
                usually suffice. When using shades of gray to differentiate the  
                data, use the following percentages: 25, 50, or 75% of black.  
                When your data set















  





















Page  
                81
















•  
                Multi-plot charts display correlations between events.  
                Multi-plot charts can be constructed in the following ways: (1)  
                by combining line and vertical bar data; (2) by using a double  
                vertical bar graph, with each bar representing two data sets,  
                one on the bottom and one on top; (3) by using a line chart with  
                individual lines representing each data variable; or (4) by  
                using a scatter plot with two distributions.























Consistency  
                in Representing Data























The  
                measurement intervals you choose should stay the same throughout  
                the graph. For example, if a time-line graph represents yearly  
                increments, make each time interval on the x-axis equal to all  
                others, both in measurement and in the period of time  
                represented. If you are using lines, ensure that each plot line  
                in the graph has the same visual weight as the others. Vary the  
                visual weight only if you wish to make one particular variable  
                plot in the data set more highly featured when compared to the  
                others. An alternative is to create lines of equal weight and  
                color, in which each line uses a different symbol at the node  
                point. Define each data set clearly, either with a legend or by  
                using called-out text next to each line.























Preparing  
                Graphs for Publication























There are  
                many advantages to creating graphs electronically for  
                publication. One is the ability to work in the final width  
                specified by the publication for reproduction. Small graphs are  
                usually one column in width; large graphs can be two columns  
                wide, if necessary. Make sure that all the text is large enough  
                to be read easily but not so large that it dominates the page  
                and confuses the viewer. Most publications prefer a sans serif  
                typeface such as Helvetica for labels and captions. Numbers are  
                easier to read and reproduce in a sans serif type. Final type  
                size (if the graph will be reduced) should be no smaller than 8  
                points. Boldface type can be used for important labels, such as  
                axis names.























When  
                creating bar graphs, avoid using patterns to differentiate  
                between data sets. Black, white, and two or three levels of gray  
                usually suffice. When using shades of gray to differentiate the  
                data, use the following percentages: 25, 50, or 75% of black.  
                When your data set















  





















Page  
                82
















includes a  
                larger number of variables, labels can be used to name each  
                variable.























When using  
                lines as the data variables, keep them at least 0.5 point thick,  
                but no larger than 1 point if your lines are 100% black. Lines  
                can be differentiated by symbols or by using a different dashed  
                line pattern for each data variable. When using symbols, keep  
                them all the same size; 10 or 11 points works well. When working  
                with dashed lines, keep all the data lines the same thickness  
                but make sure that each line pattern is sufficiently different  
                from the others for clarity. Avoid using gridlines within the  
                graph unless they are needed for clarity. Tick marks alone can  
                frequently provide the information needed. Information  
                describing the data variables can often be made clearer by  
                creating a legend showing their use. When writing the legend for  
                a graph, describe each plot in the data set so that it is  
                unambiguous and easy to follow.























The graph  
                shown in Fig. 5 is the graph displayed earlier in Fig. 3 redone  
                in DeltaGraph Pro. The key at the upper right of Fig. 5  
                describes each data variable visually. The legend below the  
                graph describes each variable in detailed text.















































Figure  
                5. 
                Effect of spermidine on the transformation of B. subtilis  
                BR 151. 
                Sites 1 and 2: DNA samples of 5 µg (   
                ) or 0.5 µg of donor DNA per ml () 
                were incubated for 20 minutes prior to the addition of cells.  
                Sites 3 and 4: 
                Competent cells were incubated for 40 minutes with spermidine  
                prior to the 
                addition of 5 µg of donor DNA per ml (   
                ) or 0.5 µg of donor DNA per ml (). 
                (Mol. Gen. Genet 178:21-25, 1980; courtesy of Franklin  
                Leach; 
                redone in DeltaGraph Pro courtesy of B.T. Glenn.)















  





















Page  
                83
















The graph  
                in Fig. 6 contains the same data as the graph in Fig. 5. In Fig.  
                6, the data variables are shown as dashed lines.















































Figure  
                6. 
                Effect of spermidine on the transformation of B. subtilis  
                BR 151. 
                (Mol. Gen. Genet 178:21-25, 1980; courtesy of Franklin  
                Leach; 
                redone in DeltaGraph Pro courtesy of B.T. Glenn.)























Fig. 7 is  
                the same graph with the x-axis grid shown in light gray so as  
                not to confuse the grid with the important data indicators. If  
                you wish to include gridlines for clarity, set them 1 point  
                thick on a 15% gray. However, the gridlines in Fig. 7 give the  
                graph a very cluttered appearance.















































Figure  
                7. 
                Effect of spermidine on the transformation of B. subtilis BR  
                151. 
                (Mol. Gen. Genet 178:21-25, 1980; courtesy of Franklin  
                Leach; 
                Redone in DeltaGraph Pro courtesy of B.T. Glenn.) 















  




























Page 
                84
















Chapter 
                15
                How to Prepare Effective Photographs























Life is 
                not about significant details, illuminated in a flash, fixed 
                forever. Photographs are.
                —Susan Sontag























Photographs 
                and Micrographs























If your 
                paper is to be illustrated with one or more photographs, which 
                become halftones (see Glossary of Technical Terms) in the 
                printing process, there are several factors to keep in mind.























The most 
                important factor to worry about, however, is a proper 
                appreciation of the value of the photographs for the 
                story you are presenting. The value can range from essentially 
                zero (in which case, like useless tables and graphs, they should 
                not be submitted) to a value that transcends that of the text 
                itself. In many studies of cell ultrastructure, for example, the 
                significance of the paper lies in the photographs.























If your 
                photographs (especially electron micrographs) are of prime 
                importance, you should first ask yourself which journal has 
                high-quality reproduction standards (halftone screens of 150 to 
                200 lines, coated stock) for printing fine-structure studies. In 
                biology, the journals published by the American Society for 
                Microbiology and by The Rockefeller University Press are 
                especially noted for their high standards in this respect.















  





















Page  
                85
















As with  
                graphs, the size (especially width) of the print in relation to  
                the column and page width of the journal is extremely important.  
                Thus, size should be important to you in making your material  
                fit the journal page. It is important to the journal because the  
                costs of halftone reproduction are very high.























Cropping  
                and Framing























Whatever  
                the quality of your photographs, you want to have them printed  
                legibly. To some degree, you can control this process yourself  
                if you use your head.























If you are  
                concerned that detail might be lost by excessive reduction,  
                there are several ways you might avoid this. Seldom do you need  
                the whole photograph, right out to all four edges. Therefore,  
                frame the important part; this is especially useful if you can  
                frame the width to the column or page width of the journal. You  
                can then boldly write on the edge of the print or on the cover  
                sheet: "Print one-column width (or page width) without  
                photographic reduction." Dealing with such a carefully  
                cropped photograph containing a reasonable instruction from the  
                author, most copyeditors will be pleased to oblige. Figures 8,  
                9, and 10 show photographs with and without cropping. The  
                greatest fidelity of reproduction results when you furnish  
                exact-size photographs, requiring neither enlargement nor  
                reduction. Significant reduction (more than 50%) should be  
                avoided. Greater reduction of graphs is all right, if the  
                lettering can withstand it. There is no need for  
                "glossy" prints, as requested by some journals,  
                provided the matte surface is smooth.























Usually,  
                you should put crop marks on the margins of the photographs. You  
                should never put crop marks directly on a photograph  
                (except the margins). Margin marks can sometimes be used,  
                especially if the photographs are mounted on Bristol board or  
                some other backing material. Otherwise, crop marks may be placed  
                on a tracing paper overlay or on an accompanying photocopy of  
                the photograph. A grease pencil is often helpful.























A useful  
                trick you might try is as follows: Cut two "Ls,"  
                perhaps 6 inches high, 3 inches at the base, and 1 inch wide,  
                from black construction paper. If you now invert one  
                "L" and place it over the other, you have at your  
                disposal an adjustable rectangle with which to frame your















  





















Page  
                86








































Figure  
                8. 
                Petri dish culture of Desulfovibrio vulgaris. Original  
                photograph (top) 
                was reduced by 50% to fit this page width. The cropped version  
                (bottom) 
                needed no photographic reduction. The cropped version obviously 
                provides greater detail of the colonies. 
                (Courtesy of Rivers Singleton, Jr., and Robert Ketcham.)















  





















Page  
                87
































































Figure  
                9. 
                Electron micrograph of thin sections of Desulfomaculum  
                nigrificans. 
                Original photograph (top); cropped to give a clearer picture of  
                spore formation (bottom). 
                (Courtesy of Rivers Singleton, Jr. and Roger Buchanan.)















  





















Page  
                88
































































Figure  
                10. 
                Freeze-fracture replica of an arterial capillary segment. Rows  
                of membrane-intercalated 
                particles characteristic of tight occluding junctions are  
                evident. Grooves remain where other particles 
                have been removed with the complementary fractured piece. Original  
                (top). Only a small fraction 
                (top left corner) of the original was left after cropping,  
                greatly enhancing the detail. The bottom, 
                cropped electron micrograph was published in Microvascular  
                Research 34:349-362, 1987. 
                (Courtesy of Roger C. Wagner and Academic Press, Inc.)















  





















Page  
                89
















photographs.  
                By such ''framing," you can place crop marks where they  
                give you the best picture.























Necessary  
                Keys and Guides























If you  
                can't crop down to the features of special interest, consider  
                superimposing arrows or letters on the photographs. In this way,  
                you can draw the reader's attention to the significant features,  
                while making it easy to construct meaningful legends.























Always  
                mark "top" on what you consider to be the top of the  
                photograph. Mark it on the back, with a soft pencil. Otherwise,  
                the photograph (unless it has a very obvious top) may be printed  
                upside down or sideways. If the photograph is of a field that  
                can be printed in any orientation, mark "top" on a  
                narrow side. (That is, on a 4 by 6 or 8 by 10 print, the 4-inch  
                or 8-inch dimension should be the width, so that less reduction  
                will be required to reach one-column or one-page width.)























As with  
                tables, it is a good idea to indicate the preferred location for  
                each illustration. In this way, you will be sure that all  
                illustrations have been referred to in the text, in  
                one-two-three order, and the printer will know how to weave the  
                illustrations into the text so that each one is close to the  
                text related to it.























With  
                electron micrographs, put a micrometer marker directly on the  
                micrograph. In this way, regardless of the percentage of  
                reduction (or even enlargement) in the printing process, the  
                magnification factor is clearly evident. The practice of putting  
                the magnification in the legend (e.g., x 50,000) is not  
                advisable, and some journals no longer allow it, precisely  
                because the size (and thus magnification) is likely to change in  
                printing. And, usually, the author forgets to change the  
                magnification at the proof stage.























Color  
                Photographs























Although  
                many laboratories are now equipped to make them, color  
                photographs are seldom printed in journals; the cost is  
                sometimes prohibitive. Many journals will print a color  
                illustration if the editor agrees that color is necessary to  
                show the particular phenomenon and if the author can pay  
                (perhaps from grant funds) part or all of the additional  
                printing cost. Therefore, your laboratory photographs should  
                normally















  





















Page  
                90
















be done in  
                black and white because that is what can be printed. Although  
                color photographs can be printed in black and white, they often  
                wash out and do not have the fidelity of original  
                black-and-white photographs.























In recent  
                years, the cost of printing four-color illustrations has come  
                down somewhat, and the use of color in some fields (clinical  
                medicine, crystallography, as examples) has become common. In  
                addition, many medical journals carry a large number of  
                four-color ads, and color photographs can then sometimes be  
                printed in the text at minimal cost (most of the cost having  
                been absorbed by the advertisers). Incidentally, color slides  
                are peferable to prints for reproduction in journals.























Pen-and-Ink  
                Illustrations























In some  
                areas (especially descriptive biology), pen-and-ink  
                illustrations (line drawings) are superior to photographs in  
                showing significant details. Such illustrations are also common  
                in medicine, especially in presenting anatomic views, and indeed  
                have become virtually an art form. Normally, the services of a  
                professional illustrator are required when such illustrations  
                are necessary.























Preparing  
                Photographs and Drawings Electronically























Many  
                journals accepting digital manuscripts will also accept digital  
                images along with traditionally prepared drawings and  
                photographs. If you are submitting hand-drawn black-and-white  
                images, they can be scanned with a conventional office scanner,  
                preferably set at 600 dots per inch (dpi). If you plan to submit  
                your photographs or gray-level drawings in digital format, you  
                will find that reproduction should be at least 1200 dpi or  
                higher for the best quality image. Because most office-quality  
                scanners do not provide that high a resolution, you will need to  
                have scans made at a service bureau. When getting scans made,  
                tell your service bureau that the scans will be used for  
                reproduction.























Digital  
                photographs can be created with a digital camera. Cameras that  
                are advertised for $800 or less will not be suitable; their  
                resolution is meant for the screen, not for print. Quality  
                high-resolution digital cameras are expensive, with prices  
                ranging from $10,000 to over $50,000 depending on features.  
                Another way to go digital is to use a















  





















Page  
                91
















standard  
                camera and have the photographs processed to a digital format,  
                such as a Photo-CD.























Photo-CD  
                Image Format























When you  
                have a number of photographs to digitize, you can use Photo-CDs,  
                a digital format invented by Kodak. With this process, your  
                ordinary roll of film is converted to digital images, each with  
                four levels of resolution, from low to high. The digital images,  
                delivered to you on a CD disk, can be used for slide  
                presentations and Web images as well as for print, depending on  
                the resolution you choose to work with. You can also select  
                individual images from several rolls of film and have them done  
                as a custom order. This type of processing costs a little more,  
                but it is still less expensive than scanning a number of  
                individual images.























You may  
                want to change the Photo-CD Web format that Kodak supplies to a  
                JPEG format for somewhat faster loading. You can view and select  
                the images you want by using the CD-ROM drive on your computer.  
                Selected images can be transferred to a floppy disk or Zip disk.  
                (A Zip disk is a cartridge that can hold much larger amounts of  
                information than the normal floppy disks.) For more information,  
                refer to your local Photo-CD processor, or for Photo-CD  
                information direct from Kodak, access <www.kodak.com/daiHome/products/photoCDs.html>. 















  




























Page 
                92
















Chapter 
                16
                How to Keyboard the Manuscript























Then 
                the black-bright, smooth-running clicking clean
                Brushed, oiled and dainty typewriting machine,
                With tins of ribbons waiting for the blows
                Which soon will hammer them to verse and prose.
                —John Masefield























Importance 
                of a Well-Prepared Manuscript























When you 
                have finished the experiments and written up the work, the final 
                typing of the manuscript is not important because, if your work 
                is good, sound science, it will be accepted for publication. 
                Right? That is wrong. Not only will a badly typed 
                (word-processed) manuscript fail to be accepted for publication, 
                but also, in most journal operations, a sloppily prepared 
                manuscript will not even be considered.























At the 
                Journals Division of the American Society for Microbiology, 
                which is not atypical in this respect, every newly submitted 
                manuscript is examined first simply on the basis of the typing. 
                As an irreducible minimum, the manuscript must be typed (not 
                handwritten), double-spaced (not single-spaced), on one side of 
                the sheet only (not both sides); three complete copies 
                (including three sets of tables, graphs, and photographs) must 
                be provided; and reasonable adherence to the style of the 
                journal (appropriate headings, proper form of literature 
                citation, presence of a heading abstract) must be in evidence. 
                If the manuscript















  





















Page 
                93
















fails on 
                any of these major points, it may be immediately returned to the 
                author, or review may be delayed until the author supplies the 
                missing materials.























Consider 
                this a cardinal rule: Before the final copy of your 
                manuscript is prepared, carefully examine the Instructions to 
                Authors of the journal to which you are submitting the 
                manuscript. Some journals and publishers— the American Society 
                for Microbiology (1998), the American Medical Association 
                (1998), the American Psychological Association (1994), and the 
                American Chemical Society (Dodd, 1997) being good 
                examples—issue remarkably complete and helpful instructions 
                (style manuals). Also look carefully at a recent issue of that 
                journal. Pay particular attention to those aspects of editorial 
                style that tend to vary widely from journal to journal, such as 
                the style of literature citation, headings and subheadings, size 
                and placement of the abstract, design of tables and figures, and 
                treatment of footnotes.























By the 
                way, an increasing number of journals seem to be refusing to 
                accept text footnotes. The main reason for this is the 
                significant printing cost of carrying the footnotes at the 
                bottom of the page, in a different type font, and of having to 
                recompose each page that carries a footnote in order to put the 
                footnote at the bottom of that page (after the compositor 
                identifies which footnotes are cited on which pages). 
                Furthermore, footnotes are disruptive to readers, making papers 
                more difficult to read quickly with comprehension. Therefore, do 
                not use footnotes unless a particular journal requires them for 
                some purpose. Most journals require "present address" 
                footnotes if an author has moved; some journals require that the 
                names of manufactured products be footnoted, with the footnotes 
                giving the names and addresses of the manufacturers. Whenever 
                somewhat extraneous material needs to be mentioned, do it 
                parenthetically in the text. Some journals have a 
                "References and Notes" section at the end of each 
                paper, thus obviating the need for text footnotes.























In an 
                ideal world, perhaps good science could be published without 
                regard to the format of the carrier (the typed manuscript). In 
                the real world, however, busy editors and reviewers, who serve 
                without salary in most operations, simply cannot and will not 
                take the time to deal with messy, incomplete manuscripts. 
                Further, most experienced editors believe that there is a direct 
                relationship involved: A poorly prepared manuscript is, almost 
                without fail, the carrier vehicle of poor science.















  





















Page 
                94
















Therefore, 
                my advice to you is firm on this point. If you want your 
                manuscript to be published (and why else would you be submitting 
                it?), make very sure that the submitted manuscript is typed 
                neatly, without errors, in the style of the journal, and that it 
                is complete in all respects. This is a must.























Your 
                manuscript should be typed or printed out on white bond paper, 
                216 by 279 mm (8½ by 11 in.), or ISO A4 (212 by 297 mm), 
                with margins of at least 25 mm (1 in.). This 
                "hardcopy" is submitted with a disk if that is a 
                requirement of the publisher.























Paging 
                the Manuscript























It is 
                advisable to start each section of a manuscript on a new page. 
                The title and authors' names and addresses are usually on the 
                first page, and this page should be number 1. The Abstract is on 
                the second page. The Introduction starts on the third page, and 
                each succeeding section (Materials and Methods, Results, etc.) 
                then starts on a new page. Figure legends are grouped on one 
                separate page. The tables and figures (and figure legends) 
                should be assembled at the back of the manuscript, not 
                interspersed through it.























Historically, 
                the "new page" system was a requirement of many 
                journals because the older typesetting technology required 
                separation of different material. If, for example, the journal 
                style called for 8-point type in the Abstract and 9-point type 
                in the Introduction, these two sections had to go to different 
                lead-casting machines. Thus, the copy had to be cut unless the 
                natural divisions were provided for in advance.























Because of 
                the flexibility of modern phototypesetters, copy no longer has 
                to be cut. Yet, it is still a good idea to preserve these 
                natural divisions. Even if the divisions no longer aid the 
                typesetting process, they often are useful to you in the 
                manuscript revision process. Often, for example, you may decide 
                (or the reviewers may decree) that a particular method should be 
                added, expanded, shortened, or deleted. The chances are that the 
                Materials and Methods section could be retyped, from the page of 
                the change to the end, without disturbing the rest of the 
                manuscript. Probably only the amount of white space on the last 
                page of Materials and Methods would change. Even if the new 
                material requires additional space, you need not disturb the 
                later sections. Suppose, for example, that the Materials and 
                Methods section in your original















  





















Page 
                95
















manuscript 
                concludes on page 5, the Results begin on page 6, and there 
                isn't enough white space on page 5 to allow for insertion of the 
                needed new material. Simply retype Materials and Methods from 
                the page of change on, going from page 5 to page 5a (and 5b, 
                etc., if necessary). The Results and later sections need not be 
                touched.























Margins 
                and Headings























Your 
                manuscript should have wide margins. A full inch (ca. 25 mm) at 
                the top, bottom, and both sides is about minimum. You will need 
                this space yourself during revisions of the manuscript. Later, 
                the copyeditor and the compositor will need this space to enter 
                necessary instructions. Also, it is advantageous to use paper 
                with numbered lines, for ease in pointing to problems throughout 
                the editorial and printing process.























Before the 
                final typing, examine your headings carefully. The main headings 
                ("Materials and Methods," etc.) are usually no 
                problem. These headings should be centered, with space above and 
                below.























In 
                addition to main headings, most journals use subheadings (e.g., 
                boldface paragraph lead-ins). These should be designed as 
                convenient signposts to help direct the reader through the 
                paper. Consult a recent issue of the journal to determine what 
                kinds of headings it uses. If the journal uses boldface or 
                italic lead-ins, have them typed that way. Headings and 
                subheadings should be "labels," not sentences.























Do not 
                make the common mistake of using a third (or even a fourth) 
                level of heading, unless such usage is specified by the journal. 
                Two levels of headings are usually sufficient for research 
                papers, and many journals do not permit more. Review journals, 
                however, usually specify three or four levels of headings 
                because of the greater length of review papers.























Special 
                Problems























Keep in 
                mind that the keyboarding done by you is not very different from 
                that done later by the compositor. If you have a problem with 
                your manuscript, it is likely that the compositor will also have 
                a problem. See if you can identify and then resolve some of 
                these problems, to make it easy on you and the compositor. For 
                example, most input devices (like the old-fashioned office 
                typewriter) move relentlessly forward, meaning that it is 
                difficult or impossible to set certain overs and unders. Comput















  





















Page 
                96
















ers have 
                solved or eased many problems, but an over-under fraction, such 
                as  can still be difficult. Change the form to (ab - c)/(de - x), 
                and there is no problem. Likewise, it is difficult to set an 
                inferior letter directly under a superior. Thus, a21 
                is not a problem but a21 
                is a problem. The term ax2 
                in the text is a problem for some typesetting devices. The easy 
                alternative is to state "the square root of ax2." 
                If a formula simply cannot be put in a form suitable for 
                keyboarding, you should consider furnishing it as an India ink 
                drawing. You will thus save yourself and the compositor a lot of 
                trouble, and you might save yourself a lot of grief. The camera 
                will set your formula perfectly; the typesetting process might 
                not.























Another 
                problem is the difference in spelling between American-English 
                and British-English. To avoid difficulties for yourself as well 
                as for typesetters and proofreaders, use American spellings in a 
                manuscript being submitted to a journal in the United States, 
                and use British spellings in a manuscript being submitted to a 
                journal in Great Britain.























The 
                Electronic Manuscript























Computers 
                now have an enormous impact on the way scientific papers are 
                written and published. Most science journals are now accepting 
                author submissions in digital format, and many are beginning to 
                support online electronic versions. Traditionally, the process 
                of writing and publishing scientific papers developed one step 
                after the other in a linear process. The author submitted a 
                draft of his or her paper to a journal. The paper, if of 
                interest to the publisher, was reviewed by both editors and 
                peers. Their comments were used to refine the work. When the 
                paper was published, a librarian classified the article and 
                cataloged it for future access.























In the 
                past, these processes were independent of each other, and 
                separate individuals and departments carried them out. In 
                present-day journal publishing, the process has changed. Budgets 
                have shrunk, and the review process has speeded up. Functions 
                overlap as authors become typesetters and graphic artists as 
                well as scientists; publishers often give authors guidelines and 
                templates for use in writing their manuscripts. Publishers 
                frequently supply standards for visual presentation that are 
                intended to aid the production process and to improve the 
                clarity of concepts contained in the text. With the advent of 
                desktop publishing, few individuals or academic departments any 
                longer rely on the type-















  





















Page 
                97
















writer. 
                Indeed, many journal publishers have handed at least part of the 
                production of the typeset manuscript to the author.























Hardware























Computers 
                and Printers























A personal 
                computer—using either a Macintosh or a Windows operating 
                system—is, of course, the essential piece of hardware. Most 
                laboratories and universities now use personal computers 
                connected to each other on a large network, with a server 
                providing all the connected units with access to files, 
                applications, and the Internet. If you are using Windows, a 
                computer with the slower 486 processor and the older 3.1 version 
                of Windows will work fine for most of your purposes. However, if 
                available, a Pentium processor, from 133 mHz. on up, will prove 
                better suited for the creation of graphics. The older, slower 
                Macintosh computers will satisfactorily meet most of your 
                word-processing needs, although the newer Power Macs will prove 
                more useful with graphics applications. Listed below are some 
                other important computer features to consider when preparing 
                your electronic manuscript.























• 
                Hard Drive: Your hard drive holds your applications and 
                files. Unless you plan to use many applications and create many 
                graphics files, a 1.2-gigabyte drive is usually large enough. 
                Most new machines come with at least a 1.2-gigabyte hard drive.























• 
                CD-ROM Drive: Most computers today come with a drive that 
                can read CD-ROM disks. Many software programs are now available 
                on CD-ROM.























• 
                Memory: If you are using your computer for writing only, you 
                can make do with 8 megabytes of RAM (random access memory). 
                However, if you plan to create graphics and run more than one 
                application at a time, you will need at least 16 megabytes of 
                RAM. Most new machines come with at least 16 megabytes. If you 
                are working with digital photographs and other continuous-tone 
                graphics, plan on needing at least 32 megabytes of RAM.























• 
                Monitor: Monitors come in several sizes—15-inch, 17-inch, 
                and 20-inch, measured on the diagonal. If your budget allows, 
                get a 20-inch monitor; it is large enough to view almost an 
                entire page of text at one time. In addition, you can open a 
                second page for comparison or open















  





















Page 
                98
















a related 
                graphic to view side by side. A 17-inch monitor is your next 
                best bet. Most new monitors will allow you to adjust the screen 
                resolution so that you can see more of the image, just a little 
                bit smaller.























Another 
                vital piece of hardware is the printer. Professional journals 
                frequently accept computer-generated line art; you will require 
                the use of a laser printer that is capable of producing clear, 
                high-quality graphics as well as dark, easily read text. 
                Journals require that laser-generated output be printed at 600 
                dpi (dots per inch) resolution; any lower resolution is 
                unacceptable because it will not reprint well. Your printer will 
                thus need to be capable of black-and-white laser output at 600 
                dpi.























Portable 
                Drives, Modems, and Digital Cameras























To avoid 
                losing all your hard work in the event of a computer 
                catastrophe, you should backup (save) your data somewhere apart 
                from your hard drive. Most manuscript files are short enough to 
                be backed up on a floppy disk. However, if you are working on a 
                number of files, keeping track of disks may become a problem. To 
                avoid this problem, you can use a portable drive, which holds 
                more data.























• 
                Syquest Drive: Although the venerable Syquest is gradually 
                being replaced by new types of equipment, it is still one of the 
                most widely used portable drives. The easily transportable 
                cartridges come in 44- , 88- , and 200-megabyte sizes. The 
                200-megabyte drive will read all three sizes; it will write or 
                copy data to 88- and 200-megabyte cartridges. Cartridges sell 
                for around $50 each.























• 
                Zip Drive: If you are planning to purchase a new drive, the 
                Iomega Zip drive is an excellent choice for most general uses. 
                The drive is priced at around $150, and the cartridges, which 
                look like fat diskettes, sell for about $15 each. Each holds 100 
                megabytes of data. The Zip is gradually replacing the Syquest in 
                terms of general availability. The drive is light and small and 
                can easily be carried in a briefcase. The Zip can be connected 
                to either a PC or a Mac, and Zip software for each type of 
                computer is provided by the drive's manufacturer.























• 
                Jaz Drive: Iomega Jaz drive is a good choice if you require 
                larger data storage. The drive is more expensive than the Zip, 
                selling for around $400. The cartridges hold a full gigabyte of 
                data and cost about $130.















  





















Page 
                99
















Modems are 
                the link between an Internet server and your computer. The 
                faster your modem is, the more quickly Web pages will appear on 
                your screen. The v28 modem runs at 28.8 kbps (28,800 bits per 
                second) and can be purchased for $125 or less. Somewhat faster 
                speeds (32 and 54 kbps) are available for $50 to $100 more. For 
                twice as much speed, ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network) 
                lines running at 57.6 kbps are available from your telephone 
                company. Prices and availability vary greatly for these lines, 
                from state to state and from one phone company to another. Your 
                Internet service provider will charge you more for an ISDN 
                connection. If you are using a modem at a school or business 
                facility, the connections are probably the traditional T1 or T2 
                lines, which can handle many connections at one time. Unless 
                line traffic is especially heavy, Web pages load quickly on T1 
                and T2 connections.























If your 
                work entails the use of photographic evidence, you might 
                consider buying a digital camera. However, lower resolution 
                cameras are excellent choices for images you plan to view only 
                on a computer screen, either for oral presentations or for the 
                Web.























Software























Word-Processing 
                Applications























Word-processing 
                programs can do some page layout, but they are essentially 
                developed for writing. They include functions for copying, 
                cutting, and pasting text and allow you to set margins and work 
                with one or more columns of text. You can select from a variety 
                of typefaces in an assortment of sizes. The more powerful 
                word-processing programs include spell checkers, a thesaurus, 
                automatic page numbering, and automatic citation insertion. Some 
                word processors allow you to create tables and simple artwork, 
                while others even include a grammar checker. Many journals 
                recommend using Microsoft Word or WordPerfect, two of the most 
                common and most popular word-processing programs. Word and 
                WordPerfect are available for both Windows and Macintosh 
                operating systems.























Grammar- 
                and spell-checking functions are helpful but should not be 
                relied on too heavily. Spell checkers should be used only 
                to correct typographical errors. Proofreading is still necessary 
                to prevent errors in context (bow instead of bough, for 
                example); however, proofreading for















  





















Page 
                100
















contextual 
                errors is usually much more efficient if you are not stopping 
                constantly to correct typographical errors. Virtually all spell 
                checkers provide for the creation of custom dictionaries for 
                scientific terms and unusual words. To keep you from relying too 
                much on spell checkers, I offer the following poem, Janet 
                Minor's ''Spellbound":























I have a 
                spelling checker,
                It came with my PC;
                It plainly marks four my revue
                Mistakes I cannot sea.
                I've run this poem threw it,
                I'm sure your pleased too no,
                Its letter perfect in its weigh,
                My checker tolled me sew.























Page-Layout 
                Applications























Page-layout 
                programs help you format elaborate page designs. Multiple 
                columns are much easier to create in a page-layout application 
                than in a word-processing program, providing a far greater 
                degree of control for placing elements. These are programs 
                generally used by graphic designers for producing final pages 
                ready for print. Although you can key in text as part of the 
                page-layout process, most people write in a word-processing 
                application and then place the text that has been written into 
                the page-layout application. Popular page-layout programs 
                include Quark Express and Adobe PageMaker. Many journals prefer 
                that writers submit their work in a word-processing program, 
                with the publisher creating final pages in a layout program.























Adobe 
                FrameMaker is a page-layout program that is preferred by 
                technical writers. Writing in this layout application can be as 
                easy as writing with a word-processing program. However, 
                FrameMaker also allows for a multitude of format arrangements 
                particularly suited to technical material, including the ability 
                to set mathematical formulas. The program enhances the indexing 
                process by providing text markers and codes especially designed 
                for indexing. Templates can be created for complex designs to 
                automate the design and paging process. Some journals, 
                particularly those devoted to mathematics and chemistry, accept 
                work written in FrameMaker.























Adobe 
                Acrobat is a kind of hybrid page-layout program. Its Distiller 
                application converts an electronic file, both text and images, 
                into a















  





















Page 
                101
















format 
                with universal typefaces that can be interpreted by all users. 
                The layout of the original file is maintained, including 
                placement of graphics. The converted file, which ends with a .pdf 
                designation, can be placed on the Internet for downloading. When 
                viewed on screen, using the freely available Adobe reader, the .pdf 
                file simulates book pages while at the same time offering the 
                advantages of electronic files. When printed, the .pdf file 
                looks like your original file, regardless of what typefaces the 
                viewer has available.























Specialized 
                Applications























Different 
                disciplines and even individual journals often have different 
                requirements for their citation formats. In addition, most 
                word-processing programs do not create formatted citations for 
                these disciplines. Applications are available for providing you 
                with the citation or bibliographic format you want or require. 
                EndNote, one of the most commonly used citation applications, 
                allows you to customize templates to suit your needs. (See 
                Chapter 12, "How to Cite the References," for more on 
                citation and bibliography programs.)























If you 
                need to create effective tables and charts, many programs are 
                available to you. Microsoft Word allows you to create excellent 
                tables. You can place as many rows and columns as you need, in 
                the typefaces and type sizes required by your journal. 
                DeltaGraph Pro, for both Macintosh and Windows, has many 
                different types of chart and graph styles to choose from. Data 
                can be keyed in directly or imported from a spreadsheet program 
                such as Lotus or Excel. Typefaces and type sizes can be 
                customized. Grid lines can be selected by width and their 
                locations customized as required. Chart, a Microsoft program 
                that is also part of Microsoft's Office 96 suite of programs, 
                will construct charts by using data from within the program or 
                from Excel, another component of Office 96. It can transport a 
                chart you create to PowerPoint, the slide- show application in 
                Office. The chart template designs are focused primarily on 
                business needs but will also be useful for simple scientific 
                charts and graphs.























Some 
                journals accept tables imbedded into the text. Most journals, 
                however, need all graphics to be printed as hardcopy output at 
                600 dpi minimum resolution. Photographs generally need to be 
                supplied as 8 x 10 inch glossy prints. Some journals will accept 
                digital photographs,















  





















Page 
                102
















with at 
                least 1200 dpi resolution. Some journals accept graphics 
                electronically. Find out a journal's requirements before 
                creating final graphics and other art. (See Chapter 13, 
                "How to Design Effective Tables," and Chapter 14, 
                "How to Prepare Effective Graphs," for more on table 
                and graph creation programs.)























Using 
                Your Word-Processing Program























Most 
                writers now use word-processing programs to prepare their 
                manuscripts. Almost all scientific journals accept, and many now 
                require, articles or reports on disk in electronic format. 
                Listed below are just some of the advantages word-processing 
                programs offer to writers:























• 
                Outlining is built into many applications.























• 
                Revision and editing are greatly simplified.























• 
                Multiple drafts are more easily supported.























• 
                Collaborative work is made easier.























• 
                Table- and chart-making capabilities are built into many 
                applications.























Templates























Templates 
                are a combination of text and page formats that encode the basic 
                arrangement of a page. A template includes specifications for 
                such items as margins, typefaces for text, major and minor 
                headings, and captions. A template can be created for both 
                word-processing and page-layout applications. Templates do not 
                automate the process entirely; rather, they make preparing the 
                manuscript easier for the writer by providing a basic formatting 
                arrangement that can be modified for specific needs. For 
                instance, an author can modify a template to meet all the style 
                requirements of a specific scientific journal. Templates are 
                also a way of maintaining consistency when working 
                collaboratively. Templates can be created for cover letters, 
                title pages, and complete manuscripts.























Editing 
                and Revising Your Manuscript























Some 
                writers like to edit directly on the screen. Others prefer to 
                make their editorial changes on printed hardcopy, and many use a 
                combination















  





















Page 
                103
















of both. 
                Since we tend to see things differently on the computer screen 
                than on paper output, the editing process works best with a 
                combination of both. How you proceed is essentially a matter of 
                personal preference. Printouts are also useful if you wish to 
                have collaborators and colleagues critique your paper as you 
                develop it.























Saving, 
                Backing Up, and Printing Your Document























While 
                writing, you should save your file at least every 10 minutes. 
                You can even set your word-processing program to remind you to 
                save or to save automatically. If the computer crashes, you will 
                lose only a little of your work. At the end of a writing 
                session, make sure you back up your work. Save it on a floppy 
                disk or on a Syquest or Zip cartridge. Be sure to save your file 
                by a name and in a folder or directory that is unique so you can 
                find it again easily. This procedure is particularly important 
                if you are sharing a computer with others. If you are new to 
                computers, check out the manual that came with the machine for 
                document-naming conventions.























Occasionally, 
                you may want to keep two different drafts of your paper because 
                you like both versions and are still not sure which one you want 
                to follow. You can save two or more separate versions, as long 
                as the file name for each is different. Remember, file names are 
                for your benefit and ease of use. For instance, if I name 
                the first version of my manuscript DAY1, the second version can 
                simply be named DAY2. The main thing is to name your files so 
                that you can remember what they refer to. When looking for your 
                file, another helpful feature with both Macintosh and Windows is 
                the ability to see the creation date and time of your file. If 
                you are looking for the most recent version and don't remember 
                the name you gave it, refer to the creation date and time.























When you 
                are ready to edit a hard-copy version of your paper, print it 
                out. These printouts can be made at lower resolution, if you do 
                not have immediate access to a high-resolution printer. When you 
                submit your paper to a journal, it should be done on at least a 
                300-dpi printer. Smeary copy or low-resolution inkjet or 
                dot-matrix quality is not acceptable. As mentioned above, most 
                journals prefer that artwork, including charts and tables, be 
                laser quality, printed at 600 dpi or better.















  





















Page 
                104
















Storing 
                Frequently Used Text for Repeated Use























A great 
                time saver when writing your electronic document is the ability 
                to store frequently used text as boilerplate. In Word, 
                expressions are stored in the Word Glossary and associated with 
                a short reference name to call up the complete word or phrase. 
                In WordPerfect, a stored expression is accessed by a macro 
                keyboard command with a similar short reference name.























Abbreviations 
                and acronyms can also be stored for repeated use. If you wish to 
                catalog abbreviations with their full name, use the Glossary in 
                Word. When you choose the term from the Glossary menu, or press 
                the keyboard character access, the full expression will be 
                placed in your file automatically, wherever you have placed the 
                cursor. If you have stored the expression as a macro in 
                WordPerfect, use the macro keyboard command. Refer to your user 
                manual for more complete instructions on how to use this 
                facility.























Electronic 
                Transmittal of a Document























Most 
                journals will accept your document (tabular material may be 
                excluded) on a floppy disk or other disk media, such as Syquest 
                or Zip cartridges. Journals also require three to five 
                hardcopies of the manuscript to accompany the electronic 
                version. All correspondence with a journal, including the disk 
                and all hard-copy sheets, should be labeled with the 
                corresponding author's initials and last name. You should also 
                state whether the disk is for Macintosh or Windows, what 
                software you have used, and the version. In addition, supply a 
                hardcopy printout of the files stored on your disk or cartridge, 
                with a description of what each file contains.























Submitting 
                an Electronic Abstract























Associations 
                these days often ask for abstracts of papers before the paper 
                itself is submitted for a conference. Many organizations will 
                accept the abstract as simple hardcopy or in an electronic disk 
                version. Other associations may require that the author insert 
                typesetting codes to speed up the process. The American Society 
                for Microbiology <www.asmusa.org>, when asking 
                members for abstracts for a recent















  





















Page 
                105
















conference, 
                required the authors to insert special tags to indicate italic, 
                bold, superscript, and subscript formatting. Their example for a 
                start and end tag for italicized text appeared as follows:























$\IPseudomonas 
                aeruginosa$$END is detected . . .























They also 
                required that Greek characters be spelled out and preceded by a 
                $ tag. Abstracts were submitted from an Official Abstract Form 
                on the Society's Web site. Items on the form included boxes for 
                submission type, the title, author names and affiliations, the 
                abstract itself, and three keywords. To submit the abstract, the 
                author merely pressed the Submit button.























Page 
                Layout and Typography























Because 
                many journals and professional publications now accept papers in 
                electronic format, you will need to find out what format the 
                publication requires and set up your word-processing pages 
                accordingly, prior to submission. Publication requirements may 
                include margin settings, typefaces, and heading styles. Journals 
                will usually specify such formatting considerations as 
                justification and alignment of text. If you are submitting your 
                paper electronically, you will need to know a little about 
                typography and page makeup as well as the basics of word 
                processing.























Margins























Many 
                journals specify the preferred size for margins. Your 
                word-processing program will allow you to set the widths for all 
                your margins. Within the top or bottom margins, you can set 
                consecutive page numbers, any identifying text that you select, 
                and even the date and time. Information set in this way is 
                referred to as a header or footer, depending on whether it is 
                placed at the top or bottom of the page. You can place the page 
                number at the top of the page as a header or at the bottom as a 
                footer. You can center the page number at top or bottom, or you 
                can set it left or right at top or bottom. You can even make the 
                numbers of facing pages set on the inside or the outside margins 
                of both. You will want to consult with the editors of the 
                journal to which you are submitting for their preference in 
                placing page numbers.















  





















Page 
                106
















Justification 
                and Alignment























Justification 
                describes the particular alignment of the type. Left-justified 
                text, the most common format for text, lines up vertically on 
                the left. It may be ragged on the right, meaning the type is not 
                lined up vertically on the right. Justified text, the style 
                usually employed in typesetting books, lines up vertically on 
                both the right and left margins. The word-processing application 
                sets up justified text by adding or subtracting the spacing 
                between words in each line to force the alignment on both left 
                and right margins. Although your word-processing program will 
                allow you to do this easily, most journals prefer that you 
                submit electronic material in a left-justified ragged-right 
                format. Doing so avoids the need for their typesetting system to 
                override the commands of your word-processing program.























Hyphenation























Word-processing 
                applications allow automatic hyphenation. The computer refers to 
                a dictionary and to rules of hyphenation that are built into the 
                application. These dictionaries may not always work for you, 
                especially since scientific terminology is often not found in an 
                ordinary word-processing dictionary. Your word-processing 
                program will also allow you to hyphenate unknown words manually. 
                The new words are saved in a custom dictionary for future use. 
                Specialized dictionaries are available for a number of 
                scientific disciplines. Most journals ask you not to hyphenate 
                text because the hyphenation may interfere with their 
                typesetting system. In addition, some words may lose clarity of 
                meaning when broken up by a hyphen. In text set ragged right, 
                long words do not need to be hyphenated. Publications that do 
                allow hyphenation may have a particular style requirement, such 
                as never to set more than three hyphens in a vertical row.























Typography























Electronic 
                typography comes in two distinct constructs—TrueType and 
                PostScript. PostScript was developed for laser printers and 
                provides clean sharp type regardless of how the image looks on 
                the screen. TrueType works well on the screen but can cause 
                problems when















  





















Page 
                107
















converted 
                to print. It is best used for slides projected from a computer 
                and for other material that will be viewed from a monitor. 
                Always use PostScript fonts for publication purposes.























Times 
                Roman is the most frequently specified typeface for text type in 
                the body of a paper. It is an easy-to-read serif type. (Serif 
                type has little terminators, called serifs, at the end of the 
                stroke lines forming each character.) The typeface usually 
                specified for headings in electronically submitted papers is 
                Helvetica, a sans serif typeface. (Sans serif characters do not 
                have serif terminators at the ends of the strokes and, unlike 
                serif type, are equally weighted, with all strokes of each 
                character having the same width throughout.) Journals also 
                generally prefer that the text type for a submitted manuscript 
                be 12 points in size and double spaced to make it easier to read 
                and comment upon in writing. (In the United States, type is 
                measured in points, with 72 points comprising one inch.)























The 
                standard typeface for scientific symbols is, appropriately 
                enough, Symbol. Scientific journals usually prefer that you use 
                Symbol when preparing your paper. Other typefaces were 
                especially designed for mathematics and chemical formulas. Some 
                publications accept them, but others do not. If you are using a 
                typeface other than Symbol, you must be sure that the journal 
                has a copy of the face you are using. Journals also prefer that 
                you do not use a graphic symbol as part of your text. Refer to 
                the journal for the editors' preferences in this matter. Using a 
                special symbol typeface for a graphic, and submitting a hardcopy 
                printout of the graphic as artwork for publication, usually 
                presents no problem.























TeX is a 
                word-processing type composition program created by Donald Knuth 
                of Stanford University for typesetting complex technical 
                manuscripts. The name TeX, pronounced "tek," is based 
                on the Greek letters Tau, Epsilon, and Chi, whose Roman 
                equivalents are T, E, and X. The program is available to run on 
                Unix, Windows, and Macintosh platforms. Such organizations as 
                the American Mathematical Society <www.ams.org> 
                prefer that manuscripts sent to them be formatted in TeX. 
                Templates are available for electronic formatting of a 
                manuscript in TeX.























Final 
                Review























After the 
                manuscript has been input, you will be wise to do two things.























First, 
                read it yourself. You would be surprised how many manuscripts 
                are submitted to journals without being proofread after final















  





















Page 
                108
















typing—manuscripts 
                so full of typing errors that sometimes even the author's name 
                is misspelled. Recently, a manuscript was submitted by an author 
                who was too busy to proofread not only the final typing of the 
                manuscript but also the cover letter. His letter read: "I 
                hope you will find this manuscript exceptable." We did.























Second, 
                ask one or more of your colleagues to read your manuscript 
                before you submit it to a journal. It may well be that the 
                meaning of one or more parts of your paper is completely unclear 
                to your colleague. Of course, this may be because your colleague 
                is dense, but it is just possible that this portion of your 
                manuscript is not as clear as it could be. You might also ask a 
                scientist working in a different field to read your paper and to 
                point out words and phrases he or she doesn't understand. This 
                is perhaps the easiest way to identify the jargon that may be 
                present in your manuscript. In addition, ask someone whose 
                knowledge of English is reasonably expert to read the 
                manuscript. In short, the ideal in-house "peer review" 
                of your manuscript would include review by (1) a scientist 
                working in your field, (2) a scientist working in an unrelated 
                field, and (3) a person highly competent in English. Careful 
                management of this presubmission process is likely to improve 
                the chances of acceptance by the journal.























Expect to 
                sweat a bit, if you haven't already done so. As the Instructions 
                to Authors of the Journal of General Microbiology once 
                put it, "Easy reading is curst hard writing." 















  




























Page 
                109
















Chapter 
                17
                Where and How to Submit the Manuscript























Great 
                Journals are born in the hands of the editors; they die in the 
                hands of businessmen.
—Bernard DeVoto























Choosing 
                the Journal























The 
                choices of where and how to submit the manuscript are important. 
                Some manuscripts are buried in inappropriate journals. Others 
                are lost, damaged, or badly delayed because of carelessness on 
                the part of the author.























The first 
                problem is where to submit the manuscript. (Actually, you will 
                have already reached a decision on this point before the 
                typing of the manuscript in accord with the Instructions to 
                Authors.) Obviously, your choice depends on the nature of your 
                work; you must identify those journals that publish in your 
                subject area.























A good way 
                to get started or to refresh your memory is to scan a recent 
                issue of Current Contents. It is usually easy to 
                determine, on the basis of journal titles alone, which journals might 
                publish papers in your field. Only by examination of the 
                tables of contents, however, can you determine which journals are 
                publishing papers in your field. You may also elicit useful 
                information by talking to colleagues.























To 
                identify which journals might publish your manuscript, you 
                should do several things: Read the masthead statement (a 
                statement,















  





















Page  
                110
















usually on  
                the ''title page" at the front of the issue, giving the  
                name of the journal, the publisher, and a brief statement of  
                purpose) in a current issue of each journal you are considering;  
                read the "scope" paragraphs that are usually provided  
                in the Instructions to Authors; and look carefully at the table  
                of contents of a current issue.























Because  
                journals have become more specialized, and because even the  
                older journals have changed their scope frequently (of  
                necessity, as science itself has changed), you must make sure  
                that the journal you are considering is currently publishing  
                work of the kind you propose to submit.























If you  
                submit your manuscript to a wrong journal, one of three things  
                can happen, all bad.























First,  
                your manuscript may simply be returned to you, with the comment  
                that your work "is not suitable for this journal."  
                Often, however, this judgment is not made until after review  
                of the manuscript. A "not suitable" notice after weeks  
                or months of delay is not likely to make you happy.























Second, if  
                the journal is borderline in relation to your work, your  
                manuscript may receive poor or unfair review, because the  
                reviewers (and editors) of that journal may be only vaguely  
                familiar with your specialty area. You may be subjected to the  
                trauma of rejection, even though the manuscript would be  
                acceptable to the right journal. Or you could end up with a  
                hassle over suggested revisions, which you do not agree with and  
                which do not improve your manuscript. And, if your manuscript  
                really does have deficiencies, you will not be able to benefit  
                from the sound criticism that would come from the editors of the  
                right journal.























Third,  
                even if your paper is accepted and published, your glee will be  
                short-lived if you later find that your work is virtually  
                unknown because it is buried in a publication that your peers do  
                not read. This is another good reason, by the way, for talking  
                to colleagues before deciding on a journal.























The  
                Prestige Factor























If several  
                journals are right, does it matter which you select? Perhaps it  
                shouldn't, but it does. There is the matter of prestige. It  
                may be that your future progress (promotions, grants) will be  
                determined solely by the















  





















Page  
                111
















numbers  
                game. But not necessarily. It may well be that a wise old bird  
                sitting on the faculty committee or the grant review panel will  
                recognize and appreciate quality factors. A paper published in a  
                "garbage" journal simply does not equal a paper  
                published in a prestigious journal. In fact, the wise old bird  
                (and there are quite a few around in science) may be more  
                impressed by the candidate with one or two solid publications in  
                a prestigious journal than by the candidate with 10 or more  
                publications in second-rate journals.























How do you  
                tell the difference? It isn't easy, and of course there are many  
                gradations. In general, however, you can form reasonable  
                judgments by just a bit of bibliographic research. You will  
                certainly know the important papers that have recently been  
                published in your field. Make it your business to determine where  
                they were published. If most of the real contributions to  
                your field were published in Journal A, Journal B, and Journal  
                C, you should probably limit your choices to those three  
                journals. Journals D, E, and F, upon inspection, contain only  
                the lightweight papers, so each could be eliminated as your  
                first choice, even though the scope is right.























You may  
                then choose among Journals A, B, and C. Suppose that Journal A  
                is a new, attractive journal published by a commercial publisher  
                as a commercial venture, with no sponsorship by a society or  
                other organization; Journal B is an old, well-known, small  
                journal, published by a famous hospital or museum; and Journal C  
                is a large journal published by the principal scientific society  
                representing your field. As a general rule (although there are  
                many exceptions), Journal C (the society journal) is probably  
                the most prestigious. It also will have the largest circulation  
                (partly because of quality factors, partly because society  
                journals are less expensive than most others, at least to  
                society members). By publication in such a journal, your paper  
                may have its best chance to make an impact on the community of  
                scholars at whom you are aiming. Journal B might have almost  
                equal prestige, but it might have a very limited circulation,  
                which would be a minus; it might also be very difficult to get  
                into, if most of its space is reserved for in-house material.  
                Journal A (the commercial journal) almost certainly has the  
                disadvantage of low circulation (because of its comparatively  
                high price, which is the result of both the profit aspect of the  
                publisher and the fact that it does not have the backing of a  
                society or institution with a built-in subscription list).  
                Publication in such a journal may result in a somewhat  
                restricted distribution for your paper.















  





















Page  
                112
















Be wary of  
                new journals, especially those not sponsored by a society. The  
                circulation may be minuscule, and the journal might fail before  
                it, and your paper, become known to the scientific world.























The  
                Circulation Factor























If you  
                want to determine the comparative circulation of several  
                journals, there is an easy and accurate way to do it for U.S.  
                journals. Look among the last few pages of the November and  
                December issues, and you will find a "Statement of  
                Ownership, Management and Circulation." The U.S. Postal  
                Service requires that each publisher granted second-class  
                mailing privileges (and almost all scientific journals qualify)  
                file and publish an annual statement. This statement must  
                include basic circulation data.























If you  
                can't determine the comparative circulation of journals you are  
                considering and have no other way of assessing comparative  
                prestige factors, a very useful tool exists for rating  
                scientific journals. I refer to Journal Citation Reports (an  
                annual volume supplementing the Science Citation Index).  
                By use of this reference document, you can determine which  
                journals are cited most frequently, both in gross quantitative  
                terms and in terms of average citations per article published  
                ("impact factor"). The impact factor especially seems  
                to be a reasonable basis for judging the quality of journals. If  
                the average paper in Journal A is cited twice as frequently as  
                the average paper in Journal B, there is little reason to  
                question that Journal A is the more important journal.























The  
                Frequency Factor























Another  
                factor to consider is frequency of the journal. The publication  
                lag of a monthly journal is almost always shorter than that of a  
                quarterly journal. Assuming equivalent review times, the  
                additional delay of the quarterly will range up to 2 or 3  
                months. And, since the publication lag, including the time of  
                editorial review, of many (probably most) monthlies ranges  
                between 4 and 7 months, the lag of the quarterly is likely to  
                run up to 10 months. Remember, also, that many journals, whether  
                monthly, bimonthly, or quarterly, have backlogs. It sometimes  
                helps to ask colleagues what their experience has been with the  
                journal(s) you are















  





















Page  
                113
















considering.  
                If the journal publishes "received for publication"  
                dates, you can figure out for yourself what the average lag time  
                is.























The  
                Audience Factor























Prestige,  
                circulation, and frequency are all important, but what  
                audience are you trying to reach? If you are reporting a  
                fundamental study in biochemistry, you should of course try to  
                get your paper published in a prestigious international journal.  
                On the other hand, suppose your study relates to a tropical  
                disease found only in Latin America. In that situation,  
                publication in Nature will not reach your audience, the  
                audience that needs and can use your information. You should  
                publish in an appropriate Latin American journal, probably in  
                Spanish.























Packaging  
                and Mailing























After you  
                have decided where to submit your manuscript, do not neglect the  
                nitty-gritty of sending it in.























How do you  
                wrap it? Carefully. Take it from a long-time managing  
                editor: Many manuscripts are lost, badly delayed, or  
                damaged in the mail, often because of improper packaging. Do not  
                staple the manuscript. Damage can result either from the  
                stapling or from later removal of the staples. Giant paperclips  
                are preferable. (Special note: Always retain at least one  
                hardcopy of the manuscript even if you maintain the manuscript  
                in a computer file. I have known of several dummies who mailed  
                out the only existing copies of their manuscript, and there was  
                an unforgettable gnashing of teeth when the manuscripts and  
                original illustrations were forever lost.) When submitting a  
                computer disk along with one or more hardcopies of the  
                manuscript, use a special floppy disk mailer, or secure the disk  
                between oversize pieces of cardboard.























Insert the  
                manuscript and disks into a strong manila envelope or even a  
                reinforced mailing bag. Whether or not you use a clasp envelope,  
                you will be wise to put a piece of reinforced tape over the  
                sealed end.























Authors  
                should not submit oversize photographs. The maximum size should  
                be 8½ by 11 inches. Oversize photographs usually get  
                damaged during transit.























Make sure  
                that you apply sufficient postage and that you send the  
                package by first-class mail. Much of the manila-envelope mail  
                handled















  





















Page  
                114








































PEANUTS  
                reprinted by permission of United Feature Syndicate, Inc.























by the  
                U.S. Postal Service is third-class mail, and your manuscript  
                will be treated as third-class mail and delivered next month if  
                you neglect to indicate "First Class Mail" clearly on  
                the package or if you apply insufficient postage.























Most  
                scientific journals do not require that authors supply stamped,  
                self-addressed return envelopes, although most journals in other  
                scholarly fields do enforce such a requirement. Apparently, the  
                comparative brevity of scientific manuscripts makes it  
                cost-effective for publishers to pay return postage rather than  
                store many bulky envelopes.























Overseas  
                mail should be sent airmail. A manuscript sent from  
                Europe to the U.S., or vice versa, will arrive within 3 to 7  
                days if sent by airmail; by surface mail, the elapsed time will  
                be 4 to 6 weeks.















  





















Page  
                115
















The  
                Cover Letter























Finally,  
                it is worth noting that you should always send a cover letter  
                with the manuscript. Manuscripts without cover letters pose  
                immediate problems: To which journal is the manuscript being  
                submitted? Is it a new manuscript, a revision requested by an  
                editor (and, if so, which editor?), or a manuscript perhaps  
                misdirected by a reviewer or an editor? If there are several  
                authors, which one should be considered the submitting author,  
                at which address? The address is of special importance, because  
                the address shown on the manuscript may not be the current  
                address of the contributing author. The contributing author  
                should also include his or her telephone number, e-mail address,  
                and fax number in the cover letter or on the title page of the  
                manuscript. It is often helpful to suggest the appropriate  
                editor (in multieditor journals) and possible reviewers.























Be kind to  
                the editor and state why you have submitted that particular  
                package. You might even choose to say something nice, as was  
                done recently in a letter in impeccable English but written by  
                someone whose native tongue was not English. The letter read:  
                "We would be glad if our manuscript would give you complete  
                satisfaction."























Sample  
                Cover Letter























Dear Dr. ———:























Enclosed  
                are two complete copies of a manuscript by Mary Q. Smith and  
                John L. Jones titled "Fatty Acid Metabolism in Cedecia  
                neteri," which is being submitted for possible  
                publication in the Physiology and Metabolism section of the Journal  
                of Bacteriology.























This  
                manuscript is new, is not being considered elsewhere, and  
                reports new findings that extend results we reported earlier in The  
                Journal of Biological Chemistry (145:112-117, 1992). An  
                abstract of this manuscript was presented earlier (Abstr. Annu.  
                Meet. Am. Soc. Microbiol., p. 406, 1993).























Sincerely,























Mary Q.  
                Smith























Follow-up  
                Correspondence























Most  
                journals send out an "acknowledgment of receipt" form  
                letter when the manuscript is received. If you know that the  
                journal does not, attach















  





















Page  
                116
















a  
                self-addressed postcard to the manuscript, so that the editor  
                can acknowledge receipt. If you do not receive an acknowledgment  
                in 2 weeks, call or write the editorial office to verify that  
                your manuscript was indeed received. I know of one author whose  
                manuscript was lost in the mail, and it was not until 9 months  
                later that the problem was brought to light by his meek inquiry  
                as to whether the reviewers had reached a decision about the  
                manuscript.























The mails  
                being what they are, and busy editors and reviewers being what  
                they are, do not be concerned if you do not receive a decision  
                within one month after submission of the manuscript. Most  
                journal editors, at least the good ones, try to reach a decision  
                within 4 to 6 weeks or, if there is to be further delay for some  
                reason, provide some explanation to the author. If you have had  
                no word about the disposition of your manuscript after 6 weeks  
                have elapsed, it is not at all inappropriate to send a courteous  
                inquiry to the editor. If no reply is received and the elapsed  
                time becomes 2 months, a personal phone call may not be out of  
                place. 















  




























Page 
                117
















Chapter 
                18
                the Review Process (How to Deal with Editors)























Many 
                editors see themselves as gifted sculptors, attempting to turn a 
                block of marble into a lovely statue, and writers as crude 
                chisels. In actual fact, the writers are the statues, and the 
                editors are pigeons.
                —Doug Robarchek























Functions 
                of Editors and Managing Editors























Editors 
                and managing editors have impossible jobs. What makes their work 
                impossible is the attitude of authors. This attitude was well 
                expressed by Earl H. Wood of the Mayo Clinic in his contribution 
                to a panel on the subject "What the Author Expects from the 
                Editor." Dr. Wood said, "I expect the editor to accept 
                all my papers, accept them as they are submitted, and publish 
                them promptly. I also expect him to scrutinize all other papers 
                with the utmost care, especially those of my competitors."























Somebody 
                once said, "Editors are, in my opinion, a low form of 
                life—inferior to the viruses and only slightly above academic 
                deans."























And then 
                there is the story about the Pope and the editor who died and 
                arrived in heaven simultaneously. They were subjected to the 
                usual initial processing and then assigned to their heavenly 
                quarters. The Pope looked around his apartment and found it to 
                be spartan indeed. The editor, on the other hand, was assigned 
                to a magnificent apartment, with















  





















Page  
                118
















plush  
                furniture, deep pile carpets, and superb appointments. When the  
                Pope saw this, he went to God and said: "Perhaps there has  
                been a mistake. I am the Pope and I have been assigned to shabby  
                quarters, whereas this lowly editor has been assigned to a  
                lovely apartment." God answered: "Well, in my opinion  
                there isn't anything very special about you. We've admitted over  
                200 Popes in the last 2,000 years. But this is the very first  
                editor who ever made it to heaven."























Going back  
                to the first sentence of this chapter, let us distinguish  
                between editors and managing editors. Authors should know the  
                difference, if for no other reason than knowing to whom to  
                complain when things go wrong.























An editor  
                (some journals have several) decides whether to accept or  
                reject manuscripts. Thus, the editor of a scientific journal is  
                a scientist, often of preeminent standing. The editor not only  
                makes the final "accept" and "reject"  
                decisions, but also designates the peer reviewers upon whom he  
                or she relies for advice. Whenever you have reason to object to  
                the quality of the reviews of your paper (or the decision  
                reached), your complaint should be directed to the editor.























It has  
                been said that the role of the editor is to separate the wheat  
                from the chaff and then to make sure that the chaff gets  
                printed.























The managing  
                editor is normally a full-time paid professional, whereas  
                editors usually are unpaid volunteer scientists. (A few of the  
                very large scientific and medical journals do have full-time  
                paid editors. A number of other journals, especially medical  
                journals, and especially those published commercially, pay  
                salaries to their part-time editors.) Normally, the managing  
                editor is not directly involved with the  
                "accept-reject" decisions. Instead, the managing  
                editor attempts to relieve the editor of all clerical and  
                administrative detail in the review process, and he or she is  
                responsible for the later events that convert accepted  
                manuscripts into published papers. Thus, when problems occur at  
                the proof and publication stages, you should communicate with  
                the managing editor.























In short,  
                preacceptance problems are normally within the province of the  
                editor, whereas postacceptance problems are within the bailiwick  
                of the managing editor. However, from my years of experience as  
                a managing editor, I can tell you that there seems to be one  
                fundamental law that everybody subscribes to: "Whenever  
                anything goes wrong, blame the managing editor."















  





















Page  
                119








































PEANUTS  
                reprinted by permission of United Feature Syndicate, Inc.























THE  
                REVIEW PROCESS























You, as an  
                author, should have some idea of the whys and wherefores of the  
                review process. Therefore, I will describe the policies and  
                procedures that are typical in most editorial offices. If you  
                can understand (and perhaps even appreciate) some of the reasons  
                for the editorial decisions that are made, perhaps in time you  
                can improve the acceptance rate of your manuscripts, simply by  
                knowing how to deal with editors.























When your  
                manuscript first arrives at the journal editorial office, the  
                editor (or the managing editor, if the journal has one) makes  
                several preliminary decisions. First, is the manuscript  
                concerned with a subject area covered by the scope of the  
                journal? If it clearly is not, the manuscript is immediately  
                returned to the submitting author, along with a short statement  
                pointing to the reason for the action. Seldom would an author be  
                able to challenge such a decision successfully, and it is  
                usually pointless to try. It is an important part of the  
                editor's job to define the scope of the journal, and editors I  
                have known seldom take kindly to















  





















Page  
                120
















suggestions  
                by authors, no matter how politely the comments are phrased,  
                that the editor is somehow incapable of defining the basic  
                character of his or her journal. Remember, however, that such a  
                decision is not rejection of your data or conclusions. Your  
                course of action is obvious: Try another journal.























Second, if  
                the subject of the manuscript is appropriate for consideration,  
                is the manuscript itself in suitable form for consideration? Are  
                there two double-spaced copies of the manuscript? (Some journals  
                require three or more.) Are they complete, with no pages,  
                tables, or figures missing from either copy of the manuscript?  
                Is the manuscript in the editorial style of the journal, at  
                least as to the basics? If the answer to any of the above  
                questions is ''no," the manuscript may be immediately  
                returned to the author or, at the least, the review will be  
                delayed while the deficiencies are rectified. Most journal  
                editors will not waste the time of their valued editorial board  
                members and consultants by sending poorly prepared manuscripts  
                to them for review.























I know of  
                one editor, a kindly man by nature, who became totally  
                exasperated when a poorly prepared manuscript that was returned  
                to the author was resubmitted to the journal with very little  
                change. The editor then wrote the following letter, which I am  
                pleased to print here as a warning to all students of the  
                sciences everywhere:























Dear Dr. :























I refer to  
                your manuscript ----------- and have noted  
                in your letter of August 23 that you apologize without excuse  
                for the condition of the original submission. There is really no  
                excuse for the rubbish that you have sent forward in the  
                resubmission.























The  
                manuscript is herewith returned to you. We suggest that you find  
                another journal.























Yours  
                sincerely,























---------------























Only after  
                these two preconditions (a proper manuscript on a proper  
                subject) have been met is the editor ready to consider the  
                manuscript for publication.























At this  
                point, the editor must perform two very important functions.  
                First, the basic housekeeping must be done. That is, careful  
                records should be established so that both copies of the  
                manuscript can be followed throughout the review process and (if  
                the manuscript is















  





















Page  
                121
















accepted)  
                the production process. If the journal has a managing editor,  
                and most of the large ones do, this activity is normally a part  
                of his or her assignment. It is important that this work be done  
                accurately, so that the whereabouts of manuscripts are known at  
                all times. It is also important that the system include a number  
                of built-in signaling devices, so that the inevitable delays in  
                review, loss in the mails, and other disasters can be brought to  
                the attention of the editor or managing editor at an early time.























Second,  
                the editor must decide who will review the manuscript. In most  
                journal operations, two reviewers are selected for each  
                manuscript. (Again, remember that some journals have more than  
                one editor, often called "associate editors," who deal  
                directly with reviewers and authors.) Obviously, the reviewers  
                must be peers of the author, or their recommendations will be  
                valueless. Normally, the editor starts with the Editorial Board  
                of the journal. Who on the board has the appropriate subject  
                expertise to evaluate a particular manuscript? Often, because of  
                the highly specialized character of modern science, only one  
                member (or no member) of the board has the requisite familiarity  
                with the subject of a particular manuscript. The editor must  
                then obtain one or both reviews from non-board members, often  
                called "ad hoc reviewers" or ''editorial  
                consultants." (A few journals do not have Editorial Boards  
                and depend entirely on ad hoc referees.) Sometimes, the editor  
                must do a good bit of calling around before appropriate  
                reviewers for a given manuscript can be identified. Selection of  
                reviewers can be facilitated if appropriate records are kept.  
                Many of the journals published by the American Chemical Society,  
                for example, send questionnaires to potential reviewers. On the  
                basis of the responses to the questionnaires, computerized  
                records of reviewers' areas of expertise are established and  
                maintained.























Does the  
                peer review system work? According to Bishop (1984), "The  
                answer to this question is a resounding, Yes! All editors, and  
                most authors, will affirm that there is hardly a paper published  
                that has not been improved, often substantially, by the  
                revisions suggested by referees."























Most  
                journals use anonymous reviewers. A few journals make the  
                authors anonymous by deleting their names from the copies of  
                manuscripts sent to reviewers. My own experience is in accord  
                with that of the distinguished Canadian scientist J. A.  
                Morrison, who said (1980): "It is occasionally argued that,  
                to ensure fairness, authors should also be anonymous, even  
                though that would be very difficult to arrange. Actu-















  





















Page  
                122
















ally,  
                editors encounter very few instances of unfairness and blatant  
                bias expressed by referees; perhaps for 0.1 per cent or less of  
                the manuscripts handled, an editor is obliged to discount the  
                referee's comments."























If the  
                reviewers have been chosen wisely, the reviews will be  
                meaningful and the editor will be in a good position to arrive  
                at a decision regarding publication of the manuscript. When the  
                reviewers have returned the manuscripts, with their comments,  
                the editor must then face the moment of truth.























Ordinarily,  
                editors do not want and cannot use unsubstantiated comments.  
                However, I once asked a distinguished historian of science to  
                review a book manuscript concerned with the history and  
                philosophy of science. His review comprised only three  
                sentences, yet it was one of the clearest reviews I have ever  
                seen:























Dear Bob:























I had  
                never before heard of [author's name] and from what there is in  
                the book summary I really don't want to hear of him now. It  
                seems to me very far removed from any idea I have of science,  
                history, or, indeed, of philosophy. I wouldn't touch it with a  
                barge pole.























Cordially,























----------























Much has  
                been written about the peer review process. Fortunately, a book  
                (Lock, 1985) has been published that contains descriptions and  
                analyses of this literature (281 references). Although many  
                criticisms have been levelled at various aspects of the peer  
                review system, the fact that it has been used almost universally  
                in relatively unchanged form ever since about 1750 no doubt  
                proves its worth.























The  
                Editor's Decision























Sometimes,  
                the editor's decision is easy. If both reviewers advise  
                "accept" with no or only slight revision, the editor  
                has no problem. Unfortunately, there are many instances in which  
                the opinions of the two reviewers are contradictory. In such  
                cases, the editor either must make the final decision or send  
                the manuscript out to one or more additional reviewers to  
                determine whether a consensus can be established. The editor is  
                likely to take the first approach if he or she is reasonably  
                expert















  





















Page  
                123








































PEANUTS  
                reprinted by permission of United Feature Syndicate, Inc.























in the  
                subject area of the manuscript and can thus serve as a third  
                reviewer; the editor is especially likely to do this if the  
                detailed commentary of one reviewer is considerably more  
                impressive than that of the other. The second approach is  
                obviously time-consuming and is used commonly by weak editors;  
                however, any editor must use this approach if the manuscript  
                concerns a subject with which he or she is not familiar.























The review  
                process being completed, and the editor having made a decision,  
                on whatever basis, the author is now notified of the editor's  
                decision. And it is the editor's decision. Editorial  
                Board members and ad hoc reviewers can only recommend; the final  
                decision is and must be the editor's. This is especially true  
                for those journals (the majority) that use anonymous reviewers.  
                The editor, assuming that he or she is of good character, will  
                not hide behind anonymous reviewers. The decisions will















  





















Page  
                124
















be  
                presented to the authors as though they were the editor's own,  
                and indeed they are.























The  
                editor's decision will be one of three general types, commonly  
                expressed in one word as "accept," "reject,"  
                or "modify." Normally, one of these three decisions  
                will be reached within 4 to 6 weeks after submission of the  
                manuscript. If you are not advised of the editor's decision  
                within 8 weeks, or provided with any explanation for the delay,  
                do not be afraid to call or write the editor. You have the right  
                to expect a decision, or at least a report, within a reasonable  
                period of time; also, your inquiry may bring to light a problem.  
                Obviously, the editor's decision could have been made but the  
                missive bearing that decision could have been lost or delayed in  
                the mail. If the delay was caused within the editor's office  
                (usually by lack of response from one of the reviewers), your  
                inquiry is likely to trigger an effort to resolve the problem,  
                whatever it is.























Besides  
                which, you should never be afraid to talk to editors. With rare  
                exceptions, editors are awfully nice people. Never consider them  
                adversaries. They are on your side. Their only goal as  
                editors is to publish good science in understandable language.  
                If that is not your goal also, you will indeed be dealing with a  
                deadly adversary; however, if you share the same goal, you will  
                find the editor to be a resolute ally. You are likely to receive  
                advice and guidance that you could not possibly buy.























The  
                Accept Letter























Finally,  
                you get "the word." Suppose that the editor's letter  
                announces that your manuscript has been accepted for  
                publication. When you receive such a letter, you have every  
                right to treat yourself to a glass of champagne or a hot fudge  
                sundae or whatever you do when you have cause both to celebrate  
                and to admire yourself. The reason that such a celebration is  
                appropriate is the relative rarity of the event. In the good  
                journals (in biology at least), only about 5% of the manuscripts  
                are accepted as submitted.























The  
                Modify Letter























More  
                likely, you will receive from the editor a bulky manila envelope  
                containing your disks, both copies of your manuscript, two or  
                more lists















  





















Page  
                125
















labeled  
                "reviewers' comments," and a covering letter from the  
                editor. The letter may say something like "Your manuscript  
                has been reviewed, and it is being returned to you with the  
                attached comments and suggestions. We believe these comments  
                will help you improve your manuscript." This is the  
                beginning phraseology of a typical modify letter.























By no  
                means should you feel disconsolate when you receive such a  
                letter. Realistically, you should not expect that rarest of all  
                species, the accept letter without a request for modification.  
                The vast majority of submitting authors will receive either a  
                modify letter or a reject letter, so you should be pleased to  
                receive the former rather than the latter.























When you  
                receive a modify letter, examine it and the accompanying  
                reviewers' comments carefully. (In all likelihood, the modify  
                letter is a form letter, and it is the attached comments that  
                are significant.) The big question now is whether you can, and  
                are willing to, make the changes requested by the reviewers.























If both  
                referees point to the same problem in a manuscript, almost  
                certainly it is a problem. Occasionally, a referee may be  
                biased, but hardly two of them simultaneously. If referees  
                misunderstand, readers will. Thus, my advice is: If two referees  
                misunderstand the manuscript, find out what is wrong and correct  
                it before resubmitting the manuscript to the same journal or to  
                another journal.























If the  
                requested changes are relatively few and slight, you should go  
                ahead and make them. As King Arthur used to say, "Don't get  
                on your high horse unless you have a deep moat to cross."























If major  
                revision is requested, however, you should step back and take a  
                total look at your position. One of several circumstances is  
                likely to exist.























First, the  
                reviewers are right, and you now see that there are fundamental  
                flaws in your paper. In that event, you should follow their  
                directions and rewrite the manuscript accordingly.























Second,  
                the reviewers have caught you off base on a point or two, but  
                some of the criticism is invalid. In that event, you should  
                rewrite the manuscript with two objectives in mind: Incorporate  
                all of the suggested changes that you can reasonably accept, and  
                try to beef up or clarify those points to which the reviewers  
                (wrongly, in your opinion) took exception. Finally, and  
                importantly, when you resubmit the revised manuscript, provide a  
                covering statement indicating your point-by-point disposition of  
                the reviewers' comments.















  





















Page  
                126
















Third, it  
                is entirely possible that one or both reviewers and the editor  
                seriously misread or misunderstood your manuscript, and you  
                believe that their criticisms are almost totally erroneous. In  
                that event, you have two alternatives. The first, and more  
                feasible, is to submit the manuscript to another journal, hoping  
                that your manuscript will be judged more fairly. If, however,  
                you have strong reasons for wanting to publish that particular  
                manuscript in that particular journal, do not back off; resubmit  
                the manuscript. In this case, however, you should use all of the  
                tact at your command. Not only must you give a point-by-point  
                rebuttal of the reviewers'comments; you must do it in a way that  
                is not antagonistic. Remember that the editor is trying hard,  
                probably without pay, to reach a scientific decision. If  
                you start your covering letter by saying that the reviewers,  
                whom the editor obviously has selected, are "stupid"  
                (I have seen such letters), I will give you 100 to 1 that your  
                manuscript will be immediately returned without further  
                consideration. On the other hand, every editor knows that  
                every reviewer can be wrong and in time (Murphy's law)  
                will be wrong. Therefore, if you dispassionately point out to  
                the editor exactly why you are right and the reviewer is wrong (never  
                say that the editor is wrong), the editor is very likely to  
                accept your manuscript at that point or, at least, send it out  
                to one or more additional reviewers for further consideration.























If you do  
                decide to revise and resubmit the manuscript, try very hard to  
                meet whatever deadline the editor establishes. Most editors do  
                set deadlines. Obviously, many manuscripts returned for revision  
                are not resubmitted to the same journal; hence, the journal's  
                records can be cleared of deadwood by considering manuscripts to  
                be withdrawn after the deadline date passes.























If you  
                meet the editor's deadline, he or she may accept the manuscript  
                forthwith. Or, if the modification has been substantial, the  
                editor may return it to the same reviewers. If you have met, or  
                defended your paper against, the previous criticism, your  
                manuscript will probably be accepted.























On the  
                other hand, if you fail to meet the deadline, your revised  
                manuscript may be treated as a new manuscript and again  
                subjected to full review, possibly by a different set of  
                reviewers. It is wise to avoid this double jeopardy, plus  
                additional review time, by carefully observing the editor's  
                deadline if it is at all possible to do so.















  





















Page  
                127
















The  
                Reject Letter























Now let us  
                suppose that you get a reject letter. (Almost all editors say  
                "unacceptable" or "unacceptable in its present  
                form"; seldom is the harsh word "reject" used.)  
                Before you begin to weep, do two things. First, remind yourself  
                that you have a lot of company; most of the good journals have  
                reject rates approximating (or exceeding) 50%. Second, read the  
                reject letter carefully because, like modify letters,  
                there are different types of rejection.























Many  
                editors would class rejections in one of three ways. First,  
                there is (rarely) the total rejection, the type of manuscript  
                that the editor "never wants to see again" (a phrase  
                one forthright but not tactful editor put into a reject letter).  
                Second, and much more common, there is the type of















































PEANUTS  
                reprinted by permission of United Feature Syndicate, Inc.















  





















Page  
                128
















manuscript  
                that contains some useful data but the data are seriously  
                flawed. The editor would probably reconsider such a manuscript  
                if it were considerably revised and resubmitted, but the editor  
                does not recommend resubmission. Third, there is the type of  
                manuscript that is basically acceptable, except for a defect in  
                the experimental work—the lack of a control experiment  
                perhaps—or for a major defect in the manuscript (the  
                data being acceptable).























If your  
                "rejection" is of the third type, you probably should  
                consider the necessary repairs, as detailed in the reviewers'  
                comments, and resubmit a revised version to the same journal. If  
                you can add that control experiment, as requested by the editor,  
                the new version may well be accepted. (Many editors reject a  
                paper that requires additional experimentation, even though it  
                might be easy to modify the paper to acceptability.) Or, if you  
                make the requested major change in the manuscript, e.g., totally  
                rewriting the Discussion or converting a full paper to a note,  
                your resubmitted manuscript is quite likely to be accepted.























If your  
                rejection is of the second type (seriously flawed, according to  
                the editor's reject letter and the reviewers' comments), you  
                should probably not resubmit the same manuscript to the same  
                journal, unless you can make a convincing case to the  
                editor that the reviewers seriously misjudged your manuscript.  
                You might, however, hold the manuscript until it can be  
                buttressed with more extensive evidence and more clear-cut  
                conclusions. Resubmission of such a "new" manuscript  
                to the same journal would then be a reasonable option. Your  
                cover letter should reference the previous manuscript and should  
                state briefly the nature of the new material.























If your  
                rejection is of the first (total) type, it would be pointless to  
                resubmit the manuscript to the same journal or even to argue  
                about it. If the manuscript is really bad, you probably should  
                not (re)submit it anywhere, for fear that publication might  
                damage your reputation. If there is work in it that can be  
                salvaged, incorporate those portions into a new manuscript and  
                try again, but in a different journal.























Cheer up.  
                You may someday have enough rejection letters to paper a wall  
                with them. You may even begin to appreciate the delicate  
                phrasing that is sometimes used. Could a letter such as the  
                following possibly hurt? (This is reputedly a rejection slip  
                from a Chinese economics journal.)















  





















Page  
                129
















We have  
                read your manuscript with boundless delight. If we were to  
                publish your paper, it would be impossible for us to publish any  
                work of a lower standard. And as it is unthinkable that, in the  
                next thousand years, we shall see its equal, we are, to our  
                regret, compelled to return your divine composition, and to beg  
                you a thousand times to overlook our short sight and timidity.























Editors  
                As Gatekeepers























Perhaps  
                the most important point to remember, whether dealing with a  
                modify or a reject, is that the editor is a mediator between you  
                and the reviewers. If you deal with the editor respectfully, and  
                if you can defend your work scientifically, most of your  
                "modifies" and even your "rejects" will in  
                time become published papers. The editor and the reviewers are  
                usually on your side. Their primary function is to help you  
                express yourself effectively and provide you with an assessment  
                of the science involved. It is to your advantage to cooperate  
                with them in all ways possible. The possible outcomes of the  
                editorial process were neatly described by Morgan (1986):  
                "The modern metaphor for editing would be a car wash  
                through which all cars headed for a goal must pass. Very dirty  
                cars are turned away; dirty cars emerge much cleaner, while  
                clean cars are little changed."























Having  
                spent the proverbial "more years than I care to  
                remember" working with a great many editors, I am totally  
                convinced that, were it not for the gatekeeper role so valiantly  
                maintained by editors, our scientific journals would soon be  
                reduced to unintelligible gibberish.























No matter  
                how you are treated by editors, try somehow to maintain a bit of  
                sympathy for members of that benighted profession. H. L. Mencken,  
                one of my favorite authors (literary, that is), wrote a letter  
                dated 25 January 1936 to William Saroyan, saying, "I note  
                what you say about your aspiration to edit a magazine. I am  
                sending you by this mail a six-chambered revolver. Load it and  
                fire every one into your head. You will thank me after you get  
                to Hell and learn from other editors how dreadful their job was  
                on earth." 























   














  




























Page 
                130
















Chapter 
                19
                the Publishing Process (How to Deal with Proofs)























Proofread 
                carefully to see if you any words out.
                —Anonymous























The 
                Proofing Process























The 
                following is a brief description of the process that your 
                manuscript follows after it has been accepted for publication.























The 
                manuscript usually goes through a copyediting procedure during 
                which spelling and grammatical errors are corrected. In 
                addition, the copyeditor will standardize all abbreviations, 
                units of measure, punctuation, and spelling in accord with the 
                "style" of the particular journal in which your 
                manuscript is to be published. The copyeditor may direct 
                questions to you if any part of your presentation is not clear 
                or if any additional information is needed. These questions will 
                appear as "author queries" on the margins of the 
                proofs sent to the author. (Some journals send the copyedited 
                manuscript back to the author for approval before type is set.)























The 
                manuscript is keyboarded or the electronic file on your disk is 
                loaded into a computer system that can communicate with a 
                typesetting system, which will produce the proofs of your 
                article. The compositor keyboards codes that indicate the 
                typefaces and page layout and, if you have not submitted an 
                electronic file, will also keyboard the actual words















  





















Page 
                131
















in your 
                manuscript. If you have submitted your work on disk, the 
                compositor may input the corrections and revisions resulting 
                from the editing. The output of this effort is your set of 
                proofs, which are then returned to you so that you may check the 
                editorial work that has been done on your article, check for 
                typographical errors, and answer any questions asked by the 
                copyeditor.























Finally, 
                the compositor will keyboard the corrections that you make on 
                your proofs. This final version will become the type that you 
                see on the pages of the journal after it is published.























One day, 
                probably quite soon, all authors will submit manuscripts either 
                on computer disks or via direct transmission over the Internet. 
                The need to rekey the text will then be eliminated. This will 
                also substantially reduce (but not eliminate) proofreading 
                headaches.























Why 
                Proof Is Sent to Authors























Some 
                authors seem to forget their manuscripts as soon as they are 
                accepted for publication, paying little attention to the proofs 
                when they arrive and assuming that their papers will magically 
                appear in the journals, without error.























Why is 
                proof sent to authors? Authors are provided with proof of their 
                paper for one primary reason: to check the accuracy of the type 
                composition. In other words, you should examine the proofs 
                carefully for typographical errors, especially if the compositor 
                must input from the hardcopy of your edited paper. Even if you 
                submitted your manuscript on disk and carefully proofread and 
                spellchecked the file before you sent it, errors can remain or 
                can occur when the editorial changes are input. No matter how 
                perfect your manuscript might be, it is only the printed version 
                in the journal that counts. If the printed article contains 
                serious errors, all kinds of later problems can develop, not the 
                least of which may be irreparable damage to your reputation.























The damage 
                can be real in that many errors can totally destroy 
                comprehension. Something as minor as a misplaced decimal point 
                can sometimes make a published paper almost useless. In this 
                world, we can be sure of only three things: death, taxes, and 
                typographical errors.















  





















Page 
                132
















Misspelled 
                Words























Even if 
                the error does not greatly affect comprehension, it won't do 
                your reputation much good if it turns out to be funny. Readers 
                will know what you mean if your paper refers to a ''nosocomical 
                infection," and they will get a laugh out of it, but you 
                won't think it is funny.























While on 
                the subject of misspellings, I recall the Professor of English 
                who had the chance to make a seminal comment on this subject. A 
                student had misspelled the word "burro" in a theme. In 
                a marginal comment, the professor wrote: "A `burro' is an 
                ass; a `burrow' is a hole in the ground. One really should know 
                the difference." Being a Professor of English myself, I of 
                course agree with that sage comment. However, I perhaps 
                expressed a contrary opinion on an earlier occasion when I said 
                (because of my poor mathematical skills), "I don't know 
                math from a hole in the ground."























A major 
                laboratory supply corporation submitted an ad with a huge 
                boldface headline proclaiming that "Quality is consistant 
                because we care." I certainly hope they cared more about 
                the quality of their products than they did about the quality of 
                their spelling.























Although 
                all of us in publishing occasionally lose sleep worrying about 
                typographical errors, I take comfort in the realization that 
                whatever slips by my eye is probably less grievous than some of 
                the monumental errors committed by my publishing predecessors.























My 
                all-time favorite error occurred in a Bible published in England 
                in 1631. The Seventh Commandment read: "Thou shalt commit 
                adultery." I understand that Christianity became very 
                popular indeed after publication of that edition. If that 
                statement seems blasphemous, I need only refer you to another 
                edition of the Bible, printed in 1653, in which appears the 
                line: "Know ye that the unrighteous shall inherit the 
                kingdom of God."























If you 
                read proof in the same way and at the same speed that you 
                ordinarily read scientific papers, you will probably miss 90% of 
                the typographical errors.























I have 
                found that the best way to read proof is, first, read it 
                and, second, study it. The reading, as I mentioned, will 
                miss 90% of the errors, but it will catch errors of omission. 
                If the printer has dropped a line, reading for comprehension 
                is the only likely way to catch it. Alterna















  





















Page 
                133
















tively, or 
                additionally, two people should read the proof, one 
                reading aloud while the other follows the manuscript.























To catch 
                most errors, however, you must slowly examine each word. If you 
                let your eye jump from one group of words to the next, as it 
                does in normal reading, you will not catch very many 
                misspellings. Especially, you should study the technical terms. 
                Remember that keyboard operators are not scientists. A good 
                keyboarder might be able to type the word "cherry" 100 
                times without error; however, I recall seeing a proof in which 
                the word "Escherichia" was misspelled 21 
                consecutive times (in four different ways). I also recall 
                wondering about the possible uses for a chemical whose formula 
                was printed as C12H6Q3.























I 
                mentioned the havoc that could occur from a misplaced decimal 
                point. This observation leads to a general rule in proofreading. 
                Examine each and every number carefully. Be especially careful 
                in proofing the tables. This rule is important for two reasons. 
                First, errors frequently occur in keyboarding numbers, 
                especially in tabular material. Second, you are the only person 
                who can catch such errors. Most spelling errors are caught in 
                the printer's proofroom or in the journal's editorial office. 
                However, these professional proofreaders catch errors by 
                "eyeballing" the proofs; the proofreader has no way of 
                knowing that a "16" should really be "61."























Marking 
                the Corrections























When you 
                find an error on a page proof, it is important that the error be 
                marked twice, once at the point where it occurs and once 
                in the margin opposite where it occurs. The compositor uses the 
                margin marks to identify the errors. A correction indicated only 
                in the body of the typeset material could easily be missed; the 
                marginal notation is needed to call attention to it. This double 
                marking system is illustrated in Fig. 11.























If you 
                indicate your corrections clearly and intelligibly, the 
                appropriate corrections will probably be made. However, you can 
                reduce the chance of misunderstanding and save time for yourself 
                and all concerned if you use established proofreaders' marks. 
                These marks are a language universally used in all kinds of 
                publishing. Thus, if you will take the time to learn just a few 
                of the elements of this language, you will be able to use them 
                in proofing any and all kinds of typeset material that you may 
                be involved with throughout your career. The most common 
                proofreaders' marks are listed in Table 10.















  





















Page 
                134








































Figure 
                11.
                A corrected galley proof. (Appreciation is expressed to Waverly 
                Press, Inc.,
                for typesetting this defective sample. A normal galley from 
                Waverly would have so few
                errors that it would be useless for illustrative purposes.)















  





















Page 
                135
















Table 
                10. Frequently used proofreaders' marks











         












Additions 
                to the Proofs























Early in 
                this chapter, I stated that authors are sent proof so that they 
                can check the accuracy of the typesetting. Stated negatively, 
                the proof stage is not the time for revision, rewriting, 
                rephrasing, addition of more recent material, or any other 
                significant change from the final edited manuscript. There are 
                three good reasons why you should not make substantial changes 
                in the proofs.























First, an 
                ethical consideration: Since neither proofs nor changes in the 
                proof are seen by the editor unless the journal is a small 
                one-person operation, it is simply not proper to make 
                substantive changes. The manuscript approved by the editor, 
                after peer review, is the one that should be printed, not some 
                new version containing material not seen by the editor and the 
                reviewers.























Second, it 
                is not wise to disturb typeset material, unless it is really 
                necessary, because new typographical errors may be introduced.



































Page 
                136
















Third, 
                corrections are expensive. Because they are expensive, you 
                should not abuse the publisher (possibly a scientific society of 
                which you are an otherwise loyal member); in addition, you just 
                might be hit with a substantial bill for author's alterations. 
                Most journals absorb the cost of a reasonable number of author's 
                alterations, but many, especially those with managing editors or 
                business managers, will sooner or later crack down on you if you 
                are patently guilty of excessive alteration of the proofs.























One type 
                of addition to the proof is frequently allowed. The need arises 
                when a paper on the same or a related subject appears in print 
                while yours is in process. In light of the new study, you might 
                be tempted to rewrite several portions of your paper. You must 
                resist this temptation, for the reasons stated above. What you 
                should do is prepare a short (a few sentences only) Addendum in 
                Proof, describing the general nature of the new work and giving 
                the literature reference. The Addendum can then be printed at 
                the end without disturbing the body of the paper.























Addition 
                of References























Quite 
                commonly, a new paper appears that you would like to add to your 
                References, but you need not make any appreciable change in the 
                text, other than adding a few words, perhaps, and the number of 
                the new reference. (The following assumes that the journal 
                employs the numbered, alphabetized list system.)























Now hear 
                this. If you add a reference at proof, do not renumber 
                the references. Many, if not most, authors make this mistake, 
                and it is a serious mistake. It is a mistake because the many 
                changes then necessary in the reference list and in the text, 
                wherever the cited numbers appear, involve significant cost; new 
                errors may be introduced when the affected lines are 
                rekeyboarded; and, almost certainly, you will miss at least one 
                of the text references. The old number(s) will then appear in 
                print, adding confusion to the literature.























What you should 
                do is add the new reference with an "a" number. 
                If the new reference would alphabetically fall between 
                references 16 and 17, enter the new reference as "16a ." 
                In that way, the numbering of the rest of the list need not be 
                changed.















  





















Page 
                137
















Proofing 
                the Illustrations























It is 
                especially important that you examine carefully the proofs of 
                the illustrations, especially if the original manuscript and 
                the original illustrations are returned to you along with 
                the proof. Although you can depend on the proofreaders in the 
                journal editorial office to aid you in looking for typographical 
                errors, you must decide whether the illustrations have 
                been reproduced effectively because you have the originals with 
                which the proofs must be compared.























If your 
                paper contains important fine-structure photographs, and if you 
                chose that particular journal because of its reputation for 
                high-quality reproduction standards (fine screens, coated 
                stock), you should not only expect almost faultless fidelity, 
                you should also demand it. And you are the only one who can, 
                because you are the one with the originals. You and you alone 
                must serve as the quality control inspector.























Seldom 
                will there be a problem with graphs and other line drawings, 
                unless the copyeditor has sized them so small that they are 
                illegible or, rarely, misfigured the percentage reduction on one 
                of a related group, so that it does not match.























With 
                photographs, however, there are problems on occasion, and it is 
                up to you to spot them. Compare the illustration proof 
                with the original. If the proof is darker overall, it is 
                probably a simple matter of overexposure; if detail has thereby 
                been lost, you should of course ask the printer to reshoot the 
                photograph. (Don't forget to return the original illustration 
                along with the proof.)























If the 
                proof is lighter than the copy, it has probably been 
                underexposed. It may be, however, that the "printer" 
                (I use the word "printer" as shorthand for all of the 
                many occupations that are involved in the printing process) 
                purposely underexposed that shot. Sometimes, especially with 
                photographs having very little contrast, underexposure will 
                retain more fine detail than will normal exposure. Thus, your 
                comparison should not really be concerned with exposure level 
                but with fidelity of detail.























It may be 
                that one area of the photograph is of particular importance. If 
                that is so, and if you are unhappy with the reproduction, tell 
                the printer, via marginal notes or by use of an overlay, exactly 
                which part of the proof is lacking detail that is evident on the 
                photograph. Then the printer will be able to focus on what is 
                important to you.















  





















Page 
                138
















When to 
                Complain























If you 
                have learned nothing else from this chapter, I trust that you 
                now know that you must provide the quality control in the 
                reproduction of illustrations in journals. In my experience, too 
                many authors complain after the fact (after publication) without 
                ever realizing that only they could have prevented whatever it 
                is they are complaining about. For example, authors many times 
                complain that their pictures have been printed upside-down or 
                sideways. When I have checked out such complaints, I have found 
                in almost all instances that the part of the photograph marked 
                "top" on the proof was also the top in the journal; 
                the author simply missed it. Actually, the author probably 
                missed twice, once by neglecting to mark "top" on the 
                photograph submitted to the journal and again by failing to note 
                that the printer had marked "top" on the wrong side of 
                the proof.























So, if you 
                are going to complain, do it at the proof stage. And, believe it 
                or not, your complaint is likely to be received graciously. 
                Those of us who pay the bills realize that we have invested 
                heavily in setting the specifications that can provide quality 
                reproduction. We need your quality control, however, to ensure 
                that our money is not wasted.























The good 
                journals are printed by good printers, hired by good publishers. 
                The published paper will have your name on it, but the 
                reputations of both the publisher and the printer are also at 
                stake. They expect you to work with them in producing a superior 
                product.























Because 
                managing editors of such journals must protect the integrity of 
                the product, those I have known would never hire a 
                printer exclusively on the basis of low bids. John Ruskin was no 
                doubt right when he said, "There is hardly anything in the 
                world that somebody cannot make a little worse and sell a little 
                cheaper, and the people who consider price only are this 
                person's lawful prey."























A sign in 
                a job printing shop made the same point:























Price























Quality























Service 























(pick any 
                two of the above) 























  














  

  




























Page 
                139
















Chapter 
                20
                Electronic Publishing Formats: Cd-Rom and Distributed Printing























Technology 
                means the systematic application of scientific or other 
                organized knowledge to practical tasks.
—J. K. Galbraith























Both 
                CD-ROM publishing and electronic distributed printing offer 
                scientists new and better ways to disseminate their research to 
                a wider audience. New electronic publishing formats are 
                replacing microfiche and microfilm as the most convenient ways 
                to store archived material for access and print. The CD-ROM 
                format can store the entire print output of a conference or 
                several months' worth of a scientific journal on a single CD. 
                Distributed printing means compiling a book made up of chapters 
                put together from materials taken from various sources, 
                including other books and journal articles. Teachers can select 
                and combine study guides for their courses; scientists can put 
                together hand-outs for research labs; and scientists can prepare 
                materials for conferences and seminars. Compilers can make 
                selections for distributed printing from electronic databases 
                supplied by a publisher or university, or from copies of printed 
                material. Printing and binding of the compiled material is done 
                by a complex high-speed copy machine, such as the Xerox DocuTech 
                printer.















  





















Page 
                140
















CD-ROM 
                Publishing























Publishing 
                on CD-ROM allows the storage of immense amounts of information 
                in a relatively stable format. The lightweight CD takes up 
                little space and is therefore easy to transport and store. Text, 
                images, and even short movies and animations can be stored on a 
                CD to be played back at will. New material can be easily and 
                inexpensively added to CD-ROM master files, and a new CD can be 
                remastered and issued as an update.























CD-ROM 
                applications can be interactive, containing links between 
                various portions of the text it contains. Links can also be made 
                to an animated visual or QuickTime movie of a process. Scholarly 
                publishers are beginning to implement this extra layer to some 
                of their CD reprints; at the rate technology is changing, such 
                an animated visual is something to think about for future work. 
                When assembling your data, you may have made movies of some of 
                the processes for other purposes. You may also have considered 
                preparing simple animations for processes that are not visible 
                to the eye because they are too small, too far away, or too fast 
                or slow in time. Animations can be far more descriptive than 
                individual drawings, if they can be linked to your report or 
                paper. Although the standard scientific paper submitted to a 
                journal does not yet contain this kind of electronic material, 
                many will probably do so in the near future. In their book Visualization 
                of Natural Phenomena (1993), Robert S. Wolff and Larry 
                Yaeger discussed how motion in natural phenomena has been 
                captured electronically, and included a CD of examples in 
                QuickTime.























The 
                American Chemical Society <pubs.acs.org/> provides 
                subscriptions to its publications on disk. Each disk is a 
                separate issue containing the original text of the print 
                version. The CD version is hypertext linked with additional 
                graphs, charts, and tables, provided in either color or black 
                and white. Hypertext is a method of creating and 
                displaying text that can be connected, even when both items are 
                parts of the same document, or when one item is from another 
                related graphic or document stored elsewhere on a CD or in a 
                network. Footnotes are linked to text and figures directly. If a 
                subscriber wishes to print an article, reproduction is 
                laser-sharp.























Like many 
                other major publishers, the American Society for Microbiology 
                <www.asmusa.org> is in the process of providing 
                online















  





















Page 
                141
















versions 
                of its print journals. ASM has announced that the full text of 
                all 10 of its scientific journals will be available online 
                before the end of 1998.























Electronic 
                Distributed Printing























To date, 
                distributed printing has been done by putting together hardcopy 
                selections to create a new, personalized custom document. 
                Selections can be made from books, journals, or printouts of 
                personally written text. Permission must usually be obtained 
                from the copyright owners of the material being used (see 
                Chapter 31).























The 
                electronic version of distributed printing differs from the 
                standard process. In this rapidly developing version, the 
                process is based on selecting articles, reports, or chapters 
                from the vast amount of data stored in electronic databases. 
                When someone wants to put a new compilation of materials 
                together, he or she selects from material stored in the 
                database. When the selection of articles and illustrations has 
                been made, and the number of copies requested, the collection is 
                printed and bound for distribution as a "book." 
                Writers and publishers now even speak of "virtual" 
                documents that do not exist physically but only as 
                electronically linked files.























One of the 
                large databases currently under development is CUPID, the 
                Consortium for University Printing and Information Distribution. 
                The Consortium's academic participants include Cornell, the 
                initial developer; Harvard; Princeton; and other institutions. 
                The commercial members of the Consortium include Xerox and 
                Kodak. Although this electronic storage system is still in the 
                early stages of its development, future plans include working 
                with publishers who wish to participate by including some of 
                their copyrighted material. 















  




























Page 
                142
















Chapter 
                21
                The Internet and the World Wide Web























The new 
                electronic interdependence recreates the world in the image of a 
                global village.
                —Marshall McLuhan























The 
                Internet























The 
                Internet is a vast international network of electronic systems 
                that links host computers and users in a digital web. It grew 
                out of the ARPANET, a computer network developed by the Advanced 
                Research Projects Agency (ARPA) and other related U.S. 
                government agencies in the 1960s. Becoming operational in 1969, 
                the ARPANET allowed scientists and researchers working on 
                government projects to communicate electronically from remote 
                sites. ARPANET users could call up files stored on the network 
                and collaborate with colleagues across the country. Universities 
                were among the earliest nodes in this large computer network.























As the 
                ARPANET grew in size, its architects recognized the need to 
                communicate with other computer networks that were being 
                developed. In 1983, the ARPANET was split into two separate but 
                interconnected networks that together formed the Internet. 
                Linkups of other networks to the original Internet grew rapidly, 
                far beyond the links originally provided by the government. By 
                1985, over 100 networks were connected to the system; by 1990, 
                when the original ARPANET system was decommissioned, the number 
                of networks linked to the Internet had















  





















Page 
                143
















grown to 
                over 2,000. Universities and autonomous programmers were 
                instrumental in adding new linkups and functions to increase the 
                Internet's power and services and to take it well beyond its 
                original function as an electronic communication system for 
                government scientists and academics. In the late 1990s, the 
                Internet continues to grow at a rapid pace, offering e-mail 
                connections, links to individual sites, file transfers, news 
                groups, and search engines to an ever wider range of users.























The 
                World Wide Web























In 1991, 
                Tim Berners-Lee, working at CERN, the European Laboratory for 
                Particle Physics in Switzerland, introduced the first computer 
                code for hypertext, thus beginning the World Wide Web (WWW). 
                Through the use of hypertext links, the Web allows its users the 
                ability to link words, pictures, and sounds. Besides hypertext 
                connections between related topics, the Web can make use of 
                color, graphics, animation, and more varied typefaces. 
                Scientists around the world can use the Web to communicate with 
                each other as they did with the old ARPANET. Files can be placed 
                on one host site and can then be downloaded from anywhere. 
                E-mail can also include links to other sites on the Web, along 
                with text files and graphics attached to the e-mail message. By 
                1995, the Web comprised the bulk of Internet traffic.























The Web is 
                accessed by a browser—an application that resides on 
                your computer or on a server. The browser lets you access 
                information available on the Web from anywhere in the world. 
                Mosaic, the first graphics-based Web browser, became available 
                in 1993. Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Explorer are the two 
                most popular browsers in use today, and their functions overlap 
                about 90% of the time. A function unique to one browser has 
                usually been duplicated by the other in short order. Explorer 
                and Navigator each have their own individual design, and 
                although these browsers look similar, some differences in 
                appearance occur when viewing them on different platforms. Color 
                is slightly darker on Windows platforms but is otherwise the 
                same as long as the color references stay within the color 
                palette shared by both the Mac and Windows platforms. 
                Experienced Web masters are aware of these limitations and code 
                documents appropriately for these instances.















  





















Page 
                144
















Searching 
                for Information on the Web























One of the 
                most useful functions on the Web is the ability to find and 
                download information. A number of programs, called search 
                engines, can help you locate terms and text that appear on 
                individual sites throughout the Internet. Search engines are 
                applications that use programmed code to index all the 
                meaningful text in a document. Words like ''and," 
                "the," and "but" are not indexed. The index 
                for each document is maintained in a large database. When a 
                request for a search is made, the application looks for the 
                requested information, based on keywords or a text phrase 
                provided by the user. Because each search engine uses a 
                different code to locate the data, each search application may 
                provide different information.























After a 
                search is completed, you will be presented with matches to your 
                request. The list of "hits" is in hypertext format; 
                clicking on the hypertext link will move you to the site 
                containing the information you requested. If you are presented 
                with an overwhelmingly large number of hits, you need to refine 
                your search term so as to narrow the field of possibilities. One 
                way to do this is by using Boolean delimiters. In a Boolean 
                search, the logic connectors AND, OR, and NOT are used most 
                frequently. For example, if you can ask for apple OR orange, you 
                will get many finds for apples and for oranges. If you ask for 
                apple AND orange, the search is narrowed to only those articles 
                that contain mentions of both. If you ask for apple NOT 
                Delicious, you will get references to all apples except 
                Delicious.























Some 
                search engines operate with Boolean logic, using AND, OR, and 
                NOT delimiters. On the Web, however, these delimiters do not 
                always seem to work as they should. HotBot, one popular search 
                engine, refines and limits the number of hits by assuming that 
                there is an AND connector between words. Alta Vista, another 
                well-known search engine, assumes an OR connector between words, 
                thus increasing the number of hits.























It 
                occasionally helps, if you are looking for an entire phrase, to 
                put it in quotes to keep the words together in the search. For 
                example, if you want to locate information pertaining to the 
                Salk Institute, and not to Jonas Salk, key in your search term 
                as "Salk Institute." On the other hand, if you are 
                searching for Jonas Salk and put that in quotes, you might miss 
                locating Salk, Jonas and J. Salk.















  





















Page 
                145
















If a 
                search has yielded no hits, you will need to rephrase your 
                request and hope that you will be rewarded for your diligence. 
                Changing to another search engine frequently works. Most search 
                facilities have a help section that advises you on how to best 
                use keywords and phrases for their program. Refer to this 
                section whenever you can, because knowing how to work with one 
                search application may not be of help when you turn to a second 
                one.























While 
                Internet robots can search entire unindexed text when someone 
                initiates a search, indexed material gets faster results. For 
                your material to be indexed by a search application index, your 
                publisher must file the information with the index. If you are 
                self-publishing on the Web, you will need to file your work for 
                search-engine indexing.























Web 
                Search Engines























When 
                looking for information in your discipline, you have a number of 
                search applications available to you. Unfortunately, while some 
                disciplines have an active Web presence, others have resisted 
                electronic residence. For the latter disciplines, articles and 
                reports published in hardcopy have often not yet been duplicated 
                on the Web.























Yahoo 
                <www.yahoo.com> has one of the largest indexes to 
                the Web, but, like other engines, its searching powers are 
                limited by how you ask it to search. HotBot <www.hotbot.com> 
                is a powerful facility maintained by Wired Magazine. A 
                number of other search facilities, each with its own quirks and 
                preferences, are also available. These facilities include Lycos, 
                Magellan, Alta Vista, and Infoseek. As you learn to refine your 
                searches, you will find that some search facilities have more 
                information indexed in your particular discipline. These are the 
                ones to use first. Talk to the online librarian at your library 
                for other useful sources and find out from your peers which URLs 
                (Uniform Resource Locators) they find most useful.























Other 
                electronic information sources for scientists include online 
                services provided by businesses, professional societies and 
                associations, university libraries, the Library of Congress, 
                industrial research laboratories, MEDLINE (maintained by the 
                National Library of Medicine), and other institutions and 
                organizations. Government engines, such as MEDLINE, are 
                increasingly available gratis to the public; MEDLINE can be 
                obtained through Grateful Med or Pub Med, for example. Some















  





















Page 
                146
















online 
                sources are available only for a membership fee or at an hourly 
                rate. Another information source is the newsgroup (see Chapter 
                23, "E-mail and Newsgroups").























FTP 
                (File Transfer Protocol)























When you 
                download files from a remote computer site, FTP is the program 
                that facilitates the process. FTP also stands for a site that 
                functions as an FTP archive. Some FTP sites require user 
                identification, including a username and a password to maintain 
                privacy for their material. Other FTP sites allow people who do 
                not have passwords to sign on as anonymous.























Companies 
                and institutions with their own download facility frequently 
                archive popular files at several FTP sites to provide more 
                access to users. Users can download complete applications, 
                computer utilities and upgrades, and fact sheets in text format. 
                Some publishers mount popular journal articles and even copies 
                of complete journals for user access.























Publishing 
                on the World Wide Web























Most 
                material published as hardcopy can also be published on the Web. 
                The advantages and disadvantages of scholarly publishing on the 
                Web are still under debate, although many publishers of print 
                journals have Web sites. Those Web sites usually contain 
                information on past and current issues and include tables of 
                contents with linkages to abstracts of individual articles.























Links 
                and Hypertext























A link (or 
                hyperlink) refers to the Web's ability to use 
                hypertext—a method of creating and displaying text and other 
                objects that can be linked to each other, thus forming nonlinear 
                documents. On the Web, a link is referred to as a URL (Uniform 
                Resource Locator). The URL can appear as text or within a 
                graphic; each type of URL has a standard format. When the URL is 
                clicked, the browser transfers you to the site where the 
                information is located.















  





















Page 
                147
















HTML: 
                the Language of the Web























The 
                language used to write all the information that appears on the 
                Web is called HTML (HyperText Markup Language). This language 
                consists of code-like tags based on written English. Based on 
                the structure type of the object, these tags define the 
                typeface, size, and placement, as well as colors, graphics, and 
                hypertext links. Document structure types include such elements 
                as paragraphs, headings, lists, tables, and backgrounds. HTML 
                also allows Web developers to imbed other programming codes, 
                such as Shockwave and Java, which supply visual animation and 
                other effects. The specific browser used by the viewer 
                interprets the HTML code written into the document and causes 
                the material to appear as coded on the user screen. Each browser 
                interprets HTML code somewhat differently, but the general 
                format is similar. The standards for the HTML language are 
                universally maintained and codified, undergoing revisions and 
                additions on a regular basis.























When a 
                scientific paper is published on the Web, it no longer is made 
                up of pages in the traditional sense. The article may be one 
                single page consisting of a long, scrollable window, or it can 
                be broken up into short segments, with each "page" 
                segment having a separate URL link. To break up text into 
                page-like segments, links are required to go forward to the next 
                page, backward to the previous page, and backward to the start 
                or "home" page. The start page needs a table of 
                contents consisting of links to various information segments in 
                the article or to named "screen pages.'' Graphics and 
                tables can be included within the text. Many journals now 
                provide their own conversions from word-processing text to HTML 
                format. Others ask the author of the paper to provide the HTML 
                formatting at submission.























Keep in 
                mind that including many large photographs with your paper means 
                the published article, when called up by a user, will take 
                longer to load. Many sites now give the option of accessing 
                "text-only" versions, to circumvent this loading 
                problem. If you want your work to appear in a search, it must be 
                indexed by the search facilities you choose, and you will need 
                to supply some significant keywords for access. A fee may be 
                charged for indexing. Converting simple text for Web access is 
                relatively easy. However, if you are using linkable graphics and 
                more elaborate HTML codes for page layout, working with a 
                professional in this area is a good idea. Many books on Internet 
                publishing are available.















  





















Page 
                148
















The best 
                ones can explain in detail how the Internet works, what links 
                are, and how to translate a standard text document into HTML 
                code so that it can be read by a Web browser.























Adobe 
                Acrobat























If you 
                want viewers to be able to download a printable copy of your 
                article which retains the design of the original hardcopy, you 
                can use the Acrobat Distiller application. Acrobat, a program 
                created by Adobe, converts your file into something called PDF 
                (Portable Document Format). A file in this format can be viewed 
                on screen with the Acrobat Reader, which can be downloaded free 
                from the Adobe Web site <www.adobe.com>. The PDF 
                file can be printed as hardcopy, with substitute fonts that are 
                part of the application. (Note: Unlike Acrobat Reader, 
                Distiller is not free software.) Adobe Acrobat treats the text 
                like an image, and therefore it takes up a lot of memory.























Advantages 
                and Disadvantages of Web Publishing























Among the 
                advantages of placing reports and articles on the Web is the 
                ability to make frequent updates, keeping information current 
                almost day by day. Other advantages are the use of hyperlinks to 
                related data and the ability to immediately access files for 
                collaborative work and peer review.























Among the 
                disadvantages of Web publishing is the fluidity of electronic 
                text, which can be changed by someone reposting your material in 
                disregard of the copyright. With new security measures, this 
                problem is gradually being resolved. A more serious problem is 
                the
                ad hoc nature of Web publishing; reports and articles appearing 
                on the Web have often not been subjected to the rigorous peer 
                and editorial review process that is inherent in the scholarly 
                publishing process. Publishers are starting to work around this 
                problem in two ways. The first is by publishing reports and 
                articles in print before publishing the same material on the 
                Internet. This type of secondary publishing makes the 
                information and data in a report or article available to a wider 
                international audience. The second is by publishing material on 
                a secured site to which viewers must have password access. 
                Papers and articles















  





















Page 
                149
















published 
                on these sites are reviewed by editors and peers in the same way 
                that print material is reviewed.























While 
                print has the advantage of peer and editorial review, and 
                provides and distributes multiple versions of the same 
                information, it is also slow. Another disadvantage is that 
                typogaphical and other errors, once printed, cannot be 
                corrected. The proof stage is the last chance to catch such 
                errors; after that, they are forever. Several months of 
                production time may be required to bring an issue to the 
                printer, and distribution through the mail takes another several 
                days. It may take months to several years for the literature to 
                respond to a scientific paper because peer interaction via the 
                printed word is slow.























Steven 
                Harnad was one of the first individuals to recognize the 
                potential of the Internet for peer interaction in a medium he 
                called "electronic skywriting." He is the editor of 
                PSYCOLOQUY, a journal that was transformed in 1989 into a 
                refereed electronic publication sponsored by the American 
                Psychological Association. Its UseNet version, "sci.psycology.digest," 
                is free to subscribers. To subscribe, send an e-mail message to 
                the following address <listserv@pucc.bitnet: "sub psyc 
                Firstname Lastname">. Harnad's articles on electronic 
                publishing of scientific papers can be found at <ftp://ftp.princeton.edu/pub/harnad>.























Archiving 
                Information























Journals 
                have traditionally archived their material as hardcopy print. 
                Now that archiving can also be done electronically, scholarly 
                publishers are beginning to take responsibility for this area as 
                well. However, due to costs in time, money, and expertise, 
                archiving is also now being done by third parties, with the 
                publisher supplying the data.























No 
                particular standard currently exists for determining the best 
                way to archive data. Electronic online databases, CD-ROMs, and 
                magnetic disks that hold large amounts of data are all being 
                used. Decisions about where and how to store illustrations that 
                are separate from text have yet to be determined. Print has the 
                advantage of portability, but one copy serves only one reader. 
                Electronic data allow interactive high-level searching for 
                information, with many viewers accessing the information at one 
                time.















  





















Page 
                150
















Self-Publishing 
                Electronically























While you 
                can place your own work on the Internet, either through your own 
                personal site or one maintained by your university or business, 
                it has no real credibility because it has not received the 
                critical editorial review or peer review demanded by a scholarly 
                journal. For your work to be considered trustworthy, you will 
                need to seek out the endorsement or authorization of a reputable 
                organization. This type of endorsement can come from a scholarly 
                publisher or professional association in your discipline, or 
                from a rigorous peer-review process to which you subject your 
                own work. When you self-publish, always include your e-mail 
                address and a link to a description of your background as 
                corroborative information. And certainly be aware that this type 
                of publication is likely to preclude later publication in a 
                peer-reviewed journal. 























   














  




























Page 
                151
















Chapter 
                22
                the Electronic Journal























The 
                perfect computer has been developed. You feed in your problems, 
                and they never come out again.
                —Al Goodman























The 
                publication of journals designed exclusively for the electronic 
                medium is a new Web phenomenon. The electronic journal is 
                similar to one distributed in print in that its articles have 
                been reviewed by peers and editors prior to publication. 
                Electronic journals can also include sound, short movies, and 
                animation as visual references for the data, just as CD-ROMs do, 
                although with different technology. Electronic publishing also 
                includes the secondary advantages of hyperlinks and 
                cross-referencing. Issues are published in less time than print 
                issues can be produced because hardcopy publications still need 
                to be laid out, printed, and packaged for mailing prior to 
                distribution. Distribution on the Web is instantaneous as soon 
                as the electronic journal is published. Electronic publishing is 
                costly. Although there are no postage costs, the electronic 
                versions have their own costs associated with putting them 
                online and having the desired electronic bells and whistles. 
                Also, issues of pricing, copyright, and accessibility are still 
                unresolved.























Although 
                electronic journals are available to anyone who can access the 
                site, they are more commonly locked facilities, open only to 
                members who have a password. Journal access can be fee-based, 
                part of the dues charged by an association, or sponsored by a 
                research facility or















  





















Page 
                152
















university 
                as part of their Intranet (as opposed to the full Internet). 
                Among the many important online publishers are the following:























Project 
                Muse <www.press.jhu.edu/muse.html>, sponsored by 
                Johns Hopkins University Press, offers worldwide electronic 
                access to the full text of over 40 journals published by the 
                press.























Academic 
                Press <www.idealibrary.com> is offering its entire 
                list of over 170 journals online.























Blackwell 
                Science <www.blackwell-science.com> publishes books 
                and journals online in science, technology, and medicine.























Elsevier 
                Press <www.elsevier.com> plans to have all of its 
                over 1,000 titles online by the end of 1998.























Springer-Verlag 
                <www.springer.co.uk> is presently developing its 
                online service in cooperation with IBM.























A major 
                problem involves electronic page layout. Print does not always 
                preserve visual interest and integrity when converted to the 
                Web. Although the Web offers additional resources, including 
                sound, animation, and video, these items still need to be 
                provided by the author and inserted into the text in HTML. Links 
                need to be provided to referenced locations. Another problem is 
                the need to change symbols and math formulas from print to 
                graphical illustrations. Graphic formats for print cannot be 
                read by the Web browser; they need to be converted into such 
                Web-friendly formats as GIF and JPEG.























Author 
                requirements vary for each electronic publication. Some 
                publications will convert word-processing documents into HTML, 
                and graphics into formats the Web browser can read. Other 
                publications, particularly those directed to a computer-savvy 
                audience, require authors to convert their word-processing files 
                into an HTML format.























The 
                Electronic Journal and Peer Review























In a 1996 
                article entitled "Implementing Peer Review on the 
                Net," Steven Harnad argued that most electronic scholarly 
                publishing "needs to be constrained by peer review," 
                but he also finds room on the Internet for unrefereed 
                discussion, even "in high-level peer discussion forums to 
                which only qualified specialists in a given field have 
                read/write access." As the popularity of scholarly 
                electronic journals grows, such publications are beginning to 
                provide the same type of review process that print journals 
                apply. There is no reason why interactive discussion forums, as















  





















Page 
                153
















described 
                by Harnad, cannot also be added to enrich the nature of 
                scientific discourse.























The 
                electronic review process of a scholarly paper is twofold, 
                following the print convention. The editorial review consists of 
                examination of the work by an editorial board. If the paper is 
                deemed worthy, two peer reviewers in the field are chosen by the 
                editors to evaluate and review the manuscript. If a stalemate 
                arises between the two, a third reviewer is chosen to break the 
                deadlock. Although the goal of peer review is objectivity, the 
                selection process is still vulnerable when new paradigms are 
                discussed. Controversial manuscripts, even those by well-known 
                scientists, can be rejected.























Unpopular 
                topics are not the only factors in the rejection of a paper. In 
                April 1997, The New England Journal of Medicine 
                published an article called "The Messenger Under 
                Attack—Intimidation of Researchers by Special Interest 
                Groups." The article described in detail several cases of 
                researchers being harassed by physician groups and academic 
                associations that failed to disclose ties to drug companies. As 
                with print publication, well-financed pressure groups can affect 
                which research gets financed, promoted, and published on the 
                Internet.























The 
                InterNIC Academic Guide to the Internet























The 
                InterNIC Academic Guide to the Internet <www.aldea.com/guides/ag/attframes2.html> 
                focuses exclusively on the interests of the higher education 
                research and education communities. InterNIC is a cooperative 
                activity of the National Science Foundation, Network Solutions, 
                Inc., and AT&T. Users of the guide express opinions about a 
                site's academic value. Their scores are posted with the 
                description of the site, providing peer opinions about its 
                value. The top-level categories include biological sciences, 
                computer sciences, engineering and geosciences, math and 
                physical sciences, and social sciences. To join the InterNIC 
                mailing list, send an e-mail including the words "subscribe 
                internic" to <majordomo@aldea.com>. 























   














  




























Page 
                154
















Chapter 
                23
                E-Mail and Newsgroups























Computers 
                can figure out all kinds of problems, except the things in the 
                world that just don't add up.
—James Magary























E-mail























E-mail 
                stands for electronic mail, messages that can be sent 
                electronically to anyone on your network or on another network, 
                at any time or place. The network can be a local one, custom 
                installed for a specific site, or it can be part of the 
                Internet. If you have access to a mail network at your site, ask 
                the administrator to show you how to send and receive mail. 
                Using the Internet to send electronic messages can be even 
                easier, providing your recipient is also on the Internet. E-mail 
                is probably the most popular and most widely used feature 
                available to Internet users. E-mail, faxes, and 
                videoconferencing help people work collaboratively without being 
                face-to-face.























E-mail 
                Addresses























To send an 
                e-mail message to someone, you need to know that person's 
                address. An e-mail address usually consists of the user's name 
                followed by an @, followed by the host name (the name of the 
                user's service provider), followed by the name of the domain. 
                The address is all spelled out, usually in lower case, with no 
                spaces between segments. For















  





















Page 
                155
















example, 
                the address for a Professor Magon Thompson at Arizona State 
                University might be mthomp@asu.edu, where "mthomp" is 
                the user's name, "asu" is the host name, and ".edu" 
                is the domain, in this case a domain referring to educational 
                institutions. Other frequently used domain suffixes are 
                ".com,'' for commercial companies, ".gov," for 
                government addresses, and ".org" for nonprofit 
                organizations. International addresses will include a country 
                domain, such as ".uk" for the United Kingdom.























You can 
                also send e-mail to anyone who has an account on a commercial 
                online provider, such as America OnLine (AOL). The address will 
                consist of the user's name followed by an @, followed by the 
                host name of the online provider. In the case of AOL, the e-mail 
                address for Magon Thompson might be mthomp@aol.com.























You can 
                keep a list of personal e-mail addresses in an address file that 
                is part of the e-mail application. New addresses can be added 
                and old ones edited by using pull-down menu functions.























Receiving 
                and Sending E-mail























E-mail on 
                the Web can be accessed through an e-mail application such as 
                Eudora or directly through the browser, such as Netscape 
                Navigator. If you are using Navigator, click the little envelope 
                at the right bottom of the browser to access the e-mail window. 
                It will appear along with a window for your password. Once you 
                key in your password, a message is sent to your service 
                provider's server, asking what mail you have. Mail will then be 
                transferred to you, or you will see a message that you have no 
                mail. Any mail you receive will have the e-mail address of the 
                person who sent it. You can copy the address into your e-mail 
                address book. Eudora and other e-mail programs work similarly.























To send a 
                message, you can click the recipient's name in the address book, 
                and a message form will appear with the recipient name box 
                filled in. Otherwise, select the new message function and fill 
                in the recipient name. Other boxes include a "cc:" box 
                for copies to be sent to others, and a subject box to describe 
                the contents of the message. Fill these in and type your message 
                in the main box. When you are done, click the Send button for 
                immediate (or "delayed," if you are currently offline) 
                transmission.















  





















Page 
                156
















To reply 
                to a message, click the Reply button when the message you wish 
                to reply to is displayed. Fill in the appropriate boxes and key 
                in your message. If you wish to send a copy of your manuscript 
                for comments along with the message, it can be copied and pasted 
                directly into the message box if it is short. Otherwise, send 
                your manuscript as an attachment. The attachment will be opened 
                at the other end just as it appeared on your screen, as long as 
                the recipient has the same software you do. If this is not the 
                case, save a copy of your file as Text Only or ASCII, and send 
                it in that format.























E-mail 
                and the Copyright Law























All the 
                e-mail you write is copyrighted, but it's not secret unless you 
                have agreed to its secrecy with your correspondent beforehand. 
                If you have not so agreed, you can reveal what an e-mail says in 
                general terms, and you can even quote short segments of an 
                e-mail under the fair-use provision of the copyright law. 
                Posting an entire e-mail is a violation, but revealing 
                information from its content is acceptable.























Newsgroups























Newsgroups 
                are composed of individuals in a specific area of interest who 
                wish to read and write to each other about topics that concern 
                them. Some newsgroups have thousands of subscribers, while 
                others are limited to as few as 10 or 15 members. Your online 
                librarian can tell you if a newsgroup exists in your discipline.























Newsgroups 
                depend on an Internet function called Usenet (Users Network). 
                With this system, an Internet user anywhere in the world can 
                deliver a Usenet message to the members of a particular group. 
                All newsgroups have a name, set in lower case, with segments 
                separated by dots, just like all access addresses on the 
                Internet. For example, topics having to do with science in 
                general can be accessed under newsgroups with a "sci." 
                prefix, and the prefix "sci.med" covers topics related 
                to medicine. A newsgroup devoted to electronic libraries is 
                named "comp.internet.library,'' with "comp" 
                standing for computer group. A university newsgroup from MIT is 
                prefixed "mit." Access to Usenet newsgroups is free.















  





















Page 
                157
















You can 
                post queries and articles on a newsgroup, and you will get 
                replies concerning your topic from other members. You can 
                request that replies concerning your material be made by e-mail. 
                If you wish, you can start your own newsgroup. One word of 
                caution—just because something is published in a newsgroup 
                doesn't mean it is true or factual. If you wish to correspond 
                within the newsgroup format, select one that is moderated and 
                appears to be at a high level. Many newsgroups are run by 
                universities or business research laboratories, and most of the 
                correspondents in these groups are fairly serious about their 
                work. However, some professional and academic groups prefer not 
                to publish on the Web until a serious review process has taken 
                place, or until a paper has been published in hardcopy form. The 
                New England Journal of Medicine has expressed fears about 
                unscreened information appearing in an unsecured environment 
                such as the Web.























If you are 
                concerned about posting your report on the Web prior to hardcopy 
                publication, but would still like to work collaboratively with 
                associates or get work-in-progress evaluations from colleagues, 
                other options are available to you. E-mail, at this time, is 
                relatively secure. Intranet sites, a subset of the Internet 
                maintained by an individual school or business for its own use, 
                can be made secure through the use of passwords. 















  




























Page 
                158
















Chapter 
                24
                How to Order and Use Reprints























Most 
                authors will purchase between 100 and 300 copies of reprints for 
                each article they publish, for "professional 
                self-advertising" for distribution to their colleagues upon 
                demand.
                —John K. Crum























How to 
                Order Reprints























Reprints 
                are to some degree a vanity item. "Vanity of vanities; all 
                is vanity" (Ecclesiastes I, 2; XII, 8). Having said that, I 
                will now give a few words of advice on how to buy reprints and 
                use them, because I know you will. Everybody does. It is a rare 
                author indeed who does not want to order reprints.























The 
                "how to order" is usually easy. A reprint order blank 
                is customarily sent with the proofs. In fact, this custom is so 
                universal that you should call or write the journal office if 
                the reprint order form does not arrive with the proofs, 
                because the omission was probably inadvertent.























Reprint 
                Manufacturing Systems























Some 
                journals still manufacture reprints (offprints) by the "run 
                with journal" process. (The reprints are printed as an 
                overrun while the journal itself is being printed.) If that 
                process is used, it is important that you get your order in 
                early. Return the order form, with the proof if so directed, at 
                an early time, rather than waiting for an official purchase















  





















Page 
                159
















order to 
                grind through your institution's mills. Try to get a purchase 
                order number even though there might be delay in getting 
                the purchase order itself.























Some 
                journal reprints are now manufactured on small offset presses, 
                in a process essentially unrelated to the manufacture of the 
                journal. In recent years, the cost of paper has increased 
                tremendously; the wastage of paper inherent in the "run 
                with journal" system has made that system economically 
                unsound.























The newer 
                system has one huge advantage: Reprints of your paper can be 
                produced at any time in any number. Therefore, if you publish in 
                such a journal, you need never worry about running out of 
                reprints.























How 
                Many to Order























Even 
                though you may be able to reorder later, it is wise to overorder 
                in the first instance. Most journals charge a substantial price 
                for the first 100 reprints, to cover the setup and processing 
                costs. The second 100 is usually very much cheaper, the modest 
                increase in price reflecting only the cost of additional paper 
                and press time. Therefore, if you think you may need about 100 
                reprints, order 200; if you might need 200, order 300. The price 
                differential is so slight that it would be foolish not to err on 
                the high side. The price list shown in Table 11 is typical of 
                many.














Table 
                11. Reprint price list: Journal of Bacteriology


 




Number 
                        of copies










Pages








100








200








300








400








500








Additional 
                        100's



















4
























$128
























$142
























$154
























$166
























$178
























$17


























8
























222
























254
























286
























316
























348
























46


























12
























280
























320
























362
























386
























446
























60


























16
























338
























390
























442
























494
























546
























74


























20
























394
























456
























520
























582
























644
























88




















  





















Page 
                160
















How to 
                Use Reprints























As for 
                using reprints, you may let your imagination and vanity be your 
                guide. Start by sending one to your mother because that is 
                easier than writing the letter that you should have written long 
                ago. If it is really a good paper, send a reprint to anybody you 
                want to impress, especially any senior colleagues who may some 
                day be in a position to put in a good word for you.























Your main 
                consideration is whether or not to play the "postcard" 
                game. Some scientists refuse to play the game, using instead a 
                distribution list which they believe will get the reprints to 
                colleagues who might really need the reprints. Routine postcards 
                or form letters requesting reprints are ignored, although almost 
                everyone would respond favorably to a personal letter.























Yet, 
                although many scientists resent the time and expense of playing 
                the postcard game, most of them play it anyway. And, vanity 
                aside, the game may occasionally be worth the reprint. If so, 
                the reasons may be somewhat as follows.























The 
                largest number of reprint requests will come from people who can 
                best be defined as "collectors." They tend to be 
                "library" scientists, possibly graduate students or 
                postdoctoral fellows, who are likely to have a wide interest in 
                the literature and perhaps considerably less interest in 
                laboratory manipulation. You probably won't recognize the names, 
                even if you can read the signatures at the bottoms of the cards, 
                because these individuals probably have not published in your 
                field (if they have published at all). In time, you may begin to 
                recognize some of the names, because the real collector collects 
                with dogged determination. Every time you publish, you are 
                likely to receive reprint requests from the same band of 
                collectors working your particular subject area.























If you can 
                recognize the collector, should you respond? Probably. There is, 
                I think, room in science for the multidisciplinary types who 
                spend hours in the library, constantly collecting, organizing, 
                and synthesizing broad areas of the literature. Such broad-based 
                people may not be at the forefront of research science, but 
                often they become good teachers or good administrators; and, in 
                the meantime, they are very likely to produce one or more superb 
                review papers or monographs, often on a cosmic subject that only 
                a collector would know how to tackle.























The next 
                largest group of reprint requests is likely to come from foreign 
                countries or from very small institutions. Quite obviously, 
                these















  





















Page 
                161
















people 
                have seen your paper listed in one of the indexing or 
                abstracting services, but have not seen the paper itself because 
                the journal is not available within their institution. (Expect a 
                surge in requests within days after your paper is listed in Current 
                Contents.) Should you respond to such requests? Frankly, if 
                you send out reprints at all, I think that this group merits 
                first consideration.























The third 
                group of requests will come from your peers, people you know or 
                names or laboratories that you recognize as being involved in 
                your own or a related field. Should you respond to such 
                requests? Probably, because you know that the reprints will 
                actually be used. Your main concern here is whether it might be 
                better to prepare a mailing list, so that you and some of your 
                colleagues can exchange reprints without wasting time and 
                expense with the requests.























Should you 
                collect reprints? If so, how? That, of course, is up to you, 
                but a few guidelines may be helpful.























You should 
                realize, at the outset, that reprints are useful, if at all, as 
                a convenience. Unlike books and journals, they have 
                absolutely no economic value. I have known of several prominent 
                scientists who, upon retirement, were upset because their vast 
                reprint collections could not be sold, no institution would 
                accept them as a gift, and even scrap paper dealers refused them 
                because of the staples.























How to 
                File Reprints























So, if 
                reprints are to be used for your personal convenience, what 
                would be convenient? Consider arranging your reprints 
                alphabetically by author (cross-indexing additional 
                authors). Most scientists seem to prefer a subject arrangement, 
                but, as the collection grows, as subjects and interests change, 
                and as time passes, more and more of the collection becomes 
                inaccessible. As a former librarian, I assure you that every 
                subject system ever devised will break down in time, and I also 
                assure you that there is nothing so maddening as to search 
                fruitlessly for something that you need and that you know you 
                have somewhere.























Your 
                reprint file may also be used to house the photocopies of 
                journal articles that you obtain. If your library obtains for 
                you a photocopy of an article, via an interlibrary transaction, 
                obviously that is exactly the kind of item that should go in 
                your collection (because it would be inconvenient to have to go 
                through the interlibrary loan process again).















  





















Page 
                162
















If you 
                have or expect to have a large reprint collection, no simple 
                filing system will provide efficient retrievability. Records 
                must be established. The records (probably on 3 × 5 cards) can 
                be kept in a number of ways. Cards may be established in brief 
                form for authors and co-authors and for any number of subject 
                entries. All cards are maintained in one dictionary catalog 
                (shoebox?). The reprints themselves might be filed by accession 
                number, with that number being recorded on all relevant author 
                and subject cards. Such record keeping is relatively easy and 
                surprisingly efficient.























Alternatively, 
                you can record your reprints in a computer file. Various 
                software programs are available for this kind of record 
                management.























What to 
                Collect























What 
                reprints should you collect? Let us get to the heart of the 
                matter, or at least the aorta. Unless you are really a collector 
                by personality, you should limit your collection to those items 
                that are convenient. Because you cannot collect 
                everything, the best rule is to collect the difficult. You 
                should not collect reprints of papers published in journals that 
                you own, and you probably should not collect reprints from 
                journals that are readily available in almost all libraries. You 
                should collect reprints of papers published in the small, 
                especially foreign, journals or in conference proceedings or 
                other offbeat publications. And you should collect reprints of 
                papers containing high-quality or color illustrations, because 
                they cannot be satisfactorily photocopied. Thus, measured in 
                terms of convenience, your reprint collection need not supplant 
                the library down the hall, but it is a convenience to have 
                access in your own files to material that is not available in 
                the library. Besides, the reprints are yours; you can 
                mark them up, cut them up, and file them in any way that you 
                find useful. 















  




























Page 
                163
















Chapter 
                25
                How to Write a Review Paper   























A 
                reviewer is one who gives the best jeers of his life to the 
                author.
—Anonymous























Characteristics 
                of a Review Paper























A review 
                paper is not an original publication. On occasion, a 
                review will contain new data (from the author's own laboratory) 
                that have not yet appeared in a primary journal. However, the 
                purpose of a review paper is to review previously published 
                literature and to put it into some kind of perspective.























A review 
                paper is usually long, typically ranging between 10 and 50 
                printed pages. (Some journals now print short "minireviews.") 
                The subject is fairly general, compared with that of research 
                papers. And the literature review is, of course, the principal 
                product. However, the really good review papers are much more 
                than annotated bibliographies. They offer critical evaluation of 
                the published literature and often provide important conclusions 
                based on that literature.























The 
                organization of a review paper is usually different from that of 
                a research paper. Obviously, the Materials and Methods, Results, 
                Discussion arrangement cannot readily be used for the review 
                paper. Actually, some review articles are prepared more or less 
                in the IMRAD format; for example, they may contain a Methods 
                section describing how the literature review was done.















  





















Page 
                164
















If you 
                have previously written research papers and are now about to 
                write your first review, it might help you conceptually if you 
                visualize the review paper as a research paper, as follows. 
                Greatly expand the Introduction; delete the Materials and 
                Methods (unless original data are being presented); delete the 
                Results; and expand the Discussion.























Actually, 
                you have already written many review papers. In format, a review 
                paper is not very different from a well-organized term paper or 
                thesis.























As in a 
                research paper, however, it is the organization of the 
                review paper that is important. The writing will almost take 
                care of itself if you can get the thing organized.























Preparing 
                an Outline























Unlike 
                research papers, there is no prescribed organization for review 
                papers. Therefore, you will have to develop your own. The 
                cardinal rule for writing a review paper is prepare an 
                outline.























The 
                outline must be prepared carefully. The outline will assist you 
                in organizing your paper, which is all-important. If your review 
                is organized properly, the overall scope of the review will be 
                well defined and the integral parts will fit together in logical 
                order.























Obviously, 
                you must prepare the outline before you start writing. 
                Moreover, before you start writing, it is wise to 
                determine whether a review journal (or primary journal that also 
                publishes review articles) would be interested in such a 
                manuscript. Possibly, the editor will want to limit or expand 
                the scope of your proposed review or to add or delete certain of 
                the subtopics.























The 
                Instructions to Authors in Microbiology and Molecular Biology 
                Reviews says it this way:". . . an annotated topical 
                outline . . . will be evaluated by the editors, and if the 
                material is satisfactory, the authors will be invited to write 
                the review."























Not only 
                is the outline essential for the preparer of the review, it is 
                also very useful to potential readers of the review. For that 
                reason, many review journals print the outline at the beginning 
                of the article, where it serves as a convenient table of 
                contents for prospective readers. A well-constructed outline is 
                shown in Fig. 12.















  





















Page 
                165








































Figure 12. 
                Outline of a review paper.















 





















Page 
                166
















Types 
                of Reviews























Before 
                actually writing a review, you also need to determine the 
                critical requirements of the journal to which you plan to submit 
                the manuscript. Some journals demand critical evaluation of the 
                literature, whereas others are more concerned with bibliographic 
                completeness. There are also matters of organization, style, and 
                emphasis that you should have in mind before you proceed very 
                far.























By and 
                large, the old-line review journals prefer, and some demand, 
                authoritative and critical evaluations of the published 
                literature on a subject. Many of the ''book" series 
                ("Annual Review of," "Recent Advances in," 
                "Yearbook of," etc.), however, publish reviews 
                designed to compile and to annotate but not necessarily to 
                evaluate the papers published on a particular subject during a 
                defined time period. Some active areas of research are reviewed 
                yearly. Both of these types of review papers serve a purpose, 
                but the different purposes need to be recognized.























At one 
                time, review papers tended to present historical analyses. In 
                fact, the reviews were often organized in chronological order. 
                Although this type of review is now less common, one should not 
                deduce that the history of science has become less important. 
                There is still a place for history.























Today, 
                however, most review media prefer either "state of the 
                art" reviews or reviews that provide a new understanding of 
                a rapidly moving field. Only the recent literature on the 
                subject is catalogued or evaluated. If you are reviewing a 
                subject that has not previously been reviewed or one in which 
                misunderstandings or polemics have developed, a bit more 
                coverage of the historical foundations would be appropriate. If 
                the subject has been effectively reviewed before, the starting 
                point for your review might well be the date of the previous 
                review (not publication date, but the actual date up to which 
                the literature has been reviewed). And, of course, your review 
                should start out by citing the previous review.























Writing 
                for the Audience























Another 
                basic difference between review papers and primary papers is the 
                audience. The primary paper is highly specialized, and so 
                is its















  





















Page 
                167
















audience 
                (peers of the author). The review paper will probably cover a 
                number of these highly specialized subjects, so that the review 
                will be read by many peers. The review paper will also be read 
                by many people in related fields, because the reading of good 
                reviews is the best way to keep up in one's broad areas of 
                interest. Finally, review papers are valuable in the teaching 
                process, so that student use is likely to be high. (For these 
                reasons, by the way, order plenty of reprints of any 
                review paper you publish, because you are likely to be inundated 
                with reprint requests.)























Because 
                the review paper is likely to have a wide and varied audience, 
                your style of writing should be much more general than it need 
                be for a research paper. Jargon and specialized abbreviations 
                must be eliminated or carefully explained. Your writing style 
                should be expansive rather than telegraphic.























Importance 
                of Introductory Paragraphs























Readers 
                are much influenced by the Introduction of a review paper. They 
                are likely to decide whether or not to read further on the basis 
                of what they find in the first few paragraphs (if they haven't 
                already been repelled by the title).























Readers 
                are also influenced by the first paragraph of each major section 
                of a review, deciding whether to read, skim, or skip the rest of 
                the section depending on what they find in the first paragraph. 
                If "first paragraphs" are well written, all readers, 
                including the skimmers and skippers, will be able to achieve 
                some degree of comprehension of the subject.























Importance 
                of Conclusions























Because 
                the review paper covers a wide subject for a wide audience, a 
                form of "conclusions" is a good component to take the 
                trouble to write. This is especially important for a highly 
                technical, advanced, or obscure subject. Painful compromises 
                must sometimes be made, if one really tries to summarize a 
                difficult subject to the satisfaction of both expert and 
                amateur. Yet, good summaries and simplifications will in time 
                find their way into textbooks and mean a great deal to students 
                yet to come.















  




























Page 
                168
















Chapter 
                26
                How to Write a Conference Report   























Conference: 
                a gathering of important people who singly can do nothing, but 
                together decide that nothing can be done.
—Fred Allen























Definition























A 
                conference report can be one of many kinds. However, let us make 
                a few assumptions and, from these, try to devise a picture of 
                what a more-or-less typical conference report should look like.























It all 
                starts, of course, when you are invited to participate in a 
                conference (congress, symposium, workshop, panel discussion, 
                seminar, colloquium), the proceedings of which will be 
                published. At that early time, you should stop to ask yourself, 
                and the conference convener or editor, exactly what is involved 
                with the publication.























The 
                biggest question, yet one that is often left cloudy, is whether 
                the proceedings volume will be defined as primary. If you or 
                other participants present previously unpublished data, the 
                question arises (or at least it should) as to whether data 
                published in the proceedings have been validly published, thus 
                precluding later republication in a primary journal.























As more 
                and more scientists, and their societies, become aware of the 
                need to define their publications, there will be fewer problems. 
                For one















  





















Page 
                169
















thing, 
                conferences have become so popular in recent years that the 
                conference report literature has become a very substantial 
                portion of the total literature in many areas of science.























The clear 
                trend, I think, is to define conference reports as not validly 
                published primary data. This is seemingly in recognition of 
                three important considerations: (1) Most conference proceedings 
                are one-shot, ephemeral publications, not purchased widely by 
                science libraries around the world; thus, because of limited 
                circulation and availability, they fail one of the fundamental 
                tests of valid publication. (2) Most conference reports are 
                essentially review papers, which do not qualify as primary 
                publications, or they are preliminary reports presenting data 
                and concepts that may still be tentative or inconclusive and 
                which the scientist would not yet dare to contribute to a 
                primary publication. (3) Conference reports are normally not 
                subjected to peer review or to more than minimal editing; 
                therefore, because of the lack of any real quality control, many 
                reputable publishers now define proceedings volumes as 
                nonprimary. (There are of course exceptions. Some conference 
                proceedings are rigorously edited, and their prestige is the 
                equal of primary journals. Indeed, some conference proceedings 
                appear as issues of journals.)























This is 
                important to you, so that you can determine whether or not your 
                data will be buried in an obscure proceedings volume. It also 
                answers in large measure how you should write the report. If the 
                proceedings volume is adjudged to be primary, you should (and 
                the editor will no doubt so indicate) prepare your manuscript in 
                journal style. You should give full experimental detail, and you 
                should present both your data and your discussion of the data as 
                circumspectly as you would in a prestigious journal.























If, on the 
                other hand, you are contributing to a proceedings volume that is 
                not a primary publication, your style of writing may be (and 
                should be) quite different. The fundamental requirement of 
                reproducibility, inherent in a primary publication, may now be 
                ignored. You need not, and probably should not, have a Materials 
                and Methods section. Certainly, you need not provide the 
                intricate detail that might be required for a peer to reproduce 
                the experiments.























Nor is it 
                necessary to provide the usual literature review. Your later 
                journal article will carefully fit your results into the 
                preexisting fabric of science; your conference report should be 
                designed to give the news and















  





















Page 
                170
















the 
                speculation for today's audience. Only the primary journal need 
                serve as the official repository.























Format























If your 
                conference report is not a primary scientific paper, just how 
                should it differ from the usual scientific paper?























A 
                conference report is often limited to one or two printed pages, 
                or 1,000 to 2,000 words. Usually, authors can be provided with a 
                simple formula, such as "up to five manuscript pages, 
                double-spaced, and not more than three illustrations (any 
                combination of tables, graphs, or photographs)."























Presenting 
                the New Ideas























As stated 
                above, the conference report can be relatively short because 
                most of the experimental detail and much of the literature 
                review can be eliminated. In addition, the results can usually 
                be presented in brief form. Because the full results will 
                presumably be published later in a primary journal, only the 
                highlights need be presented in the conference report.























On the 
                other hand, the conference report might give greater space to speculation. 
                Editors of primary journals can get quite nervous about 
                discussion of theories and possibilities that are not thoroughly 
                buttressed by the data. The conference report, however, should 
                serve the purpose of the true preliminary report; it should 
                present and encourage speculation, alternative theories, and 
                suggestions for future research.























Conferences 
                themselves can be exciting precisely because they do serve as 
                the forum for presentation of the very newest ideas. If the 
                ideas are truly new, they are not yet fully tested. They may not 
                hold water. Therefore, the typical scientific conference should 
                be designed as a sounding board, and the published proceedings 
                should reflect that ambience. The strict controls of stern 
                editors and peer review are fine for the primary journal but are 
                out of place for the conference literature.























The 
                typical conference report, therefore, need not follow the usual 
                Introduction, Materials and Methods, Results, Discussion 
                progression that is standard for the primary research paper. 
                Instead, an abbreviated approach may be used. The problem is 
                stated; the methodology used is stated (but not described in 
                detail); and the results are presented briefly,















  





















Page 
                171
















with one, 
                two, or three tables or figures. Then, the meaning of the 
                results is speculated about, often at considerable length. The 
                literature review most likely involves description of related or 
                planned experiments in the author's own laboratory or in the 
                laboratories of colleagues who are currently working on related 
                problems.























Editing 
                and Publishing























Finally, 
                it is only necessary to remind you that the editor of the 
                proceedings, usually the convener of the conference, is the sole 
                arbiter of questions relating to manuscript preparation. If the 
                editor has distributed Instructions to Authors, you should 
                follow them (assuming that you want to be invited to other 
                conferences). You may not have to worry about rejection, since 
                conference reports are seldom rejected; however, if you have 
                agreed to participate in a conference, you should then follow 
                whatever rules are established. If all contributors follow the 
                rules, whatever they are, the resultant volume is likely to 
                exhibit reasonable internal consistency and be a credit to all 
                concerned.















  




























Page 
                172
















Chapter 
                27
                How to Write a Book Review   























Without 
                books, history is silent, literature dumb, science crippled, 
                thought and speculation at a standstill.
—Barbara W. Tuchman























Scientific 
                Books























Books are 
                important in all professions, but they are especially important 
                in the sciences. That is because the basic unit of scientific 
                communication, the primary research paper, is short (typically 
                five to eight printed pages in most fields) and narrowly 
                specific. Therefore, to provide a general overview of a 
                significant slice of science, writers of scientific books 
                organize and synthesize the reported knowledge in a field into a 
                much larger, more meaningful package. In other words, new 
                scientific knowledge is made meaningful by sorting and sifting 
                the bits and pieces to provide a larger picture. Thus, the 
                individual plants and flowers, and even the weeds, become a 
                landscape.























Scientific, 
                technical, and medical books are of many types. In broad 
                categories, they can be considered as monographs, reference 
                books, textbooks, and trade books. Because there are significant 
                differences among these four types, a reviewer should understand 
                the distinctions.























Monographs. 
                Monographs are the books most used by scientists. Monographs 
                are written by scientists for scientists. They are specialized 
                and detailed. In form, they are often the equivalent of a long 
                review article. Some monographs are written by single authors; 
                most are written by multiple authors. If a large number of 
                authors are contributing to a















  





















Page 
                173
















monograph, 
                there will be one or more editors who assign the individual 
                topics and then edit the contributions to form a well-integrated 
                volume. (This is the theory but not always the practice.) Such a 
                monograph can be put together "by mail"; 
                alternatively, a conference is called, papers are read, and a 
                resultant volume contains the "proceedings."























As a 
                publisher of long if not good standing, I now express a pet 
                peeve. If, as a book reviewer, you want to comment about 
                "the outrageously high price charged by the 
                publisher," know what you are talking about. (That, by the 
                way, is a good general rule for all aspects of book reviewing.) 
                My point is this: Some reviewers have a simplistic notion about 
                book prices; some even use a simplistic formula, saying perhaps 
                that any book priced at less than 10 cents a printed page is 
                O.K. but that a price higher than 10 cents a page "is 
                gouging the scientific community." The fact of the matter 
                is that the prices of books do and must vary widely; the 
                variance depends primarily not on the size of the book but on 
                the size of the audience. A book with potential sales of 10,000 
                or more copies can be priced modestly; a book with potential 
                sales of 1,000 to 2,000 copies must carry a high price, 
                if the publisher is to stay in business. Thus, a price of 10 
                cents a page (say $20 for a 200-page book) might be insanely low 
                for a specialized monograph.























Reference 
                Books. Because science produces prolific data, science 
                publishers produce a wide variety of compilations of data. Most 
                of these are of the handbook variety. Some of the larger fields 
                also have their own encyclopedias and dictionaries. 
                Bibliographies were once a common type of reference book, but 
                relatively few are being produced today. As online bibliographic 
                searching has become common, printed bibliographies in most 
                fields have become obsolete.























Reference 
                books are expensive to produce. Most are produced by commercial 
                publishers, who design the product and employ scientists as 
                consultants to ensure the accuracy of the product. The published 
                reference works, particularly the multivolume works, are likely 
                to be expensive. From the reviewer's point of view, the 
                essential considerations are the usefulness and the accuracy of 
                the data assembled in the work.























Textbooks. 
                Publishers love textbooks because that is where the money 
                is. A successful undergraduate text in a broad subject may sell 
                tens of thousands of copies. New editions of established texts 
                are published frequently (primarily to kill the competition from 
                the used-















  





















Page 
                174
















book 
                market), and some scientists have become modestly wealthy from 
                textbook royalties.























A textbook 
                is unique in that its success is determined not by its 
                purchasers (students) but by its adopters (professors). Thus, 
                publishers try to commission the big names in science to write 
                texts, hoping that major adoptions will result on the basis of 
                name recognition. Occasionally, the big names, who became well 
                known because of their research, write good texts. At least, the 
                science is likely to be first-rate and up to date. 
                Unfortunately, some brilliant and successful researchers are 
                poor writers, and their texts may be almost useless as teaching 
                aids. It shouldn't have to be said but it does: A good reviewer 
                should evaluate a text on the basis of its usefulness as a text; 
                the name on the cover should be irrelevant.























Trade 
                Books. Trade books are those books that are sold primarily 
                through the book trade, that is, book wholesalers and retailers. 
                The typical retail bookstore caters to the tastes of a general 
                audience, those people who walk in off the street. Because a 
                bookstore has space to stock only a small fraction of the total 
                output of publishers, the bookstore is likely to stock only 
                those titles that would interest many potential readers. In 
                bookstores, you will find books that appear on various 
                bestseller lists, popular fiction and general-interest 
                nonfiction, and perhaps not much else.























Bookstores 
                do sell science books, however. They sell them by the millions. 
                But these are not the monographs, the reference books, or the 
                textbooks (except in college bookstores). These are the books about 
                science written for the general public. Many, unfortunately, 
                are not very scientific, and some are disgustingly 
                pseudoscientific. Have you looked at a best-seller list lately? 
                In the nonfiction category, perhaps half may deal with 
                scientific subjects. Books on nutrition and diet, on psychology, 
                and on exercise and fitness are especially popular in today's 
                market.























Although 
                some of these books are trivial or even a perversion of 
                scientific knowledge, many very good scientific books are also 
                sold in bookstores. There are many first-rate books that treat 
                science and scientists in an interesting, educational way. 
                Biographies of prominent scientists seem to find a ready market. 
                Almost all bookstores carry books on everything from the atom to 
                the universe.























Audience 
                Analysis. The main purpose of a book review is to supply 
                sufficient information to potential readers so that they can 
                decide















  





















Page 
                175
















whether 
                they should get the book. To do this, the reviewer must define 
                the content of the book and also the audience for the 
                book. Who should read the book and why?























Many books 
                have different audiences. As an example, Lady Chatterley's 
                Lover by D. H. Lawrence had a wide general audience, a major 
                reason being that the book was sexually explicit. However, a 
                different (more scientific?) audience was in the mind of the 
                reviewer who wrote the following review, which appeared in the 
                November 1959 issue of Field and Stream:























Although 
                written many years ago, Lady Chatterley 's Lover has just 
                been reissued by Grove Press, and this fictional account of the 
                day-by-day life of an English gamekeeper is still of 
                considerable interest to outdoor-minded readers, as it contains 
                many passages on pheasant raising, the apprehending of poachers, 
                ways to control vermin, and other chores and duties of the 
                professional gamekeeper. Unfortunately one is obliged to wade 
                through many pages of extraneous materials in order to discover 
                and savor these sidelights on the management of a Midlands 
                shooting estate, and in this reviewer's opinion this book cannot 
                take the place of J. R. Miller's Practical Gamekeeping. 























Components 
                of the Book Review























Because I 
                believe that there are fundamental differences among the various 
                kinds of scientific books, I described them in some detail 
                above. Now let me go over the same ground to define what should 
                be covered in an effective book review.























Monographs. 
                We can define a monograph as a specialized book written for 
                a specialized audience. Therefore, the reviewer of a monograph 
                has one paramount obligation: to describe for potential readers 
                exactly what is in the book. What, precisely, is the subject of 
                the book, and what are the outside limits of the material 
                covered? If the monograph has a number of subjects, perhaps each 
                with a different author, each subject should be treated 
                individually. The good review, of course, will mirror the 
                quality of the book; the pedestrian material will be passed over 
                quickly, and the significant contributions will be given 
                weightier discussion. The quality of the writing, with rare 
                exceptions, will not need comment. It is the information in the 
                monograph that is important to its















  





















Page 
                176
















audience. 
                Highly technical language and even some jargon are to be 
                expected.























Reference 
                Books. The subject of a reference book is likely to be much 
                broader than that of a monograph. Still, it is important for the 
                reviewer to define in appropriate detail the content of the 
                book. Unlike the monograph, which may contain many opinions and 
                other subjective material, the reference book contains facts. 
                Therefore, the prime responsibility of the reviewer is to 
                determine, however possible, the accuracy of the material in the 
                reference book. Any professional librarian will tell you that an 
                inaccurate reference book is worse than none at all.























Textbooks. 
                In reviewing a textbook, the reviewer has a different set of 
                considerations. Unlike the language in a monograph, that in a 
                textbook must be nontechnical and jargon must be avoided. The 
                reader will be a student, not a peer of the scientist who wrote 
                the book. Technical terms will be used, of course, but each 
                should be carefully defined at first use. Unlike in the 
                reference book, accuracy is not of crucial importance. An 
                inaccurate number or word here and there is not crucial as long 
                as the message gets through. The function of the 
                reviewer, then, is to determine whether the subject of the text 
                is treated clearly, in a way that is likely to enable students 
                to grasp and to appreciate the knowledge presented. The textbook 
                reviewer has one additional responsibility. If other texts on 
                the same subject exist, which is usually the case, the reviewer 
                should provide appropriate comparisons. A new textbook might be 
                good based on its own evident merits; however, if it is not as 
                good as existing texts, it is useless.























Trade 
                Books. Again, the reviewer has different responsibilities. 
                The reader of a trade book may be a general reader, not a 
                scientist or a student of the sciences. Therefore, the language 
                must be nontechnical. Furthermore, unlike any of the other 
                scientific books, a trade book must be interesting. Trade 
                books are bought as much for entertainment as they are for 
                education. Facts may be important, but a boring effusion of 
                facts would be out of place. Scientific precepts are sometimes 
                difficult for the layperson to comprehend. The scientist writing 
                for this market must always keep this point in mind, and the 
                reviewer of a trade book must do so also. If a somewhat 
                imprecise, nontechnical term must replace a precise, technical 
                term, so be it. The reviewer may wince from time to time, but a 
                book that succeeds in fairly presenting scientific concepts to















  





















Page 
                177
















the 
                general public should not be faulted because of an occasional 
                imprecision.























Finally, 
                with trade books (as with other scientific books, for that 
                matter), the reviewer should try to define the audience. Can any 
                literate person read and understand the book, or is some level 
                of scientific competency necessary?























If a 
                reviewer has done the job well, a potential reader will know 
                whether or not to read the book under consideration, and why.























Imprint 
                Information. At the top of a book review, the reviewer 
                should list complete imprint information. The usual order is as 
                follows: title of the book, edition (if other than the first), 
                name of author(s) or editor(s), publisher, place (city in which 
                the publisher is located), year of publication, number of pages, 
                and list price of the book. Conventionally, well-known cities 
                are not followed by state or country names. A publisher located 
                in New York is listed ''New York" not "New York, 
                NY" and London is listed as "London" not 
                "London, U.K."















  




























Page 
                178
















Chapter 
                28
                How to Write a Thesis   























The 
                average Ph.D. thesis is nothing but a transference of bones from 
                one graveyard to another.
—J. Frank Dobie























Purpose 
                of the thesis























A Ph.D. 
                thesis in the sciences is supposed to present the candidate's 
                original research. Its purpose is to prove that the candidate is 
                capable of doing and communicating original research. Therefore, 
                a proper thesis should be like a scientific paper, which has the 
                same purpose. A thesis should exhibit the same form of 
                disciplined writing that would be required in a journal 
                publication. Unlike the scientific paper, the thesis may 
                describe more than one topic, and it may present more than one 
                approach to some topics. The thesis may present all or most of 
                the data obtained in the student's thesis-related research. 
                Therefore, the thesis usually can be longer and more involved 
                than a scientific paper. But the concept that a thesis must be a 
                bulky 200-page tome is wrong, dead wrong. Most 200-page theses I 
                have seen contain maybe 50 pages of good science. The other 150 
                pages comprise turgid descriptions of insignificant details.























I have 
                seen a great many Ph.D. theses, and I have assisted with the 
                writing and organization of a good number of them. On the basis 
                of this experience, I have concluded that there are almost no 
                generally accepted rules for thesis preparation. Most types of 
                scientific writing are highly structured. Thesis writing is not. 
                The "right" way to write a thesis varies















  





















Page 
                179
















widely 
                from institution to institution and even from professor to 
                professor within the same department of the same institution.























The 
                dustiest part of most libraries is that area where the 
                departmental theses are shelved. Without doubt, many nuggets of 
                useful knowledge are contained in theses, but who has the time 
                or patience to sort through the hundreds of pages of trivia to 
                find the page or two of useful knowledge?























Reid 
                (1978) is one of many who have suggested that the traditional 
                thesis no longer serves a purpose. In Reid's words, 
                "Requirements that a candidate must produce an expansive 
                traditional-style dissertation for a Ph.D. degree in the 
                sciences must be abandoned. . . . The expansive traditional 
                dissertation fosters the false impression that a typed record 
                must be preserved of every table, graph, and successful or 
                unsuccessful experimental procedure."























If a 
                thesis serves any real purpose, that purpose might be to 
                determine literacy. Perhaps universities have always worried 
                about what would happen to their image if it turned out that a 
                Ph.D. degree had been awarded to an illiterate. Hence, the 
                thesis requirement. Stated more positively, the candidate has 
                been through a process of maturation, discipline, and 
                scholarship. The "ticket out" is a satisfactory 
                thesis.























It may be 
                useful to mention that theses at European universities are taken 
                much more seriously. They are designed to show that the 
                candidate has reached maturity and can both do science and write 
                science. Such theses may be submitted after some years of work 
                and a number of primary publications, with the thesis itself 
                being a "review paper" that brings it all together.























Tips On 
                Writing























There are 
                few rules for writing a thesis, except those that may exist in 
                your own institution. If you do not have rules to follow, go to 
                your departmental library and examine the theses submitted by 
                previous graduates of the department, especially those who have 
                gone on to fame and fortune. Perhaps you will be able to detect 
                a common flavor. Whatever ploys worked in the past for others 
                are likely to work for you now.























Generally, 
                a thesis should be written in the style of a review paper. Its 
                purpose is to review the work that led to your degree. Your 
                original















  





















Page 
                180
















data 
                (whether previously published or not) should of course be 
                incorporated, buttressed by all necessary experimental detail. 
                Each of several sections might actually be designed along the 
                lines of a research paper (Introduction, Materials and Methods, 
                Results, Discussion). Overall, however, the parts should fit 
                together like those of a monographic review paper.























Be careful 
                about the headings. If you have one or several Results sections, 
                these must be your results, not a mixture of your results with 
                those of others. If you need to present results of others, to 
                show how they confirm or contrast with your own, you should do 
                this within a Discussion section. Otherwise, confusion may 
                result, or, worse, you could be charged with lifting data from 
                the published literature.























Start with 
                and work from a carefully prepared outline. In your outline and 
                in your thesis, you will of course describe in meticulous detail 
                your own research results. It is also customary to review all 
                related work. Further, there is no bar in a thesis, as there may 
                be in state-of-the-art review papers, to hoary tradition, so it 
                is often desirable to go back into the history of your subject. 
                You might thus compile a really valuable review of the 
                literature of your field, while at the same time learning 
                something about the history of science, which could turn out to 
                be a most valuable part of your education.























I 
                recommend that you give special attention to the Introduction in 
                your thesis for two reasons. First, for your own benefit, you 
                need to clarify what problem you attacked, how and why you 
                selected that problem, how you attacked it, and what you learned 
                during the course of your studies. The rest of the thesis should 
                then flow easily and logically from the Introduction. Second, 
                because first impressions are important, you do not want to lose 
                your readers in a cloud of obfuscation right at the outset.























When to 
                Write the thesis























You would 
                be wise to begin writing your thesis long before it is due. In 
                fact, when a particular set of experiments or some major facet 
                of your work has been completed, you should write it up while it 
                is still fresh in your mind. If you save everything until the 
                end, you may find that you have forgotten important details. 
                Worse, you may find that you just don't have time to do a proper 
                writing job. If you have not done much writing















  





















Page 
                181
















previously, 
                you will be amazed at what a painful and time-consuming process 
                it is. You are likely to need a total of 3 months to write the 
                thesis, on a relatively full-time basis. You will not have full 
                time, however, nor can you count on the ready availability of 
                your thesis advisor. Allow 6 months at a minimum.























Certainly, 
                the publishable portions of your research work should be written 
                as papers and submitted if at all possible before you leave the 
                institution. It will be difficult to do this after you leave the 
                institution, and it will get more difficult with each passing 
                month.























Relationship 
                to the Outside World























Remember, 
                your thesis will bear only your name. Theses are normally 
                copyrighted in the name of the author. Your early reputation and 
                perhaps your job prospects may relate to the quality of your 
                thesis and of the related publications that may appear in the 
                primary literature. (As stated in Chapter 3, you may not have 
                any "related publications" if you allow your thesis to 
                be posted on a Web site.) A tightly written, coherent thesis 
                will get you off to a good start. An overblown encyclopedia of 
                minutiae will do you no credit. The writers of good theses try 
                hard to avoid the verbose, the tedious, and the trivial.























Be 
                particularly careful in writing the Abstract of your thesis. The 
                Abstracts of theses from most institutions are published in Dissertation 
                Abstracts, thus being made available to the larger 
                scientific community.























If your 
                interest in this book at this time centers on how to write a 
                thesis, I suggest that you now carefully read Chapter 25 
                ("How to Write a Review Paper"), because in many 
                respects a thesis is indeed a review paper.















  




























Page 
                182
















Chapter 
                29
                How to Present a Paper Orally   























Talk 
                low, talk slow, and don't say too much.
—John Wayne























Organization 
                of the Paper























The best 
                way (in my opinion) to organize a paper for oral presentation is 
                to proceed in the same logical pathway that one usually does in 
                writing a paper, starting with "what was the problem?" 
                and ending with "what is the solution?" However, it is 
                important to remember that oral presentation of a paper does not 
                constitute publication, and therefore different rules apply. 
                The greatest distinction is that the published paper must 
                contain the full experimental protocol, so that the experiments 
                can be repeated. The oral presentation, however, need not and 
                should not contain all of the experimental detail, unless by 
                chance you have been called upon to administer a soporific at a 
                meeting of insomniacs. Extensive citation of the literature is 
                also undesirable in an oral presentation.























If you 
                will accept my statement that oral presentations should be 
                organized along the same lines as written papers, I need say 
                nothing more about "organization." This material is 
                covered in Chapter 26, "How to Write a Conference 
                Report."















  





















Page 
                183
















Presentation 
                of the Paper























Most oral 
                presentations are short (with a limit of 10 minutes at many 
                meetings). Thus, even the theoretical content must be trimmed 
                down relative to that of a written paper. No matter how well 
                organized, too many ideas too quickly presented will be 
                confusing. You should stick to your most important point or 
                result and stress that. There will not be time for you to 
                present all your other neat ideas.























There are, 
                of course, other and longer types of oral presentations. A 
                typical time allotted for symposium presentations is 20 minutes. 
                A few are longer. A seminar is normally one hour. Obviously, you 
                can present more material if you have more time. Even so, you 
                should go slowly, carefully presenting a few main points or 
                themes. If you proceed too fast, especially at the beginning, 
                your audience will lose the thread; the daydreams will begin and 
                your message will be lost.























Slides























At small, 
                informal scientific meetings, various types of visual aids may 
                be used. Overhead projectors, flip charts, and even blackboards 
                can be used effectively. At most scientific meetings, however, 
                35-mm slides are the lingua franca. Every scientist should know 
                how to prepare effective slides, yet attendance at almost any 
                meeting quickly indicates that many do not.























Here are a 
                few of the considerations that are important. First, slides 
                should be designed specifically for use with oral presentations. 
                Slides prepared from graphs that were drawn for journal 
                publication are seldom effective and often are not even legible. 
                Slides prepared from a word-processed manuscript or from a 
                printed journal or book are almost never effective. It should 
                also be remembered that slides should be wide rather than high, 
                which is just the opposite of the preferred dimensions for 
                printed illustrations. Even though 35-mm slides are square 
                (outside measurements of 2× 2 inches or 50 × 50 mm), the 
                conventional 35-mm camera produces an image area that is 36.3 mm 
                wide and 24.5 mm high; in addition, screens are normally wider 
                than they are high. Thus, horizontally oriented slides are 
                usually preferable.























Second, 
                slides should be prepared by professionals or at least by use of 
                professional equipment. Word processing is fine if a large type 
                size is















  





















Page 
                184
















selected. 
                A sans serif typeface such as Helvetica tends to be well suited 
                for slides. Your graphs will no doubt be generated by computer.























Third, it 
                should be remembered that the lighting in meeting rooms is 
                seldom optimum for slides. Contrast is therefore important. The 
                best (most readable) slides have black text on a white 
                background.























Fourth, 
                slides should not be crowded. Each slide should be designed to 
                illustrate a particular point or perhaps to summarize a few. If 
                a slide cannot be understood in 4 seconds, it is a bad slide.























Fifth, get 
                to the hall ahead of the audience. Check the projector, the 
                advance mechanism, and the lights. Make sure that your slides 
                are inserted in the proper order and in proper orientation. 
                There is no need for, and no excuse for, slides that appear out 
                of sequence, upside down, or out of focus.























Normally, 
                each slide should make one simple, easily understood visual 
                statement. The slide should supplement what you are saying at 
                the time the slide is on the screen; the slide should not simply 
                repeat what you are saying. And you should never read the 
                slide text to the audience; to do so would be an insult to your 
                audience, unless you are addressing a group of illiterates.























Slides 
                that are thoughtfully designed and well prepared can greatly 
                enhance the value of a scientific presentation. Poor slides 
                would have ruined Cicero.























The 
                Audience























The 
                presentation of a paper at a scientific meeting is a two-way 
                process. Because the material being communicated at a scientific 
                conference is likely to be the newest available information in 
                that field, both the speakers and the audience should accept 
                certain obligations. As indicated above, speakers should present 
                their material clearly and effectively so that the audience can 
                understand and learn from the information being communicated.























Almost 
                certainly, the audience for an oral presentation will be more 
                diverse than the readership of a scientific paper. Therefore, 
                the oral presentation should be pitched at a more general level 
                than would be a written paper. Avoid technical detail. Define 
                terms. Explain difficult concepts. A bit of redundancy can be 
                very helpful.















  





















Page 
                185
















Rehearsing 
                a paper before the members (even just a few members) of one's 
                own department or group can make the difference between success 
                and disaster.























For 
                communication to be effective, the audience also has various 
                responsibilities. These start with simple courtesy. The audience 
                should be quiet and attentive. Speakers respond well to an 
                interested, attentive audience, whereas the communication 
                process can be virtually destroyed when the audience is noisy 
                or, worse, asleep.























The best 
                part of an oral presentation is often the question-and-answer 
                period. During this time, members of the audience have the 
                option, if not the obligation, of raising questions not covered 
                by the speakers, and of briefly presenting ideas or data that 
                confirm or contrast with those presented by the speaker. Such 
                questions and comments should be stated courteously and 
                professionally. This is not the time (although we have all seen 
                it) for some windbag to vent spleen or to describe his or her 
                own erudition in infinite detail. It is all right to disagree, 
                but do not be disagreeable. In short, the speaker has an 
                obligation to be considerate to the audience, and the audience 
                has an obligation to be considerate to the speaker.























Electronic 
                Preparation of Slides for Oral Presentations























Slides are 
                the preferred medium when making an oral presentation, although 
                overhead transparencies used in conjunction with 35-mm 
                high-quality photographs on slides are a possible alternative. 
                Both overhead transparencies and slide shows can be prepared 
                electronically and output to 35-mm slides, overheads, or 
                computer monitors or projectors. When working with an electronic 
                slide-show application, choose your final output before you 
                design your slides.























Regardless 
                of the medium you choose, organization of your topic is the key. 
                Each slide should be designed to cover one major point, with a 
                bulleted text listing no more than six subtopics related to it. 
                The main heading should be at least 20 to 24 points, with 
                subtopics no smaller than 16 points. If the room in which you 
                are presenting is large, use larger font sizes. When a table or 
                graph is used, list it by name and set all the type in at least 
                14 points, so that it can be read at a distance. Do not clutter 
                the page with more topics and subheads beyond the heading and 
                the name of the graphic.















  





















Page 
                186
















Overhead 
                Transparencies























Overhead 
                transparencies can be created within your word-processing 
                program and printed out on laser quality acetate. They can also 
                be created with a slide-show application, although this is not 
                necessary. Overheads are best used in an informal setting and in 
                smaller rooms. Transparencies can be prepared for either 
                vertical or horizontal display. Unlike slide shows, the vertical 
                format is frequently preferred for overheads because you can 
                place a graph with bulleted topics comfortably within those 
                dimensions.























Slide-Show 
                Presentations























Digital 
                slide-show presentations provide you with the means to create 
                and present slide-shows from a computer. You can also prepare 
                photographic 35-mm slides that can be processed by a service 
                bureau, and you can also print out a variety of handouts and 
                notes to distribute to your audience. The electronic slide show 
                allows you to include sounds and video clips. It also gives you 
                the ability to augment your presentation with other material, 
                depending on the audience interest in a particular topic. Of 
                course, you will have prepared these slides beforehand.























The two 
                most popular slide-show programs are Microsoft Powerpoint and 
                Adobe Persuasion. Both cross-platform for Mac and Windows, and 
                both have similar features. If you decide to use the template 
                option, merely choose the style you like and go with it. If you 
                are graphically oriented, you can make your own template, 
                selecting the background and visual format from the start. This 
                template can be saved and used for new presentations by you and 
                by colleagues. The template will provide a title slide and 
                formats that include subtitles and illustrations. Illustrative 
                material can include tables and graphs, as well as dingbats for 
                fancy bullets. An art library is provided with illustrations 
                more suited to business than the science community. Artwork you 
                have created, such as graphs and photographs, can be imported 
                and placed on the slide you have chosen.























You can 
                write slide content as text, in a plain-text slide outliner, or 
                write it within a template and see how it will appear on screen. 
                It is best to compose your material first on the outliner. This 
                will allow you to organize your thoughts and preview the 
                subtopics as you work. If you















  





















Page 
                187
















wish, you 
                can delete or add slides within the outlines. You can even 
                rearrange your slide sequence as you edit your material. You can 
                also rearrange, add, or delete slides in a sorter view of the 
                actual visuals themselves, in a thumbnail size.























Using 
                Color in a Slide Presentation























When you 
                are working with color, decide on a color scheme before you 
                start to worry about readability and effect within a 
                presentation. Readability is all important. The text must stand 
                out from your background, and good contrast between the 
                background and your text will allow for that. If you choose a 
                dark color for the text, use a light, soft color for background 
                elements. A good combination is a soft yellow background with 
                bright dark blue text. Bullets can be set in a darker blue. This 
                color combination will provide good printouts for audience 
                distribution. If you want to use a dark background, such as a 
                dark gray or navy blue, the type and other elements should be 
                white, pale yellow, or some other pale color. This color 
                combination will look good on the screen, but it will not 
                provide the best handouts. Be aware, however, that it is easy to 
                overdo the color effects and ruin an otherwise good 
                presentation.























Consistent 
                use of color will add a cohesive quality to your presentation. 
                If you use the same color consistently for each element 
                throughout the slide presentation, it will communicate your 
                ideas without confusion. For example, if you are using dark-blue 
                bullets in a standard bullet shape, don't change the shape to a 
                triangle midway through the presentation. Changing the color 
                midway through a presentation would be even worse. Your viewer 
                will wonder why you have made the change and unconsciously look 
                for the reason even when there is none. Templates usually 
                provide a color scheme that works well. If you don't like the 
                design of a template, but like the colors, use them as part of a 
                slide layout you do like. To conclude your presentation, add a 
                black slide; it's what the pros do.























Slide-Show 
                Transitions























Transitions 
                are visual effects applied to a slide when it appears on a 
                screen. They can be as simple as a dissolve or a soft gradual 
                appearance of the new slide, just like in the movies when a new 
                scene unfolds.















  





















Page 
                188
















Transitions 
                such as a dissolve can be applied to appear from the top down, 
                bottom up, left to right, or right to left. Many fancy effects 
                are included, but these are completely out of place in a 
                scientific presentation. Whatever the transition you decide on, 
                use it consistently from one slide to the next.























You can 
                also apply a build to your presentation. Instead of 
                having the entire slide show up all at once, it can build. The 
                first view will show the title only; succeeding bullets are then 
                exposed to the viewer one at a time. Previously exposed bullets 
                still remain on-screen. The build adds a dash of suspense and a 
                little action to a motionless format. Although builds add 
                interest to a presentation, limit their use only to what works 
                well. If used for every slide, the build also becomes tedious. 
                You can set the timing to take place automatically between the 
                display of one slide to the next to allow you exactly enough 
                time to talk through the material, or you can control the 
                display from slide to slide by clicking the mouse.























Features 
                like these allow electronic slide-show programs to offer many 
                ways to improve clarity and add interest to a presentation.























When using 
                electronic presentations, it is wise to carry a set of slides or 
                overheads with you in case of problems. Electronic gadgetry 
                doesn't always work, especially if you get stuck with a 
                technician who doesn't really know how to run the equipment.















  




























Page 
                189
















Chapter 
                30
                How to Prepare a Poster   























It 
                takes intelligence, even brilliance, to condense and focus 
                information into a clear, simple presentation that will be read 
                and remembered. Ignorance and arrogance are shown in a crowded, 
                complicated, hard-to-read poster.
—Mary Helen Briscoe























Sizes 
                and Shapes























In recent 
                years, poster displays have become ever more common at both 
                national and international meetings. (Posters are display boards 
                on which scientists show their data and describe their 
                experiments.) As attendance at meetings increased, and as 
                pressure mounted on program committees to schedule more and more 
                papers for oral presentation, something had to change. The large 
                annual meetings, such as those of the Federation of American 
                Societies of Experimental Biology, got to the point where 
                available meeting rooms were simply exhausted. And, even when 
                sufficient numbers of rooms were available, the resulting large 
                numbers of concurrent sessions made it difficult or impossible 
                for attending scientists to keep up with the work being 
                presented by colleagues.























At first, 
                program committees simply rejected whatever number of abstracts 
                was deemed to be beyond the capabilities of meeting room space. 
                Then, as poster sessions were developed, program committees were 
                able to take the sting out of rejection by advising the ''rejectees" 
                that















  





















Page 
                190
















they could 
                consider presenting their work as posters. In the early days, 
                the posters were actually relegated to the hallways of the 
                meeting hotels or conference centers; still, many authors, 
                especially graduate students attempting to present their first 
                paper, were happy to have their work accepted for a poster 
                session rather than being knocked off the program entirely. 
                Also, the younger generation of scientists had come of age 
                during the era of science fairs, and they liked posters.























Nowadays, 
                of course, poster sessions have become an accepted and 
                meaningful part of many meetings. Large societies set aside 
                substantial space for the poster presentations. At a recent 
                Annual Meeting of the American Society for Microbiology, about 
                2,500 posters were presented. Even small societies often 
                encourage poster presentations, because many people have now 
                come to believe that some types of material can be presented 
                more effectively in poster graphics than in the confines of the 
                traditional 10-minute oral presentation.























As poster 
                sessions became normal parts of many society meetings, the rules 
                governing the preparation of posters have become much more 
                strict. When a large number of posters have to be fitted into a 
                given space, obviously the requirements have to be carefully 
                stated. Also, as posters have become common, convention bureaus 
                have made it their business to supply stands and other 
                materials; scientists could thus avoid shipping or carrying 
                bulky materials to the convention city.























Don't ever 
                commence the actual preparation of a poster until you know the 
                requirements specified by the meeting organizers. You of course 
                must know the height and width of the stand. You also must know 
                the approved methods of fixing exhibit materials to the stand. 
                The minimum sizes of type may be specified, and the sequence of 
                presentation may be specified (usually from left to right). This 
                information is usually provided in the program for the meeting.























Organization























The 
                organization of a poster normally should follow the IMRAD 
                format, although graphic considerations and the need for 
                simplicity should be kept in mind. There is very little text in 
                a well-designed poster, most of the space being used for 
                illustrations.























The 
                Introduction should present the problem succinctly; the poster 
                will fail unless it has a clear statement of purpose right at 
                the beginning. The Methods section will be very brief; perhaps 
                just a sentence or two















  





















Page 
                191
















will 
                suffice to describe the type of approach used. The Results, 
                which is often the shortest part of a written paper, is usually 
                the major part of a well-designed poster. Most of the available 
                space will be used to illustrate Results. The Discussion should 
                be brief. Some of the best posters I have seen did not even use 
                the heading "Discussion"; instead, the heading 
                "Conclusions" appeared over the far-right panel, the 
                individual conclusions perhaps being in the form of numbered 
                short sentences. Literature citations should be kept to a 
                minimum.























Preparing 
                the Poster























You should 
                number your poster to agree with the program of the meeting. The 
                title should be short and attention-grabbing (if possible); if 
                it is too long, it might not fit on the display stand. The title 
                should be readable out to a distance of 10 feet (3 m). The 
                typeface should be bold and black, and the type should be about 
                30 mm high. The names of the authors should be somewhat smaller 
                (perhaps 20 mm). The text type should be about 4 mm high. (A 
                type size of 24 points is suitable for text.) Transfer letters 
                (e.g., Letraset) are an excellent alternative, especially for 
                headings. A neat trick is to use transfer letters for your title 
                by mounting them on standard (2¼-inch) adding machine 
                tape. You can then roll up your title, put it in your briefcase, 
                and then tack it on the poster board at the meeting. Computers 
                can produce display-size type as well.























A poster 
                should be self-explanatory, allowing different viewers to 
                proceed at their own pace. If the author has to spend most of 
                his or her time merely explaining the poster rather than 
                responding to scientific questions, the poster is largely a 
                failure.























Lots of 
                white space throughout the poster is important. Distracting 
                clutter will drive people off. Try to make it very clear 
                what is meant to be looked at first, second, etc. (although many 
                people will still read the poster backwards). Visual impact is 
                particularly critical in a poster session. If you lack graphic 
                talent, consider getting the help of a graphic artist. Such a 
                professional can produce an attractive poster either in the 
                traditional board-mounted style or in the newer single-unit 
                photographic reproduction (superstat).























Robin 
                Morgan, Professor of Animal and Food Sciences at the University 
                of Delaware, told me this: "I'm one of those 'science fair' 
                scientists who love posters, and so we make a lot of them. I 
                write text in Word and prepare individual graphics as EPS by 
                using McDraw Pro,















  





















Page 
                192
















DeltaGraph, 
                and Quark. Then, I send the individual parts to a graphic 
                artist. The artist adds a bit of color here and there and lays 
                it all out so it looks good. I then have it printed at a service 
                bureau and have it laminated. The cost is $1,000 per poster 
                (pretty high for many scientists), but it's great to bring home 
                a poster after the meeting and display it in your office or 
                lab."























A poster 
                should contain highlights, so that passersby can easily 
                discern whether the poster is something of interest to them. If 
                they are interested, there will be plenty of time to ask 
                questions about the details. Also, it is a good idea to prepare 
                handouts containing more detailed information; they will be 
                appreciated by colleagues with similar specialties.























A poster 
                may actually be better than an oral presentation for showing the 
                results of a complex experiment. In a poster, you can organize 
                the highlights of the several threads well enough to give 
                informed viewers the chance to recognize what is going on and 
                then get the details if they so desire. The oral presentation, 
                as stated in the preceding chapter, is better for getting across 
                a single result or point.























The really 
                nice thing about posters is the variety of illustrations that 
                can be used. There is no bar (as there often is in journal 
                publication) to the use of color. All kinds of photographs, 
                graphs, drawings, paintings, X-rays, and even cartoons can be 
                presented.























I have 
                seen many excellent posters. Some scientists do indeed have 
                considerable creative ability. It is obvious that these people 
                are proud of the science they are doing and that they are 
                pleased to put it all into a pretty picture.























I have 
                also seen many terrible posters. A few were simply badly 
                designed. The great majority of bad posters are bad 
                because the author is trying to present too much. Huge blocks of 
                typed material, especially if the type is small, will not be 
                read. Crowds will gather around the simple, well-illustrated 
                posters; the cluttered, wordy posters will be ignored.















  




























Page 
                193
















Chapter 
                31
                Ethics, Rights, and Permissions   























Science 
                does not select or mold specially honest people: it simply 
                places them in a situation where cheating does not pay. . . . 
                For all I know, scientists may lie to the IRS or to their 
                spouses just as frequently or as infrequently as everybody else.
—S. E. Luria























Importance 
                of Originality























In any 
                kind of publishing, various legal and ethical principles must be 
                considered. The principal areas of concern, which are often 
                related, involve originality and ownership (copyright). To avoid 
                charges of plagiarism or copyright infringement, certain types 
                of permission are mandatory if someone else's work, and 
                sometimes even your own, is to be republished.























In science 
                publishing, the ethical side of the question is even more 
                pronounced, because originality in science has a deeper meaning 
                than it does in other fields. A short story, for example, can be 
                reprinted many times without violating ethical principles. A 
                primary research paper, however, can be published in a primary 
                journal only once. Dual publication can be legal if the 
                appropriate copyright release has been obtained, but it is 
                universally considered to be a cardinal sin against the ethics 
                of science. "Repetitive publication of the same data or 
                ideas for different journals, foreign or national, reflects 
                scientific sterility and constitutes exploitation of what is 
                considered an ethical medium for propagandizing















  





















Page 
                194
















one's 
                self. Self-plagiarism signifies lack of scientific objectivity 
                and modesty" (Burch, 1954).























Every 
                primary research journal requires originality, the requirement 
                being usually stated in the journal masthead statement or in the 
                Instructions to Authors. Typically, such statements read as 
                follows:























"Submission 
                of a paper (other than a review) to a journal normally implies 
                that it presents the results of original research or some new 
                ideas not previously published, that it is not under 
                consideration for publication elsewhere, and that, if accepted, 
                it will not be published elsewhere in the same form, either in 
                English or in any other language, without the consent of the 
                editors" ("General Notes on the Preparation of 
                Scientific Papers," The Royal Society, London).























The 
                "consent of the editors" would not be given if you 
                asked to republish all or a substantial portion of your paper in 
                another primary publication. Even if such consent were somehow 
                obtained, the editor of the second journal would refuse 
                publication if he or she were aware of prior publication. 
                Normally, the consent of the editors (or whoever speaks for the 
                copyright owner) would be granted only if republication were in 
                a nonprimary journal. Obviously, parts of the paper, such as 
                tables and illustrations, could be republished in a review. Even 
                the whole paper could be republished if the nonprimary nature of 
                the publication were apparent; as examples, republication would 
                almost always be permitted in a Collected Reprints volume of a 
                particular institution, in a Selected Papers volume on a 
                particular subject, or in a Festschrift volume comprising papers 
                of a particular scientist. In all such instances, however, 
                appropriate permission should be sought, for both ethical and 
                legal reasons.























Authorship























The 
                listing of authors' names (see Chapter 5) is of considerable 
                ethical import. Can each listed author take intellectual 
                responsibility for the paper? This question has come up a number 
                of times in recent years. Several people listed as authors of 
                published papers later shown to contain fraudulent data have 
                tried to escape blame by pleading ignorance. "I didn't 
                really keep track of what my coauthor was doing" has been a 
                typical lament. But this excuse does not sell. Every author 
                of a paper must take responsibility for the validity of the 
                science being reported.















  





















Page 
                195
















What Is 
                Copyright?























Copyright 
                is the exclusive legal right to reproduce, publish, and sell the 
                matter and form of a literary or artistic work. Copyright 
                protects original forms of expression but not the ideas being 
                expressed. The data you are presenting are not protected by 
                copyright; however, the collection of the data and the way you 
                have presented them are protected. You own the copyright of a 
                paper you wrote, for the length of your life plus 50 years, as 
                long as it was not done for an employer or commissioned as work 
                for hire. If you have collaborated on the work, each person is a 
                co-owner of the copyright, with equal rights.























Copyright 
                is divisible. The owner of the copyright may grant one person a 
                nonexclusive right to reproduce the work and another the right 
                to prepare derivative works based on the copyrighted work. 
                Copyright can also be transferred. Transfers of the copyright 
                must be made in writing by the owner. An employer may transfer 
                copyright to the individual who developed the original work. As 
                stated earlier, if you wish to copy, reprint, or republish all 
                or portions of a copyrighted work that you do not own, you must 
                get permission from the copyright owner. If you, as an author, 
                have transferred the complete copyright of your work to a 
                publisher, you must obtain permission for use of your own 
                material from the publisher.























Fair 
                use of copyrighted material is legal, according to the 1976 
                Copyright Act. The law allows you to copy and distribute small 
                sections of a copyrighted work. It does not allow you to copy 
                complete articles and republish them without permission, whether 
                for profit or otherwise. Academia has profited from the fair-use 
                inclusion to the copyright law. However, the current trend to 
                supplying customized documents has distorted the fair-use 
                provision. Some copying services are publishing and distributing 
                complete papers without the permission of the author or 
                publisher.























Copyright 
                Considerations























The legal 
                reasons for seeking appropriate permission when republishing 
                someone else's work relate to copyright law. If a journal is 
                copyrighted, and almost all of them are, legal ownership of the 
                published papers becomes vested in the copyright holder. Thus, 
                if you wish to republish















  





















Page 
                196
















copyrighted 
                material, you must obtain approval of the copyright holder or 
                risk suit for infringement.























Publishers 
                acquire copyright so that they will have the legal basis, acting 
                in their own interests and on behalf of all authors whose work 
                is contained in the journals, for preventing unauthorized use of 
                such published work. Thus, the publishing company and its 
                authors are protected against plagiarism, misappropriation of 
                published data, unauthorized reprinting for advertising and 
                other purposes, and other potential misuse.























In the 
                U.S.A., under the 1909 Assignment of Copyright Act, submission 
                of a manuscript to a journal was presumed to carry with it 
                assignment of the author's ownership to the journal (publisher). 
                Upon publication of the journal, with the appropriate copyright 
                imprint in place and followed by the filing of copies and 
                necessary fees with the Register of Copyrights, ownership of all 
                articles contained in the issue effectively passed from the 
                authors to the publisher.























The 
                Copyright Act of 1976, which became effective on 1 January 1978, 
                requires that henceforth this assignment may no longer be 
                assumed; it must be in writing. In the absence of a written 
                transfer of copyright, the publisher is presumed to have 
                acquired only the privilege of publishing the article in the 
                journal itself; the publisher would then lack the right to 
                produce reprints, photocopies, and microfilms or to license 
                others to do so (or to legally prevent others from doing so). 
                Also, the Copyright Act stated that copyright protection begins 
                "when the pen leaves the paper" (equivalent today to 
                "when the fingers leave the keyboard"), thus 
                recognizing the intellectual property rights of authors as being 
                distinct from the process of publication.























Therefore, 
                most publishers now require that each author contributing to a 
                journal assign copyright to the publisher, either at the time 
                the manuscript is submitted or at the time that it is accepted 
                for publication. To effect this assignment, the publisher 
                provides each submitting author with a document usually titled 
                "Copyright Transfer Form." Figure 13 depicts the form 
                recommended by the CBE Journal Procedures and Practices 
                Committee (1987).























Another 
                feature of the new Copyright Act that is of interest to authors 
                deals with photocopying. On the one hand, authors wish to see 
                their papers receive wide distribution. On the other hand, they 
                do not (we hope) want this to take place at the expense of the 
                journals. Thus, the new law reflects these conflicting interests 
                by defining as "fair use" certain















  





















Page 
                197








































Figure 13. 
                Copyright transfer form suggested by the CBE Journal 
                Procedures and Practices Committee (1987).























kinds of 
                library and educational copying (that is, copying that may be 
                done without permission and without payment of royalties), while 
                at the same time protecting the publisher against unauthorized 
                systematic copying.























To make it 
                easy to authorize systematic photocopiers to use journal 
                articles and to remit royalties to publishers, a Copyright 
                Clearance Center has been established. Most scientific 
                publishers of any size have















 





















Page 
                198
















already 
                joined the Center. This central clearinghouse makes it possible 
                for a user to make as many copies as desired, without the 
                necessity of obtaining prior permission, if the user is willing 
                to pay the publisher's stated royalty to the Center. Thus, the 
                user need deal with only one source, rather than facing the 
                necessity of getting permission from and then paying royalties 
                to hundreds of different publishers.























Because 
                both scientific ethics and copyright law are of fundamental 
                importance, every scientist must be acutely sensitive to them. 
                Basically, this means that you must not republish tables, 
                figures, and substantial portions of text unless you have 
                acquired permission from the owner of the copyright. Even then, 
                it is important that you label such reprinted materials, usually 
                with a credit line reading "Reprinted with permission from 
                (journal or book reference); copyright (year) by (owner of 
                copyright)."























When you 
                do not give proper credit to sources, even brief paraphrases of 
                someone else's work can be a violation of the ethics of your 
                profession. Such breaches of ethics, even if unintentional, may 
                adversely affect your standing among your peers.























Simply 
                put, it is the responsibility of every scientist to maintain the 
                integrity of scientific publication.























Copyright 
                and Electronic Publishing























Traditionally, 
                journals and books have been well defined as legal entities. 
                However, once the same information enters a digital environment, 
                it becomes a compound document that includes not only text but 
                also programming code and database access information that has 
                usually been created by someone (often several people) other 
                than the author of the paper. All copyright law, and all rules 
                and regulations pertaining to copyright, hold true for 
                electronic publication, including material posted on the 
                Internet. Unless the author or owner of the copyright of work 
                posted on the Internet has placed on that work a specific note 
                stating that the item is in the public domain, it is under 
                copyright and you may not reproduce it without permission. 
                Although you do not need to post a copyright notice for 
                protection of your Internet materials, doing so acts as a 
                warning to people who might use your material without 
                permission. To post such a notice, you need only place the word 
                "Copyright," the date of the publication, and the name 
                of the author or copyright owner near















  





















Page 
                199
















the title 
                of the work, e.g., ''Copyright 1998 by Magon Thompson (or 
                Sundown Press)."























Publishers 
                are obligated to protect a copyright not only on their own 
                behalf but also on behalf of the author. Since the electronic 
                version of a paper can take many forms, publishers themselves 
                may not always be aware of possible problems and pitfalls. You 
                will need to make sure that the publisher of your scientific 
                paper guarantees, in writing, that it will accurately represent 
                your words and intention if your paper is translated to a 
                digital environment. For example, conference proceedings are 
                frequently placed on a CD-ROM, with contents, keyword, and index 
                access to the papers it contains. In addition, the material may 
                include hypertext links to other information, including other 
                papers, graphics, and additional information added by the 
                journal publisher. You will need to ensure that the access the 
                journal has provided to data on the CD or Web page from your 
                paper, or to your paper from others, is consistent with the way 
                you want your work to be represented. You may trust the hardcopy 
                format of your journal implicitly, but once the journal goes 
                into the electronic arena, the representation given to the paper 
                you created may include features that conflict with your work 
                and ideas.























Because of 
                the huge changes taking place in the electronic world of 
                copyright, both publisher and author organizations are banding 
                together to identify and manage copyrighted documents through a 
                database application devoted to this purpose. One such system is 
                the PII (Publisher Item Identifier), a tagging system for both 
                print and electronic formats that is used by the American 
                Chemical Society and the American Mathematical Society, among 
                others. The copyright owner of a published work can generate its 
                PII tag. Because technology is changing so rapidly and providing 
                so many new ways to publish and distribute data, the field of 
                electronic copyright is also in flux. Whenever any work in which 
                you hold copyright is to be published in an electronic format, 
                be sure to learn and understand fully your rights under current 
                copyright law.















  




























Page 
                200
















Chapter 
                32
                Use and Misuse of English   























Long 
                words name little things. All big things have little names, such 
                as life and death, peace and war, or dawn, day, night, love, 
                home. Learn to use little words in a big way—It is hard to do. 
                But they say what you mean. When you don't know what you mean, 
                use big words: They often fool little people.
—SSC BOOKNEWS, July 1981























Keep It 
                Simple























In the 
                earlier chapters of this book, I presented an outline of the 
                various components that could and perhaps should go into a 
                scientific paper. Perhaps, with this outline, the paper won't 
                quite write itself. But if this outline, this table of 
                organization, is followed, I believe that the writing might be a 
                good deal easier than otherwise.























Of course, 
                you still must use the English language. For some of you, this 
                may be difficult. If your native language is not English, you 
                may have a problem. Stapleton's (1987) Writing Research 
                Papers: An Easy Guide for Non-Native-English Speakers might 
                be helpful. If your native language is English, you still may 
                have a problem because the native language of many of your 
                readers is not English.























Learn to 
                appreciate, as most managing editors have learned to appreciate, 
                the sheer beauty of the simple declarative sentence. You will 
                then avoid most serious grammatical problems and make it easier 
                for people whose native language is not English.















  





















Page 
                201
















Split 
                Infinitives, Dangling Modifiers, and Other Crimes























It is not 
                always easy to recognize a split infinitive or a dangling 
                participle or gerund, but you can avoid many problems by giving 
                proper attention to syntax. The word "syntax" refers 
                to that part of grammar dealing with the way in which words are 
                put together to form phrases, clauses, and sentences. According 
                to Will Rogers: "Syntax must be bad, having both sin and 
                tax in it."























That is 
                not to say that a well-dangled participle or other misplaced 
                modifier isn't a joy to behold, after you have developed a taste 
                for such things. The working day of a managing editor wouldn't 
                be complete until he or she has savored such a morsel as 
                "Lying on top of the intestine, you will perhaps make out a 
                small transparent thread." (Syntactically, this sentence 
                could not be more wrong. The very first word in the sentence, 
                "Lying," modifies the very last word, 
                "thread.")























Those of 
                you who use chromatographic procedures may be interested in a 
                new technique reported in a manuscript submitted to the Journal 
                of Bacteriology: "By filtering through Whatman no. 1 
                filter paper, Smith separated the components."























Of course, 
                such charming grammatical errors are not limited to science. I 
                was reading a mystery novel, Death Has Deep Roots by 
                Michael Gilbert, when I encountered a particularly sexy 
                misplaced modifier: "He placed at Nap's disposal the 
                marriage bed of his eldest daughter, a knobbed engine of brass 
                and iron."























A 
                Hampshire, England, fire department received a government 
                memorandum seeking statistical information. One of the questions 
                was, "How many people do you employ, broken down by 
                sex?" The fire chief took that question right in stride, 
                answering "None. Our problem here is booze."























If any of 
                you share my interest in harness racing, you may remember that 
                the 1970 Hambletonian was won by a horse named Timothy T. 
                According to The Washington Post account of the story, 
                Timothy T. evidently has an interesting background: 
                "Timothy T.—sired by Ayres, the 1964 Hambletonian winner 
                with John Simpson in the sulky—won the first heat going 
                away."























I really 
                like The Washington Post. Some time ago it ran an article 
                titled "Antibiotic-Combination Drugs Used to Treat Colds 
                Banned by FDA." Perhaps the next FDA regulation will ban 
                all colds, and virologists will have to find a different line of 
                work.















  





















Page 
                202
















As is well 
                known, The Washington Post has won several 
                Pulitzers. But sometimes their proofreaders are caught napping. 
                An example is the following (from the 1 November 1979 issue of 
                the Post ):























'Suicide 
                Forest' Toll 43 So Far This Year
Reuters























FUJI-YOSHIDA, 
                Japan, Oct. 31—The bodies of 43 suicides were recovered this 
                year from the infamous "Forest of No Return" at the 
                foot of Mount Fuji near here, police said today.























In the 
                final search of the year, police and firemen combed the forest 
                yesterday and found five bodies.























At least 
                176 bodies have been recovered from the area since 1975.























A novel 
                published in 1960 in Japan June 7. A joke's a joke, but hey, cut 
                called Edwards that same afternoon, covered from the area since 
                1975.























Joyce 
                Selcnick was not amued. She and later serialized on television 
                glamorized the forest as a place for peaceful death, especially 
                for persons thwarted in love.















































Ó1993 
                United Feature Syndicate
                PEANUTS reprinted by permission of United Feature Syndicate, Inc.





































Page 
                203
















Thinking 
                of libraries, I can suggest a new type of acquisition. I once 
                edited a manuscript containing the sentence: "A large mass 
                of literature has accumulated on the cell walls of 
                staphylococci." After the librarians have catalogued the 
                staphylococci, they will have to start on the fish, according to 
                this sentence from a recent manuscript: "The resulting 
                disease has been described in detail in salmon."























A 
                published book review contained this sentence: "This book 
                includes discussion of shock and renal failure in separate 
                chapters."























The first 
                paragraph of a news release issued by the American Lung 
                Association said, "'Women seem to be smoking more but 
                breathing less,' says Colin R. Woolf, M.D., Professor, 
                Department of Medicine, University of Toronto. He presented 
                evidence that women who smoke are likely to have pulmonary 
                abnormalities and impaired lung function at the annual meeting 
                of the American Lung Association." Even though the ALA 
                meeting was in the lovely city of Montreal, I hope that women 
                who smoke stayed home.























The Ten 
                Commandments of Good Writing























1. Each 
                pronoun should agree with their antecedent.























2. Just 
                between you and I, case is important.























3. A 
                preposition is a poor word to end a sentence with. 
                (Incidentally, did you hear about the streetwalker who violated 
                a grammatical rule? She unwittingly approached a 
                plainclothesman, and her proposition ended with a sentence.)























4. Verbs 
                has to agree with their subject.























5. Don't 
                use no double negatives.























6. 
                Remember to never split an infinitive.























7. Avoid 
                cliches like the plague.























8. Join 
                clauses good, like a conjunction should.























9. Do not 
                use hyperbole; not one writer in a million can use it 
                effectively.























10. About 
                sentence fragments.























Actually, 
                I have changed my mind about the use of double negatives. During 
                the last presidential election, I visited my old hometown, which 
                is in the middle of a huge cornfield in northern Illinois. 
                Arriving after a lapse of some years, I was pleased to find that 
                I could still understand the natives. In fact, I was a bit 
                shocked to find that their language was truly















  





















Page 
                204








































© Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Reprinted with permission.























expressive 
                even though they were blissfully unaware of the rule against 
                double negatives. One evening at the local gathering place, 
                appropriately named the Farmer's Tavern, I orated at the man on 
                the next bar stool about the relative demerits of the two 
                presidential candidates. His lack of interest was then 
                communicated in the clear statement: "Ain't nobody here 
                knows nothin' about politics." While I was savoring this 
                triple negative, a morose gent at the end of the bar looked 
                soulfully into his beer and proclaimed: "Ain't nobody here 
                knows nothin' about nothin' nohow." Strangely, this 
                quintuple negative provided the best description I have ever 
                heard of my hometown.























Metaphorically 
                Speaking























Although 
                metaphors are not covered by the above rules, I suggest that you 
                watch your similes and metaphors. Use them rarely in scientific 
                writing. If you use them, use them carefully. We have all seen 
                mixed metaphors and noted how comprehension gets mixed along 
                with the metaphor. (Figure this one out: A virgin forest is a 
                place where the hand of man has never set foot.) A rarity along 
                this line is a type that I call the "self-cancelling 
                metaphor." The favorite in my collection was ingeniously 
                concocted by the eminent microbiologist L. Joe Berry. After one 
                of his suggestions had been quickly negated by a committee vote, 
                Joe said, "Boy, I got shot down in flames before I ever got 
                off the ground."























Watch for 
                hackneyed expressions. These are usually similes or metaphors 
                (e.g., timid as a mouse). Interesting and picturesque writing 
                results from the use of fresh similes and metaphors; dull 
                writing results from the use of stale ones.















 





















Page 
                205
















Some words 
                have become hackneyed, usually by being hopelessly locked to 
                some other word. One example is the word "leap"; a 
                "leap" is insignificant unless it is a "quantum 
                leap." Another example is the verb "wreak." One 
                can "wreak havoc'' but nothing else seems to get wreaked 
                these days. Since the dictionary says that "wreak" 
                means "to bring about," one should be able to 
                "wreak a weak pain for a week." To wreak a wry smile, 
                try saying "I've got a weak back." When someone asks 
                when you got it, you respond "Oh, about a week back." 
                (At the local deli, we call this tongue in cheek on wry.) That 
                person may then respond "Wow. That boggles the mind." 
                You can then cleverly ask what else gets boggled these days.























Misuse 
                of Words























Also watch 
                for self-cancelling or redundant words. I recently heard someone 
                described as being a "well-seasoned novice." A 
                newspaper article referred to "young juveniles." A 
                sign in a stamp and coin dealer's shop read "authentic 
                replicas." If there is any expression that is dumber than 
                "7 a.m. in the morning," it is "viable 
                alternative." (If an alternative is not viable, it is not 
                an alternative.)























Certain 
                words are wrongly used thousands of times in scientific writing. 
                Some of the worst offenders are the following:











         












amount. 
                Use this word when you refer to a mass or aggregate. Use 
                number when units are involved. "An amount of cash" is 
                all right. "An amount of coins" is wrong.























and/or. 
                This is a slipshod construction used by thousands of authors 
                but accepted by few experienced editors. Bernstein (1965) said, 
                "Whatever its uses in legal or commercial English, this 
                combination is a visual and mental monstrosity that should be 
                avoided in other kinds of writing."























case. This 
                is the most common word in the language of jargon. Better and 
                shorter usage should be substituted: "in this case" 
                means "here"; "in most cases" means 
                "usually"; "in all cases" means 
                "always"; "in no case" means 
                "never."























each/every. 
                If I had a dollar for every mistake I have made, how much 
                would I have? The answer is one dollar. If I had a dollar for 
                each mistake I have made, I would be a millionaire.















  





















Page 
                206
















it. This 
                common, useful pronoun can cause a problem if the antecedent is 
                not clear, as in the sign which read: "Free information 
                about VD. To get it, call 555-7000."























like. Often 
                used incorrectly as a conjunction. Should be used only as a 
                preposition. When a conjunction is needed, substitute 
                "as." Like I just said, this sentence should have 
                started with "As."























only. Many 
                sentences are only partially comprehensible because the word only 
                is positioned correctly in the sentence only some of the 
                time. Consider this sentence: "I hit him in the eye 
                yesterday." The word only can be added at the start 
                of the sentence, at the end of the sentence, or between any two 
                words within the sentence, but look at the differences in 
                meaning that result.























quite. This 
                word is often used in scientific writing. Next time you notice 
                it in one of your manuscripts, delete the word and read the 
                sentence again. You will notice that, without exception, quite 
                is quite unnecessary.























varying. 
                The word "varying" means "changing." 
                Often used erroneously when "various" is meant. 
                "Various concentrations'' are defined concentrations that 
                do not vary.























which. Although 
                "which" and "that" can often be used 
                interchangeably, sometimes they cannot. The word 
                "which" is properly used in a 
                "nonrestrictive" sense, to introduce a clause that is 
                not essential to the rest of the sentence; "that" 
                introduces an essential clause. Examine these two sentences: 
                "CetB mutants, which are tolerant to colicin E2, 
                also have an altered. . . ." "CetB mutants that are 
                tolerant to colicin E2 also have an altered. . . ." Note 
                the substantial difference in meaning. The first sentence 
                indicates that all CetB mutants are tolerant to colicin; 
                the second sentence indicates that only some of the CetB mutants 
                are tolerant to colicin.























while. When 
                a time relationship exists, "while" is correct; 
                otherwise, "whereas" would be a better choice. 
                "Nero fiddled while Rome burned" is fine. "Nero 
                fiddled while I wrote a book on scientific writing" is not.























Misuse of 
                words can sometimes be entertaining, if not enlightening. I have 
                always enjoyed the word "thunderstruck," although I 
                have never had the pleasure of meeting anyone who has been 
                struck by thunder. Jimmy Durante built his comedy style around 
                malapropisms. We all enjoy them, but seldom do they contribute 
                to comprehension. Rarely, you might use a malapropism by design, 
                to add picturesque interest to















  





















Page 
                207
















your 
                speaking or writing. One that I have used several times is the 
                classic "I'm really nostalgic about the future."























This 
                reminds me of the story about a graduate student who had 
                recently arrived in this country from one of the more remote 
                countries of the world. He had a massive English vocabulary, 
                developed by many years of assiduous study. Unfortunately, he 
                had had few opportunities to speak the language. Soon after his 
                arrival in this country, the dean of the school invited a number 
                of the students and faculty to an afternoon tea. Some of the 
                faculty members soon engaged the new foreign student in 
                conversation. One of the first questions asked was "Are you 
                married?" The student said, "Oh, yes, I am most 
                entrancingly married to one of the most exquisite belles of my 
                country, who will soon be arriving here in the United States, 
                ending our temporary bifurcation." The faculty members 
                exchanged questioning glances—then came the next question: 
                "Do you have children?'' The student answered 
                "No." After some thought, the student decided this 
                answer needed some amplification, so he said, "You see, my 
                wife is inconceivable." At this, his questioners could not 
                hide their smiles, so the student, realizing he had committed a 
                faux pas, decided to try again. He said, "Perhaps I should 
                have said that my wife is impregnable." When this comment 
                was greeted with open laughter, the student decided to try one 
                more time: "I guess I should have said my wife is 
                unbearable."























All 
                seriousness aside, is there something about the use (rather than 
                abuse) of English in scientific writing that merits special 
                comment? Calmly, I will give you a tense answer.























Tense 
                in Scientific Writing























There is 
                one special convention of writing scientific papers that is very 
                tricky. It has to do with tense, and it is important 
                because its proper usage derives from scientific ethics.























When a 
                scientific paper has been validly published in a primary 
                journal, it thereby becomes knowledge. Therefore, whenever you 
                quote previously published work, ethics requires you to treat 
                that work with respect. You do this by using the present tense. 
                It is correct to say "Streptomycin inhibits the growth of M. 
                tuberculosis (13)." Whenever you quote or discuss 
                previously published work, you should use the present tense; you 
                are quoting established knowledge. You would say















  





















Page 
                208
















this just 
                as you would say "The Earth is round." (If previously 
                published results have been proven false by later experiments, 
                the use of past rather than present tense would be appropriate.)























Your own 
                present work must be referred to in the past tense. Your 
                work is not presumed to be established knowledge until after it 
                has been published. If you determined that the optimal growth 
                temperature for Streptomyces everycolor was 37°C, you 
                should say "S. everycolor grew best at 37°C." 
                If you are citing previous work, possibly your own, it is then 
                correct to say "S. everycolor grows best at 37°C."























In the 
                typical paper, you will normally go back and forth between the 
                past and present tenses. Most of the Abstract should be in the 
                past tense, because you are referring to your own present 
                results. Likewise, the Materials and Methods and the Results 
                sections should be in the past tense, as you describe what you 
                did and what you found. On the other hand, much of the 
                Introduction and much of the Discussion should be in the present 
                tense, because these sections often emphasize previously 
                established knowledge.























Suppose 
                that your research concerned the effect of streptomycin on Streptomyces 
                everycolor. The tense would vary somewhat as follows.























In the 
                Abstract, you would write "The effect of streptomycin on S. 
                everycolor grown in various media was tested. Growth 
                of S. everycolor, measured in terms of optical density, was 
                inhibited in all media tested. Inhibition was most 
                pronounced at high pH levels."























In the 
                Introduction, typical sentences might be "Streptomycin is 
                an antibiotic produced by Streptomyces griseus (13). 
                This antibiotic inhibits the growth of certain other 
                strains of Streptomyces (7, 14, 17). The effect of 
                streptomycin on S. everycolor is reported in this 
                paper."























In the 
                Materials and Methods section, you would write "The effect 
                of streptomycin was tested against S. everycolor grown 
                on Trypticase soy agar (BBL) and several other media (Table 1). 
                Various growth temperatures and pH levels were employed. 
                Growth was measured in terms of optical density (Klett 
                units)."























In the 
                Results, you would write "Growth of S. everycolor was inhibited 
                by streptomycin at all concentrations tested (Table 2) and at 
                all pH levels (Table 3). Maximum inhibition occurred at 
                pH 8.2; inhibition was slight below pH 7."























In the 
                Discussion, you might write "S. everycolor was most 
                susceptible to streptomycin at pH 8.2, whereas S. nocolor is most 
                susceptible















  





















Page 
                209
















at pH 7.6 
                (13). Various other Streptomyces species are most 
                susceptible to streptomycin at even lower pH levels (6, 9, 
                17)."























In short, 
                you should normally use the present tense when you refer to 
                previously published work, and you should use the past tense 
                when referring to your present results.























The 
                principal exception to this rule is in the area of attribution 
                and presentation. It is correct to say "Smith (9) showed 
                that streptomycin inhibits S. nocolor." It is 
                also correct to say "Table 4 shows that streptomycin 
                inhibited S. everycolor at all pH levels." Another 
                exception is that the results of calculations and statistical 
                analyses should be in the present tense, even though statements 
                about the objects to which they refer are in the past tense; 
                e.g., "These values are significantly greater than 
                those of the females of the same age, indicating that the males grew 
                more rapidly." Still another exception is a general 
                statement or known truth. Simply put, you could say "Water was 
                added and the towels became damp, which proves again 
                that water is wet." More commonly, you will need to 
                use this kind of tense variation: ''Significant amounts of type 
                IV procollagen were isolated. These results indicate that 
                type IV procollagen is a major constituent of the Schwann 
                cell ECM."























Active 
                Versus Passive Voice























Let us now 
                talk about voice. In any type of writing, the active 
                voice is usually more precise and less wordy than is the passive 
                voice. (This is not always true; if it were, we would have an 
                Eleventh Commandment: "The passive voice should never be 
                used.") Why, then, do scientists insist on using the 
                passive voice? Perhaps this bad habit is the result of the 
                erroneous idea that it is somehow impolite to use first-person 
                pronouns. As a result, the scientist typically uses such verbose 
                (and imprecise) statements as "It was found that" in 
                preference to the short, unambiguous "I found."























I herewith 
                ask all young scientists to renounce the false modesty of 
                previous generations of scientists. Do not be afraid to name the 
                agent of the action in a sentence, even when it is "I" 
                or "we." Once you get into the habit of saying "I 
                found," you will also find that you have a tendency to 
                write "S. aureus produced lactate" rather than 
                "Lactate was produced by S. aureus." (Note that 
                the "active" statement is in three words; the passive 
                requires five.)















  





















Page 
                210
















You can 
                avoid the passive voice by saying "The authors found" 
                instead of "it was found." Compared with the simple 
                "we," however, "the authors'' is pretentious, 
                verbose, and imprecise (which authors?).























Euphemisms























In 
                scientific writing, euphemistic words and phrases normally 
                should not be used. The harsh reality of dying is not improved 
                by substituting "passed away." Laboratory animals are 
                not "sacrificed," as though scientists engaged in 
                arcane religious exercises. They are killed and that's that. The 
                CBE Style Manual (CBE Style Manual Committee, 1983) cites 
                a beautiful example of this type of euphemism: "Some in the 
                population suffered mortal consequences from the lead in the 
                flour." The Manual then corrects this sentence, 
                adding considerable clarity as well as eliminating the 
                euphemism: "Some people died as a result of eating bread 
                made from the lead-contaminated flour." Recently, I gave 
                the "mortal consequences" sentence to graduate 
                students as a test question in scientific writing. The majority 
                were simply unable to say "died." On the other hand, I 
                received some inventive answers. Two that I particularly liked 
                were: "Get the lead out" and "Some were dead from 
                the lead in the bread."























Singulars 
                and Plurals























If you use 
                first-person pronouns, use both the singular and the plural 
                forms as needed. Do not use the "editorial we" in 
                place of "I." The use of "we" by a single 
                author is outrageously pedantic.























One of the 
                most frequent errors committed in scientific papers is the use 
                of plural forms of verbs when the singular forms would be 
                correct.















































By permission of Johnny Hart and Creators Syndicate, Inc.















  





















Page 
                211
















For 
                example, you should say "10 g was added," not 
                "10 g were added." This is because a single quantity 
                was added. Only if the 10 g were added 1 g at a time would it be 
                correct to say "10 g were added."























The 
                singular-plural problem also applies to nouns. The problem is 
                severe in scientific writing, especially in biology, because so 
                many of our words are, or are derived from, Latin. Most of these 
                words retain their Latin plurals; at least they do when used by 
                careful writers.























Many of 
                these words (e.g., data, media) have entered popular speech, 
                where the Latin "a" plural ending is simply not 
                recognized as a plural. Most people habitually use "data 
                is" constructions and probably have never used the real 
                singular, datum. Unfortunately, this lax usage has become 
                so common outside science that even some dictionaries tolerate 
                it. Webster's Tenth New Collegiate Dictionary, for 
                example, gives "the data is plentiful" as an example 
                of accepted usage. "The careful writer" (Bernstein, 
                1965), however, says that "The use of data as if it 
                were a singular noun is a common solecism.''























This 
                "plural" problem was commented upon by Sir Ashley 
                Miles, the eminent microbiologist and scholar of The London 
                Hospital Medical College in a letter to me as Editor of ASM 
                News (44:600, 1978):























A 
                Memoranda on Bacterial Motility. The motility of a bacteria 
                is a phenomena receiving much attention, especially in relation 
                to the structure of a flagella and the effect on it of an 
                antisera. No single explanatory data is available; no one 
                criteria of proof is recognized; even the best media to use is 
                unknown; and no survey of the various levels of scientific 
                approach indicates any one strata, or the several stratae, from 
                which answers may emerge. Flagellae are just as puzzling as the 
                bacteriae which carry them. 























Noun 
                Problems























Another 
                frequent problem in scientific writing is the verbosity that 
                results from use of abstract nouns. This malady is corrected by 
                turning the nouns into verbs. "Examination of the patients 
                was carried out" should be changed to the more direct 
                "I examined the patients"; "separation of the 
                compounds was accomplished" can be changed to "the 
                compounds were separated"; "transformation of the 
                equations was achieved" can be changed to "the 
                equations were transformed."















  





















Page 
                212
















Another 
                problem with nouns results from using them as adjectives. 
                Normally, there is no problem with such usage, but you should 
                watch for special problems. We have no problem with "liver 
                disease" (even though the adjective "hepatic" 
                could be substituted for the noun "liver"). The 
                problem aspect is illustrated by the following sentences from my 
                autobiography: "When I was 10 years old, my parents sent me 
                to a child psychiatrist. I went for a year and a half. The kid 
                didn't help me at all." I once saw an ad (in The New 
                York Times, of all places) with the headline "Good News 
                for Home Sewers.'' I don't recall whether it was an ad for a 
                drain-cleaning compound or for needle and thread.























The 
                problem gets still worse when clusters of nouns are used as 
                adjectives, especially when a real adjective gets into the brew. 
                "Tissue culture response" is awkward; "infected 
                tissue culture response" is incomprehensible (unless 
                responses can be infected).























You will 
                impress journal editors, and perhaps your family and friends, if 
                you stop committing any obvious spelling and grammatical errors 
                that may previously have characterized your speech and writing. 
                Appendix 3 lists certain words and expressions, commonly seen in 
                scientific writing, that are often misspelled or misused.























Numbers























First, the 
                rule: One-digit numbers should be spelled out; numbers of two or 
                more digits should be expressed as numerals. You would write 
                "three experiments" or "13 experiments." Now 
                the exception: With standard units of measure, always use 
                numerals. You would write "3 ml" or "13 ml." 
                The only exception to the exception is that you should not start 
                a sentence with a numeral. You should either reword the sentence 
                or spell out both the number and the unit of measurement. For 
                example, your sentence could start out "Reagent A (3 ml) 
                was added" or it could start "Three milliliters of 
                reagent A was added." Actually, there is still another 
                exception, although it comes up rarely. In a sentence containing 
                a series of numbers, at least one of which is of more than one 
                digit, all of the numbers should be expressed as numerals. 
                (Example: "I gave water to 3 scientists, milk to 6 
                scientists, and beer to 11 scientists.")























I refer to 
                "the rule" because this usage is indeed widely used. 
                However, usage varies. The Chicago Manual of Style (1993) 
                specifies that one- and two-digit numbers (one through 
                ninety-nine) be spelled















  





















Page 
                213
















out. The 
                Style Manual Committee, Council of Biology Editors (1994), 
                specifies numerals for anything that can be counted (1 of its 
                recommendations I do not care for).























Odds 
                and Ends























Apropos of 
                nothing, I would mention that English is a strange language. 
                Isn't it curious that the past tense of "have" 
                ("had") is converted to the past participle simply by 
                repetition: He had had a serious illness. Strangely, it 
                is possible to string together 11 "hads" in a row in a 
                grammatically correct sentence. If one were to describe a 
                teacher's reaction to themes turned in by students John and Jim, 
                one could say: John, where Jim had had "had,'' had had 
                "had had"; "had had" had had an unusual 
                effect on the teacher. That peculiar word "that" can 
                also be strung together, as in this sentence: He said, in 
                speaking of the word "that," that that 
                "that" that that student referred to was not that 
                "that" that that other student referred to.























The "hads" 
                and the "thats" in a row show the power of 
                punctuation. As a further illustration, I now mention a little 
                grammatical parlor game that you might want to try on your 
                friends. Hand a slip of paper to each person in the group and 
                ask the members of the group to provide any punctuation 
                necessary to the following seven-word sentence: "Woman 
                without her man is a savage." The average male chauvinist 
                will quickly respond that the sentence needs no punctuation, and 
                he is correct. There will be a few pedants among the male 
                chauvinists who will place balancing commas around the 
                prepositional phrase: "Woman, without her man, is a 
                savage." Grammatically, this is also correct. A feminist, 
                however, and an occasional liberated man, will place a dash 
                after "woman" and a comma after "her." Then 
                we have "Woman—without her, man is a savage."























Seriously, 
                we should all come to understand that sexism in language can 
                have "savage" results. Scientific writing that 
                promotes stereotypes is not scientific. Good guides have been 
                published to show us how to avoid use of sexist language 
                (American Psychological Association, 1994; Maggio, 1997).























Let me end 
                where I started by again emphasizing the importance of syntax. 
                Whenever comprehension goes out the window, faulty syntax is















  





















Page 
                214
















usually 
                responsible. Sometimes, faulty syntax is simply funny and 
                comprehension is not lost, as in these two items, culled from 
                want ads: "For sale, fine German Shepherd dog, obedient, 
                well trained, will eat anything, very fond of children." 
                "For sale, fine grand piano, by a lady, with three 
                legs."























But look 
                at this sentence, which is similar to thousands that have 
                appeared in the scientific literature: "Thymic humoral 
                factor (THF) is a single heat-stable polypeptide isolated from 
                calf thymus composed of 31 amino acids with molecular weight of 
                3,200." The double prepositional phrase "with 
                molecular weight of 3,200" would logically modify the 
                preceding noun "acids," meaning that the amino acids 
                had a molecular weight of 3,200. Less logically, perhaps the 
                calf thymus had a molecular weight of 3,200. Least logical of 
                all (because of their distance apart in the sentence) would be 
                for the THF to have a molecular weight of 3,200—but, indeed, 
                that was what the author was trying to tell us.























If you 
                have any interest whatsoever in learning to use English more 
                effectively, you should read Strunk and White's (1979) The 
                Elements of Style. The "elements" are given 
                briefly (in 85 pages!) and clearly. Anyone writing anything 
                should read and use this famous little book. After you have 
                mastered Strunk and White, proceed immediately to Fowler (1965). 
                Do not pass go; do not collect $200. Of course, if you really do 
                want to get a Monopoly on good scientific English, buy three 
                copies (one for the office, one for the lab, one for home) of 
                that superbly quintessential book, Scientific English (Day, 
                1995).















  




























Page 
                215
















Chapter 
                33
                Avoiding Jargon   























Clutter 
                is the disease of American writing. We are a society strangling 
                in unnecessary words, circular constructions, pompous frills and 
                meaningless jargon.
—William Zinsser























Definition 
                of Jargon























According 
                to dictionaries (e.g., Webster's Tenth New Collegiate 
                Dictionary), there are three definitions of jargon: 
                "(1) confused, unintelligible language; strange, 
                outlandish, or barbarous language or dialect; (2) the technical 
                terminology or characteristic idiom of a special activity or 
                group; (3) obscure and often pretentious language marked by 
                circumlocutions and long words."























All three 
                types of jargon should be avoided if possible. The usage 
                described in the first and third definitions should always be 
                avoided. The second definition ("technical 
                terminology") is much more difficult to avoid in scientific 
                writing, but accomplished writers have learned that technical 
                terminology can be used after it has been defined or 
                explained. Obviously, you are writing for a technically trained 
                audience; it is only the unusual technical terms that need 
                explanation.















  





















Page 
                216
















Mumblespeak 
                and Other Sins























The most 
                common type of verbosity that afflicts authors is jargon. This 
                syndrome is characterized, in extreme cases, by the total 
                omission of one-syllable words. Writers with this affliction 
                never use anything— they utilize. They never do—they 
                perform. They never start—they initiate. They 
                never end—they finalize (or terminate). They 
                never make—they fabricate. They use initial 
                for first, ultimate for last, prior to for before, 
                subsequent to for after, militate against for prohibit, 
                sufficient for enough, and plethora for too 
                much. An occasional author will slip and use the word drug, 
                but most will salivate like Pavlov's dogs in anticipation of 
                using chemotherapeutic agent. (I do hope that the name 
                Pavlov rings a bell.) Who would use the three-letter word now 
                when they can use the elegant expression at this point in 
                time?























Stuart 
                Chase (1954) tells the story of the plumber who wrote to the 
                Bureau of Standards saying he had found hydrochloric acid good 
                for cleaning out clogged drains. The Bureau wrote back "The 
                efficacy of hydrochloric acid is indisputable, but the chlorine 
                residue is incompatible with metallic permanence." The 
                plumber replied that he was glad the Bureau agreed. The Bureau 
                tried again, writing "We cannot assume responsibility for 
                the production of toxic and noxious residues with hydrochloric 
                acid, and suggest that you use an alternate procedure." The 
                plumber again said that he was glad the Bureau agreed with him. 
                Finally, the Bureau wrote to the plumber "Don't use 
                hydrochloric acid; it eats hell out of the pipes."























Should we 
                liken the scientist to a plumber, or is the scientist perhaps 
                more exalted? With that Doctor of Philosophy degree, should the 
                scientist know some philosophy? I agree with John W. Gardner, 
                who said, "The society which scorns excellence in plumbing 
                because plumbing is a humble activity and tolerates shoddiness 
                in philosophy because it is an exalted activity will have 
                neither good plumbing nor good philosophy. Neither its pipes nor 
                its theories will hold water" (Science News, p. 137, 
                2 March 1974).























I like the 
                way that Aaronson (1977) put it: "But too often the jargon 
                of scientific specialists is like political rhetoric and 
                bureaucratic mumblespeak: ugly-sounding, difficult to 
                understand, and clumsy. Those who use it often do so because 
                they prefer pretentious, abstract words to simple, concrete 
                ones."















  





















Page 
                217
















The 
                trouble with jargon is that it is a special language, the 
                meaning of which is known only to a specialized "in" 
                group. Science should be universal, and therefore every 
                scientific paper should be written in a universal language.























Perhaps 
                Theodore Roosevelt had a more jingoistic purpose in mind when he 
                composed the following sentence in a letter read at the 
                All-American Festival, New York, 5 January 1919, but his thought 
                exactly fits scientific writing: "We have room for but one 
                language here, and that is the English language, for we intend 
                to see that the crucible turns our people out as Americans, and 
                not as dwellers in a polyglot boarding house."























Because I 
                believe strongly that the temple of science should not be a 
                polyglot boarding house, I believe that every scientist should 
                avoid jargon. Avoid it not sometimes; avoid it all the time.























Of course, 
                you will have to use specialized terminology on occasion. If 
                such terminology is readily understandable to practitioners and 
                students in the field, there is no problem. If the terminology 
                is not recognizable to any portion of your potential 
                audience, you should (1) use simpler terminology or (2) 
                carefully define the esoteric terms (jargon) that you are using. 
                In short, you should not write for the half-dozen or so people 
                who are doing exactly your kind of work. You should write for 
                the hundreds of people whose work is only slightly related to 
                yours but who may want or need to know some particular aspect of 
                your work.























Mottoes 
                to Live By























Here are a 
                few important concepts that all readers of this book should 
                master. They are, however, expressed in typical scientific 
                jargon. With a little effort you can probably translate these 
                sentences into simple English:























1. As a 
                case in point, other authorities have proposed that slumbering 
                canines are best left in a recumbent position.























2. An 
                incredibly insatiable desire to understand that which was going 
                on led to the demise of this particular Felis catus.























3. There 
                is a large body of experimental evidence which clearly indicates 
                that members of the genus Mus tend to engage in 
                recreational activity while the feline is remote from the 
                locale.















  





















Page 
                218
















4. From 
                time immemorial, it has been known that the ingestion of an 
                "apple" (i.e., the pome fruit of any tree of the genus 
                Malus, said fruit being usually round in shape and red, 
                yellow, or greenish in color) on a diurnal basis will with 
                absolute certainty keep a primary member of the health care 
                establishment absent from one's local environment.























5. Even 
                with the most sophisticated experimental protocol, it is 
                exceedingly unlikely that the capacity to perform novel feats of 
                legerdemain can be instilled in a superannuated canine.























6. A 
                sedimentary conglomerate in motion down a declivity gains no 
                addition of mossy material.























7. The 
                resultant experimental data indicate that there is no utility in 
                belaboring a deceased equine.























If you had 
                trouble with any of the above, here are the jargon-free 
                translations:























1. Let 
                sleeping dogs lie.























2. 
                Curiosity killed the cat.























3. When 
                the cat's away, the mice will play.























4. An 
                apple a day keeps the doctor away.























5. You 
                can't teach old dogs new tricks.























6. A 
                rolling stone gathers no moss.























7. Don't 
                beat a dead horse.























Bureaucratese























Regrettably, 
                too much scientific writing fits the first and third definitions 
                ofj argon. All too often, scientists write like the legendary 
                Henry B. Quill, the bureaucrat described by Meyer (1977): 
                "Quill had mastered the mother tongue of government. He 
                smothered his verbs, camouflaged his subjects and hid everything 
                in an undergrowth of modifiers. He braided, beaded and fringed, 
                giving elaborate expression to negligible thoughts, weasling [sic],
hedging and announcing the obvious. He spread generality 
                like flood waters in a long, low valley. He sprinkled everything 
                with aspects, feasibilities, alternatives, effectuations, 
                analyzations, maximizations, implementations, contraindications 
                and appurtenances. At his best, complete immobility set in, 
                lasting sometimes for dozens of pages."























Some 
                jargon, or bureaucratese, is made up of clear, simple words, 
                but, when the words are strung together in seemingly endless 
                profusion,















  





















Page 
                219
















their 
                meaning is not readily evident. Examine the following, an 
                important federal regulation (Code of Federal Regulations, Title 
                36, Paragraph 50.10) designed to protect trees from injury; this 
                notice was posted in National Capital Park and Planning 
                Commission recreation areas in the Washington area:























TREES, 
                SHRUBS, PLANTS, GRASS
                AND OTHER VEGETATION























(a) 
                General Injury. No person shall prune, cut, carry away, pull up, 
                dig, fell, bore, chop, saw, chip, pick, move, sever, climb, 
                molest, take, break, deface, destroy, set fire to, burn, scorch, 
                carve, paint, mark, or in any manner interfere with, tamper, 
                mutilate, misuse, disturb or damage any tree, shrub, plant, 
                grass, flower, or part thereof, nor shall any person permit any 
                chemical, whether solid, fluid or gaseous to seep, drip, drain 
                or be emptied, sprayed, dusted or injected upon, about or into 
                any tree, shrub, plant, grass, flower or part thereof except 
                when specifically authorized by competent authority; nor shall 
                any person build fires or station or use any tar kettle, heater, 
                road roller or other engine within an area covered by this part 
                in such a manner that the vapor, fumes or heat therefrom may 
                injure any tree or other vegetation.























(TRANSLATION: 
                Don't mess with growing things.)























Jargon 
                does not necessarily involve the use of specialized words. Faced 
                with a choice of two words, the jargonist always selects the 
                longer one. The jargonist really gets his jollies, however, by 
                turning short, simple statements into a long string of words. 
                And, usually, the longer















































CALVIN AND HOBBES copyright 1992 Watterson. Dist. by UNIVERSAL 
                PRESS SYNDICATE. Reprinted with permission. All rights reserved.















  





















Page 
                220
















word or 
                the longer series of words is not as clear as the simpler 
                expression. I challenge anyone to show how "at this point 
                in time" means, in its cumbersome way, more than the simple 
                word "now." The concept denoted by "if' is not 
                improved by substituting the pompous expression "in the 
                event that.''























Special 
                Cases























Perhaps 
                the worst offender of all is the word "case." There is 
                no problem with a case of canned goods or even a case of flu. 
                However, 99% of the uses of "case" are jargon. In case 
                you think that 99% is too high, make your own study. Even if my 
                percentage is too high, a good case could be made for the fact 
                that "case" is used in too many cases.























Another 
                word that I find offensive (in all cases) is the word 
                "interface." As far as I know, the only time people 
                can interface is when they kiss.























Still 
                another word that causes trouble (in some cases) is 
                "about," not because it is used but because it is 
                avoided. As pointed out by Weiss (1982), writers seem unwilling 
                to use the clear, plain "about" and instead use 
                wordier and less-clear substitutes such as:



























approximately











pursuant 
                to















in 
                        connection with











re















in 
                        reference to











reference















in 
                        relation to











regarding















in 
                        the matter of











relating 
                to the subject matter of















in 
                        the range of











relative 
                to















in 
                        the vicinity of











respecting















more 
                        or less











within 
                the ballpark of















on 
                        the order of











with 
                regard to















on 
                        the subject of











with 
                respect to

















In 
                Appendix 4 I have collected a few "Words and Expressions to 
                Avoid." A similar list well worth consulting was published 
                by O'Connor and Woodford (1975). It is not necessarily improper 
                to use any of these words or expressions on occasion; if 
                you use them repeatedly, however, you are writing in jargon and 
                your readers are suffering.























Perhaps 
                the most common way of creating a new word is the jargonist's 
                habit of turning nouns into verbs. A classic example appeared in 
                a manuscript which read: "One risks exposure when swimming 
                in ponds or streams near which cattle have been pasturized." 
                The copyeditor, knowing that there is no such word as "pasturized," 
                changed it to















  





















Page 
                221
















"pasteurized." 
                (I see nothing wrong with that. If you can pasteurize milk, I 
                presume that you can pasteurize the original container.)























In their 
                own pastures, scientists are, of course, very expert, but they 
                often succumb to pedantic, jargonistic, and useless expressions, 
                telling the reader more than the reader wants or needs to know. 
                As the English novelist George Eliot said: "Blessed is the 
                man who, having nothing to say, abstains from giving us wordy 
                evidence of this fact."























If you 
                must show off your marvelous vocabulary, make sure you use the 
                right words. I like the story that Lederer (1987) told about 
                NASA scientist Wernher von Braun. "After one of his talks, 
                von Braun found himself clinking cocktail glasses with an 
                adoring woman from the audience.























" 
                'Dr. von Braun,' the woman gushed, 'I just loved your speech, 
                and I found it of absolutely infinitesimal value!'























" 
                'Well then,' von Braun gulped, 'I guess I'll have it published 
                posthumously.'























" ' 
                Oh yes !' the woman came right back. 'And the sooner the 
                better.'"























I'm 
                reminded of the two adventuresome hot-air balloonists who, 
                slowly descending after a long trip on a cloudy day, looked at 
                the terrain below and had not the faintest idea where they were. 
                It so happens that they were drifting over the grounds of one of 
                our more famous scientific research institutes. When the 
                balloonists saw a man walking along the side of a road, one 
                called out, "Hey, mister, where are we?" The man 
                looked up, took in the situation, and, after a few moments of 
                reflection, said, "You're in a hot-air balloon." One 
                balloonist turned to the other and said, ''I'll bet that man is 
                a scientist." The other balloonist said, "What makes 
                you think so?" To which the first replied, "His answer 
                is perfectly accurate—and totally useless."















  




























Page 
                222
















Chapter 
                34
                How and When to Use Abbreviations   























Authors 
                who use abbreviations extravagantly need to be restrained.
—Maeve O'Connor























General 
                Principles























Many 
                experienced editors loathe abbreviations. Some editors would 
                prefer that they not be used at all, except for standard units 
                of measurement and their Système International (SI) prefixes, 
                abbreviations for which are allowed in all journals. Most 
                journals also allow, without definition, such standard 
                abbreviations as etc., et al., i.e., and e.g. (The abbreviations 
                i.e. and e.g. are often misused; properly used, i.e. means 
                "that is," whereas e.g. means "for 
                example.") In your own writing, you would be wise to keep 
                abbreviations to a minimum. The editor will look more kindly on 
                your paper, and the readers of your paper will bless you 
                forever. More preaching on this point should not be necessary 
                because, by now, you yourself have no doubt come across 
                undefined and indecipherable abbreviations in the literature. 
                Just remember how annoyed you felt when you were faced with 
                these conundrums, and join with me now in a vow never again to 
                pollute the scientific literature with an undefined 
                abbreviation.























The 
                "how to" of using abbreviations is easy, because most 
                journals use the same convention. When you plan to use an 
                abbreviation, you















  





















Page 
                223
















introduce 
                it by spelling out the word or term first, followed by the 
                abbreviation within parentheses. The first sentence of the 
                Introduction of a paper might read: "Bacterial plasmids, as 
                autonomously replicating deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) molecules 
                of modest size, are promising models for studying DNA 
                replication and its control."























The 
                "when to" of using abbreviations is much more 
                difficult. Several general guidelines might be helpful.























First, 
                never use an abbreviation in the title of an article. Very few 
                journals allow abbreviations in titles, and their use is 
                strongly discouraged by the indexing and abstracting services. 
                If the abbreviation is not a standard one, the literature 
                retrieval services will have a difficult or impossible problem. 
                Even if the abbreviation is standard, indexing and other 
                problems arise. One major problem is that accepted abbreviations 
                have a habit of changing; today's abbreviations may be 
                unrecognizable a few years from today. Comparison of certain 
                abbreviations as listed in the various editions of the Council 
                of Biology Editors Style Manual emphasizes this point. 
                Dramatic changes occur when the terminology itself changes. 
                Students today could have trouble with the abbreviation "DPN" 
                (which stands for "diphosphopyridine nucleotide"), 
                because the name itself has changed to "nicotinamide 
                adenine dinucleotide," the abbreviation for which is "NAD.''























Abbreviations 
                should almost never be used in the Abstract. Only if you use the 
                same name, a long one, quite a number of times should you 
                consider an abbreviation. If you use an abbreviation, you must 
                define it at the first use in the Abstract. Remember that the 
                Abstract will stand alone in whichever abstracting publications 
                cover the journal in which your paper appears.























In the 
                text itself, abbreviations may be used. They serve a purpose in 
                reducing printing costs, by somewhat shortening the paper. More 
                importantly, they aid the reader when they are used judiciously. 
                Having just written the word "importantly," I am 
                reminded that my children sometimes refer to me as "the FIP" 
                (fairly important person). They know that I haven't yet made it 
                to VIP.























Good 
                Practice























It is good 
                practice, when writing the first draft of the manuscript, to 
                spell out all terms. Then examine the manuscript for repetition 
                of long words















  





















Page 
                224
















or phrases 
                that might be candidates for abbreviation. Do not abbreviate a 
                term that is used only a few times in the paper. If the term is 
                used with modest frequency—let us say between three and six 
                times—and a standard abbreviation for that term exists, 
                introduce and use the abbreviation. (Some journals allow some 
                standard abbreviations to be used without definition at first 
                use.) If no standard abbreviation exists, do not manufacture one 
                unless the term is used frequently or is a very long and 
                cumbersome term that really cries out for abbreviation.























Often you 
                can avoid abbreviations by using the appropriate pronoun (it, 
                they, them) if the antecedent is clear, or by using a substitute 
                expression such as "the inhibitor," "the 
                substrate," "the drug," "the enzyme," 
                or "the acid.''























Usually, 
                you should introduce your abbreviations one by one as they first 
                occur in the text. Alternatively, you might consider a separate 
                paragraph (headed "Abbreviations Used") in the 
                Introduction or in Materials and Methods. The latter system 
                (required in some journals) is especially useful if the names of 
                related reagents, such as a group of organic chemicals, are to 
                be used in abbreviated form later in the paper.























Units 
                of Measurement























Units of 
                measurement are abbreviated when used with numerical values. You 
                would write "4 mg was added." (The same abbreviation 
                is used for the singular and the plural.) When used without 
                numerals, however, units of measurement are not abbreviated. You 
                would write "Specific activity is expressed as micrograms 
                of adenosine triphosphate incorporated per milligram of protein 
                per hour."























Careless 
                use of the diagonal can cause confusion. This problem arises 
                frequently in stating concentrations. If you say that "4 
                mg/ml of sodium sulfide was added," what does this mean? 
                Does it mean "per milliliter of sodium sulfide" (the 
                literal translation) or can we safely assume that "per 
                milliliter of reaction mixture" is meant? It is much 
                clearer to write "4 mg of sodium sulfide was added per 
                milliliter of medium."















  





















Page 
                225
















Special 
                Problems























A frequent 
                problem with abbreviations concerns use of "a" or 
                "an." Should you write "a M.S. degree'' or 
                "an M.S. degree"? Recall the old rule that you use 
                "a" with words beginning with a consonant sound and 
                "an" with words beginning with a vowel sound (e.g., 
                the letter "em"). Because in science we should use 
                only common abbreviations, those not needing to be spelled out 
                in the reader's mind, the proper choice of article should relate 
                to the sound of the first letter of the abbreviation, not the 
                sound of the first letter of the spelled out term. Thus, 
                although it is correct to write, "a Master of Science 
                degree," it is incorrect to write "a M.S. 
                degree." Because the reader reads "M.S." as 
                "em ess," the proper construction is "an M.S. 
                degree."























In 
                biology, it is customary to abbreviate generic names of 
                organisms after first use. At first use, you would spell out "Streptomyces 
                griseus. " In later usage, you can abbreviate the genus 
                name but not the specific epithet: S. griseus. Suppose, 
                however, that you are writing a paper that concerns species of 
                both Streptomyces and Staphylococcus. You would 
                then spell out the genus names repeatedly. Otherwise, readers 
                might be confused as to whether a particular "S." 
                abbreviation referred to one genus or the other.























SI 
                Units























Appendix 5 
                gives the abbreviations for the prefixes used with all SI (Système 
                International) units. The SI units and symbols, and certain 
                derived SI units, have become part of the language of science. 
                This modern metric system should be mastered by all students of 
                the sciences. Scientific Style and Format (Style Manual 
                Committee, Council of Biology Editors, 1994) is a good source 
                for more complete information, as is Huth's (1987) Medical 
                Style & Format.























Briefly, 
                SI units include three classes of units: base units, 
                supplementary units, and derived units. The seven base units 
                that form the foundation of SI are the meter, kilogram, second, 
                ampere, kelvin, mole, and candela. In addition to these seven 
                base units, there are two supplementary units for plane and 
                solid angles: the radian and steradian, respectively. Derived 
                units are expressed algebraically in terms of base units or 
                supplementary units. For some of the derived SI units, special















  





















Page 
                226
















names and 
                symbols exist. (The SI units are "metre" and "litre"; 
                the National Institute of Standards and Technology, followed by 
                the American Chemical Society and a number of other publishers, 
                is tenaciously retaining the traditional American spellings, 
                "meter" and ''liter.")























Other 
                Abbreviations























Appendix 6 
                provides a list of acceptable abbreviations that are now 
                considered to be standard. Most of them are from the CBE 
                Style Manual or from The ACS Style Guide (Dodd, 
                1997). Use these abbreviations when necessary. Avoid most 
                others. Those that you use should be introduced as carefully as 
                you would introduce royalty.















  




























Page 
                227
















Chapter 
                35
                A Personalized Summary    























Perhaps 
                it may turn out a sang, Perhaps turn out a sermon.
—Robert Burns























I have 
                been associated with scientific books and journals for more than 
                40 years. This experience may have instilled in me a tad or two 
                of wisdom somewhere along the line; certainly, it has instilled 
                prejudices, some of them strong ones. What has been instilled in 
                me will now be distilled and dispensed to you. I leave it to 
                you, the reader, to determine whether this philosophical musing 
                is "sang," sermon, or summary, or none of the above.























Through 
                the years, I have had many occasions to visit various scientific 
                laboratories. Almost always, I have been impressed, sometimes 
                awed, by the obvious quality of the laboratories themselves and 
                of the equipment and supplies they contain. Judging by 
                appearances, one could only believe that the newest and best 
                (and most expensive) instruments and reagents were used in these 
                laboratories.























During 
                those same years, I have seen thousands of the products of those 
                same laboratories. Some of these products (scientific papers) 
                properly reflected the quality and expense that went into their 
                generation. But many did not.























I want to 
                talk about the many that did not. I ask you, as I have often 
                asked myself, why is it that so many scientists, while capable 
                of brilliant performance in the laboratory, write papers that 
                would be given failing marks in a freshman composition class? I 
                ask you why is it that some scientists will demand the newest 
                ultracentrifuge, even if it costs















  





















Page 
                228
















$80,000, 
                and then refuse to spend a relatively few minutes at their 
                computer to draw a proper graph of the results obtained with the 
                ultracentrifuge? About a dozen similar questions leap to my 
                mind. Unfortunately, I do not know the answers, and I doubt that 
                anyone does.























Perhaps 
                there are no answers. If there are no answers, that leaves me 
                free to do a little philosophizing. (If you have gotten this far 
                in this book, you can heroically hang on for another few 
                paragraphs.)























If we view 
                knowledge as the house we live in, scientific knowledge will 
                tell us how to construct our house. But we need artistic 
                knowledge to make our house beautiful, and we need humanistic 
                knowledge so that we can understand and appreciate life within 
                our house.























If we view 
                a scientific paper as the culmination of scientific research, 
                which it is, we can, if we but try, make it more 
                beautiful and more understandable; we can do this by enriching 
                our scientific knowledge with a bit of the arts and humanities. 
                A well-written scientific paper is the product of a well-trained 
                scientist, yes; but the scientist capable of writing a really 
                good paper is usually also a cultured man or woman.























Students 
                of the sciences must not content themselves with study of the 
                sciences alone; science will be more meaningful if studied 
                against a background of other knowledge.























Especially, 
                students must learn how to write, because science demands 
                written expression. Erudition is valued in science; 
                unfortunately, it is often equated with long words, rare words, 
                and complex statements. To learn to write, you must learn to 
                read. To learn to write well, you should read good writing. Read 
                your professional journals, yes, but also read some real literature.























Many 
                universities now provide courses in scientific writing. Those 
                that do not should be ashamed of themselves.























What I 
                have said in this book is this: Scientific research is not 
                complete until the results have been published. Therefore, a 
                scientific paper is an essential part of the research 
                process. Therefore, the writing of an accurate, understandable 
                paper is just as important as the research itself. Therefore, 
                the words in the paper should be weighed as carefully as the 
                reagents in the laboratory. Therefore, the scientist must know 
                how to use words. Therefore, the education of a scientist is not 
                complete until the ability to publish has been established.















  





















Page 
                229
















The 
                Amen Corner























Until 
                recently, I have never especially worried about growing old. 
                Although noting that my doctors, for example, keep getting 
                younger, I had assumed that I could keep up with these 
                youngsters. Recently, however, I saw an ad for a videotape on 
                "Amniocentesis—A Parent's Choice." The tape was 
                prepared "in conjunction with a team of prenatal 
                experts." I have spent threescore plus years trying 
                desperately to become an expert at something, anything, and now 
                I see that some people achieve this status before birth. It's 
                not fair.















  




























Page 
                15
















Chapter 
                4
                How to Prepare the Title























First 
                impressions are strong impressions; a title ought therefore to 
                be well studied, and to give, so far as its limits permit, a 
                definite and concise indication of what is to come.
—T. Clifford Allbutt























Importance 
                of the Title























In 
                preparing a title for a paper, the author would do well to 
                remember one salient fact: That title will be read by thousands 
                of people. Perhaps few people, if any, will read the entire 
                paper, but many people will read the title, either in the 
                original journal or in one of the secondary (abstracting and 
                indexing) publications. Therefore, all words in the title should 
                be chosen with great care, and their association with one 
                another must be carefully managed. Perhaps the most common error 
                in defective titles, and certainly the most damaging in terms of 
                comprehension, is faulty syntax (word order).























What is a 
                good title? I define it as the fewest possible words that 
                adequately describe the contents of the paper.























Remember 
                that the indexing and abstracting services depend heavily on the 
                accuracy of the title, as do the many individual computerized 
                literature-retrieval systems in use today. An improperly titled 
                paper may be virtually lost and never reach its intended 
                audience.















  





















Page 
                16
















Length 
                of the Title























Occasionally, 
                titles are too short. A paper was submitted to the Journal of 
                Bacteriology with the title "Studies on Brucella." 
                Obviously, such a title was not very helpful to the potential 
                reader. Was the study taxonomic, genetic, biochemical, or 
                medical? We would certainly want to know at least that much.























Much more 
                often, titles are too long. Ironically, long titles are often 
                less meaningful than short ones. A generation or so ago, when 
                science was less specialized, titles tended to be long and 
                nonspecific, such as "On the addition to the method of 
                microscopic research by a new way of producing colour-contrast 
                between an object and its background or between definite parts 
                of the object itself" (J. Rheinberg, J. R. Microsc. Soc. 
                1896:373). That certainly sounds like a poor title; perhaps 
                it would make a good abstract.























Without 
                question, most excessively long titles contain "waste" 
                words. Often, these waste words appear right at the start of the 
                title, words such as "Studies on," 
                "Investigations on,'' and "Observations on." An 
                opening A, An, or The is also a "waste" 
                word. Certainly, such words are useless for indexing purposes.























Need 
                for Specific Titles























Let us 
                analyze a sample title: "Action of Antibiotics on 
                Bacteria." Is it a good title? In form it is; it is 
                short and carries no excess baggage (waste words). Certainly, it 
                would not be improved by changing it to "Preliminary 
                Observations on the Effect of Certain Antibiotics on Various 
                Species of Bacteria." However (and this brings me to my 
                next point), most titles that are too short are too short 
                because they include general rather than specific terms.























We can 
                safely assume that the study introduced by the above title did not 
                test the effect of all antibiotics on all kinds 
                of bacteria. Therefore, the title is essentially meaningless. If 
                only one or a few antibiotics were studied, they should be 
                individually listed in the title. If only one or a few organisms 
                were tested, they should be individually listed in the title. If 
                the number of antibiotics or organisms was awkwardly large for 
                listing in the title, perhaps a group name could have been 
                substituted. Examples of more acceptable titles are















  





















Page 
                17
















"Action 
                of Streptomycin on Mycobacterium tuberculosis"























"Action 
                of Streptomycin, Neomycin, and Tetracycline on Gram-Positive 
                Bacteria"























"Action 
                of Polyene Antibiotics on Plant-Pathogenic Bacteria"























"Action 
                of Various Antifungal Antibiotics on Candida albicans and 
                Aspergillus fumigatus"























Although 
                these titles are more acceptable than the sample, they are not 
                especially good because they are still too general. If the 
                "Action of" can be defined easily, the meaning might 
                be clearer. For example, the first title above might be phrased 
                "Inhibition of Growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by 
                Streptomycin."























Long ago, 
                Leeuwenhoek used the word "animalcules," a descriptive 
                but not very specific word. In the 1930s, Howard Raistrick 
                published an important series of papers under the title 
                "Studies on Bacteria."A similar paper today would have 
                a much more specific title. If the study featured an organism, 
                the title would give the genus and species and possibly even the 
                strain number. If the study featured an enzyme in an organism, 
                the title would not be anything like "Enzymes in 
                Bacteria." It would be something like "Dihydrofolate 
                Reductase Produced by Bacillus subtilis."























Importance 
                of Syntax























In titles, 
                be especially careful of syntax. Most of the grammatical errors 
                in titles are due to faulty word order.























A paper 
                was submitted to the Journal of Bacteriology with the 
                title "Mechanism of Suppression of Nontransmissible 
                Pneumonia in Mice Induced by Newcastle Disease Virus." 
                Unless this author had somehow managed to demonstrate 
                spontaneous generation, it must have been the pneumonia that was 
                induced and not the mice. (The title should have read: 
                "Mechanism of Suppression of Nontransmissible Pneumonia 
                Induced in Mice by Newcastle Disease Virus.")























If you no 
                longer believe that babies result from a visit by the stork, I 
                offer this title (Bacteriol. Proc., p. 102, 1968): 
                "Multiple Infections Among Newborns Resulting from 
                Implantation with Staphylococcus aureus 502A." (Is 
                this the "Staph of Life"?)























Another 
                example I stumbled on one day (Clin. Res. 8:134, 1960): 
                "Preliminary Canine and Clinical Evaluation of a New 
                Antitumor















  





















Page 
                18
















Agent, 
                Streptovitacin." When that dog gets through evaluating 
                streptovitacin, I've got some work I'd like that dog to look 
                over.























As a 
                grammatical aside, I would encourage you to be careful when you 
                use "using." The word "using" is, I believe, 
                the most common dangling participle in scientific writing. 
                Either there are some more smart dogs, or "using" is 
                misused in this sentence from a recent manuscript: "Using a 
                fiberoptic bronchoscope, dogs were immunized with sheep red 
                blood cells."























Dogs 
                aren't the only smart animals. A manuscript was submitted to the 
                Journal of Bacteriology under the title "Isolation 
                of Antigens from Monkeys Using Complement-Fixation 
                Techniques."























Even 
                bacteria are smart. A manuscript was submitted to the Journal 
                of Clinical Microbiology under the title 
                "Characterization of Bacteria Causing Mastitis by 
                Gas-Liquid Chromatography." Isn't it wonderful that 
                bacteria can use GLC?























The 
                Title as a Label























The title 
                of a paper is a label. It is not a sentence. Because it is not a 
                sentence, with the usual subject, verb, object arrangement, it 
                is really simpler than a sentence (or, at least, usually 
                shorter), but the order of the words becomes even more 
                important.























Actually, 
                a few journals do permit a title to be a sentence. Here is an 
                example: "Oct-3 is a maternal factor required for the first 
                mouse embryonic division" (Cell 64:1103, 1991). I 
                suppose this is only a matter of opinion, but I would object to 
                such a title on two grounds. First, the verb ("is") is 
                a waste word, in that it can be readily deleted without 
                affecting comprehension. Second, inclusion of the "is" 
                results in a title that now seems to be a loud assertion. It has 
                a dogmatic ring to it because we are not used to seeing authors 
                present their results in the present tense, for reasons that are 
                fully developed in Chapter 32. Rosner (1990) gave the name 
                "assertive sentence title" (AST) to this kind of title 
                and presented a number of reasons why such titles should not be 
                used. In particular, ASTs are "improper and imprudent'' 
                because "in some cases the AST boldly states a conclusion 
                that is then stated more tentatively in the summary or 
                elsewhere" and "ASTs trivialize a scientific report by 
                reducing it to a one-liner."















  





















Page 
                19
















The 
                meaning and order of the words in the title are of importance to 
                the potential reader who sees the title in the journal table of 
                contents. But these considerations are equally important to all 
                potential users of the literature, including those (probably 
                a majority) who become aware of the paper via secondary sources. 
                Thus, the title should be useful as a label accompanying the 
                paper itself, and it also should be in a form suitable for the 
                machine-indexing systems used by Chemical Abstracts, Index 
                Medicus, and others. Most of the indexing and abstracting 
                services are geared to "key word" systems, generating 
                either KWIC (key word in context) or KWOC (key word out of 
                context) entries. Therefore, it is fundamentally important that 
                the author provide the right "keys" to the paper when 
                labeling it. That is, the terms in the title should be limited 
                to those words that highlight the significant content of the 
                paper in terms that are both understandable and retrievable.























As an aid 
                to readers, "running titles" or "running 
                heads" are printed at the top of each page. Often, the 
                title of the journal or book is given at the top of left-facing 
                pages and the article or chapter title is given at the top of 
                right-facing pages (as in this book). Usually, a short version 
                of the title is needed because of space limitations. (The 
                maximum character count is likely to be given in the journal's 
                Instructions to Authors.) It is wise to suggest an appropriate 
                running title on the title page of the manuscript.























Abbreviations 
                and Jargon























Titles 
                should almost never contain abbreviations, chemical formulas, 
                proprietary (rather than generic) names, jargon, and the like. 
                In designing the title, the author should ask: "How would I 
                look for this kind of information in an index?" If the 
                paper concerns an effect of hydrochloric acid, should the title 
                include the words "hydrochloric acid" or should it 
                contain the much shorter and readily recognizable "HCl?'' I 
                think the answer is obvious. Most of us would look under "hy" 
                in an index, not under "hc." Furthermore, if some 
                authors used (and journal editors permitted) HCl and others used 
                hydrochloric acid, the user of the bibliographic services might 
                locate only part of the published literature, not noting that 
                additional references are listed under another, abbreviated, 
                entry. Actually, the larger secondary services have computer 
                programs that are capable of bringing together entries such as 
                deoxyri-















  





















Page 
                20
















bonucleic 
                acid, DNA, and even ADN (acide deoxyribonucleique). 
                However, by far the best rule for authors (and editors) is to 
                avoid abbreviations in titles. And the same rule should apply to 
                proprietary names, jargon, and unusual or outdated terminology.























Series 
                Titles























Most 
                editors I have talked to are opposed to main title-subtitle 
                arrangements and to hanging titles. The main title-subtitle 
                (series) arrangement was quite common some years ago. (Example: 
                "Studies on Bacteria. IV. Cell Wall of Staphylococcus 
                aureus.") Today, many editors believe that it is 
                important, especially for the reader, that each published paper 
                "should present the results of an independent, cohesive 
                study; thus, numbered series titles are not allowed" 
                ("Instructions to Authors," Journal of Bacteriology). 
                Series papers, in the past, have had a tendency to relate to 
                each other too closely, giving only bits and pieces with each 
                contribution; thus, the reader was severely handicapped unless 
                the whole series could be read consecutively. Furthermore, the 
                series system is annoying to editors because of scheduling 
                problems and delays. (What happens when no. IV is accepted but 
                no. III is rejected or hung up in review?) Additional objections 
                are that a series title almost always provides considerable 
                redundancy; the first part (before the roman numeral) is usually 
                so general as to be useless; and the results when the secondary 
                services spin out a KWIC index are often unintelligible, it 
                being impossible to reconstruct such double titles. (Article 
                titles phrased as questions also become unintelligible, and in 
                my view ''question" titles should not be used.)























The 
                hanging title (same as a series title except that a colon 
                substitutes for the roman numeral) is considerably better, 
                avoiding some of the problems mentioned above, but certainly not 
                the peculiar results from KWIC indexing. Unfortunately, a 
                leading scientific journal, Science, is a proponent of 
                hanging titles, presumably on the grounds that it is important 
                to get the most important words of the title up to the front. 
                (Example: "The Structure of the Potassium Channel: 
                Molecular Basis of K+ Conduction and 
                Selectivity"—Science 280:69, 1998.) Occasionally, 
                hanging titles may be an aid to the reader, but in my opinion 
                they appear pedantic, often place the emphasis on a general term 
                rather than a more















  





















Page 
                21
















significant 
                term, necessitate punctuation, scramble indexes, and in general 
                provide poor titles.























Use of a 
                straightforward title does not lessen the need for proper 
                syntax, however, or for the proper form of each word in the 
                title. For example, a title reading "New Color Standard for 
                Biology" would seem to indicate the development of color 
                specifications for use in describing plant and animal specimens. 
                However, in the title "New Color Standard for 
                Biologists" (BioScience 27:762, 1977), the new 
                standard might be useful for study of the taxonomy of 
                biologists, permitting us to separate the green biologists from 
                the blue ones. 















  




























Page 
                22
















Chapter 
                5
                How to List the Authors and Addresses























Few 
                would dispute that researchers have to take responsibility for 
                papers that have their names on them. A senior laboratory figure 
                who puts his or her name on a paper without direct supervision 
                or involvement is unquestionably abusing the system of credit. 
                There have been occasions where distinguished scientists have 
                put their names irresponsibly on a paper that has turned out to 
                contain serious errors or fraud. Rightly, some of them have paid 
                a heavy price.
—Editorial, Nature, p. 831, 26 June 1997























The 
                Order of the Names























"If 
                you have co-authors, problems about authorship can range from 
                the trivial to the catastrophic" (O'Connor, 1991).























The 
                easiest part of preparing a scientific paper is simply the 
                entering of the bylines: the authors and addresses. Sometimes.























I haven't 
                yet heard of a duel being fought over the order of listing of 
                authors, but I know of instances in which otherwise reasonable, 
                rational colleagues have become bitter enemies solely because 
                they could not agree on whose names should be listed or in what 
                order.























What is 
                the right order? Unfortunately, there are no agreed-upon rules 
                or generally accepted conventions. Some authors, perhaps to 
                avoid arguments among themselves, agree to list their names 
                alphabetically. In















  





















Page 
                23
















the field 
                of mathematics, this practice appears to be universal. Such a 
                simple, nonsignificant ordering system has much to recommend it, 
                but the alphabetical system has not yet become common, 
                especially in the United States.























In the 
                past, there has been a general tendency to list the head of the 
                laboratory as an author whether or not he or she actively 
                participated in the research. Often, the "head" was 
                placed last (second of two authors, third of three, etc.). As a 
                result, the terminal spot seemed to acquire prestige. Thus, two 
                authors, neither of whom was head of a laboratory or even 
                necessarily a senior professor, would vie for the second spot. 
                If there are three or more authors, the "important" 
                author will want the first or last position, but not in between.























A 
                countervailing and more modern tendency has been to define the first 
                author as the senior author and primary progenitor of the 
                work being reported. Even when the first author is a graduate 
                student and the second (third, fourth) author is head of the 
                laboratory, perhaps even a Nobel Laureate, it is now accepted 
                form to refer to the first author as the "senior 
                author" and to assume that he or she did most or all of the 
                research.























The 
                tendency for laboratory directors to insist upon having their 
                own names on all papers published from their laboratories is 
                still with us. So is the tendency to use the "laundry 
                list" approach, naming as an author practically everyone in 
                the laboratory, including technicians who may have cleaned the 
                glassware after the experiments were completed. In addition, the 
                trend toward collaborative research is steadily increasing. 
                Thus, the average number of authors per paper is on the rise.























Definition 
                of Authorship























Perhaps we 
                can now define authorship by saying that the listing of authors 
                should include those, and only those, who actively contributed 
                to the overall design and execution of the experiments. Further, 
                the authors should normally be listed in order of importance to 
                the experiments, the first author being acknowledged as the 
                senior author, the second author being the primary associate, 
                the third author possibly being equivalent to the second but 
                more likely having a lesser involvement with the work reported. 
                Colleagues or supervisors should neither ask to have their names 
                on manuscripts nor allow their names to be put on manuscripts 
                reporting research with which they themselves have not been 
                intimately involved. An author of a paper should be defined as 
                one















  





















Page 
                24
















who takes 
                intellectual responsibility for the research results being 
                reported. However, this definition must be tempered by realizing 
                that modern science in many fields is collaborative and 
                multidisciplinary. It may be unrealistic to assume that all 
                authors can defend all aspects of a paper written by 
                contributors from a variety of disciplines. Even so, each author 
                should be held fully responsible for his or her choice of 
                colleagues.























Admittedly, 
                resolution of this question is not always easy. It is often 
                incredibly difficult to analyze the intellectual input to a 
                paper. Certainly, those who have worked together intensively for 
                months or years on a research problem might have difficulty in 
                remembering who had the original research concept or whose 
                brilliant idea was the key to the success of the experiments. 
                And what do these colleagues do when everything suddenly falls 
                into place as a result of a searching question by the 
                traditional "guy in the next lab" who had nothing 
                whatever to do with the research?























Each 
                listed author should have made an important contribution to the 
                study being reported, "important" referring to those 
                aspects of the study which produced new information, the concept 
                that defines an original scientific paper.























The 
                sequence of authors on a published paper should be decided, 
                unanimously, before the research is started. A change may be 
                required later, depending on which turn the research takes, but 
                it is foolish to leave this important question of authorship to 
                the very end of the research process.























On 
                occasion, I have seen 10 or more authors listed at the head of a 
                paper (sometimes only a Note). For example, a paper by F. Bulos 
                et al. (Phys. Rev. Letters 13:486, 1964) had 27 authors 
                and only 12 paragraphs. Such papers frequently come from 
                laboratories that are so small that 10 people couldn't fit into 
                the lab, let alone make a meaningful contribution to the 
                experiment.























What 
                accounts for the tendency to list a host of authors? There may 
                be several reasons, but the primary one no doubt relates to the 
                publish-or-perish syndrome. Some workers wheedle or cajole their 
                colleagues so effectively that they become authors of most or 
                all of the papers coming out of their laboratory. Their research 
                productivity might in fact be meager, yet at year's end their 
                publication lists might indeed be exten-















  





















Page 
                25
















sive. In 
                some institutions, such padded lists might result in promotion. 
                Nonetheless, the practice is not recommended. Perhaps a few 
                administrators are fooled, and momentary advantages are 
                sometimes gained by these easy riders. But I suspect that good 
                scientists do not allow dilution of their own work by adding 
                other people's names for their minuscule contributions, nor do 
                they want their own names sullied by addition of the names of a 
                whole herd of lightweights.























In short, 
                the scientific paper should list as authors only those who 
                contributed substantially to the work. The dilution 
                effect of the multiauthor approach adversely affects the real 
                investigators. (And, as a former managing editor, I can't 
                help adding that this reprehensible practice leads to 
                bibliographic nightmares for all of us involved with use and 
                control of the scientific literature.) A thorough discussion on 
                "Guidelines on Authorship of Medical Papers" has been 
                published by Huth (1986).























Defining 
                the Order: an Example























Perhaps 
                the following example will help clarify the level of conceptual 
                or technical involvement that should define authorship.























Suppose 
                that Scientist A designs a series of experiments that might 
                result in important new knowledge, and then Scientist A tells 
                Technician B exactly how to perform the experiments. If the 
                experiments work out and a manuscript results, Scientist A 
                should be the sole author, even though Technician B did all the 
                work. (Of course, the assistance of Technician B should be 
                recognized in the Acknowledgments.)























Now let us 
                suppose that the above experiments do not work out. Technician B 
                takes the negative results to Scientist A and says something 
                like, "I think we might get this damned strain to grow if 
                we change the incubation temperature from 24 to 37°C and if we 
                add serum albumin to the medium." Scientist A agrees to a 
                trial, the experiments this time yield the desired outcome, and 
                a paper results. In this case, Scientist A and Technician B, in 
                that order, should both be listed as authors.























Let us 
                take this example one step further. Suppose that the experiments 
                at 37°C and with serum albumin work, but that Scientist A 
                perceives that there is now an obvious loose end; that is, 
                growth under these conditions suggests that the test organism is 
                a pathogen, whereas the previously published literature had 
                indicated that this organism was















  





















Page 
                26
















nonpathogenic. 
                Scientist A now asks colleague Scientist C, an expert in 
                pathogenic microbiology, to test this organism for pathogenicity. 
                Scientist C runs a quick test by injecting the test substance 
                into laboratory mice in a standard procedure that any medical 
                microbiologist would use and confirms pathogenicity. A few 
                important sentences are then added to the manuscript, and the 
                paper is published. Scientist A and Technician B are listed as 
                authors; the assistance of Scientist C is noted in the 
                Acknowledgments.























Suppose, 
                however, that Scientist C gets interested in this peculiar 
                strain and proceeds to conduct a series of well-planned 
                experiments which lead to the conclusion that this particular 
                strain is not just mouse-pathogenic, but is the long-sought 
                culprit in certain rare human infections. Thus, two new tables 
                of data are added to the manuscript, and the Results and 
                Discussion are rewritten. The paper is then published listing 
                Scientist A, Technician B, and Scientist C as authors. (A case 
                could be made for listing Scientist C as the second author.)























Proper 
                and Consistent Form























As to 
                names of authors, the preferred designation normally is first 
                name, middle initial, last name. If an author uses only 
                initials, which has been a regrettable tendency in science, the 
                scientific literature may become confused. If there are two 
                people named Jonathan B. Jones, the literature services can 
                probably keep them straight (by addresses). But if dozens of 
                people publish under the name J. B. Jones (especially if, on 
                occasion, some of them use Jonathan B. Jones), the retrieval 
                services have a hopeless task in keeping things neat and tidy. 
                Many scientists resist the temptation to change their names 
                (after marriage, for religious reasons, or by court order), 
                knowing that their published work will be separated.























Instead of 
                first name, middle initial, and last name, wouldn't it be better 
                to spell out the middle name? No. Again, we must realize that 
                literature retrieval is a computerized process (and that 
                computers can be easily confused). An author with common names 
                (e.g., Robert Jones) might be tempted to spell out his or her 
                middle name, thinking that Robert Smith Jones is more 
                distinctive than Robert S. Jones. However, the resulting double 
                name is a problem. Should the computer index the author as 
                "Jones" or as "Smith Jones"? Because double 
                names, with or without hyphens, are common, especially in 
                England and in Latin















  





















Page 
                27
















America, 
                this problem is not an easy one for computers (or for their 
                programmers).























In 
                addition, many computerized library catalogs and literature 
                retrieval systems are based on the principle of truncation. 
                Thus, one does not need to key in a long title or even a whole 
                name; time is saved by shortening (truncating) the entry. But, 
                if one types in "Day, RA," for example, a screen will 
                appear showing all of the Rachel Days, Ralph Days, 
                Raymond Days, etc., but not Robert A. Day. 
                Therefore, the use of initials rather than first names can cause 
                trouble.























In 
                general, scientific journals do not print either degrees or 
                titles after authors' names. (You know what "B.S." 
                means. "M.S." is More of the Same. "Ph.D." 
                is Piled Higher and Deeper. "M.D.'' is Much Deeper.) 
                However, most medical journals do give degrees after the names. 
                Titles are also often listed in medical journals, either after 
                the names and degrees or in footnotes on the title page. Even in 
                medical journals, however, degrees and titles (Dr., for example) 
                are not given in the Literature Cited. Contributors should 
                consult the journal's Instructions to Authors or a recent issue 
                regarding preferred usage.























If a 
                journal allows both degrees and titles, perhaps a bit of 
                advertising might be allowed also, as suggested by the 
                redoubtable Leo Rosten (1968):























Dr. Joseph 
                Kipnis—Psychiatrist
                Dr. Eli Lowitz—Proctologist
                Specialists in Odds and Ends.























Dr. M. J. 
                Kornblum and Dr. Albert Steinkoff,
                Obstetricians 24 Hour Service . . . We Deliver.























Listing 
                the Addresses























The rules 
                of listing the addresses are simple but often broken. As a 
                result, authors cannot always be connected with addresses. Most 
                often, however, it is the style of the journal that creates 
                confusion, rather than sins of commission or omission by the 
                author.























With one 
                author, one address is given (the name and address of the 
                laboratory in which the work was done). If, before publication, 
                the author has moved to a different address, the new address 
                should be indicated in a "Present Address" footnote.















  





















Page 
                28
















When two 
                or more authors are listed, each in a different institution, the 
                addresses should be listed in the same order as the authors.























The 
                primary problem arises when a paper is published by, let us say, 
                three authors from two institutions. In such instances, each 
                author's name and address should include an appropriate 
                designation such as a superior a, b, or c after 
                the author's name and before (or after) the appropriate address.























This 
                convention is often useful to readers who may want to know 
                whether R. Jones is at Yale or at Harvard. Clear identification 
                of authors and addresses is also of prime importance to several 
                of the secondary services. For these services to function 
                properly, they need to know whether a paper published by J. 
                Jones was authored by the J. Jones of Iowa State or the J. Jones 
                of Cornell or the J. Jones of Cambridge University in England. 
                Only when authors can be properly identified can their 
                publications be grouped together in citation indexes.























Purposes























Remember 
                that an address serves two purposes. It serves to identify the 
                author; it also supplies (or should supply) the author's mailing 
                address. The mailing address is necessary for many reasons, the 
                most common one being to denote the source of reprints. Although 
                it is not necessary as a rule to give street addresses for most 
                institutions, it should be mandatory these days to provide 
                postal codes.























Some 
                journals use asterisks, footnotes, or the Acknowledgments to 
                indicate "the person to whom inquiries regarding the paper 
                should be addressed." Authors should be aware of journal 
                policy in this regard, and they should decide in advance 
                who is to purchase and distribute reprints and from what address 
                (since normally it is the institution that purchases the 
                reprints, not the individual).























Unless a 
                scientist wishes to publish anonymously (or as close to it as 
                possible), a full name and a full address should be considered 
                obligatory. 















  




























Page 
                29
















Chapter 
                6
                How to Prepare the Abstract























I have 
                the strong impression that scientific communication is being 
                seriously hindered by poor quality abstracts written in 
                jargon-ridden mumbo-jumbo.
                —Sheila M. McNab























Definition























An 
                Abstract should be viewed as a miniversion of the paper. The 
                Abstract should provide a brief summary of each of the 
                main sections of the paper: Introduction, Materials and Methods, 
                Results, and Discussion. As Houghton (1975) put it, "An 
                abstract can be defined as a summary of the information in a 
                document."























"A 
                well-prepared abstract enables readers to identify the basic 
                content of a document quickly and accurately, to determine its 
                relevance to their interests, and thus to decide whether they 
                need to read the document in its entirety" (American 
                National Standards Institute, 1979b). The Abstract should 
                not exceed 250 words and should be designed to define clearly 
                what is dealt with in the paper. The Abstract should be typed as 
                a single paragraph. (Some medical journals now run 
                "structured" abstracts consisting of a few brief 
                paragraphs.) Many people will read the Abstract, either in the 
                original journal or in Biological Abstracts, Chemical 
                Abstracts, or one of the other secondary publications 
                (either in the print editions or in online computer searches).















  





















Page 
                30
















The 
                Abstract should (1) state the principal objectives and scope of 
                the investigation, (2) describe the methods employed, (3) 
                summarize the results, and (4) state the principal conclusions. 
                The importance of the conclusions is indicated by the fact that 
                they are often given three times: once in the Abstract, again in 
                the Introduction, and again (in more detail probably) in the 
                Discussion.























Most or 
                all of the Abstract should be written in the past tense, because 
                it refers to work done.























The 
                Abstract should never give any information or conclusion that is 
                not stated in the paper. References to the literature must not 
                be cited in the Abstract (except in rare instances, such as 
                modification of a previously published method).























Types 
                of Abstracts























The above 
                rules apply to the abstracts that are used in primary journals 
                and often without change in the secondary services (Chemical 
                Abstracts, etc.). This type of abstract is often referred to 
                as an informative abstract, and it is designed to 
                condense the paper. It can and should briefly state the problem, 
                the method used to study the problem, and the principal data and 
                conclusions. Often, the abstract supplants the need for reading 
                the full paper; without such abstracts, scientists would not be 
                able to keep up in active areas of research. This is the type of 
                abstract that is used as a "heading" in most journals 
                today.























Another 
                common type of abstract is the indicative abstract 
                (sometimes called a descriptive abstract). This type of abstract 
                is designed to indicate the subjects dealt with in a paper, 
                making it easy for potential readers to decide whether to read 
                the paper. However, because of its descriptive rather than 
                substantive nature, it can seldom serve as a substitute for the 
                full paper. Thus, indicative abstracts should not be used as 
                "heading" abstracts in research papers, but they may 
                be used in other types of publications (review papers, 
                conference reports, the government report literature, etc.); 
                such indicative abstracts are often of great value to reference 
                librarians.























An 
                effective discussion of the various uses and types of abstracts 
                was provided by McGirr (1973), whose conclusions are well worth 
                repeating: "When writing the abstract, remember that it 
                will be published by itself, and should be self-contained. That 
                is, it should contain no















  





















Page 
                31
















bibliographic, 
                figure, or table references. . . . The language should be 
                familiar to the potential reader. Omit obscure abbreviations and 
                acronyms. Write the paper before you write the abstract, if at 
                all possible."























Unless a 
                long term is used several times within an Abstract, do not 
                abbreviate the term. Wait and introduce the appropriate 
                abbreviation at first use in the text (probably in the 
                Introduction).























Economy 
                of Words























Occasionally, 
                a scientist omits something important from the Abstract. By far 
                the most common fault, however, is the inclusion of extraneous 
                detail.























I once 
                heard of a scientist who had some terribly involved theory about 
                the relation of matter to energy. He then wrote a terribly 
                involved paper. However, the scientist, knowing the limitations 
                of editors, realized that the Abstract of his paper would have 
                to be short and simple if the paper were to be judged 
                acceptable. So, he spent hours and hours honing his Abstract. He 
                eliminated word after word until, finally, all of the verbiage 
                had been removed. What he was left with was the shortest 
                Abstract ever written: "E = mc2."























Today, 
                most scientific journals print a heading Abstract with each 
                paper. It generally is printed (and should be typed) as a single 
                paragraph. Because the Abstract precedes the paper itself, and 
                because the editors and reviewers like a bit of orientation, the 
                Abstract is almost universally the first part of the manuscript 
                read during the review process. Therefore, it is of fundamental 
                importance that the Abstract be written clearly and simply. If 
                you cannot attract the interest of the reviewer in your 
                Abstract, your cause may be lost. Very often, the reviewer may 
                be perilously close to a final judgment of your manuscript after 
                reading the Abstract alone. This could be because the reviewer 
                has a short attention span (often the case). However, if by 
                definition the Abstract is simply a very short version of the 
                whole paper, it is only logical that the reviewer will often 
                reach a preliminary conclusion, and that conclusion is likely to 
                be the correct one. Usually, a good Abstract is followed by a 
                good paper; a poor Abstract is a harbinger of woes to come.























Because a 
                heading Abstract is required by most journals and because a 
                meeting Abstract is a requirement for participation in a great 
                many national and international meetings (participation 
                sometimes being















  





















Page 
                32
















determined 
                on the basis of submitted abstracts), scientists should master 
                the fundamentals of Abstract preparation.























When 
                writing the Abstract, examine every word carefully. If you can 
                tell your story in 100 words, do not use 200. Economically and 
                scientifically, it doesn't make sense to waste words. The total 
                communication system can afford only so much verbal abuse. Of 
                more importance to you, the use of clear, significant words will 
                impress the editors and reviewers (not to mention readers), 
                whereas the use of abstruse, verbose constructions is very 
                likely to provoke a check in the "reject" box on the 
                review form.























In 
                teaching courses in scientific writing, I sometimes tell a story 
                designed to point up the essentials of good Abstract-writing. I 
                tell my students to take down only the key points in the 
                story, which of course is the key to writing good abstracts.























The story 
                goes like this: One night a symphony orchestra was scheduled to 
                play the famous Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. Before the 
                performance, the bass viol players happened to be chatting among 
                themselves, and one of the bass players reminded the others that 
                there is a long rest for the bass players toward the conclusion 
                of Beethoven's Ninth. One bassist said, "Tonight, instead 
                of sitting on the stage looking dumb all that time, why don't we 
                sneak off the stage, go out the back door, go to the bar across 
                the street, and belt down a few?" They all agreed. That 
                night, when "rest" time came, they indeed snuck off 
                the stage, went to the bar, and knocked back about four double 
                scotches each. One bass player said, "Well, it's about time 
                we headed back for the finale." Whereupon another bassist 
                said, "Not to worry. After we decided to do this, I went up 
                to the conductor's stand and, at the place in the conductor's 
                score where our rest ends, I tied a bunch of string around his 
                score. It will take him a few minutes to untie those knots. 
                Let's have another.'' And they did.























At this 
                point, I tell the students, "Now, this story has reached a 
                very dramatic point. If you have put down the essentials, as you 
                would in a good Abstract, here is what you should have: It's the 
                last of the Ninth, the score is tied, and the basses are 
                loaded." 






































  




























Page 
                33
















Chapter 
                7
                How to Write the Introduction























A bad 
                beginning makes a bad ending.
                —Euripides























Suggested 
                Rules























Now that 
                we have the preliminaries out of the way, we come to the paper 
                itself. I should mention that some experienced writers prepare 
                their title and Abstract after the paper is written, even though 
                by placement these elements come first. You should, however, 
                have in mind (if not on paper) a provisional title and an 
                outline of the paper that you propose to write. You should also 
                consider the level of the audience you are writing for, so that 
                you will have a basis for determining which terms and procedures 
                need definition or description and which do not. If you do not 
                have a clear purpose in mind, you might go writing off in six 
                directions at once.























It is a 
                wise policy to begin writing the paper while the work is still 
                in progress. This makes the writing easier because everything is 
                fresh in your mind. Furthermore, the writing process itself is 
                likely to point to inconsistencies in the results or perhaps to 
                suggest interesting sidelines that might be followed. Thus, 
                start the writing while the experimental apparatus and materials 
                are still available. If you have coauthors, it is wise to write 
                up the work while they are still available for consultation.























The first 
                section of the text proper should, of course, be the 
                Introduction. The purpose of the Introduction should be to 
                supply sufficient background information to allow the reader to 
                understand and evaluate















  





















Page 
                34
















the 
                results of the present study without needing to refer to 
                previous publications on the topic. The Introduction should also 
                provide the rationale for the present study. Above all, you 
                should state briefly and clearly your purpose in writing the 
                paper. Choose references carefully to provide the most important 
                background information. Much of the Introduction should be 
                written in the present tense, because you will be referring 
                primarily to your problem and the established knowledge relating 
                to it at the start of your work.























Suggested 
                rules for a good Introduction are as follows: (1) The 
                Introduction should present first, with all possible clarity, 
                the nature and scope of the problem investigated. (2) It should 
                review the pertinent literature to orient the reader. (3) It 
                should state the method of the investigation. If deemed 
                necessary, the reasons for the choice of a particular method 
                should be stated. (4) It should state the principal results of 
                the investigation. (5) It should state the principal 
                conclusion(s) suggested by the results. Do not keep the reader 
                in suspense; let the reader follow the development of the 
                evidence. An O. Henry surprise ending might make good 
                literature, but it hardly fits the mold of the scientific 
                method.























Let me 
                expand on that last point. Many authors, especially beginning 
                authors, make the mistake (and it is a mistake) of holding back 
                their most important findings until late in the paper. In 
                extreme cases, authors have sometimes omitted important findings 
                from the Abstract, presumably in the hope of building suspense 
                while proceeding to a well-concealed, dramatic climax. However, 
                this is a silly gambit that, among knowledgeable scientists, 
                goes over like a double negative at a grammarians' picnic. 
                Basically, the problem with the surprise ending is that the 
                readers become bored and stop reading long before they get to 
                the punch line. "Reading a scientific article isn't the 
                same as reading a detective story. We want to know from the 
                start that the butler did it" (Ratnoff, 1981).























Reasons 
                for the Rules























The first 
                three rules for a good Introduction need little expansion, being 
                reasonably well accepted by most scientist-writers, even 
                beginning ones. It is important to keep in mind, however, that 
                the purpose of the Introduction is to introduce (the paper). 
                Thus, the first rule (definition of the problem) is the cardinal 
                one. And, obviously, if the problem is not















  





















Page 
                35
















stated in 
                a reasonable, understandable way, readers will have no interest 
                in your solution. Even if the reader labors through your paper, 
                which is unlikely if you haven't presented the problem in a 
                meaningful way, he or she will be unimpressed with the 
                brilliance of your solution. In a sense, a scientific paper is 
                like other types of journalism. In the Introduction you should 
                have a "hook" to gain the reader's attention. Why did 
                you choose that subject, and why is it important?























The second 
                and third rules relate to the first. The literature review and 
                choice of method should be presented in such a way that the 
                reader will understand what the problem was and how you 
                attempted to resolve it.























These 
                three rules then lead naturally to the fourth, the statement of 
                principal results and conclusions, which should be the capstone 
                of the Introduction. This road map from problem to solution is 
                so important that a bit of redundancy with the Abstract is often 
                desirable.























Citations 
                and Abbreviations























If you 
                have previously published a preliminary note or abstract of the 
                work, you should mention this (with the citation) in the 
                Introduction. If closely related papers have been or are about 
                to be published elsewhere, you should say so in the 
                Introduction, customarily at or toward the end. Such references 
                help to keep the literature neat and tidy for those who must 
                search it.























In 
                addition to the above rules, keep in mind that your paper may 
                well be read by people outside your narrow specialty. Therefore, 
                the Introduction is the proper place to define any specialized 
                terms or abbreviations that you intend to use. Let me put this 
                in context by citing a sentence from a letter of complaint I 
                once received. The complaint was in reference to an ad which had 
                appeared in the Journal of Virology during my tenure as 
                Managing Editor. The ad announced an opening for a virologist at 
                the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and concluded with the 
                statement "An equal opportunity employer, M & F." 
                The letter suggested that "the designation `M & F' may 
                mean that the NIH is muscular and fit, musical and flatulent, 
                hermaphroditic, or wants a mature applicant in his 
                fifties." 















  




























Page 
                36
















Chapter 
                8
                How to Write the Materials and Methods Section























The 
                greatest invention of the nineteenth century was the invention 
                of the method of invention.
                —A. N. Whitehead























Purpose 
                of the Section























In the 
                first section of the paper, the Introduction, you stated (or 
                should have) the methodology employed in the study. If 
                necessary, you also defended the reasons for your choice of a 
                particular method over competing methods.























Now, in 
                Materials and Methods, you must give the full details. Most of 
                this section should be written in the past tense. The main 
                purpose of the Materials and Methods section is to describe (and 
                if necessary defend) the experimental design and then provide 
                enough detail so that a competent worker can repeat the 
                experiments. Many (probably most) readers of your paper will 
                skip this section, because they already know (from the 
                Introduction) the general methods you used and they probably 
                have no interest in the experimental detail. However, careful 
                writing of this section is critically important because the 
                cornerstone of the scientific method requires that your 
                results, to be of scientific merit, must be reproducible; and, 
                for the results to be adjudged reproducible, you must provide 
                the basis for repetition of the experiments by others. That















  





















Page 
                37
















experiments 
                are unlikely to be reproduced is beside the point; the potential 
                for reproducing the same or similar results must exist, 
                or your paper does not represent good science.























When your 
                paper is subjected to peer review, a good reviewer will read the 
                Materials and Methods carefully. If there is serious doubt that 
                your experiments could be repeated, the reviewer will recommend 
                rejection of your manuscript no matter how awe-inspiring your 
                results.























Materials























For 
                materials, include the exact technical specifications and 
                quantities and source or method of preparation. Sometimes it is 
                even necessary to list pertinent chemical and physical 
                properties of the reagents used. Avoid the use of trade names; 
                use of generic or chemical names is usually preferred. This 
                avoids the advertising inherent in the trade name. Besides, the 
                nonproprietary name is likely to be known throughout the world, 
                whereas the proprietary name may be known only in the country of 
                origin. However, if there are known differences among 
                proprietary products and if these differences might be critical 
                (as with certain microbiological media), then use of the trade 
                name, plus the name of the manufacturer, is essential. When 
                trade names, which are usually registered trademarks, are used, 
                they should be capitalized (Teflon, for example) to distinguish 
                them from generic names. Normally, the generic description 
                should immediately follow the trademark, as in Kleenex facial 
                tissues.























Experimental 
                animals, plants, and microorganisms should be identified 
                accurately, usually by genus, species, and strain designations. 
                Sources should be listed and special characteristics (age, sex, 
                genetic and physiological status) described. If human subjects 
                are used, the criteria for selection should be described, and an 
                "informed consent" statement should be added to the 
                manuscript if required by the journal.























Because 
                the value of your paper (and your reputation) can be damaged if 
                your results are not reproducible, you must describe research 
                materials with great care. Be sure to examine the Instructions 
                to Authors of the journal to which you plan to submit the 
                manuscript, because important specifics are often detailed 
                there. Below is a carefully worded statement applying to cell 
                lines (taken from the Information for Authors of In Vitro, the 
                journal of the Tissue Culture Association):















  





















Page 
                38
















Cell 
                line data: The source of cells utilized, species, sex, 
                strain, race, age of donor, whether primary or established, must 
                be clearly indicated. The supplier name, city, and state 
                abbreviation should be stated within parentheses when first 
                cited. Specific tests used for verification of purported origin, 
                donor traits, and detection for the presence of microbial agents 
                should be identified. Specific tests should be performed on cell 
                culture substrates for the presence of mycoplasmal contamination 
                by using both a direct agar culture and an indirect staining or 
                biochemical procedure. A brief description or a proper reference 
                citation of the procedure used must be included. If these tests 
                were not performed, this fact should be clearly stated in the 
                Materials and Methods section. Other data relating to unique 
                biological, biochemical and/or immunological markers should also 
                be included if available.























Methods























For 
                methods, the usual order of presentation is chronological. 
                Obviously, however, related methods should be described 
                together, and straight chronological order cannot always be 
                followed. For example, even if a particular assay was not done 
                until late in the research, the assay method should be described 
                along with the other assay methods, not by itself in a later 
                part of Materials and Methods.























Headings























The 
                Materials and Methods section usually has subheadings. (See 
                Chapter 16 for discussion of the how and when of subheadings.) 
                When possible, construct subheadings that "match" 
                those to be used in Results. The writing of both sections will 
                be easier if you strive for internal consistency, and the reader 
                will be able to grasp quickly the relationship of a particular 
                methodology to the related Results.























Measurements 
                and Analysis























Be 
                precise. Methods are similar to cookbook recipes. If a reaction 
                mixture was heated, give the temperature. Questions such as 
                "how" and "how much" should be precisely 
                answered by the author and not left for the reviewer or the 
                reader to puzzle over.















  





















Page 
                39
















Statistical 
                analyses are often necessary, but you should feature and discuss 
                the data, not the statistics. Generally, a lengthy description 
                of statistical methods indicates that the writer has recently 
                acquired this information and believes that the readers need 
                similar enlightenment. Ordinary statistical methods should be 
                used without comment; advanced or unusual methods may require a 
                literature citation.























And, 
                again, be careful of your syntax. A recent manuscript described 
                what could be called a disappearing method. The author stated, 
                "The radioactivity in the tRNA region was determined by the 
                trichloroacetic acid-soluble method of Britten et al." And 
                then there is the painful method: "After standing in 
                boiling water for an hour, examine the flask."























Need 
                for References























In 
                describing the methods of the investigations, you should give 
                sufficient details so that a competent worker could repeat the 
                experiments. If your method is new (unpublished), you must 
                provide all of the needed detail. However, if a method 
                has been previously published in a standard journal, only the 
                literature reference should be given. But I recommend more 
                complete description of the method if the only previous 
                publication was in, let us say, the South Tasmanian Journal 
                of Nervous Diseases of the Gnat.























If several 
                alternative methods are commonly employed, it is useful to 
                identify your method briefly as well as to cite the reference. 
                For example, it is better to state "cells were broken by 
                ultrasonic treatment as previously described (9)" than to 
                state "cells were broken as previously described (9)."























Tabular 
                Material























When large 
                numbers of microbial strains or mutants are used in a study, 
                prepare strain tables identifying the source and properties of 
                mutants, bacteriophages, plasmids, etc. The properties of a 
                number of chemical compounds can also be presented in tabular 
                form, often to the benefit of both the author and the reader.























A method, 
                strain, etc. used in only one of several experiments reported in 
                the paper should be described in the Results section or, if 
                brief enough, may be included in a table footnote or a figure 
                legend.















  





















Page 
                40
















Correct 
                Form and Grammar























Do not make 
                the common error of mixing some of the Results in this section. 
                There is only one rule for a properly written Materials and 
                Methods section: Enough information must be given so that the 
                experiments could be reproduced by a competent colleague.























A good 
                test, by the way (and a good way to avoid rejection of your 
                manuscript), is to give a copy of your finished manuscript to a 
                colleague and ask if he or she can follow the methodology. It is 
                quite possible that, in reading about your Materials and 
                Methods, your colleague will pick up a glaring error that you 
                missed simply because you were too close to the work. For 
                example, you might have described your distillation apparatus, 
                procedure, and products with infinite care, and then 
                inadvertently neglected to define the starting material or to 
                state the distillation temperature.























Mistakes 
                in grammar and punctuation are not always serious; the meaning 
                of general concepts, as expressed in the Introduction and 
                Discussion, can often survive a bit of linguistic mayhem. In 
                Materials and Methods, however, exact and specific items are 
                being dealt with and precise use of English is a must. Even a 
                missing comma can cause havoc, as in this sentence: 
                "Employing a straight platinum wire rabbit, sheep and human 
                blood agar plates were inoculated . . ." That sentence was 
                in trouble right from the start, because the first word is a 
                dangling participle. Comprehension didn't totally go out the 
                window, however, until the author neglected to put a comma after 
                "wire."























Because 
                the Materials and Methods section usually gives short, discrete 
                bits of information, the writing sometimes becomes telescopic; 
                details essential to the meaning may then be omitted. The most 
                common error is to state the action without stating the agent of 
                the action. In the sentence "To determine its respiratory 
                quotient, the organism was . . . ," the only stated agent 
                of the action is "the organism," and somehow I doubt 
                that the organism was capable of making such a determination. 
                Here is a similar sentence: ''Having completed the study, the 
                bacteria were of no further interest." Again, I doubt that 
                the bacteria "completed the study"; if they did, their 
                lack of "further interest" was certainly an act of 
                ingratitude.















  





















Page 
                41
















"Blood 
                samples were taken from 48 informed and consenting patients . . 
                . the subjects ranged in age from 6 months to 22 years" (Pediatr. 
                Res. 6:26, 1972). There is no grammatical problem with that 
                sentence, but the telescopic writing leaves the reader wondering 
                just how the 6-month-old infants gave their informed consent.























And, of 
                course, always watch for spelling errors, both in the manuscript 
                and in the proofs. I am not an astronomer, but I suspect that a 
                word is misspelled in the following sentence: "We rely on 
                theatrical calculations to give the lifetime of a star on the 
                main sequence" (Annu. Rev. Astron. Astrophys. 1:100, 
                1963). 















  




























Page 
                36
















Chapter 
                8
                How to Write the Materials and Methods Section























The 
                greatest invention of the nineteenth century was the invention 
                of the method of invention.
                —A. N. Whitehead























Purpose 
                of the Section























In the 
                first section of the paper, the Introduction, you stated (or 
                should have) the methodology employed in the study. If 
                necessary, you also defended the reasons for your choice of a 
                particular method over competing methods.























Now, in 
                Materials and Methods, you must give the full details. Most of 
                this section should be written in the past tense. The main 
                purpose of the Materials and Methods section is to describe (and 
                if necessary defend) the experimental design and then provide 
                enough detail so that a competent worker can repeat the 
                experiments. Many (probably most) readers of your paper will 
                skip this section, because they already know (from the 
                Introduction) the general methods you used and they probably 
                have no interest in the experimental detail. However, careful 
                writing of this section is critically important because the 
                cornerstone of the scientific method requires that your 
                results, to be of scientific merit, must be reproducible; and, 
                for the results to be adjudged reproducible, you must provide 
                the basis for repetition of the experiments by others. That















  





















Page 
                37
















experiments 
                are unlikely to be reproduced is beside the point; the potential 
                for reproducing the same or similar results must exist, 
                or your paper does not represent good science.























When your 
                paper is subjected to peer review, a good reviewer will read the 
                Materials and Methods carefully. If there is serious doubt that 
                your experiments could be repeated, the reviewer will recommend 
                rejection of your manuscript no matter how awe-inspiring your 
                results.























Materials























For 
                materials, include the exact technical specifications and 
                quantities and source or method of preparation. Sometimes it is 
                even necessary to list pertinent chemical and physical 
                properties of the reagents used. Avoid the use of trade names; 
                use of generic or chemical names is usually preferred. This 
                avoids the advertising inherent in the trade name. Besides, the 
                nonproprietary name is likely to be known throughout the world, 
                whereas the proprietary name may be known only in the country of 
                origin. However, if there are known differences among 
                proprietary products and if these differences might be critical 
                (as with certain microbiological media), then use of the trade 
                name, plus the name of the manufacturer, is essential. When 
                trade names, which are usually registered trademarks, are used, 
                they should be capitalized (Teflon, for example) to distinguish 
                them from generic names. Normally, the generic description 
                should immediately follow the trademark, as in Kleenex facial 
                tissues.























Experimental 
                animals, plants, and microorganisms should be identified 
                accurately, usually by genus, species, and strain designations. 
                Sources should be listed and special characteristics (age, sex, 
                genetic and physiological status) described. If human subjects 
                are used, the criteria for selection should be described, and an 
                "informed consent" statement should be added to the 
                manuscript if required by the journal.























Because 
                the value of your paper (and your reputation) can be damaged if 
                your results are not reproducible, you must describe research 
                materials with great care. Be sure to examine the Instructions 
                to Authors of the journal to which you plan to submit the 
                manuscript, because important specifics are often detailed 
                there. Below is a carefully worded statement applying to cell 
                lines (taken from the Information for Authors of In Vitro, the 
                journal of the Tissue Culture Association):















  





















Page 
                38
















Cell 
                line data: The source of cells utilized, species, sex, 
                strain, race, age of donor, whether primary or established, must 
                be clearly indicated. The supplier name, city, and state 
                abbreviation should be stated within parentheses when first 
                cited. Specific tests used for verification of purported origin, 
                donor traits, and detection for the presence of microbial agents 
                should be identified. Specific tests should be performed on cell 
                culture substrates for the presence of mycoplasmal contamination 
                by using both a direct agar culture and an indirect staining or 
                biochemical procedure. A brief description or a proper reference 
                citation of the procedure used must be included. If these tests 
                were not performed, this fact should be clearly stated in the 
                Materials and Methods section. Other data relating to unique 
                biological, biochemical and/or immunological markers should also 
                be included if available.























Methods























For 
                methods, the usual order of presentation is chronological. 
                Obviously, however, related methods should be described 
                together, and straight chronological order cannot always be 
                followed. For example, even if a particular assay was not done 
                until late in the research, the assay method should be described 
                along with the other assay methods, not by itself in a later 
                part of Materials and Methods.























Headings























The 
                Materials and Methods section usually has subheadings. (See 
                Chapter 16 for discussion of the how and when of subheadings.) 
                When possible, construct subheadings that "match" 
                those to be used in Results. The writing of both sections will 
                be easier if you strive for internal consistency, and the reader 
                will be able to grasp quickly the relationship of a particular 
                methodology to the related Results.























Measurements 
                and Analysis























Be 
                precise. Methods are similar to cookbook recipes. If a reaction 
                mixture was heated, give the temperature. Questions such as 
                "how" and "how much" should be precisely 
                answered by the author and not left for the reviewer or the 
                reader to puzzle over.















  





















Page 
                39
















Statistical 
                analyses are often necessary, but you should feature and discuss 
                the data, not the statistics. Generally, a lengthy description 
                of statistical methods indicates that the writer has recently 
                acquired this information and believes that the readers need 
                similar enlightenment. Ordinary statistical methods should be 
                used without comment; advanced or unusual methods may require a 
                literature citation.























And, 
                again, be careful of your syntax. A recent manuscript described 
                what could be called a disappearing method. The author stated, 
                "The radioactivity in the tRNA region was determined by the 
                trichloroacetic acid-soluble method of Britten et al." And 
                then there is the painful method: "After standing in 
                boiling water for an hour, examine the flask."























Need 
                for References























In 
                describing the methods of the investigations, you should give 
                sufficient details so that a competent worker could repeat the 
                experiments. If your method is new (unpublished), you must 
                provide all of the needed detail. However, if a method 
                has been previously published in a standard journal, only the 
                literature reference should be given. But I recommend more 
                complete description of the method if the only previous 
                publication was in, let us say, the South Tasmanian Journal 
                of Nervous Diseases of the Gnat.























If several 
                alternative methods are commonly employed, it is useful to 
                identify your method briefly as well as to cite the reference. 
                For example, it is better to state "cells were broken by 
                ultrasonic treatment as previously described (9)" than to 
                state "cells were broken as previously described (9)."























Tabular 
                Material























When large 
                numbers of microbial strains or mutants are used in a study, 
                prepare strain tables identifying the source and properties of 
                mutants, bacteriophages, plasmids, etc. The properties of a 
                number of chemical compounds can also be presented in tabular 
                form, often to the benefit of both the author and the reader.























A method, 
                strain, etc. used in only one of several experiments reported in 
                the paper should be described in the Results section or, if 
                brief enough, may be included in a table footnote or a figure 
                legend.















  





















Page 
                40
















Correct 
                Form and Grammar























Do not make 
                the common error of mixing some of the Results in this section. 
                There is only one rule for a properly written Materials and 
                Methods section: Enough information must be given so that the 
                experiments could be reproduced by a competent colleague.























A good 
                test, by the way (and a good way to avoid rejection of your 
                manuscript), is to give a copy of your finished manuscript to a 
                colleague and ask if he or she can follow the methodology. It is 
                quite possible that, in reading about your Materials and 
                Methods, your colleague will pick up a glaring error that you 
                missed simply because you were too close to the work. For 
                example, you might have described your distillation apparatus, 
                procedure, and products with infinite care, and then 
                inadvertently neglected to define the starting material or to 
                state the distillation temperature.























Mistakes 
                in grammar and punctuation are not always serious; the meaning 
                of general concepts, as expressed in the Introduction and 
                Discussion, can often survive a bit of linguistic mayhem. In 
                Materials and Methods, however, exact and specific items are 
                being dealt with and precise use of English is a must. Even a 
                missing comma can cause havoc, as in this sentence: 
                "Employing a straight platinum wire rabbit, sheep and human 
                blood agar plates were inoculated . . ." That sentence was 
                in trouble right from the start, because the first word is a 
                dangling participle. Comprehension didn't totally go out the 
                window, however, until the author neglected to put a comma after 
                "wire."























Because 
                the Materials and Methods section usually gives short, discrete 
                bits of information, the writing sometimes becomes telescopic; 
                details essential to the meaning may then be omitted. The most 
                common error is to state the action without stating the agent of 
                the action. In the sentence "To determine its respiratory 
                quotient, the organism was . . . ," the only stated agent 
                of the action is "the organism," and somehow I doubt 
                that the organism was capable of making such a determination. 
                Here is a similar sentence: ''Having completed the study, the 
                bacteria were of no further interest." Again, I doubt that 
                the bacteria "completed the study"; if they did, their 
                lack of "further interest" was certainly an act of 
                ingratitude.















  





















Page 
                41
















"Blood 
                samples were taken from 48 informed and consenting patients . . 
                . the subjects ranged in age from 6 months to 22 years" (Pediatr. 
                Res. 6:26, 1972). There is no grammatical problem with that 
                sentence, but the telescopic writing leaves the reader wondering 
                just how the 6-month-old infants gave their informed consent.























And, of 
                course, always watch for spelling errors, both in the manuscript 
                and in the proofs. I am not an astronomer, but I suspect that a 
                word is misspelled in the following sentence: "We rely on 
                theatrical calculations to give the lifetime of a star on the 
                main sequence" (Annu. Rev. Astron. Astrophys. 1:100, 
                1963). 















  





















Page 
                42
















Chapter 
                9
                How to Write the Results























Results! 
                Why, man, I have gotten a lot of results. I know several 
                thousand things that won't work.
                —Thomas A. Edison























Content 
                of the Results























So now we 
                come to the core of the paper, the data. This part of the paper 
                is called the Results section.























Contrary 
                to popular belief, you shouldn't start the Results section by 
                describing methods that you inadvertently omitted from the 
                Materials and Methods section.























There are 
                usually two ingredients of the Results section. First, you 
                should give some kind of overall description of the experiments, 
                providing the "big picture," without, however, 
                repeating the experimental details previously provided in 
                Materials and Methods. Second, you should present the data. Your 
                results should be presented in the past tense. (See "Tense 
                in Scientific Writing" in Chapter 32.)























Of course, 
                it isn't quite that easy. How do you present the data? A simple 
                transfer of data from laboratory notebook to manuscript will 
                hardly do.























Most 
                importantly, in the manuscript you should present representative 
                data rather than endlessly repetitive data. The fact that you 
                could perform the same experiment 100 times without significant 
                divergence in results might be of considerable interest to your 
                major professor, but















  





















Page 
                43
















editors, 
                not to mention readers, prefer a little bit of predigestion. 
                Aaronson (1977) said it another way: "The compulsion to 
                include everything, leaving nothing out, does not prove that one 
                has unlimited information; it proves that one lacks 
                discrimination." Exactly the same concept, and it is an 
                important one, was stated almost a century earlier by John 
                Wesley Powell, a geologist who served as President of the 
                American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1888. In 
                Powell's words: "The fool collects facts; the wise man 
                selects them."























How to 
                Handle Numbers























If one or 
                only a few determinations are to be presented, they should be 
                treated descriptively in the text. Repetitive determinations 
                should be given in tables or graphs.























Any 
                determinations, repetitive or otherwise, should be meaningful. 
                Suppose that, in a particular group of experiments, a number of 
                variables were tested (one at a time, of course). Those 
                variables that affect the reaction become determinations or data 
                and, if extensive, are tabulated or graphed. Those variables 
                that do not seem to affect the reaction need not be tabulated or 
                presented; however, it is often important to define even the 
                negative aspects of your experiments. It is often good insurance 
                to state what you did not find under the conditions of 
                your experiments. Someone else very likely may find different 
                results under different conditions.























If 
                statistics are used to describe the results, they should be 
                meaningful statistics. Erwin Neter, the late Editor-in-Chief of Infection 
                and Immunity, used to tell a classic story to emphasize this 
                point. He referred to a paper that reputedly read: "331/3% 
                of the mice used in this experiment were cured by the test drug; 
                331/3% of the test population were 
                unaffected by the drug and remained in a moribund condition; the 
                third mouse got away."























Strive 
                for Clarity























The 
                results should be short and sweet, without verbiage. Mitchell 
                (1968) quoted Einstein as having said, "If you are out to 
                describe the truth, leave elegance to the tailor." Although 
                the Results section of a paper is the most important part, it is 
                often the shortest, particularly if it is preceded by a















  





















Page 
                44
















well-written 
                Materials and Methods section and followed by a well-written 
                Discussion.























The 
                Results need to be clearly and simply stated because it is the 
                Results that constitute the new knowledge that you are 
                contributing to the world. The earlier parts of the paper 
                (Introduction, Materials and Methods) are designed to tell why 
                and how you got the Results; the later part of the paper 
                (Discussion) is designed to tell what they mean. Obviously, 
                therefore, the whole paper must stand or fall on the basis of 
                the Results. Thus, the Results must be presented with crystal 
                clarity.























Avoid 
                Redundancy























Do not be 
                guilty of redundancy in the Results. The most common fault is 
                the repetition in words of what is already apparent to the 
                reader from examination of the figures and tables. Even worse is 
                the actual presentation, in the text, of all or many of the data 
                shown in the tables or figures. This grave sin is committed so 
                frequently that I comment on it at length, with examples, in the 
                chapters on how to prepare the tables and illustrations 
                (Chapters 13 and 14).























Do not be 
                verbose in citing figures and tables. Do not say "It is 
                clearly shown in Table 1 that nocillin inhibited the growth of N. 
                gonorrhoeae." Say "Nocillin inhibited the growth 
                of N. gonorrhoeae (Table 1)."























Some 
                writers go too far in avoiding verbiage, however. Such writers 
                often violate the rule of antecedents, the most common violation 
                being the use of the ubiquitous "it." Here is an item 
                from a medical manuscript: "The left leg became numb at 
                times and she walked it off. . . . On her second day, the knee 
                was better, and on the third day it had completely 
                disappeared." The antecedent for both "its" is 
                presumably "the numbness," but I rather think that the 
                wording in both instances was a result of dumbness. 















  




























Page 
                230
















Appendix 
                1
                Selected Journal Title Word Abbreviations*










 




Word
Abbreviation
Word
Abbreviation















Abstracts
























Abstr.
























Bacteriology
























Bacteriol.













Academy
Acad.
Bakteriologie
Bakteriol.


Acta
No 
                abbrev.
Berichte
Ber.


Advances
Adv.
Biochemical
Biochem.


Agricultural
Agric.
Biochimica
Biochim.


American
Am.
Biological
Biol.


Anales
An.
Biologie
Biol.


Analytical
Anal.
Botanical
Bot.


Anatomical
Anat.
Botanisches
Bot.


Annalen
Ann.
Botany
Bot.


Annales
Ann.
British
Br.


Annals
Ann.
Bulletin
Bull.


Annual
Annu.
Bureau
Bur.


Anthropological
Anthropol.
Canadian
Can.


Antibiotic
Antibiot.
Cardiology
Cardiol.


Antimicrobial
Antimicrob.
Cell
No 
                abbrev.


Applied
Appl.
Cellular
Cell.


Arbeiten
Arb.
Central
Cent.


Archiv
Arch.
Chemical
Chem.


Archives
Arch.
Chemie
Chem.


Archivio
Arch.
Chemistry
Chem.


Association
Assoc.
Chemotherapy
Chemother.


Astronomical
Astron.
Chimie
Chim.


Atomic
At.
Clinical
Clin.


Australian
Aust.
Commonwealth
Commw.


Bacteriological
Bacteriol.
Comptes
C.


 
 
Conference
Conf.

























*These 
                abbreviations are written without the period in many journals.















  





















Page 
                231







Word
Abbreviation
Word
Abbreviation















Contributions
























Contrib.
























Immunity
























Immun.













Current
Curr.
Immunology
Immunol.


Dairy
No 
                abbrev.
Industrial
Ind.


Dental
Dent.
Institute
Inst.


Developmental
Dev.
Internal
Intern.


Diseases
Dis.
International
Int.


Drug
No 
                abbrev.
Jahrbuch
Jahrb.


Ecology
Ecol.
Jahresberichte
Jahresber.


Economics
Econ.
Japan, 
                Japanese
Jpn.


Edition
Ed.
Journal
J.


Electric
Electr.
Laboratory
Lab.


Electrical
Electr.
Magazine
Mag.


Engineering
Eng.
Material
Matr.


Entomologia
Entomol.
Mathematics
Math.


Entomologica
Entomol.
Mechanical
Mech.


Entomological
Entomol.
Medical
Med.


Environmental
Environ.
Medicine
Med.


Ergebnisse
Ergeb.
Methods
No 
                abbrev.


Ethnology
Ethnol.
Microbiological
Microbiol.


European
Eur.
Microbiology
Microbiol.


Excerpta
No 
                abbrev.
Monographs
Monogr.


Experimental
Exp.
Monthly
Mon.


Fauna
No 
                abbrev.
Morphology
Morphol.


Federal
Fed.
National
Natl.


Federation
Fed.
Natural, 
                Nature
Nat.


Fish
No 
                abbrev.
Neurology
Neurol.


Fisheries
Fish.
Nuclear
Nucl.


Flora
No 
                abbrev.
Nutrition
Nutr.


Folia
No 
                abbrev.
Obstetrical
Obstet.


Food
No 
                abbrev.
Official
Off.


Forest
For.
Organic
Org.


Forschung
Forsch.
Paleontology
Paleontol.


Fortschritte
Fortschr.
Pathology
Pathol.


Freshwater
No 
                abbrev.
Pharmacology
Pharmacol.


Gazette
Gaz.
Philosophical
Philos.


General
Gen.
Physical
Phys.


Genetics
Genet.
Physik
Phys.


Geographical
Geogr.
Physiology
Physiol.


Geological
Geol.
Pollution
Pollut.


Geologische
Geol.
Proceedings
Proc.


Gesellschaft
Ges.
Psychological
Psychol.


Helvetica
Helv.
Publications
Publ.


History
Hist.
Quarterly
Q.









  





















Page 
                232







Word
Abbreviation
Word
Abbreviation















Rendus
























R.
























Systematic
























Syst.













Report
Rep.
Technical
Tech.


Research
Res.
Technik
Tech.


Review
Rev.
Technology
Technol.


Revue, 
                Revista
Rev.
Therapeutics
Ther.


Rivista
Riv.
Transactions
Trans.


Royal
R.
Tropical
Trop.


Scandinavian
Scand.
United 
                States
U.S.


Science
Sci.
University
Univ.


Scientific
Sci.
Untersuchung
Unters.


Series
Ser.
Urological
Urol.


Service
Serv.
Verhandlungen
Verh.


Society
Soc.
Veterinary
Vet.


Special
Spec.
Virology
Virol.


Station
Stn.
Vitamin
Vitam.


Studies
Stud.
Wissenschaftliche
Wiss.


Surgery
Surg.
Zeitschrift
Z.


Survey
Surv.
Zentralblatt
Zentralbl.


Symposia
Symp.
Zoologie
Zool.


Symposium
Symp.
Zoology
Zool.









  




























Page 
                233
















Appendix 
                2
                Abbreviations That May Be Used Without Definition in Table 
                Headings*














Term
Abbreviation
Term
Abbreviation















Amount
























amt
























Specific 
                        activity
























sp 
                        act


























Approximately
























approx
























Specific 
                        gravity
























sp 
                        gr


























Average
























avg
























Standard 
                        deviation
























SD


























Concentration
























concn
























Standard 
                        error
























SE


























Diameter
























diam
























Standard 
                        error of the mean
























SEM


























Experiment
























expt
























Temperature
























temp


























Experimental
























exptl
























Versus
























vs


























Height
























ht
























Volume
























vol


























Molecular 
                        weight
























mol 
                        wt
























Week
























wk


























Number
























no.
























Weight
























wt


























Preparation
























prepn
























Year
























yr




































*Instructions 
                to Authors, Journal of Bacteriology. In addition to the 
                terms listed, abbreviations for units of measure are accepted 
                without definition.















  




























Page 
                234
















Appendix 
                3
                Common Errors in Style and in Spelling














Wrong
Right















acetyl-glucosamine
























acetylglucosamine













acid 
                fast bacteria
acid-fast 
                bacteria


acid 
                fushsin
acid 
                fuchsine


acridin 
                orange
acridine 
                orange


acriflavin
acriflavine


aesculin
esculin


airborn
airborne


air-flow
airflow


ampoul
ampoule


analagous
analogous


analize
analyze


bacteristatic
bacteriostatic


baker's 
                yeast
bakers' 
                yeast


bi-monthly
bimonthly


bio-assay
bioassay


biurette
biuret


blendor
blender


blood 
                sugar
blood 
                glucose


bromcresol 
                blue
bromocresol 
                blue


by-pass
bypass


byproduct
by-product


can 
                not
cannot


catabolic 
                repression
catabolite 
                repression


chloracetic
chloroacetic


clearcut
clear-cut


colicine
colicin









  





















Page 
                235




















Wrong
























Right


























coverslip
























cover 
                        slip


























co-worker
























coworker


























cross 
                        over (n.)
























crossover


























crossover 
                        (v.)
























cross 
                        over


























darkfield
























dark 
                        field


























data 
                        is
























data 
                        are


























desoxy-
























deoxy-


























dessicator
























desiccator


























dialise
























dialyze


























disc
























disk


























Ehrlenmeyer 
                        flask
























Erlenmeyer 
                        flask


























electronmicrograph
























electron 
                        micrograph


























electrophorese
























subject 
                        to electrophoresis


























fermenter 
                        (apparatus)
























fermentor


























fermentor 
                        (organism)
























fermenter


























ferridoxin
























ferredoxin


























flourite
























fluorite


























fluorescent 
                        antibody technique
























fluorescent-antibody 
                        technique


























fungous 
                        (n.)
























fungus


























fungus 
                        (adj.)
























fungous


























gelatine
























gelatin


























germ-free
























germfree


























glucose-6-phosphate
























glucose 
                        6-phosphate


























glycerin
























glycerol


























glycollate
























glycolate


























gonnorhea
























gonorrhea


























Gram-negative
























gram-negative


























gram 
                        stain
























Gram 
                        stain


























gyrotory
























gyratory


























halflife
























half-life


























haptene
























hapten


























Hela 
                        cells
























HeLa 
                        cells


























Hep-2-cells
























HEp-2 
                        cells


























herpes 
                        virus
























herpesvirus


























hydrolize
























hydrolyze


























hydrolyzate
























hydrolysate


























immunofluorescent 
                        techniques
























immunofluorescence 
                        techniques


























india 
                        ink
























India 
                        ink


























indol
























indole




















  





















Page 
                236




















Wrong
























Right


























innocula
























inocula


























iodimetric
























iodometric


























ion 
                        exchange resin
























ion-exchange 
                        resin


























isocitritase
























isocitratase


























keiselguhr
























kieselguhr


























large 
                        concentration
























high 
                        concentration


























less 
                        data
























fewer 
                        data


























leucocyte
























leukocyte


























little 
                        data
























few 
                        data


























low 
                        quantity
























small 
                        quantity


























mediums
























media


























melenin
























melanin


























merthiolate
























Merthiolate


























microphotograph
























photomicrograph


























mid-point
























midpoint


























moeity
























moiety


























much 
                        data
























many 
                        data


























new-born
























newborn


























occurrance
























occurrence


























over-all
























overall


























papergram
























paper 
                        chromatogram


























paraffine
























paraffin


























Petri 
                        dish
























petri 
                        dish


























phenolsulfophthalein
























phenolsulfonephthalein


























phosphorous 
                        (n.)
























phosphorus


























phosphorus 
                        (adj.)
























phosphorous


























planchette
























planchet


























plexiglass
























Plexiglas


























post-mortem
























postmortem


























pyocine
























pyocin


























pyrex
























Pyrex


























radio-active
























radioactive


























regime
























regimen


























re-inoculate
























reinoculate


























saltwater
























salt 
                        water


























sea 
                        water
























seawater


























selfinoculate
























self-inoculate


























semi-complete
























semicomplete




















  





















Page 
                237




















Wrong
























Right


























shelflife
























shelf 
                        life


























sidearm
























side 
                        arm


























small 
                        concentration
























low 
                        concentration


























spore-forming
























sporeforming


























stationary 
                        phase culture
























stationary-phase 
                        culture


























step-wise
























stepwise


























students' 
                        T test
























Student's 
                        t test


























sub-inhibitory
























subinhibitory


























T2 
                        phage
























T2 
                        phage


























technic
























technique


























teflon
























Teflon


























thioglycollate
























thioglycolate


























thyroxin
























thyroxine


























transfered
























transferred


























transfering
























transferring


























transferrable
























transferable


























trichloracetic 
                        acid
























trichloroacetic 
                        acid


























tris-(hydroxymethyl)amino-methane
























tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane


























trypticase
























Trypticase


























tryptophane
























tryptophan


























ultra-sound
























ultrasound


























un-tested
























untested


























urinary 
                        infection
























urinary 
                        tract infection


























varying 
                        amounts of cloudiness
























varying 
                        cloudiness


























varying 
                        concentrations (5, 10, 15 mg/ml)
























various 
                        concentrations (5, 10, 15 mg/ml)


























waterbath
























water 
                        bath


























wave 
                        length
























wavelength


























X 
                        ray (adj.)
























X-ray


























X-ray 
                        (n.)
























X 
                        ray


























zero-hour
























zero 
                        hour




















  




























Page 
                238
















Appendix 
                4
                Words and Expressions to Avoid














Jargon
Preferred 
                Usage















a 
                        considerable amount of
























much













a 
                considerable number of
many


a 
                decreased amount of
less


a 
                decreased number of
fewer


a 
                majority of
most


a 
                number of
many


a 
                small number of
a 
                few


absolutely 
                essential
essential


accounted 
                for by the fact
because


adjacent 
                to
near


along 
                the lines of
like


an 
                adequate amount of
enough


an 
                example of this is the fact that
for 
                example


an 
                order of magnitude faster
10 
                times faster


apprise
inform


are 
                of the same opinion
agree


as 
                a consequence of
because


as 
                a matter of fact
in 
                fact (or leave out)


as 
                a result of
because


as 
                is the case
as 
                happens


as 
                of this date
today


as 
                to
about 
                (or leave out)


at 
                a rapid rate
rapidly


at 
                an earlier date
previously


at 
                an early date
soon


at 
                no time
never









  





















Page 
                239







Jargon
Preferred 
                Usage















at 
                        some future time
























later













at 
                the conclusion of
after


at 
                the present time
now


at 
                this point in time
now


based 
                on the fact that
because


because 
                of the fact that
because


by 
                means of
by, 
                with


causal 
                factor
cause


cognizant 
                of
aware 
                of


completely 
                full
full


consensus 
                of opinion
consensus


considerable 
                amount of
much


contingent 
                upon
dependent 
                on


definitely 
                proved
proved


despite 
                the fact that
although


due 
                to the fact that
because


during 
                the course of
during, 
                while


during 
                the time that
while


effectuate
cause


elucidate
explain


employ
use


enclosed 
                herewith
enclosed


end 
                result
result


endeavor
try


entirely 
                eliminate
eliminate


eventuate
happen


fabricate
make


facilitate
help


fatal 
                outcome
death


fewer 
                in number
fewer


finalize
end


first 
                of all
first


following
after


for 
                the purpose of
for


for 
                the reason that
since, 
                because


from 
                the point of view of
for


future 
                plans
plans


give 
                an account of
describe


give 
                rise to
cause


has 
                been engaged in a study of
has 
                studied









  





















Page 
                240







Jargon
Preferred 
                Usage















has 
                        the capability of
























can













have 
                the appearance of
look 
                like


having 
                regard to
about


immune 
                serum
antiserum


impact 
                (v.)
affect


implement
start, 
                put into action


important 
                essentials
essentials


in 
                a number of cases
some


in 
                a position to
can, 
                may


in 
                a satisfactory manner
satisfactorily


in 
                a situation in which
when


in 
                a very real sense
in 
                a sense (or leave out)


in 
                almost all instances
nearly 
                always


in 
                case
if


in 
                close proximity to
close, 
                near


in 
                connection with
about, 
                concerning


in 
                light of the fact that
because


in 
                many cases
often















in 
                        my opinion it is not an unjustifiable assumption that











I 
                think


in 
                only a small number of cases
rarely


in 
                order to
to


in 
                relation to
toward, 
                to


in 
                respect to
about


in 
                some cases
sometimes


in 
                terms of
about


in 
                the absence of
without


in 
                the event that
if


in 
                the not-too-distant future
soon


in 
                the possession of
has, 
                have


in 
                this day and age
today


in 
                view of the fact that
because, 
                since


inasmuch 
                as
for, 
                as


incline 
                to the view
think


initiate
begin, 
                start


is 
                defined as
is


is 
                desirous of
wants


it 
                has been reported by Smith
Smith 
                reported


it 
                has long been known that













I 
                        haven't bothered to look up the reference




















  





















Page 
                241







Jargon
Preferred 
                Usage















it 
                        is apparent that
























apparently













it 
                is believed that
I 
                think


it 
                is clear that
clearly















it 
                        is clear that much additional work will be required 
                        before a complete understanding











I 
                don't understand it


it 
                is crucial that
must


it 
                is doubtful that
possibly


it 
                is evident that a produced b
a 
                produced b


it 
                is generally believed
many 
                think


it 
                is my understanding that
I 
                understand that


it 
                is of interest to note that
(leave 
                out)


it 
                is often the case that
often


it 
                is suggested that
I 
                think















it 
                        is worth pointing out in this context that











note 
                that


it 
                may be that
I 
                think


it 
                may, however, be noted that
but


it 
                should be noted that
note 
                that (or leave out)















it 
                        was observed in the course of the experiments that











we 
                observed


join 
                together
join


lacked 
                the ability to
couldn't


large 
                in size
large















let 
                        me make one thing perfectly clear











a 
                snow job is coming


majority 
                of
most


make 
                reference to
refer 
                to


met 
                with
met


militate 
                against
prohibit


more 
                often than not
usually


needless 
                to say













(leave 
                        out, and consider leaving out whatever follows it)













new 
                initiatives
initiatives


no 
                later than
by















of 
                        great theoretical and practical importance











useful


of 
                long standing
old


of 
                the opinion that
think 
                that


on 
                a daily basis
daily









  





















Page 
                242







Jargon
Preferred 
                Usage















on 
                        account of
























because













on 
                behalf of
for


on 
                no occasion
never


on 
                the basis of
by


on 
                the grounds that
since, 
                because


on 
                the part of
by, 
                among, for


on 
                those occasions in which
when















our 
                        attention has been called to the fact that











we 
                belatedly discovered


owing 
                to the fact that
since, 
                because


perform
do


place 
                a major emphasis on
stress


pooled 
                together
pooled


presents 
                a picture similar to
resembles


previous 
                to
before


prior 
                to
before















protein 
                        determinations were performed











proteins 
                were determined


quantify
measure


quite 
                a large quantity of
Much


quite 
                unique
unique


rather 
                interesting
interesting


red 
                in color
red


referred 
                to as
called


regardless 
                of the fact that
even 
                though


relative 
                to
about


resultant 
                effect
result


root 
                cause
cause


serious 
                crisis
crisis


should 
                it prove the case that
if


smaller 
                in size
smaller


so 
                as to
to


subject 
                matter
subject


subsequent 
                to
after


sufficient
enough


take 
                into consideration
consider


terminate
end


the 
                great majority of
most


the 
                opinion is advanced that
I 
                think


the 
                predominate number of
most









  





















Page 
                243







Jargon
Preferred 
                Usage















the 
                        question as to whether
























whether













the 
                reason is because
because


the 
                vast majority of
most


there 
                is reason to believe
I 
                think


they 
                are the investigators who
they


this 
                result would seem to indicate
this 
                result indicates


through 
                the use of
by, 
                with


to 
                the fullest possible extent
fully


transpire
happen


ultimate
last


unanimity 
                of opinion
agreement


until 
                such time
until


utilization
use


utilize
use


very 
                unique
unique


was 
                of the opinion that
believed


ways 
                and means
ways, 
                means (not both)


we 
                have insufficient knowledge
we 
                don't know


we 
                wish to thank
we 
                thank


what 
                is the explanation of
why


with 
                a view to
to


with 
                reference to
about 
                (or leave out)


with 
                regard to
concerning, 
                about (or leave out)


with 
                respect to
about


with 
                the possible exception of
except


with 
                the result that
so 
                that


within 
                the realm of possibility
possible

















Sermons 
                on brevity and chastity are about equally effective. Verbal 
                promiscuity flows from poverty of language and obesity of 
                thought, and from an unseemly haste to reach print—a premature 
                ejaculation, as it were.
—Eli Chernin















  




























Page 
                244
















Appendix 
                5
                Prefixes and Abbreviations for SI (Système International) Units   














No.
Prefix




Abbreviation



















10-18
























atto
























a













10-15
femto













f













10-2
pico













p













10-9
nano













n













10-6
micro













µ













10-3
milli













m













10-2
centi













c













10-1
deci













d













10
deka













da













102
hecto













h













103
kilo













k













106
mega













M













109
giga













G













1012
tera













T













1015
peta













P













1018
exa













E




















  




























Page 
                245
















Appendix 
                6
                Accepted Abbreviations and Symbols   














Term
Abbreviation 
                or Symbol
Term
Abbreviation 
                or Symbol















absorbance
























A
























coenzyme 
                        A
























CoA


























acetyl
























Ac
























coulomb
























C


























adenine
























Ade
























counts 
                        per minute
























cpm


























adenosine
























Ado
























cytidine
























Cyd


























adenosine
                        5'-diphosphate
























ADP
























cytidine
                        5'-diphosphate
























CDP













 















adenosine
























AMP
























cytidine
                        5'-monophosphate
























CMP


























5'-monophosphate


























adenosine
                        5'-triphosphate
























ATP
























cytidine
                        5'-triphosphate
























CTP


























adenosine
                        triphosphatase
























ATPase
























cytosine
























Cyt


























degree 
                        Celsius
























°C


























alanine
























Ala
























deoxyribonuclease
























DNase


























alternating 
                        current
























ac
























deoxyribonucleic
                        acid
























DNA


























ampere
























A


























antibody
























Ab
























deoxyuridine
                        monophosphate
























DUMP


























antigen
























Ag


























arabinose
























Ara
























diethylaminoethyl
                        cellulose
























DEAE-
                        cellulose


























bacille
                        Calmette-Guerin
























BCG


























electrocardiogram
























ECG


























becquerel
























Bq
























electroencephalo-
                        gram
























EEG


























biological 
                        oxygen
                        demand
























BOD


























ethyl
























Et


























blood 
                        urea nitrogen
























BUN
























ethylenediaminete-
                        traacetate
























EDTA


























boiling 
                        point
























bp


























candela
























cd
























farad
























F


























system
                        central nervous
























CNS
























flavin 
                        adenine
                        dinucleotide
























FAD




















  





















Page 
                246







Term
Abbreviation 
                or Symbol
Term
Abbreviation 
                or Symbol















flavin
                        mononucleotide
























FMN
























Michaelis 
                        constant
























Km


























milliequivalent
























meq


























gauss
























G
























minimum 
                        lethal
                        dose
























MLD


























gram
























g


























gravity
























g
























minute 
                        (time)
























min


























guanidine
























Gdn
























molar 
                        (concentration)
























M


























guanine
























Gua
























mole
























mol


























guanosine
























Guo
























muramic 
                        acid
























Mur


























guanosine
                        5'-diphosphate
























GDP
























newton
























N


























nicotinamide 
                        adenine
                        dinucleotide
























NAD


























hemoglobin
























Hb


























hemoglobin,
                        oxygenated
























HbO2
























nicotinamide 
                        adenine
                        dinucleotide
                        (reduced)
























NADH


























henry
























H


























heptyl
























Hp
























normal
                        (concentration)
























N


























hertz
























Hz


























hexyl
























Hx
























nuclear 
                        magnetic
                        resonance
























NMR


























horsepower
























hp


























hour
























h
























ohm
























W


























infrared
























IR
























ornithyl
























Orn


























inosine
                        5'-diphosphate
























IDP
























ortho-
























o-


























orthophosphate
























Pi


























international 
                        unit
























IU
























osmole
























osmol


























intravenous
























i.v.
























outside 
                        diameter
























o.d.


























isoleucyl
























Ile
























para-
























p-


























joule
























J
























pascal
























Pa


























kelvin
























K
























phenyl
























Ph


























kilogram
























kg
























plaque-forming 
                        units
























PFU


























kinetic 
                        energy
























KE
























probability
























P


























lethal 
                        dose,
                        median
























LD50
























purine
























Pur


























pyrophosphate
























PPi


























leucyl
























Leu
























radian
























rad


























litre 
                        (liter)
























l
























respiratory 
                        quotient
























RQ


























lumen
























lm
























reticuloendothelial
                        system
























RES


























lux
























lx


























lysinyl
























Lys
























revolutions 
                        per
                        minute
























rpm


























melting 
                        point
























mp


























messenger 
                        ribo-
                        nucleic acid
























mRNA
























ribonuclease
























RNase


























ribonucleic 
                        acid
























RNA


























meta-
























m-
























ribose
























Rib


























methionyl
























Met
























ribosomal 
                        ribonucleic
                        acid
























rRNA


























methyl
























Me


























metre 
                        (meter)
























m
























roentgen
























R




















  





















Page 
                247







Term
Abbreviation 
                or Symbol
Term
Abbreviation 
                or Symbol















second 
                        (time)
























s
























tris(hydroxy
                        methyl)aminomethane
























Tris


























serum 
                        glutamic
                        oxalacetic
                        transaminase
























SGOT


























tyrosinyl
























Tyr


























ultraviolet
























UV


























seryl
























Ser
























United 
                        States
                        Pharmacopeia
























USP


























siemens
























S


























species
























sp. 
                        (sing.),
                        spp. (pl.)
























uracil
























Ura


























uridine
                        5'-diphosphate
























UDP


























specific 
                        gravity
























sp 
                        gr


























standard 
                        deviation
























SD
























volt
























V


























standard 
                        error
























SE
























volume
























V


























standard
                        temperature
                        and pressure
























STP
























watt
























W


























weber
























Wb


























week
























wk


























steradian
























sr
























white 
                        blood cells
                        (leukocytes)
























WBC


























subcutaneous
























s.c.


























tesla
























T
























xanthine
























Xan


























tobacco 
                        mosaic
                        virus
























TMV
























xanthosine
























Xao


























xanthosine
                        5 -diphosphate
























XDP


























tonne 
                        (metric ton)
























t


























transfer 
                        ribonucleic
                        acid
























tRNA
























xylose
























xyl


























year
























yr




















  




























Page 
                248
















Appendix 
                7
                Sample Submission Requirements for an Electronic Journal























The World 
                Wide Web Journal of Biology <epress.com/w3jbio/ 
                ced.html> is an international open forum for rapid 
                interactive exchange of peer-reviewed information in the 
                biological sciences. The following text describes the journal's 
                requirements for electronic text submission of a paper.























Submission 
                Information























Submission, 
                in English: e-mail to editor@epress.com. For image files, sound, 
                movies, etc., use anonymous FTP to epress.com. Change directory 
                to ''epress" and use binary mode to transfer files. Notify 
                epress by e-mail that manuscript has been sent. Articles can 
                also be sent in ASCII (plain text) format on Mac or PC diskette. 
                Articles in HTML format will be given first consideration. 
                Epress can convert for you at a fee, if article is accepted. The 
                Journal's mailing address is WWW Journal of Biology, Epress, 
                Inc., 130 Union Terrace Lane, Plymouth, MN 55441. The review 
                process is based on editorial assessment of suitability and on 
                reports from reviewers.























Manuscript 
                Preparation























Please 
                provide the following items and information.























Title 
                Page: Include Title, Author(s), Addresses for all authors, 
                E-mail address for corresponding author.























Keywords 
                for Subject Search















  





















Page 
                249
















Abstract























Introduction: 
                Should include a description of the background and aims of 
                the work and what has been done to date.























Material 
                and Methods: Include full descriptions of all experimental 
                procedures.























Results: 
                Should be clearly stated and supported by figures, tables, 
                or graphical representations of the findings.























Discussion: 
                Address the importance of the major findings of the work, 
                expanding on the results.























Conclusions: 
                Should provide a summary of important findings and their 
                implications to the area of research that is the focus of the 
                article.























Acknowledgments: 
                Should be brief.























References: 
                Should be numbered consecutively.























Journal 
                Abbreviations: Should follow Index Medicus/Medline, naming 
                up to six authors. If a referenced work has more than six 
                authors, use the first followed by et al.























1. Chou, 
                P. and Fasman, G. Empirical predictions. . .conformation. (1980) 
                Annu. Rev. Biochem. 47, 251-276.























Html 
                Format























Article 
                Template: Images should be in JPEG or GIF, and movies in 
                MPEG, AVI, or QuickTime cross platform format linked from a 
                separate html page with movie description and file size in kb.























Link 
                References: Use MEDLINE reference number for all citations 
                if available.























Bibliography 
                Style: Use the following style.























Colford, 
                Ian A. Writing in the Electronic Environment: Electronic Text 
                and the Future of Creativity and Knowledge. Occasional Paper 
                59, 1996, School of Library and Information Studies, Dalhousie 
                University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.















  




























Page 
                250
















Glossary 
                of Technical Terms  























A























Abstract. 
                Brief synopsis of a paper, usually providing a summary of each 
                major section of the paper. Different from a Summary, which is 
                usually a summary of conclusions.























Acknowledgments. 
                The section of a paper (following the Discussion but 
                preceding References) designed to give thanks to individuals and 
                organizations for the help, advice, or financial assistance they 
                provided during the research and during the writing of the 
                paper.























Address. 
                Identifies the author and supplies the author's mailing 
                address.























Ad hoc 
                reviewer. See Referee.























Alphabet-number 
                system. A system of literature citation in which references 
                are arranged alphabetically in References or Literature Cited, 
                numbered, and then cited by number in the text. A variation of 
                the name and year system.























Archival 
                journal. This term is equivalent to "primary 
                journal" and refers to a journal that publishes original 
                research results.























Author. 
                A person who actively contributed to the design and 
                execution of the experiments and who takes intellectual 
                responsibility for the research results being reported.























B























Biological 
                Abstracts. The largest and best-known repository (in the 
                form of abstracts) of knowledge in biology. Published by 
                Biosciences Information Service.























C























Camera-ready 
                copy. Anything that is suitable for photographic 
                reproduction in a book orjournal without the need for 
                typesetting. Authors often supply complicated formulas, chemical 
                structures, flowcharts, etc. as camera-ready copy to avoid the 
                necessity of proofreading and the danger of error in 
                typesetting.























Caption. 
                See Legend.























CBE.
See Council of Biology Editors.















  





















Page 
                251
















CD-ROM. 
                CD-ROM stands for Compact Disk Read Only 
                Memory and refers to molded aluminum disks used for 
                storing large quantities of digital information. Read by special 
                CD-ROM computer drives or CD players (primarily for music), a 
                disk can hold all textual and graphical elements of a scientific 
                paper or monograph, including audio and video.























Chemical 
                Abstracts. The largest and best-known repository (in the 
                form of abstracts) of knowledge in chemistry. Published by the 
                American Chemical Society.























Citation-order 
                system. A system of referencing in which references are 
                cited in numerical order as they appear in the text. Thus, 
                References is in citation order, not in alphabetical order.























Compositor. 
                One who sets type. Equivalent terms are 
                "typesetter" and "keyboarder."























Conference 
                report. A paper written for presentation at a conference. 
                Most conference reports do not meet the definition of valid 
                publication. A well-written conference report can and should be 
                short; experimental detail and literature citation should be 
                kept to a minimum.























Copyeditor. 
                The title given to a person (usually an employee of the 
                publisher) whose responsibility it is to prepare manuscripts for 
                publication by providing markup for the printer as well as any 
                needed improvements in spelling, grammar, and style.























Copyright. 
                The exclusive legal right to reproduce, publish, and sell 
                written intellectual property.























Council 
                of Biology Editors. An organization whose members are 
                involved with the writing, editing, and publishing of books and 
                journals in biology and related fields. Address: 60 Revere Dr., 
                Suite 500, Northbrook, IL 60062.























Cropping. 
                The marking of a photograph so as to indicate parts that 
                need not appear in the published photograph. As a result, the 
                essential material is "enlarged" and highlighted.























Current 
                Contents. A weekly publication providing reproductions 
                of the contents pages of many journals. Scientists can thus keep 
                up with what is being published in their field. Six different 
                editions are published in different fields (including Arts and 
                Humanities) by the Institute for Scientific Information.















  





















Page 
                252
















D























Discussion. 
                The final section of an IMRAD paper. Its purpose is to fit 
                the results from the current study into the preexisting fabric 
                of knowledge. The important points will be expressed as 
                conclusions.























Dual 
                publication. Publication of the same data two (or more) 
                times in primary journals. A clear violation of scientific 
                ethics.























E























Editor. 
                The title usually given to the person who decides what will 
                (and will not) be published in a journal or in a multiauthor 
                book.























Editorial 
                consultant. See Referee.























Electronic 
                journal. Electronic journals are online versions of print 
                publications that can be accessed via computer over the 
                Internet. An ever-increasing number of electronic journals (or 
                e-journals) on scientific topics are becoming available each 
                year. Electronic journals allow a quicker, cheaper, and wider 
                dissemination of scientific research than can usually be 
                achieved with print publications.























E-mail. 
                E-mail (or electronic mail) refers to the transmission of 
                messages across the Internet from one computer to another, or to 
                many other computers. E-mail allows scientists in different 
                parts of the country or the world to collaborate more easily and 
                fully on research and writing projects.























F























Festschrift. 
                A volume of writings by different authors presented as a 
                tribute or memorial to a particular individual.























G























Graph. Lines, 
                bars, or other pictorial representations of data. Graphs are 
                useful for showing the trends and directions of data. If exact 
                values must be listed, a table is usually superior.























H























Hackneyed 
                expression. An overused, stale, or trite expression.























Halftone. 
                A photoengraving made from an image photographed through a 
                screen and then etched so that the details of the image are 
                reproduced in dots.























Hardcopy. 
                When an old-fashioned manuscript on paper is provided via a 
                word processor or computer, it is called "hardcopy."























Harvard 
                system. See Name and year system.























Impact 
                factor. A basis for judging the quality of journals. A 
                journal with a high impact factor (the average number of 
                citations per article published, as determined by the Science 
                Citation Index) is apparently used more than a journal with 
                a low impact factor.















  





















Page 
                253
















I























IMRAD. An 
                acronym derived from Introduction, Methods, Results, and 
                Discussion, the organizational scheme of most modern scientific 
                papers.























Incunabula. 
                Books printed between 1455 and 1500 A.D.























Internet. 
                The Internet is a rapidly expanding communication system 
                linking millions of computers across the world. Begun in the 
                1960s as a U.S. government computer network, the Internet today 
                links a broad range of government agencies, educational 
                institutions, private businesses and organizations, and 
                individuals. The Internet is not a centrally managed or 
                controlled entity but a vast decentralized collection of 
                computers talking to one another.























Introduction. 
                The first section of an IMRAD paper. Its purpose is to state 
                clearly the problem investigated and to provide the reader with 
                relevant background information.























J























Jargon. 
                Webster's Tenth New Collegiate Dictionary defines 
                jargon as "a confused unintelligible language."























K























Keyboarder. 
                See Compositor.























L























Legend. 
                The title or name given to an illustration, along with 
                explanatory information about the illustration. Usually, this 
                material should not be lettered on a graph or photograph. It 
                will be typeset neatly by the compositor and positioned below 
                the illustration. Also called a "caption."























Literature 
                Cited. The heading used by many journals to list references 
                cited in an article. The headings "References" and 
                (rarely) "Bibliography" are also used.























M























Managing 
                Editor. A title often given to the person who manages the 
                business affairs of a journal. Typically, the managing editor is 
                not involved with editing (acceptance of manuscripts) but is 
                responsible for copyediting (part of the production process).























Markup 
                for the Typesetter. Marks and symbols used by copyeditors 
                (and sometimes authors, as in underlining for italics) to 
                transmit type specifications to the typesetter.























Masthead 
                statement. A statement by the publisher, usually given on 
                the title page of the journal, giving ownership of the journal 
                and a succinct statement describing the purpose and scope of the 
                journal.























Materials 
                and Methods. See Methods.























Methods. 
                The second section of an IMRAD paper. Its purpose is to 
                describe the experiment in such detail that a competent 
                colleague















  





















Page 
                254
















could 
                repeat the experiment and obtain the same or equivalent results.























Monograph. 
                A specialized, detailed book written by specialists for 
                other specialists.























N























Name 
                and year system. A system of referencing in which a 
                reference is cited in the text by the last name of the author 
                and the year of publication, e.g., Smith (1990). Also known as 
                the Harvard system.























O























Offprints. 
                See Reprints.























Oral 
                report. Similar in organization to a published paper, except 
                that it lacks experimental detail and extensive literature 
                citation. And, of course, it is spoken, not printed.























P























Peer 
                review. Review of a manuscript by peers of the author 
                (scientists working in the same area of specialization).























Primary 
                journal. A journal that publishes original research results.























Primary 
                publication. The first publication of original research 
                results, in a form whereby peers of the author can repeat the 
                experiments and test the conclusions, and in a journal or other 
                source document readily available within the scientific 
                community.























Printer. 
                Historically, a device that prints or a person who prints. 
                Often, however, "printer" is used to mean the printing 
                company and is used as shorthand for all of the many occupations 
                involved in the printing process, e.g., compositors, press 
                operators, plate-makers, and binders. A distinctly different 
                meaning of "printer" is "computer printer," 
                a device attached to a computer for the purpose of 
                "printing hardcopy" (supplying the computer output on 
                paper).























Proof. A 
                copy of typeset material sent to authors, editors, or managing 
                editors for correction of typographical errors.























Proofreaders' 
                marks. A set of marks and symbols used to instruct the 
                compositor regarding errors on proofs.























Publisher. 
                A person or organization handling the business activities 
                concerned with publishing a book or journal.























R























Referee. 
                A person, usually a peer of the author, asked to examine a 
                manuscript and advise the editor regarding publication. The term 
                "reviewer" is used more frequently but perhaps with 
                less exactness.























Reprints. 
                Separately printed journal articles supplied to authors 
                (usually for a fee). These reprints (sometimes called offprints) 
                are widely circulated among scientists.















  





















Page 
                255
















Results. 
                The third section of an IMRAD paper. Its purpose is to 
                present the new information gained in the study being reported.























Review 
                paper. A paper written to review a number of previously 
                published primary papers. Such reviews can be simply annotated 
                references in a particular field, or they can be critical, 
                interpretive studies of the literature in a particular field.























Reviewer. 
                See Referee.























Running 
                head. A headline repeated on consecutive pages of a book or 
                journal. The titles of articles in journals are often shortened 
                and used as running heads. Also called running headlines.























Science 
                writing. A type of writing whose purpose is to communicate 
                scientific knowledge to a wide audience including (usually) both 
                scientists and nonscientists.























S























Scientific 
                paper. A written and published report describing original 
                research results.























Scientific 
                writing. A type of writing whose purpose is to communicate 
                new scientific findings to other scientists.























Series 
                titles. Titles of articles published as a series over the 
                course of time. These titles have a main title common to all 
                papers in the series and a subtitle (usually introduced with a 
                roman numeral) specific for each paper.























Society 
                for Scholarly Publishing. An organization of scholars, 
                editors, publishers, librarians, printers, booksellers, and 
                others engaged in scholarly publishing. Address: 10200 W. 44th 
                Ave., Suite 304, Wheat Ridge, CO 80033.























Summary. 
                Usually a summary of conclusions, placed at the end of a 
                paper. Different from an Abstract, which usually summarizes all 
                major parts of a paper and which appears at the beginning of the 
                paper (heading abstract).























Syntax. 
                The order of words within phrases, clauses, and sentences.























T























Table. Presentation 
                of (usually) numbers in columnar form. Tables are used when many 
                determinations need be presented and the exact numbers have 
                importance. If only "the shape of the data" is 
                important, a graph is usually preferable.























Thesis. 
                A manuscript demanded of an advanced-degree candidate; its 
                purpose is to prove that the candidate is capable of doing 
                original research. The term "dissertation" is 
                essentially equivalent but should be reserved for a manuscript 
                submitted for a doctorate.















  





















Page 
                256
















Title. The 
                fewest possible words that adequately describe the contents of a 
                paper, book, poster, etc.























Trade 
                books. Books sold primarily through the book trade (book 
                wholesalers and retailers) to the general public. Most 
                scientific books, on the other hand, are sold primarily by 
                direct mail.























Type 
                composition. The typing (keyboarding) of the manuscript by 
                the publisher in accord with the markup for the compositor 
                provided by the copyeditor.























Typesetter. 
                See Compositor.























W























World 
                Wide Web (WWW). The World Wide Web is a system for linking 
                documents across the Internet. The Web uses the HTML coding 
                system to embed the address of one Internet document within 
                another in a specially highlighted hyperlink. By clicking on the 
                hyperlink, the user can move quickly from one document to the 
                next. For an online scientific paper, WWW hyperlinks could 
                connect the text with supporting graphics, photographs, and 
                video and audio clips, as well as with related papers and 
                documents.















  




























Page 
                ix
















Preface























Criticism 
                and testing are of the essence of our work. This means that 
                science is a fundamentally social activity, which implies that 
                it depends on good communication. In the practice of science we 
                are aware of this, and that is why it is right for our journals 
                to insist on clarity and intelligibility. . . .
—Hermann Bondi























Good 
                scientific writing is not a matter of life and death; it is much 
                more serious than that.























The goal 
                of scientific research is publication. Scientists, starting as 
                graduate students, are measured primarily not by their dexterity 
                in laboratory manipulations, not by their innate knowledge of 
                either broad or narrow scientific subjects, and certainly not by 
                their wit or charm; they are measured, and become known (or 
                remain unknown) by their publications.























A 
                scientific experiment, no matter how spectacular the results, is 
                not completed until the results are published. In fact, the 
                cornerstone of the philosophy of science is based on the 
                fundamental assumption that original research must be 
                published; only thus can new scientific knowledge be 
                authenticated and then added to the existing database that we 
                call scientific knowledge.























It is not 
                necessary for the plumber to write about pipes, nor is it 
                necessary for the lawyer to write about cases (except brief 
                writing), but the research scientist, perhaps uniquely among the 
                trades and professions, must provide a written document showing 
                what he or she did, why it was done, how it was done, and what 
                was learned from it. The key word is reproducibility. That 
                is what makes science and scientific writing unique.















  





















Page 
                x
















Thus the 
                scientist must not only "do" science but must 
                "write" science. Bad writing can and often does 
                prevent or delay the publication of good science. Unfortunately, 
                the education of scientists is often so overwhelmingly committed 
                to the technical aspects of science that the communication arts 
                are neglected or ignored. In short, many good scientists are 
                poor writers. Certainly, many scientists do not like to write. 
                As Charles Darwin said, "a naturalist's life would be a 
                happy one if he had only to observe and never to write" 
                (quoted by Trelease, 1958).























Most of 
                today's scientists did not have the chance to undertake a formal 
                course in scientific writing. As graduate students, they learned 
                to imitate the style and approach of their professors and 
                previous authors. Some scientists became good writers anyway. 
                Many, however, learned only to imitate the prose and style of 
                the authors before them—with all their attendant defects— 
                thus establishing a system of error in perpetuity.























The 
                purpose of this book is to help scientists and students of the 
                sciences in all disciplines to prepare manuscripts that will 
                have a high probability of being accepted for publication and of 
                being completely understood when they are published. Because the 
                requirements of journals vary widely from discipline to 
                discipline, and even within the same discipline, it is not 
                possible to offer recommendations that are universally 
                acceptable. In this book, I present certain basic principles 
                that are accepted in most disciplines.























For those 
                of you who share my tremendous admiration for How to Write 
                and Publish a Scientific Paper, let me tell you a bit about 
                its history. The development of this book began many years ago 
                when I taught a graduate seminar in scientific writing at the 
                Institute of Microbiology at Rutgers University. I quickly 
                learned that graduate students in the sciences both wanted and 
                needed practical information about writing. If I lectured 
                about the pros and cons of split infinitives, my students became 
                somnolent; if I lectured about how to organize data into a 
                table, they were wide awake. For that reason, I used a 
                straightforward "how to" approach when I later 
                published an article (Day, 1975) based on my old lecture notes. 
                The article turned out to be surprisingly popular, and that led 
                naturally to the publication of the First Edition of this book.























And the 
                First Edition led naturally to the Second Edition and then to 
                succeeding editions. Because this book is now being used in 
                teaching programs in several hundred colleges and universities, 
                it seems desirable to keep it up to date. I thank those readers 
                who kindly provided me with















  





















Page 
                xi
















comments 
                and criticisms of the previous editions, and I herewith invite 
                additional suggestions and comments that may improve future 
                editions of this book. (Write to me in care of my publisher, 
                Oryx Press, 4041 North Central Avenue, Phoenix, AZ 85012-3397.)























Although 
                this Fifth Edition is larger and better (he says) than the 
                earlier editions, the basic outline of the book has not been 
                altered. Because the reviews of the previous editions were 
                almost universally favorable, drastic revision seemed unwise. 
                And the reviews were favorable. One reviewer described 
                the book as "both good and original." Unfortunately, 
                he went on to add (quoting Samuel Johnson) that "the parts 
                that are good are not original and the parts that are original 
                are not good." Several other reviewers compared my writing 
                style with that of Shakespeare, Dickens, and Thackeray—but not 
                favorably. Another reviewer said (paraphrasing George Jean 
                Nathan) "Day is a writer for the ages—for the ages of 
                four to eight."























But why a 
                Fifth Edition really? What has happened since the 
                appearance of the Fourth Edition (1994) that justifies a new 
                edition now? The answer is all around us. Science and the 
                reporting of science have undergone truly revolutionary changes 
                in the past few years.























In terms 
                of the big picture, consider the Internet and the World Wide 
                Web. "Worldwide, up to four million scientists are thought 
                to be wired into the rapidly expanding maze of interconnected 
                networks, which now number 11,252 and are known as the Internet, 
                or sometimes just the net. Thousands of scientists hook up for 
                the first time every day.























"This 
                patchwork of electronic conduits can link a lone researcher 
                sitting at a computer screen to such things as distant 
                experiments and supercomputers, to colleagues on faraway 
                continents in a heretofore impossible kind of close 
                collaboration, to electronic mail, to mountains of data 
                otherwise too expensive to tap, to large electronic meetings and 
                work sessions, to bulletin boards where a posted query can 
                prompt hundreds of replies and to electronic journals that 
                disseminate findings far and wide" (William J. Broad, The 
                New York Times, 18 May 1993).























Electronic 
                journals indeed now exist. Thus, traditional journals are no 
                longer the sole outlet for scientific papers.























Also 
                consider the many new software packages that have come on the 
                market in recent years. The production of graphs and some other 
                types of illustrations has been taken over almost completely by 
                computers. Even entire posters for presentation at scientific 
                meetings can now be produced by computers employing desktop 
                publishing software.















  





















Page 
                xii
















Fortunately, 
                the principles of scientific communication have not 
                significantly changed in spite of the technological changes that 
                keep coming with dizzying speed. The accent in this book will 
                continue to be the principles of scientific writing, but this 
                Fifth Edition also looks closely at changed procedures and new 
                technologies.























Without 
                meaning to knock the competition, I should observe that my book 
                is clearly a ''how to" book, whereas most other books on 
                the subject of scientific writing are written in more general 
                terms, with emphasis on the language of science. This book was 
                written from the perspective of my many years of experience as a 
                managing editor, as a publisher, and as a teacher. Thus, the 
                contents are intended to be specific and practical.























In writing 
                this book, I had four goals in mind. First, I delayed writing 
                and publishing it until I was reasonably sure that I would not 
                violate the managing editors' creed: "Don't start vast 
                projects with half-vast ideas." Second, I wanted to present 
                certain information about the scientific paper itself and how to 
                cook it. (Yes, this is a cookbook.) Third, although this 
                book is in no sense a substitute for a course in English 
                grammar, I do comment repeatedly on the use and misuse of 
                English, with such comments interspersed throughout a number of 
                the chapters and with a summary of the subject in a later 
                chapter. (Readers wanting a whole book on this subject, rather 
                than a summary, should read my Scientific English: A Guide 
                for Scientists and Other Professionals, Second Edition, Oryx 
                Press, 1995.) Fourth, because books such as this are usually as 
                dull as dust, dull to read and dull to write, I have also tried 
                to make the reader laugh. Scientific writing abounds with 
                egregious bloopers (what the British sometimes call 
                "bloomers"), and through the years I have amassed 
                quite a collection of these scientific and grammatical 
                monstrosities, which I am now pleased to share. I have tried to 
                enjoy writing this book, and I hope that you will enjoy reading 
                it.























Note that 
                I say "reading it," even though earlier I described 
                this book as a cookbook. If it were simply a book of recipes, it 
                would hardly be suitable for cover-to-cover reading. Actually, I 
                have tried to organize this material so that it reads logically 
                from start to finish, while at the same time it provides the 
                recipes needed to cook the scientific paper. I hope that users 
                of this book might at least consider a straightforward reading 
                of it. In this way, the reader, particularly the graduate 
                student and fledgling writer, may get something of the flavor of 
                just what a scientific paper is. Then, the book can be used as a 
                reference whenever questions arise. The book has a detailed 
                subject index for this latter purpose.















  





















Page 
                xiii
















In the 
                first two chapters, I try to define how scientific writing 
                differs from other forms of writing and how history has brought 
                this about.























In the 
                third chapter, I attempt to define a scientific paper. To write 
                a scientific paper, the writer must know exactly what 
                to do and why. Not only does this make the job 
                manageable, but this is precisely the knowledge that the 
                practicing scientist must have, and always keep in mind, to 
                avoid the pitfalls that have ruined the reputations of many 
                scientist authors. To be guilty of dual publication, or to use 
                the work of others without appropriate attribution, is the type 
                of breach in scientific ethics that is regarded as unforgivable 
                by one's peers. Therefore, exact definition of what may go into 
                a scientific paper, and what may not, is of prime importance.























In the 
                next nine chapters, each individual element of the scientific 
                paper is analyzed, element by element. A scientific paper is the 
                sum of its component parts. Fortunately, for student and 
                practicing scientist alike, there are certain commonly accepted 
                rules regarding the construction of the title, the Abstract, the 
                Introduction, and the other main parts of the paper. These 
                rules, once mastered, should serve the scientist throughout his 
                or her research career.























In later 
                chapters, associated information is given. Some of this 
                information is technical (how to prepare illustrative material, 
                for example), and some of it is related to the postwriting 
                stages (the submission, review, and publishing processes). Then, 
                briefly, the rules relating to primary scientific papers are 
                adjusted to fit different circumstances, such as the writing of 
                review papers, conference reports, book reviews, and theses. 
                Chapters 29 and 30 present information about oral presentations 
                and poster presentations. Chapters 20-23, covering new 
                electronic publishing formats, the Internet, electronic 
                journals, and e-mail, are new with this edition. Finally, in the 
                last four chapters, I present some of the rules of English as 
                applied to scientific writing, a sermon against jargon, a 
                discussion of abbreviations, and a sermon against sin.























At the 
                back of the book are seven appendixes, the Glossary of Technical 
                Terms, the References, and the Index. As to the references, note 
                that I have used two forms of citation in this book. When I cite 
                something of only passing interest—e.g., a defective title of 
                a published article—the citation is given briefly and 
                parenthetically in the text. Articles and books containing 
                substantial information on the subject under discussion are 
                cited by name and year in the text, and the full citations are 
                given in the References at the back of the book. Serious















  





















Page 
                xiv
















students 
                may wish to consult some of these references for additional or 
                related information.























I do not 
                have all the answers. I thought I did when I was a bit younger. 
                Perhaps I can trace some of my character development to the time 
                when Dr. Smith submitted to one of my journals a surprisingly 
                well-written, well-prepared manuscript; his previous manuscripts 
                had been poorly written, badly organized messes. After review of 
                the new manuscript, I wrote: "Dr. Smith, we are happy to 
                accept your superbly written paper for publication in the Journal." 
                However, I just couldn't help adding: "Tell me, who wrote 
                it for you?"























Dr. Smith 
                answered: "I am so happy that you found my paper 
                acceptable, but tell me, who read it to you?"























Thus, with 
                appropriate humility, I will try to tell you a few things that 
                may be of use in writing scientific papers.























In the 
                Preface to the First Edition, I stated that I would "view 
                the book as a success if it provides you with the information 
                needed to write effective scientific papers and if it makes me 
                rich and famous." Having since achieved neither fame nor 
                fortune, I nonetheless continue to hope that this book is 
                "a success" for you, the reader.























Finally, I 
                hope that those of you who have used earlier editions of this 
                book will notice improvements in this edition. One thing I'm 
                sure of: I'm not as big a fool as I used to be; I've been on a 
                diet. 















  





















Page 
                xv
















Acknowledgments























In most 
                of mankind gratitude is merely a secret hope for greater favours.
—Duc de la Rochefoucauld























Like a 
                cookbook, a "how to" book presents many recipes that 
                the author has collected over the years. A few of the recipes 
                may be original. Some may be variations of someone else's 
                originals. Many of the recipes in such a collection, however, 
                are "borrowed" intact from other sources.























In this 
                book, I have done a resonable job, I think, in citing the 
                sources of material borrowed from the published literature. But 
                how about the many ideas and procedures that one has picked up 
                from discussions with colleagues? After the passage of time, one 
                can no longer remember who originated what idea. After the 
                passage of even more time, it seems to me that all of the really 
                good ideas originated with me, a proposition that I know is 
                indefensible.























I am 
                indebted to my friends and colleagues who served with me on the 
                Publications Board of the American Society for Microbiology 
                during the 19 years I served that Society. I am also greateful 
                to the Society for Scholarly Publishing and the Council of 
                Biology Editors, the two organizations from which I have learned 
                the most about scientific writing and publishing.























There is 
                no question about it. I have been incredibly lucky with this 
                book. As it now goes into its Fifth Edition, it is still widely 
                used in hundreds of colleges and universities. Oryx Press does a 
                nice job of distributing the book in the U.S. and Canada, and 
                Cambridge University Press handles the publication in most of 
                the rest of the world. In addition to the English edition, the 
                book is available in Spanish (published by the















  





















Page 
                xvi
















Panamerican 
                Health Organization) and in Japanese (published by Maruzen). Why 
                have I been so lucky? I think it is because I selected some 
                amazingly talented people to read and criticize the various 
                editions of this book. As I look over the names of the various 
                people who read one or more of the manuscripts for the preceding 
                editions, I am yet again awed by the lustre of their 
                reputations. And I am yet again aware, almost painfully so, of 
                how much of their wisdom has gone into "my" book. Once 
                again, I say thanks to them. Here are their names:



























Robert 
                        E. Bjork











Kirsten 
                Fischer Lindahl


Estella 
                Bradley
Karen 
                Kietzman


L. 
                Leon Campbell
R.G.E. 
                Murray


Morna 
                Conway
Evelyn 
                S. Myers


Cheryl 
                A. Cross
Erwin 
                Neter


Lyell 
                C. Dawes
Maeve 
                O'Connor


Barton 
                D. Day
Allie 
                C. Peed, Jr.


Betty 
                J. Day
Michael 
                Pohuski


Robin 
                A. Day
Gisella 
                Pollock


Barbara 
                Frech
Nancy 
                Sakaduski


Eugene 
                Garfield
Charles 
                Shipman, Jr.


Barabara 
                Gastel
Alex 
                Shrift


Jay 
                L. Halio
Simon 
                Silver


Karl 
                Heumann
Rivers 
                Singleton, Jr.


Edward 
                J. Huth
David 
                W. Smith


Linda 
                M. Illig
Robert 
                Snyder

















And now I 
                give thanks, very sincere thanks, to those colleagues who read 
                all or parts of the manuscript for this Fifth Edition: Robert J. 
                Bonk, L. Leon Campbell, Betty J. Day, Robin A. Day, Richard H. 
                Duggan, Ronald J. Hirschhorn, Linda M. Illig, Robin W. Morgan, 
                Nancy Sakaduski, Brian H. Schaffer, and David W. Smith.  In 
                addition, I want to single out two individuals who contributed 
                substantially to initiating and organizing much of the new 
                "electronic" information that went into this edition: 
                Bernice Glenn, a very knowledgeable consultant, and John Wagner, 
                the very knowledgealble Senior Editor at Oryx Press. I am in 
                debt to all of these good people.















  




























Page 
                257
















References   























Aaronson, 
                S. 1977. Style in scientific writing. Current Contents, No. 2, 
                10 January, p. 6-15.























American 
                Medical Association manual of style: a guide for authors and 
                editors. 1998. 9th ed. Williams & Wilkins Co., Baltimore.























American 
                National Standards Institute, Inc. 1969. American national 
                standard for the abbreviation of titles of periodicals. ANSI 
                Z39.5-1969. American National Standards Institute, Inc., New 
                York.























———. 
                1977. American national standard for bibliographic references. 
                ANSI Z39.29-1977. American National Standards Institute, Inc., 
                New York.























———. 
                1979a. American national standard for the preparation of 
                scientific papers for written or oral presentation. ANSI 
                Z39.16-1979. American National Standards Institute, Inc., New 
                York.























———. 
                1979b. American national standard for writing abstracts. 
                ANSI Z39.14-1979. American National Standards Institute, Inc., 
                New York.























American 
                Psychological Association. 1994. Publication manual. 4th ed. 
                American Psychological Association, Washington, DC.























American 
                Society for Microbiology. 1998. ASM style manual for journals 
                and books. American Society for Microbiology, Washington, DC.























Anderson, 
                J. A., and M. W. Thistle. 1947. On writing scientific papers. 
                Bull. Can. J. Res., 31 December 1947, N.R.C. No. 1691.























Bernstein, 
                T. M. 1965. The careful writer: A modern guide to English usage. 
                Atheneum, New York.























Bishop, C. 
                T. 1984. How to edit a scientific journal. Williams & 
                Wilkins Co., Baltimore.























Booth, V. 
                1981. Writing a scientific paper and speaking at scientific 
                meetings. 5th ed. The Biochemical Society, London.























Briscoe, 
                M. H. 1990. A researcher's guide to scientific and medical 
                illustrations. Springer-Verlag, New York.























Burch, G. 
                E. 1954. Of publishing scientific papers. Grune & Stratton, 
                New York.























CBE 
                Journal Procedures and Practices Committee. 1987. Editorial 
                forms; a guide to journal management. Council of Biology 
                Editors, Inc., Bethesda, MD.















  





















Page 
                258
















CBE Style 
                Manual Committee. 1983. CBE style manual: guide for authors, 
                editors, and publishers in the biological sciences. 5th ed. 
                Council of Biology Editors, Inc., Bethesda, MD.























Chase, S. 
                1954. Power of words. Harcourt, Brace and Co., New York.























The 
                Chicago Manual of Style. 1993. 14th ed., University of Chicago 
                Press, Chicago.























Council of 
                Biology Editors. 1968. Proposed definition of a primary 
                publication. Newsletter, Council of Biology Editors, November 
                1968, p. 1-2.























Day, R. A. 
                1975. How to write a scientific paper. ASM News 42:486-494.























———. 
                1995. Scientific English: A guide for scientists and other 
                professionals. 2nd ed., Oryx Press, Phoenix.























Dodd, J. 
                S. 1997. The ACS style guide: a manual for authors and editors. 
                2nd ed. American Chemical Society, Washington, DC.























Fowler, H. 
                W. 1965. A dictionary of modern English usage. 2nd ed. Oxford 
                University Press, London.























Harnad, S. 
                1996. Implementing peer review on the Net: scientific quality 
                control in scholarly electronic journals. In R. Peek and 
                G. Newby, eds. Scholarly publishing: the electronic frontier. 
                MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.























Houghton, 
                B. 1975. Scientific periodicals; their historical development, 
                characteristics and control. Shoe String Press, Hamden, CT.























Huth, E. 
                J. 1986. Guidelines on authorship of medical papers. Ann. 
                Intern. Med. 104:269-274.























——— 
                1987. Medical style & format: an international manual for 
                authors, editors, and publishers. Williams & Wilkins Co., 
                Baltimore.























———. 
                1990. How to write and publish papers in the medical sciences. 
                2nd ed. Williams & Wilkins Co., Baltimore.























International 
                Committee of Medical Journal Editors. 1993. Uniform requirements 
                for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals. J. Am. Med. 
                Assoc. 269:2282-2286.























King, D. 
                W., D. D. McDonald, and N. K. Roderer. 1981. Scientific journals 
                in the United States. Hutchinson Ross Publishing Co., 
                Stroudsburg, PA.























Lederer, 
                Richard. 1987. Anguished English. Dell Publishing, New York.























Li, X., 
                and Crane, N.B. 1996. Electronic styles: a handbook for citing 
                electronic information. Information Today, Medford, NJ.























Lock, S. 
                1985. A difficult balance: Editorial peer review in medicine. 
                The Nuffield Provincial Hospitals Trust, London.























McGirr, C. 
                J. 1973. Guidelines for abstracting. Tech. Commun. 25(2):2-5.























Maggio, R. 
                1997. Talking about people: A guide to fair and accurate 
                language. Oryx Press, Phoenix.























Meyer, R. 
                E. 1977. Reports full of ''gobbledygook." J. Irreproducible 
                Results 22(4):12.















  





















Page 
                259
















Michaelson, 
                H. B. 1990. How to write and publish engineering papers and 
                reports. 3rd ed. Oryx Press, Phoenix.























Mitchell, 
                J. H. 1968. Writing for professional and technical journals. 
                John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York.























Morgan, P. 
                1986. An insider's guide for medical authors and editors. ISI 
                Press, Philadelphia.























Morrison, 
                J. A. 1980. Scientists and the scientific literature. Scholarly 
                Publishing 11:157-167.























O'Connor, 
                M. 1991. Writing successfully in science. HarperCollins 
                Academic, London.























O'Connor, 
                M., and F. P. Woodford. 1975. Writing scientific papers in 
                English: an ELSE-Ciba Foundation guide for authors. Associated 
                Scientific Publishers, Amsterdam.























Ratnoff, 
                O. D. 1981. How to read a paper. In K. S. Warren (ed.), 
                Coping with the biomedical literature, p. 95-101. Praeger, New 
                York.























Reid, W. 
                M. 1978. Will the future generations of biologists write a 
                dissertation? BioScience 28:651-654.























Rosner, J. 
                L. 1990. Reflections on science as a product. Nature 345:108.























Rosten, L. 
                1968. The joys of Yiddish. McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York.























Stapleton, 
                P. 1987. Writing research papers: an easy guide for non-nativeEnglish 
                speakers. Australian Centre for International Agricultural 
                Research, Canberra.























Strunk, 
                W., Jr., and E. B. White. 1979. The elements of style. 3rd ed. 
                Macmillan Co., New York.























Style 
                Manual Committee, Council of Biology Editors. 1994. Scientific 
                style and format: The CBE manual for authors, editors, and 
                publishers. 6th ed., Cambridge University Press, New York.























Trelease, 
                S. F. 1958. How to write scientific and technical papers. 
                Williams & Wilkins Co., Baltimore.























Tuchman, 
                B. W. 1980. The book: a lecture sponsored by the Center for the 
                Book in the Library of Congress and the Authors League of 
                America. Library of Congress, Washington, DC.























Weiss, E. 
                H. 1982. The writing system for engineers and scientists. 
                PrenticeHall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, NJ.























Wolff, R. 
                S., and L. Yeager. 1993. Visualization of natural phenomena. 
                Telow, The Electronic Library of Science, Santa Clara, CA, a 
                subsidiary of SpringerVerlag, New York.























Zinsser, 
                W. 1985. On writing well. An informal guide to writing 
                nonfiction. 3rd ed., Harper & Row, Publishers, New York.















  















