

















How to Write Great Website Content in 2017

Use the
Power of LSI and Themes to Boost Website Traffic 
with Visitor-Grabbing, Google-Loving Web Content
 
 
By
Dr. Andy Williams
http://webcontentstudio.com
http://ezseonews.com
 
Release
Date: 20th March 2017











Contents
Introduction. 1
A
History of Google Updates. 11
Changes
in 2003. 11
Changes
in 2004. 12
Changes
in 2005. 12
Changes
in 2006. 13
Changes
in 2007. 13
Changes
in 2008. 13
Changes
in 2009. 14
Changes
in 2010. 14
Changes
in 2011. 15
Changes
in 2012. 16
Changes
in 2013. 18
Changes
in 2014. 19
Changes
in 2015. 20
Changes
in 2016. 20
Changes
in 2017. 20
How we used to write
content. 22
The Webmaster
Guidelines. 26
A Breakdown of the
Google Webmaster Guidelines 26
Design and Content
Guidelines 26
Technical
Guidelines 27
Quality Guidelines 28
Things Not to Do. 29
Finding Content
Ideas. 32
1. Check out
competitor sites 32
2. Use "footprints"
to find popular content 32
3. Forums 37
4.
Q & A sites 39
5.
Follow RSS feeds 42
6. Keyword Research
- Using Google Keyword Planner 49
Signing up for the
Keyword Planner without an Adwords Campaign. 49
7. Paid Services 60
Types
of Web Content. 63
Link
Bait? 63
1.       Articles 64
2.       PDF. 65
3.       Images including mind maps, infographics,
diagrams etc. 66
4.       Video. 66
5.       FAQs 67
6.       Photos 67
7.       Sounds files 68
8.       How stuff works 69
9.       Top 10 lists 69
10.     Resources 72
11.     "Recipes". 72
Writing Styles. 74
Niche Vocabulary. 77
A quick look at
Google Search. 80
How can we use this
information? 82
Finding Theme Words
& Phrases 83
Free Option - Google
SERPs 83
Paid Option 1 -
Keyword LSI Spider 86
Paid Option 2 - Web
Content Studio. 87
Benefits of WCS. 87
Proof that top pages
use "Niche Vocabulary". 89
Let's Write! 94
Thoughts
on the Actual Content 94
Checkpoint
#1 - How will your content be better? 94
Checkpoint
#2 - Title. 94
A few ideas to help
with titles/headlines 97
Checkpoint #3 -
Filename. 97
Checkpoint
#4 - Meta Tags? 98
Checkpoint #5 -
Opening Headline. 99
Checkpoint #6 -
Theme the content 100
Checking your Theme. 107
Checkpoint #7 -
Above the Fold. 110
Checkpoint #8 - Help
the skimmers 116
Checkpoint #9 -
Grammar & Spelling. 116
Checkpoint #10 -
Check the quality. 117
Additional Considerations 118
Link to authority
sites? 118
Further reading. 119
A photo of the
author & bio box? 119
Links to related
content on your site. 119
Allow comments 120
Allow social sharing
& following. 120
Social
Sharing Buttons. 121
Adding
Social Share buttons to a non-Wordpress site. 121
Where
to get social sharing buttons: 121
Twitter 121
Facebook. 121
Google
Plus 121
StumbleUpon. 122
Pinterest 122
Adding
Social Share buttons to a Wordpress website. 122
Adding "Fat" to your
site. 125
An autoresponder
and/or newsletter 125
A Forum. 127
Infographics 127
RSS feeds 128
Quizzes, polls, and
surveys 129
Software, scripts,
calculators, etc. 130
Quotations &
Trivia. 131
Video. 132
Yoast SEO Wordpress
plugin. 134
More information
from Dr. Andy Williams. 138
My other Webmaster
books 138
My Video Courses 138
Did you enjoy this
book? 138











LEGAL STUFF
Names of people, trademarks, company names, brand names & service marks are the property of their respective owners and are
used in editorial commentary
as permitted under constitutional law.
Andrew Williams has made his best efforts to
produce a high quality
& informative document. He makes no representation or warranties of any kind with regards
to completeness or accuracy of the
information within
the book. All links are for information purposes only and are not
warranted for content, accuracy or any other implied or explicit purpose. The
author and publisher of this book are not in any way associated with Google.
The entire contents are ideas, thoughts & opinions
expressed solely
by the author after years of research into the workings of the search engines. The author
and publisher shall in
no event be held liable for any loss or other damages caused
by the use and misuse of or inability to use
any or all of the information described in this
book.
By using the
information in this book, you agree to do so entirely at your own
risk.
The contents of this document are
protected by worldwide copyright treaties and may not be reprinted, copied, redistributed, transmitted, hosted,
displayed or stored electronically without express written permission of Andrew
J Williams. All
rights reserved World Wide.
2017 Andrew J. Williams











What
people are saying about previous versions of this book
"I have been buying Andy's products for a
long time. I was hoping he would write this book. I am ranking on the top pages
of Google for a lot of my content. I think this book is the best one he has written."
Bill Roberts
"Forget all the mumbo jumbo about how to
outwit Google in the Search Engine ranking game with all those fancy tools etc.
You might just possibly get away with some trickery and "thin" sites
for a little while, but the big G will catch up with you... probably sooner
rather than later.  Get this book instead, read it and more importantly act on
the solid (and long-term) sound advice it dishes out in spades." Harry
"Excellent book that is bang up to date
when it comes to creating content that might actually get you ranking in the
search engines. This is not theory but actual research that has led to the
creation of this book." David Sharp
"I always look forward to anything from
Andy and this hasn't disappointed." Trevor Greenfield
".. the first easy to read explanation I've
found that shows me how to create great content pleasing both the search
engines and my audience as well." Chris Cobb
"Well written and easy to understand. I
have never been disappointed with any of the Internet info books I have bought
from Dr. Andy Williams!" J. Tanner











How to Use This Book
This book will take you on a journey that is best followed
in the order it is presented.  At least for the first time.  Each section
builds on the previous section.   Once you have been through the entire book,
it then works well as a "dip in when you need it" type reference book.  









A note about UK v US English
There are some differences between UK and US English.  While
I try to be consistent, some errors may slip into my writing because I spend a
lot of time corresponding to people in both the UK and the US.  I find the lines
blur.  
Examples of this include spelling of words like optimise
(UK) v optimize (US).  
The difference I get the most complaints about is with
collective nouns. Collective nouns refer to a group of individuals, e.g.
Google.  In the US, collective nouns are singular, so Google IS a search
engine.  However, in the UK, collective nouns are usually plural, so Google are
a search engine.
There are other differences too.  
I hope that if I have been inconsistent somewhere in this
book, it does not detract from the value you get from it.  









Typos in this
book?
Errors (and inconsistencies previously mentioned) can get
through proof-readers, so if you do find any typos or grammatical errors in
this book, I'd be very grateful if you could let me know using this email
address:
typos@ezseonews.com











Introduction
When we
think of search engines, most of us immediately think of Google.  However, when
I started working online, Google did not exist.  We had other search engines,
though, and lots of them.  Here are the main ones I remember:
1.   
Infoseek (1995 - 2001)
2.   
Magellan (1995 - 2001)
3.   
Lycos (1994 - still going today, though it now
depends on All The Web for search results).
4.   
WebCrawler (1994 - still going today, though it
gets search results from other engines).
5.   
Yahoo (1994 - Still going today).
6.   
Excite (1995 - still going today, though Dogpile
now provides its search results).
7.   
Altavista (1995 - bought by Yahoo in 2003).
8.   
HotBot (1996 - bought by Lycos in 1998). This
one was re-launched in July 2011 using a robot for its mascot.
If you have been online for any length of time, I am sure a few of
those will ring a bell.  Some, like Yahoo, are still going today, and of course,
we also have Bing as one of the top 3.  However, there really has only been one
winner in the search engine wars - Google. 
If you
could go back a few years and check out the Google search results, you'd see a
very different set of search results (often called SERPs which stands for Search
Engine Results Pages) to the ones we see today.  In fact, even going back just
a couple of years would probably show that Google has been through massive
changes in the way it ranks content.  
However,
there is one thing that hasn't changed much with search engines like Google. 
They have always wanted to show the most relevant and high-quality results to their
users. 
In the
early days of online search, the engines would typically try to match the words
a user typed into the search box, with the words found embedded into the web
pages in their databases.  
 For example, if someone typed in "Up
Periscope game", then a search engine would go through the documents in the
database looking for any page that contained the phrase "up periscope game". 
If it found one, then it could return this match to the searcher, and the
search engine was happy.  The search engine would be even happier if it could
find several documents with that exact phrase, giving the searcher more
results, more choice, and ultimately keeping them happy so they would return
next time they wanted to find information.
This is
where the problems began.  If there were several documents, each containing the
phrase "up periscope game", which one does the search engine put first, second,
third, etc.?  
To me, the
obvious answer is to order the pages according to quality.  This way the
searcher would have more chance of finding a page that meets their needs
quickly by clicking on the top results.
But how
does a search engine determine quality?
Today,
that is a closely guarded secret involving hundreds of different factors, but
it wasn't always that way.
In the
late 90s, there were relatively few web pages out there, and search engines
just seemed happy if they could find a match for a search term.  Although I am
sure things were a little more complicated than that, it appeared that ranking
pages was done on the basis that if a page contained a search phrase twice, it
was better than a page that only contained the phrase once.  Therefore, it was
easy to rank a group of pages from best to worst.  The page that contained the
search phrase the most number of times won.
It
almost seems unbelievable now, but back in the day, if you wanted to rank for a
search phrase, you could look at the page currently in position one, count the
number of times it used the search phrase, and then write your own page to
contain the phrase one more time.  Bingo, an instant number one ranking!
This
type of "one more keyword" optimization became less effective as we moved into
the 21t century, but it didn't stop the determined spammers.
As more
and more websites were built, you can imagine the type of results you would see. 
Keyword stuffed nonsense that ranked simply because the phrase you searched for
was found a lot of times on the web page.  Clearly, something needed to change
if search engines were going to evolve into a useful tool.
In 1998,
a new kid arrived on the block:

Larry
Page and Sergey Brin were two Ph.D. students and Google was their research
project which began in 1996.  The first version (as shown above) was hosted on
a sub-domain of Stanford University.
As you
can see, it started off with 25 million pages.  By 2008, Google reported that its
index had grown to 1 trillion pages, and then 5 years later, it stood at 30
trillion pages!
Larry
and Sergey wanted to find a better way to index and rank documents.  Counting
the number of times a phrase was found on a page was crude and clearly didn't
work.  Search engine results were getting filled up with rubbish, written by
webmasters trying to force their content to the top.
They
introduced Page Rank.  I am sure you have heard of it.  
As soon
as webmasters found out about Page Rank, it became the new focal point of SEO. 
It was the new technology to be manipulated and abused.
The idea
behind Page Rank was probably a natural one coming from its academic
environment.  The basic idea was that the more important the web page, the more
it would be cited by its peers.  
Imagine
someone searching Google for "Crohn's disease medication".  If Google had
10,000 documents that matched that search phrase, instead of showing the one
that used the phrase the most times in the top slot, they reasoned that the
most important one would be the one that had the most links pointing to it from
other web pages.
Page
Rank was a kind of citation score for a web page.  The more a page was linked
to from other documents, the higher the score and the better it would rank for
relevant search phrases.
Page
Rank became the most important factor in the ranking of a web page.   The more
links a page had pointing at it, the higher it ranked in the SERPs.  However,
there was still a problem that needed to be addressed.
A web
page should only rank for relevant search phrases, irrespective of its Page
Rank.  If someone searches for "Linux operating system", there is no point
showing them a page on CNN about "cat litter", simply because the cat litter
page has a high Page Rank.
Therefore,
the sequence of events when someone searched for a phrase, was as follows:
1.   
Searcher types in a phrase.
2.   
Google finds all pages relevant to that phrase.
3.   
Google ranks the relevant pages according to
Page Rank.
OK, so
Page Rank was a major step forward in the ranking of pages, but Google still
needed to decide which pages were the most relevant to any particular search
term.
In the
early days, relevance was determined to a large extent by the words on the
page.  A page would be determined as relevant if the search term was found on
the page.  Sound familiar?
In fact,
the similarity doesn't stop there.  
Given
two pages with identical Page Rank, the page that included the search term the
most times would often rank the higher of the two.
However,
Google was on the lookout for unnatural looking pages.  It's not natural for a
web page to mention the exact same phrase 50 times in a 500-word article, is
it?  That would be a density of 10% for that phrase.  
But what
was a natural looking keyword density?  Google needed to determine this, and
stop any pages that lay outside of this "natural" density from ranking well.
And so,
keyword density became important for webmasters.  
Clearly, keyword density was not the sole measure of relevancy.  However,
keyword density was important enough for software to appear that could analyze
the top-ranking pages on any topic, and tell you exactly what keyword densities
those pages were using.  By matching those keyword densities, your page would
have an advantage over any other page in the niche with the same Page Rank. 
Keyword densities gave you a competitive advantage!
As the
search engines matured, the rules for keyword densities changed.  
Instead
of simply needing a keyword density of let's say 5% in the document, the web page
needed to include that keyword phrase in a number of different HTML tags on the
web page.  For example, it helped if the keyword was found in the page
filename, meta keywords tag, meta description, the main page headline, the
opening paragraph, several other times on the page, in ALT tags and hyperlinks,
and so on.
Optimizing
a web page became an exercise in trying to stuff the keyword phrase into as
many HTML elements on the page as possible.
Webmasters
quickly found that there was one particular place a keyword would really help
you rank - the domain name.
Enter
the era of exact match domains.
A search
term like "buy prescription drugs online" would be really competitive and
difficult to rank for, requiring a lot of Page Rank (built through inbound
links).  However, with this exact match loophole in Google, anyone owning a
domain that contained that exact phrase would be at a huge advantage, and
quickly rise to the top of the search rankings.
Exact
Match Domains (EMDs) became more and more visible at the top of the Google
SERPs, and many of them were spammy sites with poor content that didn't deserve
to rank for those phrases.
Things
like:
Buyprescriptiondrugsonline.com
.. as
well:
·        
Buyprescriptiondrugsonline.org
·        
Buyprescriptiondrugsonline.net
·        
Buyprescriptiondrugsonline.info
·        
Buyprescriptiondrugsonline.co.uk
This
type of exact match domain was found in the top 10 for most searches.  They
became a quick way to rank for just about anything, and a whole industry of
buying and selling EMDs arose.
The
reason this loophole existed was because the search engines, Google included, looked
at the words on the page to help determine relevance to a search term.  In
fact, to be more specific, it was the appearance of the exact search term
on the page that determined relevance.  This was something that Google
identified as a potential problem very early on.  What Google wanted was a more
natural way of determining what a page was about.
For
example, if someone searched for "cure type 2 diabetes", Google didn't just
want to return the pages that included that exact keyword phrase.  It wanted to
return pages that really were about "curing type 2 diabetes".  Those that had
the exact phrase and those that were actually about the topic were quite often
not the same thing.  That was because of the way webmasters forced their pages
to the top using the latest and greatest Google loopholes, even if those pages
did not deserve to be at the top based on merit.
What
Google was trying to develop was a way to categorize a page based on all of the
words and phrases on that page.  Using the example above, a good quality page
that should rank for the phrase "cure type 2 diabetes" would contain most, if
not all of the following:
diabetes,
type, blood, glucose, symptoms, complications, disease, treatment, insulin,
heart, sugar, exercise, weight, risk, health, diagnosis, causes, food, test,
high, medical, sign, prediabetes, eating, skin, pregnancy, doctor, gestational,
eye, neuropathy, testing, diet, cells, weight loss, heart disease, gestational
diabetes, high blood glucose, blood pressure, glucose testing, insulin resistance,
diabetes mellitus
Why?  
Because
an authority on the topic would naturally use most of those words to describe
how type 2 diabetes could be cured.  
Most of
those words are ESSENTIAL to explain how type 2 diabetes can be cured, so it
follows that any page that does not use them, cannot be a quality page on the
subject.
The
problem for Google was that the type and amount of language analysis required
to correctly identify relevant (and quality) content based on related words on
a page was just too time-consuming for the technology of the day.
However,
this type of theme analysis wasn't something that only appeared in the last
year or two.  Google has been working on this for a long time.
Back in
the year 2000, Michael Campbell wrote the first white paper on themes, and then
in 2003, Google bought a company called Applied Semantics which it said would
help them "Understand the key themes on web pages".  
In a
press release announcing the acquisition of Applied Semantics, Sergey Brin
stated:
"Applied
Semantics is a proven innovator in semantic text processing and online
advertising."
"This
acquisition will enable Google to create new technologies that make online
advertising more useful to users, publishers, and advertisers alike."
The
press release went on to say:

Google
had acquired a technology that could help them understand web pages in a
similar way to how humans understand something when they are reading it.
Using
this new technology, Google went on to release Google Adsense.  
Google
Adsense, in case you have not heard about it, is a technology that allows
Google to show advertisements on relevant web pages.  With companies prepared
to pay good money to advertise on the web, Google needed to make sure this
technology could do more than just find a keyword on a page to confirm
relevancy.  Google needed to look for keyword "themes" that matched each advertisement.
Applied
Semantics was the turning point for Google.  It allowed Google to accurately
determine the theme of a web page so that relevant adverts could be shown on
that page.  Google took the next logical step - incorporating this technology
into the search engine ranking algorithm.
Now,
instead of relying on the appearance of the exact search phrase, Google could
look for themes appearing on a page to help determine its relevance to a search
term.  
Today,
having the exact search term on your web page means very little.  In fact, I
want you to do a little experiment yourself.  Go over to Google and search for
a three or four-word phrase that has some commercial intent (in other words, a
phrase someone might type in if they wanted to buy something).  This is a good test
because these are the phrases webmasters are trying to rank for.
E.g. Search
for buy prom dress online.  
How many
of the top 10 results use the exact search term (buy prom dress online) in
their title or description?   How many actually have that phrase in the web
page itself?
I just
did the search.  
I have
Google set up to show me 100 results at a time, so I have the top 100 pages
that rank for that term on my screen.  By pressing F3 in my Chrome web browser,
I can search for that phrase on the page to see how many times buy prom
dress online appears in this list of top 100 web page titles and
descriptions:

The
search box says 4 times, but in fact, it's only twice and both occurrences are
for a single listing ranking around 70 in the SERPs:

The
other two occurrences are generated by Google on the results page, e.g.  the
actual search phrase I typed in the search box and the related searches at the
bottom:

So, if
Google didn't rank these pages because they contain the exact phrase "buy prom
dress online", why did it rank them so highly?
The
answer is because these pages were themed in such a way that Google knew they
were about buying a prom dress online.  These pages contain words and phrases
like:
prom,
dresses, shop, style, dress, shipping, new, designer, accessories, long, short,
lace, online, party, shoes, evening, color, black, white, low, styles, perfect,
high, prom dresses, plus size, sherri hill, la femme, two piece, special
occasion, ellie wilde, faviana, rachel allan, mori lee
Whatever
YOU search for in this experiment, you are likely to find the exact search
phrase in some pages.  However, as you can see, it is no longer essential to
help a page rank well, and if you use the exact phrase too many times, it is more
likely to get your page penalized.
NOTE: If you do this experiment yourself, don't forget to subtract one
for the search term at the top of the results page (which you typed in), and
any "Related" search ideas that Google offer at the end of the search results.
Clearly, the old
method of optimizing a web page around a keyword phrase no longer works. 
Therefore, if you are still taking SEO advice from the "keyword phrase &
density" gurus, isn't it time you changed your approach to writing content?
Let me show you a better way.
The
whole purpose of this book is to give you a plan for writing content that
stands a better chance of not only ranking in Google but staying there. 
Before we start looking at how to write
content, it's important to know a brief history of the Google algorithm changes. 
Not only will this help you understand where Google has come from, and where it
is headed, but it will reinforce the idea that loopholes get closed, so don't waste
time trying to beat the system.











A History of Google Updates
As webmasters and content writers, it is important to follow
along with what Google is doing, because it never stands still.  Webmasters are
always trying to find loopholes, and Google is always trying to plug them. 
In this section, I want to tell you about the major updates Google
has gone through, and explain why they were necessary. As I go through these,
be aware that I am only telling you about a few major changes that impacted how
webmasters optimized their sites.  
Major updates are given names (I am sure you have heard of
Panda and Penguin), much like hurricanes are given names ;) but I'll only tell
you about the most infamous ones. 
I should also state here that we don't know with 100%
certainty what many of the updates actually did in terms of algorithm changes. 
What I am listing here is the accepted version of events deduced by webmasters
and SEOs around the globe.
Please be aware that Google releases hundreds of updates
every year, so it is beyond the scope of this chapter to even try to list them
all.  For example, in September 2011, Google CEO Eric Schmidt said that Google
had tested over 13,000 possible updates in 2010, and approved 516 of those updates.
Every Google update focuses on a specific area of the Google
algorithm, but they all have one thing in common - they are designed to give searchers
better results.  It is that one commonality that you need to keep in mind. 
Going forward, it will guide you in the decisions you make about your own
content.









Changes in 2003
Webmasters knew that backlinks to pages helped them rank, so
they did everything they could to increase the number of backlinks.  
In 2003, Google clamped down on webmasters that interlinked
their own sites in an effort to manipulate ranking.  Google
also targeted pages that contained hidden text (and hidden links).
Also in 2003, the Google Dance was replaced by "Everflux". 
The Google Dance was something webmasters looked forward to.  It was roughly a
once a month phenomenon where the index was updated, and as it did, pages
jumped around in the rankings for a few days before finally settling at their
new position.  Everflux, by contrast, constantly updated rankings on a daily
basis, meaning pages could move around the SERPs at any time during the month.
In September 2003, because of the size of the index (which
was expanding rapidly), Google introduced the Supplemental Index.   This is
where pages that Google felt weren't of a high enough quality were stored. 
When someone searched at Google, if there were good matches in the main index
for the query, they were shown to the searcher.  If there were few or no
results in the main index, Google could then draw on the supplemental index for
results. Webmasters tried very hard to keep their content out of the
supplemental index.
Finally, in 2003, there was a big change that shook the SEO
world.  It was called Florida and happened in November 2003.  Many websites
lost rankings and businesses went bust.  This update was designed to eliminate
poor quality content that was only ranking because of the SEO techniques
employed by the owners.  A number of factors would have been taken into account
including keyword stuffing, especially commercially valuable keywords.









Changes in 2004
In 2004, Google's index increased dramatically, meaning it
had to work harder to identify the quality.  
Google looked at inbound link quality, anchor text relevance
and probably employed more of its Latent
Semantic Indexing (LSI) technology to help it understand synonyms.  It also
became increasingly important NOT to link to poor quality sites.  By linking to
poor pages, you were effectively vouching or "voting" for these bad pages.  Google
warned against this, and referred to it as linking to "bad neighborhoods".  You
can see what Google was trying to do here.  The threat was clear - link to poor
quality and you will be seen as poor quality. 
Google was on the lookout for other deceptive SEO tactics,
like hidden text and keyword stuffing of meta keyword and description tags.
2004 was also the year of Google's initial public offering
(IPO) of shares, raising $1.67 billion.









Changes in 2005
Continuing its attempt to control
spammy linking practices, Google (Yahoo & Microsoft) introduced the
"nofollow" attribute.  This allowed webmasters to link to another site without
actually vouching for the site.  For example, if you wanted to link to a page
that might be in a bad neighborhood, or you thought might become part of a bad neighborhood
in the future, you could add the nofollow attribute to the link, and that would
protect you against a Google penalty.  This worked because the "nofollow" tag
told Google you were not vouching for the site.  
This is still used today.
A common use for the nofollow tag today is by Wordpress /
Blog site owners, who make the comments on their site nofollow.  This protects them
because people who leave comments often link to their own websites, and you (as
the site owner), do not control those outbound links.  By making them nofollow,
you are telling Google that you do not vouch for those links.
Algorithmic changes in 2005 probably included duplicate
content filters and the way in which URLs with and without the "www." were
treated (canonical URLs).
Google also began looking at user search history to
personalize search results.
Towards the end of 2005, we saw an update named "Jagger". 
Jagger was again a quality control measure, targeting low-quality links, like
reciprocal links (where websites exchange links with each other) and bought
links (where a webmaster pays another webmaster for the link).









Changes in 2006
This was a relatively quiet year.  In November, Google
released an update that changed the way the supplemental index was handled, and
how the pages within it were filtered.









Changes in 2007
Google introduced "Universal Search" in May 2007.  This was
just an integration of news, images, video etc. into the search results.  It
made searching for different types of media a lot more convenient.  There was
also an update named "Buffy" in June, but Google said that this update was just
an accumulation of small changes.









Changes in 2008
In August, Google introduced Google Suggest.  This provided suggested
search terms in a drop-down box under the main search box.  









Changes in 2009
In February, we saw "Vince".  This update seemed to support
the ranking of higher authority "brands".  It was all about trust, authority,
and reputation, and while Google suggested it was a small change, many smaller
mom & pop websites suffered.









Changes in 2010
Google "Places" appeared in the search results.  This used
the searcher's location to provide relevant local information about businesses
in the area.
At the end of April/beginning of May, Google introduced a
change which impacted long-tail results.  Previously, a lot of low-quality
pages were showing up for long-tail search queries (searches with several
words), and Google wanted to increase the quality of those results.  It did so
in the "May Day" update.
In June, we finally saw an update that we had been waiting
for, called Caffeine.  We had seen a preview of this update in 2009, but it was
June 2010 when it was finally rolled out.  Caffeine integrated crawling and
indexing more closely, resulting in a much fresher index, and a much faster
Google.
Google Instant appeared in September and was a natural
evolution of the Google Suggest feature introduced in August 2008.  This is the
feature you see today, where Google offers you suggestions as you type your
search string.  These suggestions are based on previous searches by other users
that match your search string.

In December, Google confirmed that it was using social
signals in its algorithm to help determine ranking. 
These included Twitter and Facebook.  









Changes in 2011
This was a huge year in SEO, shocking many webmasters.  
At the beginning of the year, Google tried to hit scraper
sites (sites that used bots to steal and post content from other sites).  This
was all about trying to attribute ownership of content to the correct owner and
penalize the thieves.
On 23rd February, Panda was launched in the US. 
Panda (also called "Farmer") was essentially targeting low-quality content and
link farms (sites whose only real function was to link out to other sites,
whether paid or free, e.g. article directories, site directories, etc.).  
The term "thin" content became popular, describing pages
that really didn't say much, and were there purely to host adverts or gain
traction in the SERPs through the use of keywords.  Panda was all about
squashing thin content, and a lot of sites were hit.
In March, Google introduced the +1 button.  This was
expected, bearing in mind that Google had confirmed it used social signals in its ranking algorithm.  What better signals to monitor than its own?
In April 2011, Panda 2.0 was released, expanding its reach
to all countries of the world, although still only English language pages at
this point.  More signals were included in Panda 2.0 and probably included user
feedback via the Chrome web browser (users were able to "block" pages in the
SERPs that they didn't like).
As if these two Panda releases were not enough, Google went
on to release Panda 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5 & 3.1, all in 2011.  Note that
Panda 3.0 is missing.  There was an update between 2.5 and 3.1, but it is
commonly referred to as Panda "Flux". Each update built on the previous one, to
help eliminate low-quality content from the SERPs.  With each new release of
Panda, webmasters worried, panicked, and complained on forums.  A lot of
websites were penalized.
In June 2011, we saw the birth of Google's social network,
Google Plus.  
Another change that angered webmasters was "query
encryption" in October 2011.  Google said it was doing this for privacy
reasons, but webmasters were suspicious of the motives.  Prior to this,
whenever someone searched for something at Google, the search term they typed
in was passed to the site they clicked through to.  That meant webmasters could
see what search terms visitors were using to find their site.  Query encryption
changed this.  Anyone that was logged into their Google account at the time
they did a search would have their search query encrypted.  This prevented
their search term from being passed to the website they visited.  The result of
this was that webmasters increasingly did not know which terms people were using
to find their site.
Could it be that Google was intentionally trying to prevent
webmasters from optimizing for specific keywords?
In November 2011, there was a freshness update, supposedly
rewarding sites that provided time-sensitive information (like news sites) when
visitors were asking for time-sensitive information.  E.g. sites that published
the local election results during an election.









Changes in 2012
Again, 2012 was a massive year for SEOs and webmasters.  
There were a huge number of prominent changes starting off with one called
"Search + your World" in January.  This was an aggressive measure by Google to
integrate its Google+ social data and user profiles into the SERPs.
Over the year, Google released more than a dozen Panda
updates, all aimed at reducing low-quality pages appearing in the SERPs.
In January, Google announced a page layout algorithm change
that penalized pages with too many adverts (or very little value) above the
fold (above the fold refers to the visible portion of a web page when a visitor
lands on the page, without scrolling down).  Some SEOs referred to this as the
"Top Heavy" update.
In February, Google announced another 17 changes to its
algorithm, including spell-checking, which is of particular interest to us. 
Later in February, Google announced another 40 changes, and then in March,
there were 50 more changes announced, including one that made changes to anchor
text "scoring" (anchor text is the text that is used in a link).
Google certainly wasn't resting on its laurels.  On April 24th,
2012, Penguin was released.  This was widely expected and webmasters assumed it
was going to be an over-optimization penalty.  Google initially called it a
"webspam update", but it was soon named "Penguin".  This update checked for a
wide variety of spam techniques, including keyword stuffing, but also analyzed the anchor text used in links pointing to a website.
In April, another set of updates were announced, 52 this
time.
In May, Google started rolling out the "Knowledge Graph". 
This was a huge step towards semantic search.  We also saw Penguin 1.1 this
month and another 39 announced changes, including better link scheme detection (where
webmasters were building links to gain better rankings).
In July, Google sent out "unnatural link warnings" emails via
Google Webmaster Tools to any site where it detected a large number of "unnatural"
links.  The message was clear.  Remove the unnatural links or your site will
receive a penalty.
Think of unnatural links as any link the webmaster controls,
and probably created themselves.  These included links on blog networks and
other low-quality websites.  These inbound links typically used high percentages
of specific keyword phrases in the anchor text.  Google wanted webmasters to be
responsible for the links that pointed to their sites, and that meant
webmasters were expected to contact sites that "unnaturally" linked to them,
and ask for these links to be removed.  
Unfortunately, if you have ever tried to contact a webmaster
to ask for a link to be removed, you'll know that it can be an impossible task. 
For many webmasters, this was an impossible task, since the unnatural link
warnings were often the result of tens or hundreds of thousands of bad links to
a single site.  Google eventually back-tracked and said that these unnatural
link warnings may not result in a penalty.  The word on the street was that
Google would be releasing a tool to help webmasters clean up their link
profiles.  
Also, this month, Google announced a further 86 changes to its algorithm.
In August, Google started penalizing sites that had
repeatedly violated copyright, possibly via DMCA takedown requests.
In September, another major update occurred, called the EMD
update.  You'll remember that EMD stands for Exact Match Domain and refers to a
domain that exactly matches a keyword phrase the site wants to rank for.  We
looked at these earlier.  EMDs had a massive ranking advantage simply because
they used the keyword phrase in the domain name.  This update removed that
advantage.
In October, Google announced that there were 65 changes in
the previous two months.
On October 5th, there was a major update to
Penguin and probably expanded Penguin's influence to non-English content.
In October, Google announced the Disavow Tool.  This was
Google's answer to the "unnatural links" problem.  The Disavow Tool completely
shifted the responsibility of unnatural links onto the webmaster, by giving
them a tool to "disavow" those links.  If there were links from bad neighborhoods
pointing to your site and you could not get them removed, you could disavow the
links, effectively rendering them harmless.
Also in October, Google released an update to its "Page Layout" update and then finally, in December, it
updated the Knowledge Graph to include queries in a number of the more popular
languages.









Changes in 2013
In 2013, Google updated both Panda and Penguin several
times.   These updates refined the two different technologies to try to
increase the quality of pages ranking in the SERPs.  On July 18th, a
Panda update was thought to have been released to "soften" the effects of a
previously released Panda, so Google obviously watched the effects of the
updates, and modified them accordingly.
In June, Google released the "Payday Loan" update which
targeted niches with notoriously spammy SERPs.   These niches were often highly
commercial, offering great rewards for any page that could rank highly, so they
were targeted by spammers.  Google gave the example of "payday loans" when
announcing this update, hence its name.
In July, we saw an expansion of the Knowledge Graph.
Around the 20th of August, Hummingbird was
released, though it wasn't announced to the SEO community until September 26th. 
Hummingbird seemed to be related to semantic search, trying to provide more
personalized, relevant search results to each user, based on online activity,
location, search history, etc. 
In December 2013, there was a decrease in the numbers of authorship
and rich snippets displayed in the SERPs (where Google displayed a photo of the
author and/or other information next to the listing), as Google tightened up its criteria for showing these next to a listing.









Changes in 2014
In February, Google updated its page
layout update.
In May, Payday Loan 2.0 was released.  This was an update to
the original Payday Loan algorithm, and it is thought to have extended the
reach of this algorithm to international queries.
In May, Panda was updated (called Panda 4.0) and Payday Loan
3.0 came along in June.
In July 2014, we saw the Pigeon update.  This affected Local
SEO and dramatically changed the local results.
In August 2014, Google removed Google authorship.  Google
authorship allowed webmasters to take ownership of their content and having a
photo of the author in the SERPs next to a listing did increase click through
rates.  This was now gone.
September saw another Panda update, but the next big updates
were in October when Penguin 3.0 and Pirate 2.0 were rolled out.
In December 2014, Penguin Everflux was released.  This meant
Penguin updates were now continuous updates.









Changes in 2015
In April, the Mobile Update was unveiled.  This was dubbed "Mobilegeddon"
because it was supposed to stop web pages that were not mobile-friendly from
ranking well on mobile devices.  In actual fact, I saw very little difference
in traffic for my non-mobile friendly websites.
In May, there was the quality update which was originally
dubbed the "Phantom 2" update.  Google said it was core algorithm changes that
impacted "quality signals".   
In July, Panda 4.2 was released, and then in October we saw
"RankBrain".  This meant that machine learning was being used as a ranking
factor.









Changes in 2016
In May, we saw the Mobile-Friendly 2.0 update.  I'm not sure
of the impact of this update because by then, all of my sites were
mobile-friendly.  
In September, we saw the "Possum" update.  This was in all
likelihood a local search update.  
From September to October, Penguin 4.0 was rolled out.  This
update took time and meant Penguin was now in real-time and part of the core
algorithm at Google.  The benefits to webmasters were huge.  If your site was
hit by a Penguin penalty, you could now fix the problem and expect your site to
bounce back as soon as Google revisited your site.









Changes in 2017
In January, Google started to roll out an update that would
impact pages that had intrusive popups or other "interstitials" ruining the
mobile experience.  Essentially, anything that covered the main content on
mobile devices and required attention (e.g. a click) to dismiss it, was
targeted.
That brings us up to date as I write this book.  As you can
see, Google has been very active in trying to combat the spam thrown at it. 
The two major updates that most webmasters worry about are Panda and Penguin. 
Together, these two technologies weed out low-quality pages and undeserving pages
that have been engineered to rank highly in the search engines.
That last sentence is shocking to many webmasters.  
Anyone that builds a website will want it to rank well in Google
because, without that, the site won't get much traffic.  Therefore, webmasters
WILL try to boost their rankings, and the traditional way is by working on the "on-page
SEO" and inbound links. However, over the last couple of years, in particular, Google
has introduced measures that try to penalize any webmaster that is actively
trying to boost rankings via traditional SEO.
Google wants the best pages to rank at the top of the
SERPs.  Google wants to reward the pages that deserve to be at the top, rather
than the pages that are forced to the top by SEO (much of which Google
collectively calls "webspam").
What this means to you, is that you have to
deliver the absolute best quality content you can.  You need to create content
that deserves to be at the top of Google. 
Fortunately, Google does offer us a lot of
advice on how to create the type of content it wants in
its SERPs.  In fact, it has set up a web page called "Webmaster Guidelines" to
tell us exactly what it wants, and what it doesn't want.  We'll look at this shortly,
but first, let's see how we used to create content.











How we used to write content
Let's have a look at how content used to be
written.  Armed with the knowledge of the previous section, you should be able
to easily spot why those techniques no longer work.
I'll show you an example article in a
minute - one that used to rank well in Google and was quite profitable through
Adsense advertising.  First, let me walk you through the process that was used
to write the article (the same process millions of webmasters used, and some
still do, to create webspam).
Step 1 -
Identify profitable keyword phrases.  
This was (and still is) fairly easy.  Using
Google's own keyword tool, webmasters would find as many relevant keywords as
they could.  Keywords would then be sorted and filtered to find the profitable
keywords.  These would have:
·        
High demand (searched for a lot)
·        
Low competition (not many competing pages in
Google for that term)
·        
High CPC in Google Adwords
Step 2 -
Write an article focused on a profitable keyword in the hope that it would rank
well for that, and usually only that, keyword phrase.  The keyword phrase was
typically placed in the title, the body of the article a few times (let's say a
density of 4%), etc., and a couple of synonyms were added, if possible.
A page created this way had the potential
to rank high, and get traffic. 
A lot of "Internet Marketers" used this as
their business model, creating dozens, even hundreds or thousands of websites
(using tools in many cases to automate the site building) with lots of pages
targeting individual, high demand phrases.  By slapping up several Adsense
adverts on their pages, they could monetize that traffic and make money from
their websites.  
It was
not unusual to see a single website, with individual pages built around each of
the following keywords:
·        
Colored contact lenses
·        
Coloured contact lenses
·        
Coloured contact lens
·        
Colored contact lens
·        
Colored contact lenses online
·        
Coloured contact lenses
online
·        
Coloured contact lens
online
·        
Colored contact lens online
·        
Buy colored contact lens
·        
Buy colored contact lenses
·        
Buy colored contact lens online
·        
Buy colored contact lenses online
All of
these articles were essentially about the same thing, just targeting a
different keyword phrase.  And they all appeared on the same website.
I remember one software tool that made a
lot of people very rich.  You simply pasted your keyword list (often hundreds
of thousands of keywords) into the software, and the software would spit out a
website with one page per keyword.  Each page would include Adsense ads to make
money from visitors.  The web page content was actually just Google results for
that keyword phrase.  Quite clever really, since all pages built by the
software were obviously highly relevant to the phrase that was targeted.
As you can imagine, the level of spam in
the Google index skyrocketed.  It really did seem like the wild west.
Here is
a real piece of content that was written well before Panda and Penguin, ranked
well, and made a fair bit of money through Google Adsense.  

Special Effects
Contact Lenses
Have you seen star
of the movie Riddick Chronicles? Bet you've wondered for the longest time where
to get his obviously special contact lenses.  Films and the costume industry
need to employ a lot of special effects to make the character more convincing,
and special effects contact lenses, help to achieve these look. But special
effects contact lenses are medical devices too and that means great care must
be used in buying and wearing them.
Since special effects
contacts are medical devices, under FDA law, any purchaser must be fitted for
them before he or she can use these.  Even if you have 20/20, vision or possess
a mild case of astigmatism. 
Examples of special
effects lenses are: Wild Eyes Zebra, Pool Shark 8 Ball, Starry eyes (have the
stars and moon in your pupils), The Stars & Stripes: an American flag, Red
Spiral: red with a white spiral, Fire: yellow flames circle your pupil on a red
background or Bloodshot: white with red "blood vessels".  
Special effects
contacts are made out of soft lenses and worn according to different
replacement schedules, such as:
Daily wear lenses -
These lenses must be removed at the end of each day, cleaned and then stored.  

Extended wear soft lenses  - designed to be worn for periods up
to a month and can be worn even when sleeping.   
Disposable contact
lenses -  worn for a specified time and then thrown away.  
So whether you just
like to show your patriotism during the celebration of Independence Day, or
change a mood, special effects contacts can do that for you with punctuation.  
However, you must
never share or swap your costume contacts with anybody. An eye infection caused
by improper use can lead to blindness.
Get fitted for your
prescription, for it the contact lenses don't fit your eyes properly, it could
lead to serious eye problems, scarring, abrasions and infections.   
As long as you
follow the rules in buying special effect lenses and take care of the ones you
have, you won't have to worry a thing about wearing them. So make sure you go
to a trained eye professional for your contacts.

 
That is
363 words.  
Read it
and see what you think.
Is this
a good article?  
Does it
read naturally?
Can you
imagine finding an article like that in Google today?
Can you
see what phrase the author was trying to rank for?
The
webmaster was clearly trying to target the phrase "special effects contact
lenses".  The article included:
·        
Special effects contact lenses in the title and twice in the opening paragraph.
·        
Special effects contacts THREE times.
·        
Special effects
SEVEN times in the article and once more in the title.
Overall:
·        
Special appeared
NINE times on the page.
·        
Effect(s)
appeared NINE times on the page.
·        
Contact(s)
appeared ELEVEN times on the page.
·        
Lenses appeared
TWELVE times on the page.
And this
was actually one of the better pieces of keyword-focused content that I saw
ranking in Google!
This
article is clearly very poor.  It's not just that it is obviously focused on a
specific keyword phrase, the article also suffers from poor grammar throughout.
To me, it reads as if someone was given a keyword phrase, and asked to fill in
a bunch of words around that phrase ;)
Though
badly written, the article isn't all bad.  It does actually include some useful
information.  Overall, though, I am sure you agree that you would not expect to
read that article in a newspaper or magazine discussing special effects contact
lenses, would you?
Google
has actually stated in its guidelines that one of the tests you can apply to
your content is whether or not it would be out of place in a quality magazine. 

I have a
different test for my own content.  I ask myself, would visitors want to
share this content?
In other
words, is the content "Share Bait".  We'll come back to this term later in the
book.  For now, I want us to turn our attention to what we know Google wants
and does not want.















 
The
Webmaster Guidelines
If you want your pages to rank well in
Google, follow Google's Rules...
You can find them here:
https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/35769?hl=en
If you
don't want to read through all of the guidelines, or this chapter, I can
summarize what Google wants in terms of content in just one sentence.
Create
content your visitors want to read!
Google can
gauge how successful you are in that goal because it monitors a number of
factors including:
·        
How long a visitor stays on your page/site
·        
The bounce rate of your pages (the percentage of
people that bounce straight back to Google after visiting your page).
·        
How many citations/shares your page(s) gets from
social networks like Twitter, Facebook, and especially Google Plus.
Obviously, content is only one part of the
jigsaw puzzle.  You can have great content but break some of the other rules in
the Webmaster Guidelines.  Do that and you are just as likely to lose rankings
and disappear from the SERPs.  For that reason alone, I recommend you read this
chapter in full, and refer back to the Google guidelines regularly, as they are
updated occasionally.









A Breakdown of the Google
Webmaster Guidelines
The guidelines cover more than just
creating good content.  They are there to tell you the best ways to help Google
"find, crawl and index your site" as well as the "quality" aspects.  The
guidelines also give specific examples of what Google considers "illicit" practices
that could lead to a site being penalized or even removed (de-indexed) from
Google.
Let's go through some of the more important
points.  
Design and Content Guidelines
·        
"Include a sitemap on your site." A sitemap should link to the
most important pages on your site, in fact, every page that you want Google to
know about.
·        
"Every page on your site should be reachable via at least one
static text link on another indexable page."  I'd actually go one step further
and suggest that you make sure every page on your site is only two clicks away
from the homepage.
·        
"Don't have too many links on a page."  How many are too many? That's
difficult to answer, but I would certainly stay away from long sidebar menus
listing dozens of other pages on your site.
·        
"Create a useful, information-rich site."
·        
"Think about words users would type to find your pages, and make
sure that your site actually includes those words within it."  This is one
instruction that I think is left over from the pre-Panda and pre-Penguin
Google.  As we saw earlier in the book, a lot of top pages that rank for a
phrase do not include that phrase on the page.  I think it is important to
include all of the words that make up a phrase, but having the exact phrase is
unnecessary.
·        
"Try to use text instead of images to display important names,
content or links.  The Google crawler does not recognize text contained in
images."  Google want to accurately assess your content and categorize it.  It
should make sense that important text is written as text, rather than as part
of an image.  However, there may be times you will want to add text as an
image, for example, when displaying a contact email address.  This prevents
bots from harvesting your email address and selling it to spam lists, which
ultimately results in unsolicited emails, usually with no way to stop them.
·        
"Make sure that your <title> and ALT attributes are
descriptive and accurate."  A lot of webmasters use the title tags and ALT tags
as a way of inserting more keyword phrases into a page.  Don't do it.  Not only
does Google see this "keyword stuffing" as "webspam", but it also deprives your
blind and visually impaired visitors from accurately "reading" your web page.
Technical Guidelines
A lot of these technical guidelines are for advanced
webmasters, though there are a few that everyone should be concerned about. 
Here they are:
1.    Search engine
spiders tend to see web content as text, so things like Flash, Javascript, etc,
can cause problems.  If you want your content spidered and indexed, make sure
it is readable as plain text.  Google points out that you can check to see what
a typical search engine spider sees, by visiting your site in a text browser
like Lynx (http://lynx.browser.org/).
2.    "Ensure that your
site appears correctly in different browsers."  This is quite important because
quite often, what we are seeing in one browser is not how another browser
displays the page.  There are a number of free online tools that can help you
test this.  Just search Google for "test site in different browsers".  Don't
forget, an increasing number of visitors will be using mobile devices like
tablets and phones which have very different screen resolutions, and don't
forget that some of these are not able to display flash video.
3.    "Optimize your page loading times. Fast sites make users happy and
improve the overall quality of the web (especially for those users with slow
Internet connections)".  Google suggests that load time is a factor in its
ranking algorithm.  Any page that takes too long to load could be penalized.  A
long load time WILL annoy visitors, which may get them clicking the back button
before your page loads.  This, of course, will be noticed by Google if the
visitor bounces right back to the Google search results to find a different web
page.  There are a number of free online tools that can analyze your page load
times.  The free one that I use is at GTMetrix.com.
Quality Guidelines
The quality guidelines cover the more
common forms of "deceptive and manipulative behavior" to avoid.  However, as
Google points out, just because something is not listed in this section, does
not mean it is safe.  This section is well summarized by this sentence from the
quality guidelines.
"Webmasters
who spend their energies upholding the spirit of the basic principles will
provide a much better user experience and subsequently enjoy better ranking
than those who spend their time looking for loopholes they can exploit."
By looking at what not to do, we can get a
good idea of what Google actually wants.  Many of these things will come as no
surprise after we saw the long list of Google algorithm changes earlier.   
Before we look at the list of what not to
do, Google does offer a few points on what it DOES want us to do.  They are:
1.    "Make pages primarily for users, not for search engines."  Remember that special effects contact lenses article?  Was that
written for the user or the search engine?  That article is exactly what Google
does not want, and writing content by focusing on a specific keyword phrase is
only going to cause you problems. 
2.    "Don't deceive your users."  This is a wide-ranging statement that
covers a whole host of sins.  We will see examples of this in a moment.
3.    "Avoid tricks intended to improve
search engine rankings."  Google suggests you ask yourself "Does
this help my users? Would I do this if search engines didn't exist?"  If
the answer is no, don't do it.  I certainly would not feel happy showing the
special effects contact lens article to a Google employee as an example of my
site content, would you?
4.    "Think about what makes your website unique, valuable, or
engaging. Make your website stand out from others in your field."  This is probably one of the more important things to remember. 
If you want your page to rank number one in Google, does it deserve to?  How is
your page better than the pages already ranked in the top 10?  What does your
page add?  What makes it unique and valuable enough that Google has to include
it in the top 10?
OK, so those are the guidelines on what
Google actually wants.  Now let's look at a few examples of things to avoid.
Things Not to Do
1.    Automatically generate content.  This is
content that has been created by some form of computer program or script.  An
example that may seem less obvious is to take your English article and use a
software program to convert that in Spanish, German and French, and then post
that content on your site to offer your visitors different languages.  There is
nothing to stop you using a translator tool to create an initial draft in
another language, but you must get someone proficient in that language to go
through and make changes so that it is actually grammatically correct.  Another
technology that became popular a few years ago (and is still done by many
today), is spinning articles.  This is a process whereby one article is spun
into different versions using a tool that swaps out synonyms, sentences, and
even whole paragraphs.  
2.    Link Schemes. The term "link scheme"
covers a multitude of sins, but basically, includes "any links intended to
manipulate PageRank or a
site's ranking in Google search results".  We all know that links help a page
to rank in the SERPs.  Therefore, webmasters have come up with all manner of
"link schemes" to build backlinks, increase their rankings and increase
profits.  Link schemes include buying/bribing and selling links, link
exchanges, large-scale article marketing or guest posting with keyword rich
anchor text links, and using automated software to build links.  In fact, any
link that was not "editorially placed or vouched for by the site's owner" is
considered an unnatural link.  Remember those?
3.    Cloaking (and sneaky redirects).  This
is a way of deceiving both the visitor and the search engines.  One version of
a page is shown to the search engines (which is highly optimized to rank well),
but when the link in the SERPs is clicked, the user is redirected to a completely
different page (which isn't so highly optimized and therefore would not have
ranked so well in the search engine).
4.    Hidden text or links.  Using CSS (a
technology that helps us control how our web pages look in a browser), it is
quite easy to make the text the same color as the background (for example white
text on a white background), effectively making it invisible.  This was a
technique that some people used to stuff keyword phrases into their pages in
the hope that their page would rank for those phrases.  The search engine
spiders would see the keywords since they are viewing a text based version of
the page, but human visitors would not see the keywords.  Hidden links were
often used to manipulate Page Rank and ultimately rankings.  
5.    Doorway pages. This is still used a lot
today.  The webmaster sets up a large number of pages, each trying to rank for
a specific term.  The special effects contact lenses article we saw earlier is
a good example of a doorway page.  That page was designed to rank for that one
keyword, but the site it was found on targeted hundreds of keyword phrases,
each one on a separate web page.  A twist on the doorway page idea is where all
of the doorway pages are on separate websites, and they all link to a single
web page or sales letter on a different website.  The idea here was to funnel
the doorway traffic to a single sales page.  This system helped spread the risk,
because if one doorway page (and the domain it was on) got penalized, the
others were still safely working away, funneling that traffic (and Page Rank)
to the main sales page.
6.    Scraped Content. This is where a
webmaster took content from one site and posted it on their own site.  Software
tools were often employed to do this job.  The idea was to increase the amount
of content on a website in the hope that this increased the number of terms the
site ranked for, therefore bringing in more traffic and increasing profits. 
While some content scrapers stole complete articles, even entire websites, and
therefore infringed copyright, others stayed within the law and were a little
less aggressive.  For example, a webmaster might grab videos from YouTube and
embed them into pages on his own site.  That is within the terms of YouTube, so
isn't stealing content.  However, just embedding the video in a new web page is
not enough to satisfy Google, because the video is already available on YouTube. 
Why do we need a second copy on the web?  The webmaster MUST add significant
value to any content "scraped" from another site.  In the YouTube video
example, this would mean adding original thought, opinion, and commentary on
the web page.
7.    Thin affiliate sites.  Affiliate sites
can be a great way to make a second (or even primary) income.  You place
adverts on your site and if someone buys something through your link, you make
a commission.  However, if you run an affiliate site, you MUST add significant
value for your visitor.  You cannot just throw up pages and pages of affiliate
product "reviews" containing nothing by copied product descriptions, copied
reviews, an image or two and an affiliate link.  Google wants you to add your
own unique and original content to the pages.  Google states in its guidelines
that "Affiliate program content should form only a small part of the content of
your site".  Does your site offer anything that the original merchant site does
not?
8.    Keyword Stuffing.  This is where a page
has words, phrases or numbers added, purely in an attempt to manipulate web
page ranking.  For example, if you had a website on teeth whitening, and
included a list of the US states in the hope of ranking for "teeth whitening
California", "teeth whitening Utah", "teeth whitening Kansas", etc., then that
is keyword stuffing.  Google will penalize you for this.
9.    Preventing and removing user-generated spam.  If you run a Wordpress site, then chances are you'll be accepting
comments from visitors.  A lot of comments will only be written by people
looking for a link back to their own website, and many people use software
tools to create hundreds or thousands of comments on any blog that accepts
them.  Never EVER approve a comment that does not add value to the page on your
site.  Don't approve comments that attempt to flatter you with "Great site", or
"Wow, I learned a lot".  They are clearly spam comments that are trying to
appeal to your ego to get them approved.  If you run any type of site that
offers visitors a profile page, or a forum, you need to keep those clean as
well.  Low-quality profile pages (as generated by spammers and their software
tools), as well as spammy forum posts, are YOUR responsibility if they are on
your site, and Google will hold you accountable.
That covers the webmaster guidelines.  Hopefully,
you aren't feeling daunted by that long list of don'ts.  As you can see, Google
is serious about making its search engine results the best they can be.  If you
want to see your pages ranking in the SERPs, you need to take these guidelines
seriously.  It actually isn't that difficult.  Just remember a couple of simple
rules.
1.    Create content for your visitor, not for the search engines.  
2.    Don't do something you wouldn't otherwise do if search engines didn't
exist.
OK, let's look at how we can create content
that the search engines will love. To do that, we need to create content that
our visitors love, and that means we need content ideas.  
What sort of content do your visitors want
to see?














 
Finding
Content Ideas
The
secret to keeping Google happy is to provide your visitors with the type of
content that keeps them engaged, makes them want to come back, and excites them
enough that they want to tell their friends, family and social (Twitter,
Facebook, etc) followers about it.
Your
first job is to come up with content ideas that can satisfy these rigorous
demands.
There
are a number of ways to come up with this type of content, and in this chapter,
I am going to go through some of the better ones.









1. Check out competitor sites
This is
usually my first stop.  Do a search on Google for a generic term related to
your niche and then visit the top 10 sites to see what they are talking about.
If these
sites have social sharing buttons, see which pieces of content have the most
shares, as those are the ones that have the potential to excite your audience
as well.









2. Use "footprints" to find
popular content
This is
one of my favorite ways of finding popular topics to write about.  
A lot of
websites are built using a Content Management System (CMS).  A good example of
a popular CMS is Wordpress.  In fact, I use Wordpress exclusively on all of the
websites I run.  
One
thing you may notice as you look at a lot of Wordpress sites is that certain
phrases appear on most or all of the pages of the site.  This is because those
phrases are hard-coded into Wordpress itself. 
A good
example can be seen below:

See that
phrase "Leave a Reply"?  That phrase appears on hundreds of thousands of
websites built with Wordpress, just above the comments box.  If I do a search
on Google for "Leave a Reply" in quotes, this is what I get:

Google
tells me that there are "about 164 million" pages that have that exact phrase
on the page.
Now, in
terms of finding content ideas, this footprint is not very useful.  However, there
is a related footprint that is pure gold.  
Check
out these screenshots:

These
screenshots are from three pages on three different websites.  See how each one
has "XXX responses to", where XXX is a large number?
Each
response is a comment and the more comments an article has, the more
interesting that article probably was to the target audience.
So how
can we use this as a "footprint" to find popular content?
"Responses
to" on its own isn't much good as a footprint since we only want to find pages
that have a lot of responses.
However, using a little trick of the trade,
we can modify the "responses to", to include a number range like this:
"50..500 Responses to"
If you search for this in Google, the search engine returns
pages that have anywhere from 50 to 500 "responses to".  Cool eh?
I've used 50..500 as my number range, but you could change
this to 100..1000 or whatever you want.  It will all depend on
your niche and how many results Google is finding for your footprints.  In less
popular niches, you may need to reduce your lower limit to something like 20 or
25.
Now, the footprint we've just talked about
isn't much use on its own.  We need to tell Google that we are only interested
in pages related to our niche.  Let's look at a specific example.
Let's say I have a website on weight loss.
I would select a few generic keyword phrases
for my niche like "weight loss", "lose weight", "lose fat" and maybe even
"diet", and then build footprints, like this:
"weight loss" "50..500
Responses to"
"lose weight" "50..500
Responses to"
"lose fat" "50..500 Responses
to"
"diet" "50..500 Responses
to"
I would then visit Google and type these
into the search box.  Let's take one of those strings and run it through Google
now.

Google uses our search string in the
listing description where possible, so we can instantly see that these results
have 90, 254, and 115 responses respectively.  
Those responses are comments to the
original post, and represent visitor interaction on the site.  Not only could
you go to these popular posts and leave your own comments, which would raise
awareness for your own website, but you could also check out the topic of the
post, work out why it is so interesting to those visitors, and write a similar
post on your own site.
Here's an idea.  
If a post is a little controversial, why
not write an opposing view on your own site and then post a comment on this
original post mentioning your opposing view with a link.  Assuming your comment
was approved, that would not only provide a link to your site but also give you
potential visitors interested in seeing your opinions on the topic.  People who
commented on the original post are more likely to comment on your post, whether
they agree or disagree with your point of view.  Since Google loves to see
posts with comments, that will kick start your own rankings.
Another
footprint that I like, which often returns even more results is this one:
"50..500
comments"
We use it in exactly the same way, and this will turn up
good numbers of posts to investigate.  Here is a comparison of the two
footprints for our "weight loss" example.


The
"responses to" gave use 15,600 results to work with.  The "comments" footprint
gave us over 2 million.
You can,
of course, use this footprint technique to find popular posts on specific
topics.  For example, suppose you had a health site and wanted to write an
article or two on kale (the vegetable).  
This
footprint technique would give you ideas on what type of article would be of
interest:

That's
three different ideas for articles in the first three results - kale chips,
kale pasta and kale salad.  Best of all, they are all popular articles.
You
could use this type of footprint technique to build up sections on your
website, or even find complete niche website ideas!









3. Forums
Forums are always a great place to find
content ideas, after all, people visit forums to discuss ideas and ask for
answers to their problems.
You could start off with a simple Google search like:
"weight loss" "forum"
By enclosing both parts of the search string in quotes,
Google will only return pages that have both of those strings on the page.
Here is that search in Google:

Over 20 million pages contain the phrase "weight loss" and
the word "forum".  That's quite a good start and will be good enough for most
popular niches.  However, that search does not guarantee that the results are
actual forums, just that the word "forum" appears on the page.
To increase your chances of finding real forums in your
niche, you can again use footprints.  Forums are created using scripts, and
scripts leave footprints that we can target.  
Here are some footprints to try in combination with your
generic niche term:
"weight loss" "viewtopic"
"weight loss" "Powered by PHPbb"
"weight loss" "Powered by vBulletin"
There are other footprints, but these should be enough to
get you started. 
When you get to the forums, look so see what questions
people are asking.  If there is a question with a lot of replies or obvious
interest, consider writing an article for your site on that topic, then join
the forum and direct people to your post.  Normal forum etiquette means you
should not be joining a forum just to link to pages on your own site, you'll be
seen as a spammer.  But if you join relevant forums, post helpful responses to
questions, and ask interesting questions to interact with others, you will
eventually be able to link to articles on your own site (or any other site)
without being seen as a spammer.
Another footprint that can yield good results is the word
"community".  After all, communities are groups of like-minded people
discussing a topic of interest.

This won't always give you real communities, but it usually
does turn up some gems that you can mine for content ideas.









4. Q & A sites
What better place to find ideas for content than websites
set up to ask and answer questions?  There are several sites like this,
including:
·        
Ask (http://Ask.com)
·        
Yahoo Answers (https://answers.yahoo.com/)
·        
Quora (https://www.quora.com/).
Quora is my personal favorite.  You can type in just about
anything at Quora, to find real questions & answers.  
Sign up for Quora (it's free), and you can start to join the
community and offer help to others.  It's a great way to drum up some interest in
your website.
There is a search box at the top of the screen, where you
can type in your topic of interest:

As you start typing, you'll see the auto-complete box drop
down so you can select a topic you are interested in.
When you land on the topic page, you can see some useful
data on the topic:

For example, that "Juice and Juicing" topic includes 2.3k
questions and 81k followers.  This allows you to gauge interest in topics.  
The topic page will also show you previews of questions on
that topic.

These previews show you how many comments each question has,
so you can quickly gauge interaction with each question.  
Look for questions that have a lot of comments and those
that have a lot of people following the topic.  This helps to identify popular
content that you could write about on your own website.  
Again, with Quora, you can post links to your own website,
so there is nothing to stop you from answering a question and linking to an
article on your own site ;).  I see the process something like this:
1.    Find a popular
question.
2.    Write an article
for my own site that answers the question, but also offers a different point of
view, or different information to that already given on the Quora site.
3.    Answer the
question on the Quora site, with reference to the article on your own site.
Not only does this technique add valuable content to your
own website, but it can also get people interested in that topic back to your
website.  Again, don't abuse this or you will be seen as a spammer.  I find it
is better to try to help out a bit on Quora, answering the odd question before
I try the "answer with link" tactic.









5. Follow
RSS feeds
An RSS feed is essentially a list of pages on a website. 
RSS feeds can include all pages on a site, or just the last 10 or so pages (the
exact number can be controlled by the webmaster).  
A lot of websites publish RSS feeds, and in fact, ALL
Wordpress sites create RSS feeds automatically.  A Wordpress site actually
creates a number of different RSS feeds, including feeds for:
·        
The latest posts
·        
Each category
·        
Every tag page
·        
All posts by each author
·        
And more...
One of the best ways to find content ideas is to follow your
competitor websites, and see what they are publishing content on.  If they
publish an RSS feed, it's easy to spy on them.
There are a number of services that can help you monitor the
RSS feeds of other websites.  My favorite is called Feedly, and you can sign up
for a free account at Feedly.com by logging in with your Twitter, Facebook or
Google Plus account.
Essentially you tell Feedly the URLs of the RSS feeds that
you are interested in, and they'll keep those feeds updated in your account, so
you can see the new content as it is published.
Let's do a real example.
Let's suppose I am interested in weight loss.
I can do a search at Google for weight loss RSS feeds as
follows:
"weight loss" "rss"
This will find pages that include the phrase "weight loss",
but also contain the word "RSS" on the page.  This usually returns pages for
sites that offer an RSS feed.  Here are the results in Google.

If I click on the first item, I can search for an RSS feed
which often looks like this:

Rather than click the icon, I typically right click and copy
the URL, which I can then add to Feedly.
To add to Feedly, just paste the URL into the search box:

.. and hit the return key.  

You'll see a list of results. Click the Follow button
that you can click to add the feed to your account.
Once the feed is added, your account will track that feed
and show you new content as it is posted to that site.
Find a number of RSS feeds and add them all to the same
Feedly account.   You can then track new content across a number of sites.  You
can even let Feedly find feeds for you by entering a keyword:

This will then list a number of feeds that you can easily
add to your Feedly account by clicking the follow button.
Within Feedly you can even create categories to add feeds
to, so you could have a category for all "weight loss" feeds, another for
"weight loss recipes", another for "diets" and so on.  That way you can monitor
multiple topics related to your site.
When new content is found in the feeds you are monitoring,
you'll see them in your Feedly stream.  You can then visit these articles,
check out their popularity (social shares, comments, etc), and "borrow" popular
topics to write about for your own site.
I'll leave you to explore Feedly yourself, but I'd recommend
you certainly add relevant feeds from your competitors, as well as those sites
at the top of the search engines for key phrases you want to rank for.  
Before we leave the topic of RSS feeds, there is a special
case that I wanted to mention - news feeds.
Let's take the weight loss example again.  
Over on Google, you need to sign into your Google account
(your gmail account if you have one, if not, create one).  
OK, if I search for weight loss, I get this:

Notice that menu underneath the search box?  One of those
items is "News", and by clicking it, you can find relevant, up to the minute
(usually) news on your chosen search phrase.

You can see that the first item was posted 9 hours
previously, and the next one 11 hours before I searched.  That's pretty
up-to-date, and if you have a section on your site to show "current news" in
your niche, this information can be invaluable.
Google News used to offer an RSS feed for these results pages,
but it stopped doing that.  However, if you scroll to the bottom of the page,
you should see a button to "Create Alert".
Click it.
You'll be presented with a screen that shows an alert
preview in the bottom section.  Check to make sure it shows the kind of stories
you are interested in.  At the top of this page, you'll see a button that says Create
Alert with a link next to it saying show options.  Clicking show options
will open up several options you can adjust:

Make sure you change the "Deliver to" field to RSS Feed.
Click the "Create Alert" button.
Google will now show you a list of all alerts that you have
set up.  

Click the feed icon and then copy the URL from your browser
address bar.
You can now paste this URL into Feedly to monitor Google
news for niche related stories.  
Feedly and RSS feeds can keep you up-to-date in your niche,
and you'll always hear about the hot topics as they arise.  This can be a great
way to identify content ideas that are sure to keep your visitors happy.









6. Keyword Research - Using Google Keyword Planner
I was a little reluctant to talk about
keyword research tools as a way of finding content ideas, for one simple
reason.  Armed with the data from a keyword research session, the temptation to
create "webspam" is too hard to resist for many.  Keyword research tools are
one of the main reasons Google has had to go to extreme measures to clean up its
search results of poor, thin content.
For years, the process employed by many
internet marketers was the same:
1.    Do keyword research.
2.    Find keywords that are searched for a lot, have low competition and
are commercial terms that are expensive to advertise on Google Adwords.
3.    Write a page of content around each of these profitable keywords.
4.    Slap up Google Adsense on the page.
That was the recipe for many people to make
big money online.  A single web page ranking high in Google could make 10s or
even 100s of dollars a day with Google Adsense clicks.   You can see why the
temptation was there to get as many pages online as possible, and some
webmasters literally put up millions.
With that said, keyword research is still a
valuable way to find out what people want.  Like so many things, it's how you
use the data that will decide whether Google sees you as a great content
creator or web spammer.
Google's own keyword research tool is free
to use, though you will need a Google Adwords account.
Google actually wants users of its keyword
tool to use its advertising platform (Google Adwords).  Therefore, you may find
it difficult to sign up without being forced into creating ads or entering a
credit card.  Don't panic, here are the instructions to sign up without having
to create ads or add a credit card.
Signing up for the Keyword Planner
without an Adwords Campaign
All you need is a Gmail address.  Once
you've got that, head on over to the Google Keyword Planner.  
https://adwords.google.com/KeywordPlanner
Click on the Sign in link top right
of the screen.
Go ahead and sign in with your Gmail
address and password.  You'll end up on this page:

Whatever you do, DO NOT click on the
Continue button.  If you do, you'll end up having to setup an Adwords
Campaign with no way to reverse this decision.  Instead, click the link at the
top to Skip the guided setup.
You'll be taken to a screen that says
"Hello, and welcome to Google Adwords".
That screen has a few settings you can
change.  Once you are happy with the settings, click the Save and continue
button at the bottom of the screen.
This will take you to a screen that asks
you to create your first campaign, but ignore that.  Instead, click on the Tools
menu at the top and select Keyword Planner.  

Congratulations, you now have a Keyword
Planner account.
I'm not going to show you everything you
can do in the Google Keyword Planner, but I'll show you enough to get you
started.  
Once you are logged in, you may notice a
warning at the top asking you to complete the setup of your account.  You can
ignore that.
There are a few menu choices on the left:

The one we are interested
in is at the top - Search for new keyword and ad group ideas, so click
it.
You'll now be presented
with a form to fill out, to tell Google what you want to do.

In the "Your product or
service" box, enter a word or phrase that is highly relevant to the
topic of your website.
Leave everything else
alone.  
Click the "Get Ideas"
button.
The data that is returned
is on two separate tabs - "Ad Group Ideas" and "Keyword Ideas".  

All of this data is
designed by Google to help people that want to buy advertising, but it is still
very useful for us.  The Ad Group Ideas are collections of related keyword
phrases.  Google groups them to help advertisers, but these groups can often
give us ideas on content, or even site design.  I often find ideas in the Ad
Groups for new categories of content on my own site.
However, I really want to
see the phrases people are typing into Google to find content.  We can do this
by clicking over to the "Keyword Ideas" tab.
At the very top of this
screen, we can see the data for the exact phrase that I typed in:
The
exact term "weight loss" is searched between 100k and 1 million times a month. 
I can also see that competition is high (lots of advertisers bidding on this phrase),
and Google is recommending I bid £1.16.  
What does bidding £1.16 mean? 

If someone searches
Google for "weight loss" and Google shows my advert, it wants me to agree to
pay up to £1.16 if that person clicks on my ad.  That's £1.16 PER CLICK!
Ads can appear in the
search results, or on partner sites (and pretty much anyone can be a partner
through the AdSense program).  Imagine you had a weight loss site and added AdSense
to monetize it.  If there are advertisers willing to pay £1.16 per click, then
every time a visitor to your site clicked this type of advert, you would make a
"commission" equal to the lion's share of up to £1.16.  Can you see why people
started creating pages around specific keyword phrases?
There are a lot of other
keywords in this niche that could potentially pay a lot more per click:

Can you see why focusing
on specific keywords can be so tempting?
These other keywords are
found further down the page.  You will see a lot of keyword ideas generated by
Google.  These keywords are taken straight from Google's keyword database, and
let's face it, Google knows what people are searching for, so while the data is
not 100% accurate (Google would never want to give us all the facts), they are
reliable enough to determine in-demand topics.
The columns you should
pay the most attention to are "Avg. Monthly Searches", "Competition" &
"Suggested bid".
We want to find phrases
that have high average monthly searches, HIGH competition, and a high suggested
bid.
No, that wasn't a
misprint.  
No.  I meant high competition...
People who look for low
competition phrases are the typical web spammers.  They intend to take the
phrase and create a page specifically optimized for that phrase (and nothing
else).  They simply want their page to rank for that one phrase.  This is what
Google calls Webspam, and it no longer works.
That's not to say you
cannot rank for that phrase.  It simply means you need to be a little more
intelligent in your approach.  
So let's get back the
idea of choosing high competition phrases.
High competition means a
lot of advertisers are bidding on the phrase, and if they are bidding on the
phrase, it means there is demand.  The value of that demand can also be determined
by looking at the suggested bid.  The higher the bid, the potentially more
commercial the term.  If we want to monetize the page in some way, it should be
fairly easy to find adverts, or even just use AdSense.
Remember though that we
are not looking to create a page that ranks for that specific term, we are just
looking for content ideas.  We don't need to worry what phrases we WANT our
pages to rank for as Google will decide that, with a little prompting from our
well-written, themed content.  The way we create our content will help them rank
for dozens, or even hundreds of keyword phrases.
So, look for high average
monthly searches, high competition, and high suggested bid.    This will
identify popular content ideas.
You can order a column
from high to low, and low to high, by clicking on the column title.  Another
useful feature of the Keyword Planner is that you can filter your results using
the options on the left.  Let's say you only want phrases that have a suggested
bid of at least £1 (or maybe $1 in your case, but I am in the UK), and high
competition.  That would surely weed out a lot of the chaff.
On the left, click on the
box titled "Keyword Filters":

A form opens up, and you
can specify your criteria:

After you make your
selection, click the Save button.  This will close the dialogue and
update your results.  
Looking down the keywords
I've generated and filtered for "weight loss", I can see a few good content
ideas:
1.   
Fast weight loss / Rapid weight loss (always popular in the pre-summer
months). 
2.   
Weight loss supplements (though this could be a whole category of
content on a weight loss site, with different articles exploring different
supplements).  We also have weight loss pills related to this search.
3.   
Weight loss surgery.
4.   
Diet Plans (again this could be a major category on a weight loss site).
5.   
Diets that work.
6.    Medical
weight loss gets a lot of searches, though there will be a lot of related
search phrases like gastric surgery, gastric bypass, bariatric surgery, etc. 
If you find an area that
you would like to look into further, just change the search term at the top of
the page.  You can enter several words, separated by a comma if you like:

You'll get to see the
data for those specific phrases:

.. as well as all of the
related terms generated by the Google keyword tool.
This new set gives me
more ideas for content, like:

Look at those suggested
bids!
Each of these phrases on
their own could be the inspiration behind an article.  It is important to remember,
though, that you WILL NOT be writing an article targeting the keyword
phrase itself.  These phrases are just the seeds for content ideas.  You need
to get inside the head of the person typing these phrases into Google and
decide why they are typing the phrase?
For example, take that
phrase "gastric bypass complications".  I'd imagine (though I could be wrong),
that the people searching for this phrase are likely to be the potential
patients or their families/friends trying to be prepared for all eventualities. 
In other words, how safe is it?  Are complications common?
My initial idea for
content might be to find real people who had been through the operation and
interview them about the procedure.  With the internet, it is relatively easy
to find people who are happy to talk and share experiences.  
I'd ask them things like:

·        
How did the operation go?
·        
How long was the recovery time?
·        
What, if anything went wrong?
·        
How have you found eating since the operation?
·        
Any words of warning to prospective patients?  
·        
If there was one thing you wished you'd known before the
operation, what would it be?
I'd be tempted to find
some people that were very happy with the operation and the results, and others
that had problems.  You could put both sides of the story forward, and offer
statistics on how likely someone was to face complications.  
So, I started with a
keyword phrase - gastric bypass complications.  
That is where my approach
differs from a lot of old school SEOs.  
Rather than try to rank
for that specific phrase as they would, I used the phrase as an idea for a
piece of content and wrote about the TOPIC.  
My article is likely to
rank for that exact phrase (as well as hundreds of other phrases), even if I
don't necessarily have the exact phrase on my page.  Why?  Because the way we
theme pages will mean we are including all of the related theme words and
phrases that Google expects to see in an authoritative article on that topic. 
Not only that but with such an interesting and visitor focused article, it is
likely to get a lot of shares and backlinks, which in turn will help it rank.
So, forget the old ways
of writing keyword-focused content.
Find phrases that people
are looking for, and then try to get into their heads to find out why they are
searching for those phrases.  Once you can answer that, you can create content
that will compete in Google, excite your visitors, attract likes, shares, and
most importantly, backlinks!









7. Paid Services
I wanted to briefly touch on paid services
that can help.
There are a couple of good services that
can show you what content is popular on other websites.  The first is called
Ninja Outreach.  You can find this tool here:
http://ezseonews.com/ninjaoutreach
Ninja Outreach is actually a suite of tools
that can be used for a range of tasks, from finding popular content to email
outreach to get other sites linking back to your site.
In the following screenshot, I typed
"juicing" into the content prospecting tool to find popular content.  This is a
great way to find ideas for your own website:
 
You can see that the top 2 items in this
list (which has 106 entries) are going against the conventional "juicing is
healthy" message.  This type of controversy can really take off in social
media, and if it does, you'll have viral content bringing in lots of visitors
to your site.  This type of approach has clearly worked on these two sites. 
The top article has 92k Facebook shares and the second one has 50k!
These articles have also acquired
backlinks, with the first one currently having 22 backlinks, and the second
with 149 backlinks.  This is a great benefit to creating outstanding "share
bait" content that people want to read and share.  
A second tool that is dedicated to finding
hot topics of conversation is Buzzsumo.  Here is a screenshot from that tool
showing the results when I searched for cholesterol:

This tool is more comprehensive and brings
up a lot more results.  You can see that cholesterol as a search term brings up
1465 pages of results (29,290 actual results).  
Again, this tool will highlight the content
that has received the most attention on social media.  It's great for finding
the next hot topic for your site.  Buzzsumo is quite expensive, though.
OK, this chapter should
have given you lots of ideas on how to find interesting and stimulating
content.  Remember your main goal.  You want to create content that your
visitors want to read, and share.











Types of Web Content
Your content should excite, entertain and/or inform your
visitors. 
With any content that you post on you site, it often helps
to think whether or not that content would be something your visitors would
want to share with their friends or social media followers.  This is a good
indicator of the type of quality you should be aiming for.
Ultimately the content on your site will determine whether
or not your site succeeds in the long term.  Do people bookmark your site? 
Does your content have a lot of social shares?  Does your site offer its
visitors a unique experience not found on competing websites?
It doesn't matter if your
site is a personal project, an eCommerce site, an affiliate site, or a company
website.  It MUST offer visitors a reason to return and that starts with the
content on the site.  In this chapter, I hope to give you some ideas to get
your creative juices flowing.  However, before we look at different types of
content, I want to talk briefly about link bait.









Link Bait?
Link bait is a term that you may already know.  Essentially,
link bait is any type of content that was created to attract links back to the
page.  Link bait can be something topical, funny or controversial.  
To explode your traffic, you need high quality, natural
backlinks.  If backlinks are your main goal, then think carefully about the
type of content you should be creating.  You need to create content that appeals
to the people that have the ability to link to your site.  Not everyone
does.  Most people visiting your site will be just that, visitors.  To create high-quality
natural backlinks, you need to find out who is already linking to content on
other websites.  These are the market's influencers.  Find them, find what they
are interested in and currently linking to, and create that content.  You can
then use email outreach (using tools like Ninja Outreach) to get those
backlinks.  
In SEO terms, links to a page are important for ranking in
the search engines, so if we can get other websites to link to our pages, we
benefit with better rankings.  Increase links, increase traffic AND keep
visitors happy with such great content.
If you are interested in getting backlinks, I suggest you
check out my SEO 2017 book on Amazon.  You can find links to all of my books
and courses at the end of this book.  Backlinks are important for all websites.
From now on, I want you to think about your content in terms
of "share bait" and "link bait".
Think of visitor experience first, search engines second.
OK, so let's explore the types of content you can post on
your site.









1.  Articles
When most webmasters think of content, they
think in terms of an article written about a specific topic.  This is, of
course, a valuable addition to any site as long as the article is well-written,
interesting to your target visitor and gets them sharing via social channels. 
Thinking of content as "articles" is
probably a throwback to the earlier SEO techniques of finding high demand, low
competition phrases, and writing a separate piece of content to rank for each
phrase. As you know, that is not the type of content you should be creating. 
If you are going to write a "traditional" article, and there is no reason why you
should not, you should be trying to make your article unique in terms of
content and voice.  Are you giving your opinions? Are you adding your own
personality?  Does the article offer something that is not already out there on
competitor websites? Does your article stand out enough that Google will want
to show it in the top 10?
For example, Julie has a website about the
Paleo diet and she decides to write an article called "What is the Paleo Diet?" 
In her article, she wants to talk about what you can and cannot eat while on
the Paleo diet.  
How is she going to make her article unique
in terms of content and voice?  What is going to differentiate her article from
the thousands of other articles on the exact same topic?  What is going to make
Google take her article above all of the others and put it into the top 10?
OK, I know a lot of you reading this are
shouting "LINKS".  
Yes, links help content rank.  However, it
doesn't matter how many links you have to an article if it's not very good. 
Even if it ranks well initially, the search engines will catch on, and rankings
will slide.  The first step in getting any piece of content to rank well and
STICK in the rankings is to make that content better than anything else out there,
or at least making it different enough (in some interesting way) to warrant a
place in the top 10.
To make her article on "What is the Paleo
Diet?" different, she could write an article on the things she found most
difficult about adapting to the Paleo diet.  What food items SHE misses, and
how she's replaced them with Paleo-friendly alternatives.  In other words, she
could write it from a personal standpoint and inject her own personality into
the article.  
An example might be that she found it very
difficult to give up bread and cakes.  She could then link to recipes on her
site offering paleo bread and paleo cake recipes. She might also miss peanut
butter (peanuts are legumes and aren't allowed), but she has a great almond
butter recipe that totally makes up for it.
After writing the article, she might decide
that her title of "What is the Paleo Diet?" is a little too generic and rename
it something like "My favorite Paleo-friendly alternatives to old food
addictions."
OK, that title is just off the top of my
head, but it's a good starting point, and I can see that type of article being
"share bait" in the Paleo community.
In the days of yore, webmasters would have
laughed at me for suggesting a title that did not contain a keyword phrase, but
you know better, don't you?
My point should be clear.  Your articles
need to stand out and offer visitors something that is not already in the top
10, otherwise, why would Google consider ranking your article above the current
top 10?  Your articles need to be interesting enough to encourage your readers
to share it through social channels. It's through social sharing that other
people (and search engines) will start to take notice.
A lot of the types of content we'll look at
in this chapter are "articles" in the traditional sense.  However, looking at
them as different categories or types of article is helpful, because it can
stimulate new ideas and opportunities for entertaining our visitors.  Let's get
on.









2.  PDF
PDF stands for portable document format and
is a standard way to distribute a document of some sort.  I like to create at
least one PDF document for a website because of its versatility.  
Ways you can use a PDF include:
·        
Offer it as an incentive to sign up for a
newsletter.
·        
Distribute it to a number of document sharing
sites, which not only get more eyes on the document but also offer an
opportunity to get a link back to your site.
·        
Add affiliate links to the document and give it
away.  When a reader clicks through on an affiliate link and makes a purchase,
you make a commission.  For example, if you had a "juicing" site, you could
create a PDF that reviews the top juicers, link to the juicers via affiliate
links, and give the report away.
·        
Create a PDF eBook and sell it on your site.
PDFs can be downloaded and read on
computers and mobile devices, so offer your visitors another way to digest your
content.









3.  Images including mind maps, infographics, diagrams etc.
Don't underestimate the
value of quality diagrams. They can be
flow charts, mind maps, or simple diagrams used to explain a point in your text. Have you heard the
phrase a picture is
worth a thousand words? Well, that applies to a web page too, and great images tend to be shared more than
most other types of content, especially since Pinterest and other image-sharing
sites arrived on the scene.
If a diagram
can help you explain something, use one. 
There are some great graphics packages
available for creating diagrams. My personal favorite is called eDraw Max.  It
allows users to create a wide range of diagrams, including mind maps,
infographics, flow charts, etc. You can read a review I wrote of the tool here:
http://ezseonews.com/review/diagrams-mind-maps-more/
A popular free graphics tool is the Gimp:
http://www.gimp.org/
Be warned, though, it comes with quite a
learning curve.









4.  Video
Google owns YouTube and probably because of
that, you see a lot of YouTube videos ranking in the top 10 of Google for a
wide range of search terms.  
You can create a YouTube channel free of
charge.  If you create a video and upload it to your channel, you can embed
that video into a web page on your site.
Good videos get shared a lot on social
media.
Remember, Google owns YouTube and can make
good videos rank highly in the SERPs.
Creating a video does not need to be
expensive or complicated.   You could record yourself or someone else on your
Smartphone and upload the video to your YouTube channel.  Alternatively, you
could record your computer screen to create tutorials using freely available
tools like CamStudio (http://camstudio.org/),
not to be confused with Camtasia Studio which is quite expensive.  Another
popular free tool is Screencast-O-Matic (http://www.screencast-o-matic.com/).
Create a video, upload it to YouTube, and
embed it on a page as part of a larger article.
Good videos also increase the time a
visitor stays on your site.  Since time on site is something that Google monitors,
this can only be good for your SEO efforts.









5.  FAQs
By their very name, FAQs or "frequently
asked questions" are exactly the type of content you should be including on
your website.  After all, they are the common questions that real visitors ask.
Whenever you get an email from a visitor
asking a question, create a web page on your site that displays the question
and your answer.  You can then send that person the web page (containing social
sharing buttons).  
This not only makes them aware of your site
if they weren't already, but it adds valuable content to your site and keeps
the person who asked the question happy.  If you include their name as part of
the question, they might even share the web page with their friends.  Everyone
wants five minutes of fame!
Over time, a FAQ section on your site will
grow, offering a really valuable resource to your visitors.









6.  Photos
Note that you cannot just download and use
any photo you want on your website.  If you find a photo that you want to use,
you must check out the licensing for that photo.  There are also stock photo
sites where you can buy a license to use photos.
OK, with that said, how can you use photos
on your site?
People don't generally like reading large
blocks of text.  If you can split it up with interesting photos, it makes the
content easier to digest.  They don't need to be professional quality photos. 
In fact, using your mobile phone to take the photos can add to the charm of
your web pages, since a visitor can see that there is a real person behind the
site.
Another excellent use for photos is as "link
bait".  People love funny photos, photos of animals, or babies, and just
anything that makes them laugh or go "ahh".
Depending on the type of site you run, you
might be able to think of photos that people would want to share.  With photo
sharing sites like Pinterest, Flickr, Shutterfly, and Instagram, photos can
really help boost traffic (and links) to your site.
Do you want a few examples?
If you ran a juicing site, cute pictures of
babies spilling juice all over themselves would be fun, though be careful not
to abuse your own child if you take these photos yourself J.
If you ran a pet site, the possible photo (and
video) opportunities are endless, from cute puppies to the photo of your
Rottweiler snuggling up to your pet rat or budgie.
If you ran a skin care website, maybe you
could show photos of the "worst tan ever".  Just Google it and you'll see what
I mean.  You could even run a competition on your site for "worst tan" photo
submissions.  
If you want to see how photos have been
used by others, go to Google and just search for viral photos.  You'll find
some really great ones.
There is also nothing to stop you taking a
photo and adding text to the photo, to make it funny.  I'm sure you have seen
these all over the internet.  









7.  Sounds files
With more and more people using smartphones,
sound files in various formats have become very popular.  You have probably
heard of audiobooks and podcasts.  These are two different forms of sound files
that people can download and listen to as they drive to work, go to the gym, or
stroll through the countryside with their dog.
Not everyone has the time to create a
regular podcast, but a series of downloadable audio files could be created in
one go, and released over time, maybe as part of an autoresponder.  The audio
can be saved as MP3 files, which makes them instantly usable by just about
every mobile device out there.
If you do have the time for a regular
podcast, this is one of the very best ways to build your audience.  You can
submit the podcast to various podcast directories, like iTunes, and as long as
you create interesting audio, you will grow an audience of people who feel a
real connection to you.  After all, they are listening to you in the comfort of
their own home, or car, and it's a regular "meeting".
What can you talk about?  Well, that
depends on your niche, but I would certainly reference content on your site so
that listeners will be interested enough to go and visit your website for more
details.









8.  How stuff works
I like this type of content.  People are
always looking for tutorials online to learn new skills.  Tutorials can be text
based, with lots of screen captures, or video based.  We mentioned video
earlier in this chapter, so go back and check for free screen capture software
where you can record your computer screen.  Alternatively, you could just
record tutorials, or "lessons", on your mobile phone and upload them to a site
like YouTube.  YouTube can host all of your video content, which is a big
money-saver for you.  If you want to create videos that do not appear in the YouTube
search, you can create private videos.  The only way to find private videos is
via a link that you can share with select people.  
Personally, I like a mixture of good video
tutorials with a text-based version (with lots of screenshots) as well.  I have
found that some people prefer to watch, while others prefer to read and follow
along.









9.  Top 10 lists
Top 10 lists (and even top 100 lists) are often found on sites like StumbleUpon, where users share
content that they find interesting.  StumbleUpon content can very easily go
viral as users vote content up or down.  If your content gets a positive
response, your site could end up getting a lot of attention.
Look at this:  

 
I searched Google for pages on StumbleUpon
that include the phrase "top 10" on the page.  
The search string consists of two parts:
1.    Site:stumbleupon.com - this tells Google to only return pages that
are on the StumbleUpon domain.
2.    "top 10" - which tells Google that all pages must include the phrase
"top 10"
We can narrow this search based on our own
niche interests.  For example, we could just look for top 10 articles on
Stumbleupon that are related to juicing:

That's a great start for finding content
ideas that could potentially go viral.
Try to come up with ideas for top 10 lists
that will really capture your visitor's imagination.
·        
Top 10 reasons diets fail
·        
Top 10 celebrities on the
Atkins diet
·        
Top 10 Wordpress plugins
·        
Top 10 reasons your car will fail this year
·        
Top 10 reasons to eat more spinach
·        
Top 10 reasons baby cry
·        
Top 10 things women like to hear
·        
Top 10 things men like to hear
Simply identify a problem and offer the top
10 causes or ways to solve that problem.
As you can see, it's easy to come up with
ideas for just about any niche.
If you struggle to come up with your own
ideas, you can search Google for existing top 10 articles in your niche, and
borrow ideas from what you find.  For example, I run a juicing site so this
might work:

In this search string, I used another
variable:
Intitle:juicing
This tells Google to only return pages that
have the word juicing in the web page title.   I included it because I only
wanted articles that are about juicing and not those that might just mention
the word "juice" in a sidebar or similar.
That search returned over 15000 top 10
style articles that include the word "juicing" in the title.   There should be
plenty of ideas there, although not all will be about the type of juice I am
looking for.
To make it easy for visitors to share your
content on sites like StumbleUpon, include social share icons on your web pages
including the one for StumbleUpon:

See the social sharing button chapter in
this book for more details.









10.            
Resources
Resources can be anything that your visitors might find
interesting.
It might be lists of articles on
other websites, relevant web forums,
computer software, interesting images, etc. 
You could have a resource page which links out to your recommended resources, or you
might decide to have a resource box at the end of an article, with a few
resources relevant to that article.  The idea is simply to offer your visitors
more value, by highlighting resources you think they will be interested in.
If you are
linking out to other websites, I do recommend you
open those links in a new window so
you don't lose the visitor from your own site. 









11.            
 "Recipes"
Recipes?
Think of "recipes for a happy marriage", or
"recipes for a stress-free life".  
For example, if you run a "computer" site,
maybe a "recipe for a virus free computer" (recommendations for anti-virus,
anti-spyware, firewall etc. as a kind of recipe).
If you have a motoring website, maybe "a
recipe for trouble free motoring" (check the oil, water levels, tire pressure etc.
before a long trip), or even a more literal recipe for a window cleaner you
make yourself from kitchen ingredients.  
The point is not necessarily using the word
"recipe" in the article or even thinking in terms of a traditional recipe. 
This is more of a trigger word to help you think of interesting things your visitors
will appreciate and make their lives easier.  
However, there are also recipes you use in
a kitchen!
If you have any type of health site, lots
of generic recipes are relevant.  If you have a health site focusing on a
specific problem, e.g. fat loss, diabetes, etc., you can include recipes
specific to your niche (recipes to help with fat loss or sugar-free recipes for
diabetics).
Recipe type content like this is great
share-bait.


















 
Writing Styles
Something you might like to think about is
the style of the article you are writing.  
While articles should always be
informative, they can be written in a number of different styles.
The 2 main styles I usually think of are:
·        
Journalist / facts -
where you try to be as impartial as possible, giving the information in an
interesting way.  Think about writing an article for a newspaper.
·        
Storytelling &
personal - Visitors love reading real stories about, and written by, real
people.
You may find that 100% of your content is a
mixture of the two, which we could classify as a third style:
·        
A combination of facts and personal - where you
provide the facts like a journalist would, but offer your own thoughts,
theories, experiences, etc., into the mix.
An example of a personal storytelling style
might start like this:  
"Today I feel great thanks to the
Atkins diet, but it wasn't always that way.  Just 12 months ago, 50lbs overweight
and with blood pressure running to 160/100, I had to get in shape. The Atkins
diet appealed to me because I was allowed to eat lots of meat, and hunger
wasn't a problem on the diet. However, before embarking on the diet, I needed
to find out if it was safe"... 
This method tells the reader that you have
been through their situation and can offer valuable help based on your
real-life experience. They want to know how the Atkins diet worked out for you,
and are more likely to trust you having read your personal story and know that
you went through it.
I would limit this type of article to those
topics where you have actually experienced what you are writing about.  Of
course, if you want to write that type of article but have not gone through the
experience, you could always "interview" people who have been through it and
offer their experiences in your article.  This article might start off in a
very similar way:
"I'm 50lbs overweight and my blood
pressure is 160/100.  I really need to get in shape. The Atkins diet appeals to
me because I can eat lots of meat, so hunger won't be a problem like the
calorie-controlled diets I have tried in the past. However, before I start the
diet, I need to know it's safe."...
This article could go on:
"Luckily I found 3 people who have been on
the diet, and have had the chance to chat with them about their experiences on
the diet, their results, and more importantly their blood work analysis, before
and after the diet."...
Here is another example of the personal
style article:
"My sister has battled the bulge all her
adult life. At 50 pounds over-weight, the final straw was when her doctor used
the words 'morbidly obese'"...
This article is based on the experiences of
someone close to you, so is still very personal, and that will come through as
you tell the story.
If the person was not known personally to
you, but you interviewed or chatted with them to get their story (moving into
journalistic style now), then the article might start off like this:
e.g. "Peter was 40 years old and 100 lb
overweight. His doctor told him that he was morbidly obese, and needed to lose
weight to avoid health complications.  I was lucky enough to chat with him..." 

In this article, we might get a combination
of the personal and journalistic styles, as you add in your own thoughts,
personal experiences or advice.  
Of course, if you want to keep your own
thoughts and opinions out of the article, and simply report the facts, articles
can become more like the pieces you would read in a newspaper.
This may be the style you prefer to use
when you write about topics you don't have personal experience with, and can't
find third-party stories to base your article on.
e.g. "The Atkins diet is based on high
protein, low-fat meals, and has been responsible for massive weight loss in a
number of prominent celebrities. However, health concerns often arise whenever
the Atkins diet is reviewed.....", and so on.
I don't want you to think that you have to
decide on a style and stick to it.  Usually, the style comes out as you write,
and you should be flexible in your content writing.  I suggest you think of
style more as an idea generator.  This has always helped me come up with a
lot of different angles for a particular topic I want to cover.
Ask yourself:
"What personal stories can I write about
weight loss?"
"If I was a newspaper journalist, what
angles can I come up with to write an article that isn't the same as every
other weight loss article?"
Starting with these two questions, you
should be able to come up with a number of ideas, and then settle on the best
one for the article.  If that article ends up mixing journalist and personal
approach, then so be it.  As long as it entertains and informs your visitors,
then you have succeeded in your mission.
Pretty much any type of article you create
for your site will fit one of these two main styles, or be a mixture of the
two.  Go back and look at the chapter on "Types of Content", and think how each
of the examples I gave could be written in a journalistic style, and in a
personal style.
Examples:
·        
A product review can come alive if written from personal
experience (which it should be).  However, a certain degree of journalism will
add much-needed information about the product you are reviewing.  Adding in the
views of other people you have spoken to will add more credibility to your
review.
·        
A Q&A session might be mainly journalistic,
but adding in your own personal thoughts and experiences can bring the Q&A
to life.
·        
You might have a page of facts, maybe a top 10 list. 
That may well be just a journalistic piece, but you could add in some personal
insights too.
·        
Think how you would write a tutorial for
something.  It's mainly about writing facts in a way that helps the visitor
understand how to do something, but it is also useful to add in your own
experiences, tips, and tricks.
OK, it's time to start
turning out attention to the "how to" write, so let's look at something I call
"Niche Vocabulary" because all good text based content has it.














 
Niche
Vocabulary
If you had
two articles in front of you, one written by an expert, the other not, you
could tell them apart, right?
Google certainly seems to be able to.
How is it that Google can analyze documents
and spot those that are written by experts?  And remember, for the most part, it
is computer code that is doing the analyzing for Google, not humans.  
There are a number of tell-tale signs that
a computer can easily pick up.  
Think about spelling and grammar.  Word
processors do a reasonable job at this, so you'd expect Google to be able to as
well.
Grammatical and spelling errors often
appear in poorly written or rushed work.  However, they can just as easily
appear in articles written by experts.  If an article is not proofed before it
is uploaded, even the most authoritative articles could have spelling or
grammatical errors.
While Google does take notice of spelling
and grammar and can penalize for it, I don't think it is a major ranking factor
unless it is clear that spelling mistakes were included on the page deliberately
to help a page rank for misspelled search phrases.
One thing that is common to all quality
articles is the "vocabulary" they use.  For every topic, there are words and
phrases that MUST appear in that article because those words and phrases are ESSENTIAL
to that topic.
For example, if I was writing an article on
diabetes, I really would have to use words like:
Diabetes, insulin, glucose, blood, type,
levels, sugar and so on.  
Any expert writing an article on diabetes
would include these (and other essential) words NATURALLY as they wrote.  This
is the "vocabulary" I referred to earlier.  I actually call it the "niche
vocabulary", as the words and phrases will be very specific to the topic being
written about.
Every article you write will have its own
"niche vocabulary" that will ultimately help Google decide what the article is
about and rank accordingly.
Let's take the above example of diabetes a
step further.  
There are different types of diabetes -
type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes.  If you had 2 articles, one on each topic and
both written by an expert, would the niche vocabulary be the same?
The answer is no, but there would be some
similarities.
For example, both articles would probably
include those keywords we listed earlier:
Diabetes, insulin, glucose, blood, type,
levels, sugar
However, each article would also include
words or phrases that were a little more specific to that type of diabetes.
The type 1 diabetes article might include:
autoimmune, pancreas, stops producing insulin, beta cells, genetic factor
The type 2 diabetes article might include:
lifestyle, diet, insulin resistance, non-insulin dependent, adult-onset,
obesity
The niche vocabulary would have some
overlap, but overall, they are quite distinct.

There is a type of diabetes called
gestational diabetes.  It is a form of type 2 diabetes.  Therefore, we would
expect much of its niche vocabulary to be the same as type 2 diabetes. 
However, there are differences, since this type of diabetes is confined to
pregnant women:

The diagram isn't entirely correct above,
as some words or phrases may appear in other areas, but as an illustration, I
think you can see that different topics have their own, unique vocabulary. 
Where similar topics overlap, you see similar niche vocabulary in those topics.
It would be IMPOSSIBLE to write a great
article on gestational diabetes without using most, if not all of those words
and phrases in the Gestational diabetes circle above, wouldn't it?
Every article or piece of content will have
its own unique list of words and phrases that are important to that article.  
From Google's point of view, looking for
sets (or groups) of words and phrases on a page will help them understand what
the page is about, and make it easier for them to match the pages in its index
to the searcher's request.  It also allows Google to find the better articles
on a topic because it knows that better articles will have the correct niche
vocabulary.









A quick look at Google Search
If I go to Google and type in "Lost",
Google don't really know what I am looking for:

Am I searching for information on a lost
plane?  Lost girl?  The Lost in Space series?
As soon as I add another word, Google can
start looking for known sets:

Apologies to anyone that isn't a "Lost" (as
in the TV Series) fan.  Google immediately associated the words "Lost" and
"Freckles" and is now pretty sure what I am looking for since most of the
suggestions refer to the Lost TV series. Google also knows that "Sawyer" is
relevant to this search term.
Google isn't 100% sure as I might be
looking for information on losing freckles!
By the way, for non-fans, Freckles is the
nickname given to Evangeline Lilly's character by "Sawyer", the character
played by Josh Holloway.  Google knows this and offers me suggestions to help
me refine my "Lost" search.   
Depending on what I choose from the list of
alternatives, Google will have a better idea of exactly what I am looking for,
and be able to serve up the most relevant search results.  
For example, if I click on "lost freckles
sawyer", I am probably going to get more search results that include references
to Josh and the character he plays.  If, however, I choose "freckles lost
actress", I'd expect to see more pages in the SERPs relating to Evangeline
Lilly and her character.  Think how the niche vocabulary would be different in
both of those sets of articles.
Google tries to understand exactly what you
want, then looks for documents in its database that have the correct niche
vocabulary for that particular search term.
Incidentally, these search suggestions are
based on search queries entered at Google.  The ones at the top of the list are
the more common suggestions, so this is another interesting way to find content
ideas.









How can we use this information?
It might be that you want to rank a page
for "lost freckles sawyer".  The old way of doing that would be to create a
page, with:
·        
Lost-freckles-sawyer as the filename.
·        
Lost freckles sawyer in the title.
·        
Lost freckles sawyer in an H1 header.
·        
Lost freckles sawyer in the opening paragraph
and sprinkled throughout the article.
·        
Lost freckles sawyer in a hyperlink somewhere.
·        
Lost freckles sawyer as the name of an image.
·        
.. and so on...
The problem is, the phrase "Lost freckles sawyer"
does not make sense.  Any page created as shown above would clearly be bad
quality, and something Google would call "Webspam".
However, pages created like this used to rank
well, and not so long ago either.  This was how many webmasters created their
content!
You may even still find content in Google
that looks as if it was written around a keyword phrase like this, but it is
becoming rarer, and Google will stamp on it when found, often de-indexing the
offending site.
So, how exactly do you rank for "lost
freckles sawyer" if you cannot have that exact phrase on the page?
Simple.
Find out what someone is really looking for
when they type that search phrase into Google (searcher intent), and then work
out the niche vocabulary.  The niche vocabulary will tell Google what keywords
& topic the page should rank for.
It's not as difficult as you might think.  
There are pages in Google that already rank
for that term.
All you need to do is study the top 10. 
What "niche vocabulary" are they using which is helping them rank for that
phrase?  What words and phrases are essential to write a good article?
 
 









Finding Theme Words & Phrases
There are a number of tools that can help
you find the niche vocabulary for any topic you want to write about.  Some are
free, some are not.  I'll show you the best free method and the best paid tools
for the job.
Free Option - Google SERPs
Simply go to Google and search for the
phrase you want to rank for.  Look through the top 10 results.  As you read
through those top 10 pages, make a note of any niche vocabulary that you see.
This can be a time-consuming process (but I
will show you a free tool you can use to speed it up).  This method does have
the added bonus of showing you the pages that actually rank for a phrase, which
in itself is a great way to spark ideas for content.  
As you look through the pages:
·        
Note down anything that looks interesting or
unique to specific web pages.
·        
What are the sub-headings found in the top
ranked pages?
·        
Are there any cool features of the content that
really make the pages stand out?  
·        
What features of these top 10 pages make them
deserve to be in the top 10?
OK, I mentioned that there was a free tool
to help speed up the collection of niche vocabulary.  In fact, it's a web
browser add-on called SEOQuake.  It's available for Chrome, Firefox, Opera, and
Safari:
http://www.seoquake.com/
I personally use Google Chrome, so I'll
show you how to use the add-on in Chrome.  It will be very similar in the other
browsers.
Once installed, SEOQuake adds a button to
the right of your address bar:

It should be easy to spot, as it has an "S"
and a "Q" on the button.  It will be disabled by default, and in fact, we don't
need to enable it to use the feature I want to show you.
Do a Google search for something of
interest, and visit one of the pages in the top 10.  I did a search for "is
cholesterol bad for you" and pulled up this page:
https://paleoleap.com/cholesterol-is-not-bad/
OK, now click on the SEOQuake button, and
select "Page Info":

A new tab in the browser opens showing you
information about the page, including "keyword density", which is pure gold for
mining niche vocabulary:

Scroll down further and you'll find 2-word
phrases:

.. and 3-word phrases:

You may also have 4-word phrases on longer
pages:

The 2, 3 and 4-word phrases often have a
lot more irrelevant stuff, since the tool isn't finding actual "phrases", but
2, 3 & 4-word sequences of words.  However, this is still useful, it just
takes a little more time to sort through the 2, 3 & 4-word phrases.  
The density in the final column tells you
how many times each word or phrase appeared on the page, so the more a phrase
appears, the more likely it is to be important.
By looking at the information on this page,
I can put together a simple niche vocabulary for an article on this topic:
Cholesterol, heart disease, fat, paleo,
inflammation, food, brain, fatty acids, liver, nervous system, saturated fat,
salt, bad, sodium
These theme words were all taken from a
single web page.  I would need to go to more of the top 10 pages and look at
those as well.  The words and phrases that appear on more of the top 10 pages
are going to be the most important ones.  Clearly, they are the words and
phrases that MUST be used to write a great article on the topic.  By going through
the top 10 pages, you can quickly build up a niche vocabulary for any topic you
want to write about.
This will then serve you as a blueprint for
your own article.
Paid Option 1 - Keyword LSI Spider
I want to add a disclaimer.  I created and
own Keyword LSI Spider, so the following discussion is about my own tool, and
obviously if you buy, I am the one receiving your money.  
This tool is a simple spider that will
essentially do all of the manual work, described in the last section, for you. 
You simply enter a keyword phrase and click a button.  The spider checks all of
the top 10 web pages in Google to create a master keyword and phrase list.  It
then counts how many pages in the top 10 use each keyword.  In a couple of
minutes, you have a comprehensive list of theme words and phrase being used on
the top 10 pages that rank for any keyword you choose.
I ran is cholesterol bad for you
through it and here are the results it returned:
Key Words:
cholesterol, heart, bad, disease, high,
fat, blood, levels, risk, people, hdl, health, body, ldl, years, low, cause,
found, diet, foods, life, liver, arteries, attack, total, lower, attacks,
research, causes, healthy, women, eat, saturated, fats, types, density,
lipoprotein, brain, triglycerides, diabetes, factor, food, walls, children,
eggs, medical, plaque, eating, age, test, lipoproteins, cells, vascular, men.
Key Phrases:
cholesterol levels, bad cholesterol, heart
disease, high cholesterol, heart attack, total cholesterol, good cholesterol,
risk factor, ldl cholesterol, blood cholesterol, heart healthy, low density
lipoprotein, two types, hdl cholesterol, saturated fat, blood pressure, trans
fats, risk of heart disease, cholesterol lowering, cholesterol level, heart
failure, artery disease, dairy products, high density lipoprotein, total
cholesterol level, heart disease risk, ldl and hdl, high blood pressure,
cholesterol and hdl, hdl good cholesterol, cholesterol in food, heart attack or
stroke, saturated fats, triglyceride levels, hdl levels, red meat, dietary
cholesterol, fatty acids, heart defects, weight loss, cholesterol numbers,
major risk, risk factors, congenital heart defects, attack and stroke, high ldl
cholesterol, high blood cholesterol, major risk factor, cause of heart disease,
risk for heart disease, saturated fat and cholesterol, risk for high
cholesterol, heart attack and stroke
That's quite a comprehensive list. 
For readers that are interested in this
spider, I have included a link below to a password protected page that allows
you to get a discount on the full price of this software.  
You can find out more details of what this
tool can do, and how I use the results, here:
http://webcontentstudio.com/spider
Password:
reader
Paid Option 2 - Web Content Studio
Again, I want to add a disclaimer.  
I created and own Web Content Studio (WCS),
so the following discussion is about my own tool, and obviously if you buy, I
am the one receiving your money.  
While I feel that WCS is the best-paid tool
for web content writers, I do not want this book to be seen as a sale pitch for
my own tools.  I, therefore, won't go into a lot of detail here, but will
instead, state the main benefits of the tool, and send you to a web page where
you can see me writing an article with it.
Benefits of WCS
The main benefits of using WCS are:
1.    The speed of finding niche vocabulary.
2.    WCS will tell you which are the more important words and phrases
(i.e. the ones that appear on most of the top 10 pages).
3.    The WYSIWYG article editor and theme reports tell you how good a job
you've done.  When you finish your first draft, you can get WCS to analyze the
content against the niche vocabulary it collected in the previous step.  Any
words or phrases not found in your content can be quickly spotted, as well as
any word or phrase that may have been used a few too many times.
There are a lot of other features of this
tool that you might find useful, but as I said, I don't want this to sound like
a sales pitch.  I'll leave you to investigate further if you are interested. 
Besides, I would highly recommend you to use the free option for harvesting
niche vocabulary first.  
For more details on the tool itself, visit:
http://webcontentstudio.com
OK, we know how to find the niche
vocabulary for any piece of content we want to create.  But before we look at
the actual writing and anatomy of a good piece of web content, I bet you'd like
some proof that what I am saying about niche vocabulary is real?  










Proof that top pages use "Niche
Vocabulary"
Several years ago, when I started writing
about the need to "theme" content, not everyone believed me.  To help prove my
point, I created a tool that could not only find niche vocabulary for any
topic, but it could take that niche vocabulary, and analyze as many of the
Google search results as I wanted. 
My research was a few simple steps:
1.    Pick a search term.
2.    Find the niche vocabulary for that search term by analyzing the
pages that ranked for that term.
3.    Analyze pages in Google (ranking at various points, like top 10,
position 100-110, position 200-210, etc.) to see what percentage of the niche
vocabulary these search results were using.
If niche vocabulary was real, and Google preferred
pages that contained the niche vocabulary, then I figured that ALL pages in the
main Google index would contain a high percentage of the niche vocabulary. 
Those that didn't SHOULD be consigned to the Supplemental index as "inferior"
pages that didn't offer enough value.
Let me take you through an example that we
used earlier in the book - gestational diabetes.  I've deliberately picked a
competitive term to make sure that Google has several hundred high-quality
results for this search query.
Using Web Content Studio (WCS) I found the
following niche vocabulary for the term "gestational diabetes":
diabetes, men, gestational, pregnancy,
glucose, blood, eat, health, test, baby, risk, level, women, age, insulin,
levels, high, low, type, during, sugar, develop, screening, healthy, help,
weight, birth, pregnant, control, normal, doctor, diet, body, signs, food,
tolerance, information, factors, increased, condition, tests, check, eating,
problems, symptoms, developing, family, treatment, diagnosis, delivery,
complications, diagnosed, medical, safe, medicine, exercise, heart, disease,
history, mothers, babies, conditions, prevention, skin, nutrition, doctors
The tool also found the following 2, 3 and 4-word
phrases:  
weeks 24 and 28, after pregnancy, before you
get pregnant, blood glucose tests, cause problems, control your blood glucose,
delay type 2 diabetes, developing type 2 diabetes, develops only during
pregnancy, diabetes medicine, diabetic diet, diagnosis of gestational diabetes,
early pregnancy, glucose for energy, glucose testing, glucose tests, high blood
glucose levels, high blood sugar levels, higher chance, how to treat,
obstetrics and gynecology, oral glucose tolerance test, polycystic ovarian
syndrome, prevalence of gestational diabetes, respiratory distress, respiratory
distress syndrome, risk factors, risk of gestational diabetes, screening
glucose challenge test, screening tests, starchy vegetables, tested for
gestational diabetes, treat gestational diabetes, what is gestational diabetes,
women with gestational diabetes, yeast infection
That's a lot of 2, 3 and 4-word phrases,
but I am not suggesting you try to incorporate all or even most of these
phrases in an article.  These really become useful in helping plan out the
article, giving you pointers on what you should cover.  
For the theme analysis, I am more
interested in the single words we identified, and the words that make up the
phrases.
If you look at those words and phrase, you
can see how a good quality article on gestational diabetes must include a large
proportion of them.
My next step in the experiment was to find
the URLs that rank for the term "gestational diabetes" in Google.  I used a
tool called Scrapebox to grab all of the URLs that rank for that term. 
Scrapebox returned less than 400 URLs!
Could that be right?  
Searching Google for gestational diabetes, I
found this:

Wow, there should be nearly 8 million URLs
ranking for this term, shouldn't there?
Well, Google only actually ever shows a
maximum of 1000 URLs, and all the rest are pushed into the Supplemental results. 
If I scroll to the end of the Google results for this search, I can see this:

That means Google only actually rates 387
pages in response to this query.  The other 7.8 million are all in
supplemental!
OK, so next step was to import the ranking
URLs into my tool, together with the niche vocabulary found using WCS. 
My first analysis was to look at those
pages ranking in the following areas:
1-10, 11-20, 21-30, 31-40, 41-50, 51-60
& 61-70.
Here is the table of results the tool
returned:

The first column tells you where the web
pages that were analyzed came from in the SERPs.  The number in brackets
indicates how many of the pages in that group were analyzed.  If it is less
than 10, the reason is simply that a page could not be loaded during the
analysis.  One other thing to point out is that there is an error in my
labeling of the position.  The correct positions are listed above the screenshot
and run from 1-10, 11-20 and so on.  Since this analysis tool is only for my
own use, I have never fixed this.
The second column is the average theme
score for the pages in that group.  This uses the same calculation as WCS to
determine how well articles are themed.  The closer to 100% the more themed an
article (comparing it to the selected niche vocabulary).
The third column is the average percentage
of the theme words found in the articles.
As you can see, all of the pages ranking in
the top 70 of Google has a good percentage of the niche vocabulary.  When you
consider that the niche vocabulary contains 66 theme words in total, that's
quite impressive.
However, what would happen if we analyzed
pages further down in Google?
Let's run that experiment as well.  Here we
look at the pages ranking at positions 1-10, 100-110, 200-210 and 300-310.  You
might expect those pages that rank near the end of the search results (remember
there are only 387 of them) to contain a lot less niche vocabulary?
Here are the results:

The important column to keep your eye on is
the last one.  This shows the average percentage of niche vocabulary found on
the web pages ranking in those position ranges.
Pages ranking in the top 10 used 76% of the
theme words.
Pages ranking 100-110 used 65% of the theme
words
Pages ranking 200-210 used 58% of the theme
words.
Pages ranking 300-310 used 68% of the theme
words.
In other words, on average, all of the 387
pages that ranked for the term gestational diabetes contained a high percentage
of niche vocabulary.  Even those ranking at the bottom of the main Google
index.
It shouldn't really be a surprise since
that niche vocabulary is essential to writing a good article on the topic.  Any
article that did not contain a good percentage has no right to be ranking in
the main results.  Most likely, they'll be in the Supplemental Index.
All of this goes to show that Google is
actually doing a pretty good job.  It also goes to show that you need to be
thinking in terms of niche vocabulary if you don't want to be consigned to the
Supplemental Index.
Writing content that contains theme words
and phrases is a very important part of creating web pages that can rank and
stick in Google.  However, in the next section, we'll look at a number of other
factors that you need to be thinking about.















 
Let's
Write!
In the previous sections, we looked at
finding the niche vocabulary for any piece of content we want to create.









Thoughts on the Actual Content
In this section, I want
to take you through a "checklist" of things to consider as you write your
content, and create your web page.
Checkpoint #1 - How will your content be better?
If
you've been through the manual process of collecting niche vocabulary for your
content, then you will have already visited some of the top 10 pages you are
competing with.  How is YOUR content going to be better than those already
occupying the top 10 in Google?  Why should Google rank you above these other
pages? What's in it for Google?  We talked about this earlier in the book.  You
need to come up with your own unique angle for the content.  Something that
Google will want to show its visitors. Something that your visitors will want
to share with their friends and followers.  What makes your content "share
bait" and/or "link bait"?
Checkpoint #2 - Title
The first thing someone will see when they land on a web
page is the page title. In fact, the first thing someone is likely to see
BEFORE they get to your site is the title - as that is displayed in the Google
search results.
The temptation with the title is to try to include the main
phrase you want to rank for, and that can still work well from an SEO point of
view.  However, remember two things:
1.    Your title will
be visible in the Google search results, so make sure it is enticing to those
who are searching.  Will the title arouse curiosity enough to encourage the
click through to your page?  Think about the last time you read a newspaper or
magazine.  What was it about certain articles that made you want to read them? 
There's a good chance it was the title.  If your page is shown at the top of
the Google SERPs, you are competing with 9 other pages on the exact same
topic.  How is your title going to encourage searchers to click to your page,
rather than a competitor's page?  There is no point ranking in the top 10 if no
one clicks your link!
2.    As we saw
earlier, including the exact keyword terms we want to rank for is not
important.  A lot of the top ranked pages for any particular term do not include
the term in the title, or anywhere else on the page.  The THEME is the
important thing here, not a specific keyword phrase.
My advice is to go and see what your competitors are using
for their titles and try to come up with a better one.  If there are Google
adverts in the SERPs, pay special attention to how they are worded (title and
description).  Most Google adverts will be highly optimized for the click, so
is there anything you can learn there?
I'd also recommend you choose your title AFTER you have written
your content because it's only then that know the full scope of your content,
and how you can sell it using the title.
Let me give you an example.  
If I was writing an article on the safety of the Atkins
diet, I would search Google for a relevant search phrase and see what the top
10 are using for titles.  These are the titles I have to beat.
Here are the first 5 search results:

If I was actually searching for this information, which of
those titles stand out?
Only the 4th title is relevant to my search term
- "Is the Atkins diet safe?"
I am sure #4 is the one I would click on.  However, if I was
interested in the safety of the diet, how much more appealing would be a
headline like:
·        
Atkins diet may be bad for your heart.
·        
Atkins diet raises bad cholesterol.
·        
Atkins diet linked with cardiovascular disease.
Now, I have no idea whether the Atkins diet is safe or not,
but if I was writing an article on this topic, I would know, and I could
structure my headline to make an "emotional" link with the searcher.  If it is a
safe diet, then headlines like these might make that connection:
·        
See this evidence. Atkins is safe!
·        
Heart disease?  Not if you follow the Atkins diet properly.
·        
Why the Atkins Diet is safe.
A few ideas to help with
titles/headlines
•             
Promise to answer a question the searcher has,
e.g. "Find out why...."
•             
Offer benefits, e.g. "Want more free time? ...."
or "Save $....."
•             
Avoid pain, or accomplish something, e.g. "Learn
how to ...... in 3 short steps", "Don't get caught by ...", "Avoid....", "Stop pain in
its tracks with..", "10 ways to beat.."
•             
Good headlines are often personal and aimed at
the reader. You can do this by talking directly to the reader and using the
word "YOU".
•             
Appeal on the emotional level to the reader
(make them feel an emotion as they read your title).
•             
Make them curious. E.g. "Ever wonder why....",
"How do ......?", "How can they get away with...."
OK, so what about title length?
Well, I'd recommend you keep the title as
concise as possible.  Google tends to show the first 50-60 characters of a
title, then replace the rest with ".." (see the final result in the previous
screenshot for an example).
To summarize titles, create headlines that
arouse interest, keep them concise and not more than 55 - 60 characters in
length. 
A note for Wordpress users: When you add a new post or page in Wordpress, Wordpress asks you
for a title.  This title will be used as the page's title tag AND the opening
headline on the page.  If you want to use the post title as the main headline,
but something else for the title tag, you can.  Install the Yoast SEO plugin. 
This allows you to change the title tag separately from the post title.
Checkpoint #3 - Filename
If you
are using Wordpress, you probably don't give your filenames any thought, since
Wordpress will automatically create the filename based on the title of the
post.
In Wordpress,
a post with the title "See this evidence. Atkins is safe!" would be
assigned the filename "see-this-evidence-atkins-is-safe".
Now, there is nothing
wrong with that filename.  However, I do like to change the filename a little
to make it different from the default title conversion.  I would probably
rename this filename to "evidence-that-atkins-is-safe".    This tells Google
that a human is more likely to have created the title and filename, rather than
a default setting of a script.  With Google's obsession for quality content,
this small measure might just help with SEO, if not now, then in the future.
By default, Wordpress
will use the post title in:
·        
The page's "title tag",
·        
The opening headline of the post, 
·        
The filename.
So, if you don't change the filename (or title tag), you
will end up with the same phrases in three place.
Google knows that
Wordpress tries to automate things like this, and it is my opinion that
automation, even on this small scale, can make your site look less
professional.  Where you can override this type of automation, I recommend you
do, and it is easy enough to change the filename to make it a little
different.  Some SEOs simply remove the "stop" words from the filename (these
are small words like "the", "of", etc.).  
The title "evidence-that-atkins-is-safe",
would become "evidence-atkins-safe".  
This can concentrate the
more important words in the filename, which from an SEO point of view is
probably a good thing.  If this is something you want to do, check out the
Yoast SEO plugin for Wordpress, as this plugin can automate the removal of stop
words from filenames.
Checkpoint #4 - Meta Tags?
In the last checkpoint, we mentioned the "title tag".  All
web pages should have a "title tag".  Google uses it in the search results as
the hyperlinked title to the web page.  Actually, Google does reserve the right
to change your title in the SERPs at its own discretion, so don't be surprised
if you spot that happening.
There are other tags called Meta tags that you can add to
your web pages.  Two of the most common ones are the Meta Description and Meta
Keywords.  
This is what they look like in the source code of a web
page:
<title>The title of the web page</title>
<meta name="description" content="A
description of the the web page">
<meta name="keywords" content="Keywords
related to the web page">
The Meta description tag should be a description of the web
page content.  Google may or may not use this description when listing your
page in the SERPs.  It all depends on the search term and whether it is found
in the description.  If it is, then the meta description will probably be used,
otherwise, a relevant string (containing the search term) from the main content
will be chosen.  
I would highly recommend you add the meta description to all
of the important pages on your website.  I'd also recommend that you make the
Meta description unique.  That is, the text of the Meta description is not used
anywhere else on the site.  
Make sure the Meta description is unique for every single
page on your site.  Never get lazy and use a generic description on multiple
pages.
As you write the Meta description for a page, think of it as
a short pre-sell paragraph, telling potential visitors why they should visit
the page.  If you slip in a bit of niche vocabulary even better, though do
write the description for the visitor, not the search engines.  Again, pay
particular attention to any Google AdWords adverts in the SERPs for your target
phrases. These will have short, concise, click-worthy descriptions that you can
learn from.  The title and description of your pages, like in the Google
adverts, should complement each other.
OK, so what about the Meta Keywords tag?  
A few years back, this tag was used by Google to help rank
pages.  If a keyword was in the Meta Keywords tag, the page had a better chance
of ranking.  Today, the major search engines no longer use the keyword tag to
positively affect rankings.  However, it is my belief that Google will use the
Meta keyword tag to spot "webspam" and penalize it.  Anyone that stuffs the
Meta Keyword tag with dozens of keywords is a spammer, right?  You might not
think so, but Google does, so don't do it.  My recommendation is to ignore the
Meta Keyword tag altogether and not bother with it.  If you do want to use it,
just include 4 or 5 unique (not synonyms) and relevant keywords, and make sure
they ALL appear on the visible web page.
Checkpoint #5 - Opening Headline
We considered the page title earlier and
saw how important it was to create a concise title that encouraged the click
from the search engines.  
The opening headline on your page needs the
same kind of attention.  When someone lands on your page, you want them to read
the title and think "Wow, I want to read this."
If you are using Wordpress, then the
chances are your opening headline will be the page/post title.  That's how it's
setup and that's fine.  Since you created a great title, you'll have a great
opening headline.  This post title will also be used as the title tag of the web
page.  As I mentioned earlier, if you want to create web pages that have
different title tags and opening headlines, you can use the Yoast SEO plugin
for Wordpress to achieve this.
The opening headline on each web page
should be an H1 header.  
If you are building your site in HTML, then
you have total control over which HTML tag is used to display the headline. 
You can ensure that it's an H1 header.  
However, if you are using Wordpress, then
the Wordpress theme you are using will determine whether that opening headline
is an H1 tag, or something else.  I have seen a number of Wordpress themes that
inexplicably use an H2 for the opening headline.  Why?
As with any other written material, the
first headline should be the biggest and that is what an H1 tag is for.  The H1
is also given special attention by search engines.  Therefore, make sure your
Wordpress theme uses the H1 for the opening headline.
It is also important that there is only ONE
H1 headline on a page.  After the opening H1 headline, use H2 sub-headlines and
then H3s if you need a third level to sub-divide an H2 section of content.
You can use multiple H2s and even multiple
H3s.  However, there must only be ONE H1.
Checkpoint #6 - Theme the content
The words and phrases you use in your
content will help Google determine what your content is about, and help it make
an initial judgment on quality.  Important points to remember include:
1.    Does your content contain the niche vocabulary relevant to the topic
you are writing about?
2.    When you read the content, does it read well for a human, or are
there areas where you feel keywords or phrases have been inserted just for the
search engines.  This is usually easy to spot because the content doesn't read
naturally and seems "forced".
3.    Have you used niche vocabulary in the titles and headings of your
content?  This is something you need to be careful about since we don't want to
keyword stuff the headings.  If you can naturally fit in a keyword or phrase
into your headline and section headers, do it, but make it natural, and write
your headlines for your visitor, not the search engine. See the previous
section on the title for more tips and help.
As we have said before, if you are an
expert in your niche, you don't need to focus on niche vocabulary.  You will
automatically use it as you write about the subject you know very well. 
But what if you are not an expert? 
Well, in that case, you already have the
niche vocabulary that you collected for your content.  Check back on the
chapter about niche vocabulary if you haven't completed that step yet.  
Let's look at an example based on the niche
vocabulary I collected earlier in the book, so we can see how to use it
naturally as we write.
We looked at three different types of
diabetes and how the niche vocabulary was slightly different for each one. Here
are the words and phrases related to gestational diabetes:
Diabetes, insulin, glucose, blood, type, levels, sugar,
diet, insulin resistance, non-insulin dependent, adult-onset, obesity,
gestational, pregnancy, baby, risk to baby, risks to mother, women, pregnant
The first thing I recommend you do with
your list is to make sure you understand all of the words and phrases.  It's
impossible to write a good piece of content if we don't understand the words we
are using.  It also helps to understand the vocabulary as you start planning
out your piece of content. Go and find out how each phrase relates to
gestational diabetes?
With a better understanding of the words
and phrases, my next step is to check out the top 10 results ranking for the
topic, and see what they cover.  Making a note of the headlines used on these
pages can help guide you in the structure of your own content.  However, remember
you are always on the lookout for an idea that will make your content stand
out.
I went through the top 10 results for this
search term and copied all of the headlines I found on these pages.  You will
see some headline repeated because they are used on more than one page:
·        
What is Gestational Diabetes?
·        
How to Treat Gestational Diabetes
·        
Pregnancy
·        
Diabetes & Pregnancy: A Guide to a Healthy
Pregnancy
·        
What is gestational diabetes?
·        
How will I know if I have gestational diabetes?
·        
How can I tell whether I'm at high risk for
gestational diabetes?
·        
What Causes Gestational Diabetes in Pregnancy?
·        
What Are the Complications of Gestational
Diabetes?
·        
Who Is at Risk for Gestational Diabetes?
·        
Types of diabetes
·        
How common is gestational diabetes?
·        
Outlook
·        
Risk factors
·        
Prevention
·        
Screening
·        
Non-challenge blood glucose tests
·        
Oral glucose tolerance test
·        
Urinary glucose testing
·        
Definition
·        
Symptoms
·        
When to see a doctor
·        
Just been diagnosed?
·        
Understanding gestational diabetes
·        
Gestational Diabetes - Caring for yourself and
your baby
·        
Causes
·        
Symptoms
·        
Exams and tests
·        
Treatment
·        
Outlook
·        
When to contact a medical professional
·        
Prevention
·        
Alternative names
·        
What is gestational diabetes?
·        
Who gets gestational diabetes, and why do I have
to be tested
·        
What should I expect during my test?
·        
If I have gestational diabetes how will I be
treated?
·        
Is there anything I should be afraid of?
·        
Recommended reading
·        
Diabetes of pregnancy
·        
Why insulin is important
·        
What can gestational diabetes do to me and my
child?
·        
Am I at risk of developing gestational diabetes?
·        
What can be done about gestational diabetes?
As you can see, a number of headlines are
repeated or very similar.  
If Google is ranking these pages in the top
10, then the subject matter of these top 10 pages is what Google thinks is most
relevant for the search term. Therefore, these headings give us a great
starting point for structuring our own content because they tell us what we
need to cover.  
If we try to condense this list down by
grouping similar headlines, we end up with something like this:
·        
What is Gestational Diabetes?
·        
What can gestational diabetes do to me and my
child?
·        
Who Is at Risk for Gestational Diabetes?
·        
What Causes Gestational Diabetes in Pregnancy?
·        
Why insulin is important
·        
How common is gestational diabetes?
·        
Symptoms
·        
What Are the Complications of Gestational
Diabetes?
·        
When to see a doctor
·        
Screening - non-challenge blood glucose tests,
oral glucose tolerance test, urinary glucose testing, what should I expect
during my test?
·        
Treatment & Outlook
·        
Recommended reading
I've put the headlines into an order that
makes sense to me.  What I have listed above is a skeleton structure for my own
article, listing all of the important points I need to cover.  If there is just
too much to cover in a single article, then I could split it into two or more articles
and link them together as part 1, part 2, etc.  However, I like longer content
and I recommend you don't split it up.  Longer content has more of a "wow
factor" for those that have the potential to link to your site, therefore makes
better "link bait".  It's also more impressive to your normal visitor who may
want to look good to family and friends by sharing it.
As I was going through the headlines of the
top 10, one article stood out to me, because the headlines were a little
different.  Here they are:
·        
What Is Gestational Diabetes?
·        
Who Gets Gestational Diabetes, And Why Do I Have
To Be Tested?
·        
What Should I Expect During My Test?
·        
If I Have Gestational Diabetes How Will I Be
Treated?
·        
Is There Anything I Should Be Afraid Of?
·        
Recommended Reading
These headlines are talking directly to the
expectant mother and use the word "I".   I believe these headlines would
connect on an emotional level with the visitor, who presumably wants to know
how gestational diabetes would affect them, or their family or friend who is
pregnant.  All of the other 9 pages in the top 10 used impersonal and
"scientific" headlines (which we referred to as a journalistic or fact based
writing style earlier in the book).  If you were a pregnant mom looking for
answers, wouldn't you like the article to speak to you as an expectant mother,
rather than just get a list of facts?
This more personal approach to headlines is
nice, and in this example, I think it's the first step in making the content
more unique, and stand out.
OK, with the article mapped out, the next
step is writing it.
This is where theme words and phrases
become important, but the most important thing to remember is that you need to
write naturally, for your audience.  Don't obsess over keywords and phrases, as
they will be used naturally IF you understand what the words mean and how they
are associated with the topic.
To start, I would come up with a working
title.  I will almost certainly change it once the article is finished, but a
working headline can keep you focused and on task.
My working headline might be something
like:
Gestational Diabetes - Your questions
answered
This title implies that the article talks
directly to the pregnant woman, and answers her questions.  It also gets the
main phrase "gestational diabetes" in at the start - they are the first words
Google sees! 
Other headlines that would work include:
"Everything you need to know about
gestational diabetes"
"Gestational diabetes - are you at risk and
how will it affect you?"
"Am I at risk of gestational diabetes?"
"How will gestational diabetes affect me?"
All of these headlines contain references
to "you" or "I", implying they are more personal and directed at real people.  I
would try to use the word "I" in each of the section headlines wherever possible,
to mimic the actual questions pregnant women have during their pregnancy.
So instead of this:
"Who Is at Risk for Gestational Diabetes?" 
I would use 
"Am I at risk of gestational diabetes?"
Instead of: 
"Screening"
I'd use: 
"How will I be tested?"
When you are happy with your headlines,
work your way through each headline, writing a paragraph of content for each
one.  
As you write each paragraph of your
article, concentrate on covering the material in a natural way.  Do not try to
add keywords simply because you know you need to theme your content.  As you
work on your content, you will find that the theme words work their way in
naturally.
Working with Theme Phrases
You may have found a list of 10-15 theme
phrases during your research.  DO NOT try to insert them all into your
article.  Typically, I'll only use 3-5 theme phrases in a long article, and
those are the more important phrases that work their way in naturally.  Far
more important than the theme phrases are the words that make up those phrases.
For example, we identified the phrases "risk
to baby" and "risks to mother".  There is absolutely no need to use both of
those phrases in your article.  In fact, you don't need to use either of them. 
You will be talking about the mother, you will be talking about the baby, and
you will also be talking about "risks".  You might say something like:
"There are some risks associated with gestational diabetes
that can affect you, the mother, and your baby."
That is fine from a theme point of view as you talk about
the risks to the mother and the baby, even though you don't use the exact
phrases.  The fact that the words "risk", "baby" and "mother" are in the same
sentence, means the words that make up the phrases are close together
(proximity).  The search engines look at word proximity to help determine meaning.  
Therefore, if there are any important word combinations (e.g. baby and risk(s)),
putting them in close proximity can give the search engines a helping hand
without having to try to stuff theme phrases into your content.
Someone writing specifically for the search engines might
write something like this:
"Gestational diabetes can be dangerous when you are pregnant
and has risks to mother and a risk to the baby."
This is grammatically incorrect and just doesn't flow very
well.  It's obvious the writer was trying to get the two exact phrases into the
sentence, yet it really isn't necessary.
At all times, write for the visitor, not for the search
engine.
When you finish your article, you should
check the theme.
Checking your Theme
First, read through your article and make
sure it flows well.  I recommend you read it out loud, as you will notice small
issues that you'll miss by reading it in your head.
Will a human enjoy reading it?  
Are there any awkward parts that need to be
re-worked?  
Have you used any phrases that don't fit
naturally, and would be better off split into the component theme words to be
re-written as a different sentence (like the risks/baby/mother example above)?
OK, now go through your niche vocabulary. 
Have you used all of the keywords in your article?  You certainly do not have
to use all of them, but make sure you have used the most important ones.  For
phrases, don't worry if you've only used one or two.  As we mentioned above,
the words that make up the phrases are generally more important.  If there is a
really important phrase, it's probably worked its way in naturally.  If you do
spot an important phrase that isn't in your article, try to get it in there
naturally.  If that isn't possible, just add or modify a sentence to use all of
the words in that phrase, so the words are in close proximity.
Google's Keyword Planner can be a great final
check for the theme.  Go and log in.
Paste the URL of your article into the Your
landing page box:

Click the Get Ideas button at the
bottom, and see what "Ad Group Ideas" and "Keyword Ideas" are returned.  Here
are some of the ad groups returned for a good article on gestational diabetes:

And on the keyword ideas tab:

Clearly, Google
thinks this article is about diabetes during pregnancy.  
You can test your content at Google Keyword
Planner to see if Google correctly recognizes your theme.  If there are any ad
groups or phrases that seem wrong, go back to your article and see if you can
see why Google is getting confused about your theme.  
Checkpoint #7 - Above the Fold
Remember when we talked about the important
Google algorithm changes?  One update that occurred in January 2012 is very
important to remember - the page layout algorithm, often called the "top heavy"
update.
It is important to think how your web page
will look like as soon as someone lands on it, and before they scroll down the
page.  This area of your web page is called the "above the fold" region.  
The "above the fold" region is dependent on
the screen resolution of the visitor.  If a visitor is coming to your site with
a screen resolution of 640 x 480, they might only see this:

Whereas a visitor with a screen resolution
of 1024 x 768 would see this:

With this in mind, it's difficult to know
what resolution you should be testing your own pages with.  However, this page
offers information that is helpful:
http://www.w3schools.com/browsers/browsers_display.asp
As of January 2017, only 4.4% of people use
a screen resolution lower than 1024 x 768.  Therefore, if you test your pages
at a resolution of 1024 x 768, you know you'll be covering 95% of your
visitors. 
OK, so what is the deal with the "above the
fold" area?
Google wants this area to contain real content.
That is the stuff the visitor has come to find.  What it doesn't want to find
above the fold is mainly advertising, like this site:

I've drawn boxes around all of the
adverts.  
Where is the content? 
Actually, there
isn't any on that page, but on another page of the same site, you can see some
"content" if you scroll far enough.

Anyone landing on the page would only see
adverts.  This particular site was designed that way, its only purpose to get
people clicking adverts.  Before the Page Layout algorithm was introduced, this
page probably did OK with Google AdSense.  Since January 2012, I doubt it gets
any traffic other than from people curious to see how NOT to do it.
At the other end of the spectrum is this
page:

Where is the content?  
This page is as bad as the previous one.  There
is nothing above the fold, and I doubt this was done by design.  It will also
suffer the consequences of Google's page layout algorithm.
What is above the fold on your pages?
Make sure it is valuable content.  You can
have an advert above the fold, but make sure your content is what really shines
in that region.
While we are talking about the top of your web
page, it is also worth considering something else.  
The top of your article needs to do a lot
of hard work to convince the visitor that the page is worth reading.  The
headline needs to grab their attention, and the opening paragraph needs to
pique their interest.  If you fail to make that first impression, the visitor
may well just hit the back button to Google, and that "bounce" will tell Google
that your page did not satisfy them.  You can guess what would happen next...
Checkpoint #8 - Help the skimmers
A lot of people visiting your site will be
"skimmers".  In other words, they don't want to read the whole page to find out
if it is something they are interested in.  They want to skim the page.  If
they see something that catches their attention, then they'll read it, otherwise,
they'll head on back to Google.
It is always a good idea to help the
skimmers by breaking up large blocks of text with "skimmables".  
Definition J: Skimmables
- stuff that helps the skimmer ascertain their interest levels.
The best way to do this is to break up your
text with:
·        
Sub-headings (H2, H3), 
·        
Images where they can complement the text (or
even replace a paragraph),
·        
Bullet points.  Bullet points are a skimmer's dream
since they are used to highlight points in an easily skimmable format.
As you write your content, always remember
the skimmers.  
Tip: Use
strategically placed "killer" headlines to stop skimmers dead in their tracks. 
Follow the headline with a few easy reading bullet points to draw them in. 
It's a neat trick for putting a skimmer into reading mode.
Checkpoint #9 - Grammar &
Spelling
In the old days of SEO, webmasters would
intentionally spell words incorrectly in the hope of ranking for misspelled
search queries at Google.  Those days are long gone, and it is now important to
make sure your content is grammatically correct with good spelling. 
Bad grammar can be an indicator of poor
quality content, and Google does look at spelling and grammar.  While it is
unlikely it would directly penalize content with minor mistakes, it would
probably take notice of visitor feedback and could penalize pages or sites its
users complain.
Google would almost certainly penalize a
page or site if it thought the page deliberately used incorrect spelling or
grammar in an attempt to increase search rankings.
Checkpoint #10 - Check the quality
The final checkpoint is a simple quality
check on all content you publish on your website.  
One of the best ways to do this is to read your
content aloud, either to yourself or better still to a friend.
How does it flow?  Are there any sentences
or paragraphs you need to re-read to make sense of them, or the odd word that
trips you up?  
As you read through the content, are there
any words or phrases (especially those that you want to rank for in Google)
that seem to be repeated too many times (keyword stuffing)?   When you read a phrase
and remember having just said that exact same phrase moments earlier, you know
it's being used too often.  
Or, perhaps the phrase doesn't flow well
within the sentence and would be better changed for a synonym.  Perhaps you are
aware that you only used a specific phrase because you were thinking about the
search engines, and what you wanted to rank for?
Imagine giving the article to other
webmasters and asking them "Can you tell what words and phrases I want to rank for
in Google?"  If they can, then chances are you need to
re-work your content.  
Always write for your visitor, not for
Google.
Another thing you should think about as you
check your article for quality is whether or not visitors will trust the
content.  I always find that visitors trust web pages more when they know who
wrote them.  Is there a face behind the website?  An author resource box with a
photograph is a great idea as it really helps build confidence in your
visitors.
Another quality issue is "fluff". 
Essentially, it's sentences or paragraphs that really don't say anything new. 
Maybe they repeat a point that was made earlier, or they only seem to be there
to increase word count. Nobody likes reading fluff, so strip it out of your
content.
Look carefully at the "hidden" elements of
the web page.   Hopefully, you won't have done any of the following.  In fact,
if you don't understand what I mean in these bullet points, so much the better.
Check:
·        
ALT tags on images.  Make sure these accurately
describe the image to help vision-impaired visitors.  DO NOT stuff them with
keywords.
·        
Does your HTML use comment tags?  If so, are these
necessary, e.g. to explain to someone else working on the site why you made
changes?  Or are they stuffed with keyword-rich text that will get you into
trouble with Google?
·        
Is there any text on your page that is
"hidden"?  Or maybe you've got hidden links (e.g. hyperlinked a full
stop/period on the page to try to pass some link juice to another page)?
·        
If you have hyperlinks on the page, have you
stuffed the title attribute with keywords?  
e.g. <a href=http://somedomain.com title="keywords
typically stuffed here">My Link</a>
I'd recommend you don't use
the title attribute when creating hyperlinks, as the title attribute has been
heavily abused in the past by web spammers.  If you do want to use it, use it
as it was meant to be used - to explain the nature of the link so visitors see a
descriptive "tool tip" when they hover their mouse over it.
As a general summarizing rule for this
checkpoint:
Remove anything on your web page,
visible or otherwise, that is only there for the benefit of the search engines.









Additional Considerations
The main checkpoints will
keep you on the road to quality content, but I have a few other suggestions
that you might like to incorporate.
Link to authority sites? 
If you mention something in your content
that you learned on another site, give that site a mention with a link (you can
nofollow the link if you want to, but I tend not to if that site is a true
authority on the topic) just like research papers cite other papers.  The
internet is meant to be a "web" of content and Google likes this type of
natural link.  It is exactly the type of link you hope others will give your
content.
Further reading 
At the end of any piece of content, you can
offer your visitors a "further reading" section.  This can contain links to
interesting articles, videos, infographics, etc., either on your site or on
other authority sites (open external links in new windows).
A photo of the author & bio
box?
Visitors love to know who wrote the
content, so a photo and short author bio is a really good idea.  It builds
trust, and trust is vital in the online environment.  If you are using
Wordpress to build your site, there are themes that have author boxes built in,
and plugins for those themes that don't.
Links to related content on your
site
If someone reads to the end of a piece of
content on your site, they probably liked it.  Therefore, at the end of the
content, offer them a list of related article on your site, that you think they
might also be interested in.  A list of 3 or 4 "related posts" is always a good
idea. 
Here is an example.  I wrote an article on
one of my sites called "Createspace - Basic Text Formatting".  This article was
written for people who want to publish a book on Amazon's Createspace platform. 
At the end of the article, I had this related posts section:

These three links are all related to
publishing on Createspace, so anyone that read my "Basic Text Formatting" would
probably also be interested in these articles.
For Wordpress users, there are a number of
plugins that can automatically create these "Related Post" sections on your
pages.  For non-Wordpress users, you can create these sections manually in HTML
code or find a script.
Related posts sections like this, help to
keep visitors on your site longer, and this is something Google takes note of.
Allow comments 
Visitors like to interact and leave
feedback or ask questions.  For that reason, I recommend you allow visitors to
leave comments.  Again, Wordpress users will find this easy to implement
because comments are built into the Wordpress platform.
For non-Wordpress users, there are scripts
you can use to create a comment section on your web pages.  I cannot recommend any
because I use Wordpress for my own websites, but searching Google for "comments
script" should turn up some options.
Allow social sharing & following 
We are trying to create "Share Bait", so
give your visitors an easy way to share your content.  The next chapter shows
how.
 











Social Sharing Buttons
If you think in terms of creating "share bait" (people like it
so much that they want to share it), you need to offer your visitors an easy
way to share your content.  The main social networks offer buttons that you can
put on your website, and if you use Wordpress, there are a number of plugins
that can automate the setup of social sharing buttons.
As a starting point, I recommend you have buttons to share
your content on Google+, Twitter, and Facebook.  StumbleUpon is also important
as it can send good content viral.  If you have a lot of images on your site
that you want to be shared, then Pinterest is a good button to include. 
However, if the images on your site are not the main focal point, I'd leave
Pinterest out.









Adding Social Share buttons to a non-Wordpress site
If you want an easy
option, you can use a service like http://www.addtoany.com/
or http://www.sharethis.com/
which will give you the code to put onto your website.  You can customize the
buttons in the code that these services give you, though be aware that most
services will add a button or link back to their own website.  If that is not
acceptable to you, you'll need to visit the individual networks and grab the
HTML code for each network, in turn, to add to your site.
Where to get social sharing buttons:
Editing HTML is beyond the scope of this book, but I assume,
if you run an HTML website you are happy editing HTML.  Therefore, I have
listed the URLs below where you can get the main social sharing buttons for
your site.  Follow the instructions on these pages to add the code to your
site.
Twitter
Twitter: https://dev.twitter.com/web/tweet-button
Facebook
Facebook follow: https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/follow-button
Facebook like button: https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/like-button
Facebook like box: https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/like-box-for-pages
Google Plus
Google Plus follow: https://developers.google.com/+/web/follow/
Google Plus +1 button: https://developers.google.com/+/web/+1button/
Google Plus Share: https://developers.google.com/+/web/share/
StumbleUpon
Stumble Upon share: http://www.stumbleupon.com/dt/badges/create
Pinterest
http://business.pinterest.com/en/widget-builder#do_follow_me_button









Adding Social Share buttons to a Wordpress website
If you use Wordpress,
then adding the social sharing buttons to your site is as easy as installing
and activating a plugin.  After that, set up is usually a case of selecting
which buttons you want to display and you're done. 
If you have your own favorite
social sharing plugin, that's fine.  Use it. 
There are so many to
choose from.  
Since social sharing
plugins change a lot, I recommend that you head on over to the Wordpress plugin
repository, and search for social sharing.  
https://wordpress.org/plugins/
This will return a bunch
of results.

Go through these and look for plugins that:
·        
Cover the social media channels you want to use, e.g. Twitter,
Facebook, Google+, StumbleUpon, etc.
·        
Have been recently updated.
·        
Have a good number of reviews with a high average.
·        
Have a high number of active installs.
For example, this one might be worth checking out:

As would this one:

The best way to test these plugins is to install and
activate them.  Go in and configure them, then check what they look like on
your website.
                                     
 
 
 
 
 














 
Adding
"Fat" to your site
The term "fat" in the title of this section
is used deliberately because of Google's own use of the word "thin".  Essentially
Google uses "thin" to refer to a page or site with very little substance and
poor content.
Great content is certainly a good start,
but there are other "features" you can add to a site that will:
·        
Encourage a visitor to share your content
·        
Encourage a visitor to recommend your site
·        
Encourage a visitor to return
·        
Encourage a visitor to interact with you, and/or
other visitors
·        
Start increasing your authority in the visitor's
eyes
·        
Tell Google that you are worth listening to
I want to go through a few ideas for you to
think about.  These are in no particular order.









An autoresponder and/or newsletter
When you first meet someone, you don't
always trust them, do you?  As you meet that person, again and again, trust has
a chance to grow.  But it will usually take several meetings.  The same trust
issues exist online.  
Why would someone visiting your website
trust you enough to buy something on your site, or something that you
recommend?  Of course, as you create wonderful fat websites, the trust will
grow, but that can take quite some time.  Autoresponders allow us to speed up
the trust process.
An autoresponder is a series of pre-written
emails that you can send out to people who sign up for them.  
These emails can be scheduled to be sent at
any interval you like.  So, you could send one a day, one a week, or one a
month.  You could also send one a day for a week, then one a week for the next
few months, and finally go to a once a month schedule.
The emails in an autoresponder can be
anything you like, but the best way to use them initially is to build trust. 
If it takes 6 or 7 meetings to trust someone, then think of the first 6 or 7
emails as a trust-building exercise.  Offer great value, and don't ask for
much, if anything, in return.
Here are a few examples of how I have used autoresponders:
·        
To sell a piece of software.  Software is
created to make our lives easier, right?  First off, I'd identify the various
tasks that the software carried out, helping users save time.  I'd then set up
5 - 6 emails, each with a tutorial on how to carry out these specific tasks the
long way.  I wouldn't even mention the software at that stage.  After 5 or 6
emails, trust is starting to build, so I could then introduce the software and
show how it can be used to automate those tasks.  
·        
To sell a course.  Similar to the first example,
but the emails would contain tutorials that "whet the appetite".  I would send
out 5 or 6 tutorials before introducing the benefits of the course.
·        
To offer free courses to my visitors.  I'd
recommend tools in the course and use affiliate links to promote them.  For
example, I might have a course on creating video tutorials with Camtasia
Studio, and link to Camtasia Studio with an affiliate link. Since anyone on the
course needs the software, they might buy through my link, earning me a
commission.
I am sure you can think of lots of examples
in your own niche, but if you struggle to come up with ideas, visit your
competitor sites.  See if they have a signup form.  Some may be for a
newsletter, some may be for an autoresponder.  If I find an autoresponder on a popular
website, I'll sign up for it, see what they are doing, and come out with my own
twist on their idea.
The autoresponder service I use is called
Aweber:  
http://ezseonews.aweber.com/
One of the benefits of this type of service
is that not only can you set up autoresponders, but you can also offer a
newsletter.  A newsletter is similar, meaning you can send an email to anyone
that has signed up to receive it.  However, I usually differentiate between
newsletters and autoresponders as follows:
·        
An autoresponder is pre-written and scheduled
for delivery in the future.
·        
A newsletter is written at the moment you want
to send it, and usually sent immediately, or scheduled for later in the day.
Not everyone would agree with my
differentiation here, but it works well for me because it gives me an
opportunity to explain how I use both - differently.
Let's take the example of a cooking
website.  The webmaster might set up an autoresponder with 52 free recipes. If
he scheduled them to be delivered at the rate of one per week, then when
someone signs up for the free recipes, they'll start receiving one per week for
a year.  That's right.  As long as that person remains subscribed to the
autoresponder, the webmaster has their attention, on a weekly basis, for a
whole year!  
Now, let's suppose the webmaster is running
a sale on cooking pots.  He could write a newsletter two days before his
promotion was due to run, letting his recipe subscribers know about the
forthcoming sale.  When the sale started, he could send another newsletter
telling his list that the sale was on.
Those that signed up for the recipes should
be quite targeted since they signed up for recipes.  That means the webmaster
has a targeted audience he can tap into any time he wants.  When the year of
recipes run out for a subscriber, they stay on the list and will continue to
get newsletters until they unsubscribe.
Hopefully, you can
see the power in an autoresponder.  To my mind, they are one of the most powerful
features of any website.









A Forum
We all know what a forum is, but did you
ever think of adding one to your own website?  Growing a community of
like-minded people, offering them a place to meet up and chat about anything is
a great way to build visitor loyalty to your site.
OK, so you think it's too difficult to set
up, right?  Well, if you don't have a Wordpress website, it is a little
complicated, though most forum software companies will help you through it.  
Popular forum scripts include:
·        
http://www.vbulletin.com/
·        
http://www.invisionpower.com/
·        
https://www.phpbb.com/
 
If your site is powered by Wordpress, there
is a "free" plugin called SimplePress that can add a forum to your site.









Infographics
We have already talked about the importance
of images as a type of content on your site.  Infographics are a unique type of
image.  As the name implies, they are images that convey information, and
sometimes it's a lot of information. 
Oxford dictionaries define an infographic
as:
"A visual representation of information or
data, e.g. as a chart or diagram: a good infographic is worth a thousand words."
So why are infographics a good idea?
1.    They help you visitor understand your "data" in a visual and often
entertaining way.
2.    Good infographics often get shared, so it's a good opportunity to
get new visitors to your site.
3.    You can use the infographic as link bait, offering other webmasters
some code that will embed the infographic into their own website, with a link
back to yours.
If you want to see examples of
infographics, search Google images for "infographics", and you'll a lot of
great examples.
There are a number of sites that allow you
to create infographics.  Two of the most popular ones are:
·        
http://infogr.am/
·        
http://piktochart.com/
A lot of these services offer you the
chance to start for free, with paid options for those that need more features.









RSS feeds
If you can (and everyone who uses Wordpress
can, because it's built in), I would recommend offering your visitors an RSS
feed of the important content on your website.  Make it obvious to your visitor
that you have an RSS feed by showing them the standard RSS "button":

So, what is an RSS feed and why bother? 
Well, we looked briefly at them earlier as a way of monitoring competitor
websites in our niche, but let's look in a little more detail.
Essentially an RSS feed is a vehicle for
delivering content in a standard format.
That definition may just have confused you,
so let me give you an example.
All Wordpress websites have RSS feeds built
into them, so let's use a Wordpress site for this example.  Any time you create
a new post and publish it to your site, the RSS feed (which essentially lists
the post's title, URL, date/time published and a short description) is updated
to add the new post at the top of the feed.  All of the other posts in the feed
drop down one place.  If your feed is set up to hold 10 items, then adding a new
post would cause the 10th item to scroll off the bottom of the feed
and be removed as the new post gets the top spot.  Therefore, the feed is
always showing your most recent 10 posts.
So why bother with RSS?
Think of RSS feeds as a doorway to your
site.
A lot more people stay up to date with
their favorite sites using RSS feed readers.  The feed reader we saw earlier,
and the one I use, is http://feedly.com/ and
you can sign up and use it for free.  There are also feed readers available for
iOS and Android mobile devices.
Savvy visitors to your site may use RSS
feeds to keep up to date with their interests.  By offering them your RSS feed,
any time you post a new piece of content on your site, they get notified of the
new content in their feed reader (which has spotted that new post in your
feed).  
RSS feeds ensure that your new content is
pushed to users that follow your feed.  That, in turn, helps build trust if
they are getting new content from you on a regular basis.  
A lot of people think that RSS feeds are a
dying technology, especially in view of the fact that Google closed down its
own "Google Reader" tool.  It's argued that people don't follow feeds as much
as they used to because of Twitter, Facebook and other social channels where
good content is shared. However, the fact that it is built into Wordpress means
you don't have to set anything up if you use Wordpress.  It is already built
in, so use it.  Offer that feed button on your site.  









Quizzes, polls,
and surveys
People love to get involved if it
is easy. They'll vote in a poll if it
just
means clicking a
button. Surveys
and quizzes can be
equally fun, but maybe more difficult to get participants. However, these will add "fat" to your site, and the search engines will like the visitor interaction on your site, so
don't dismiss it.
I good
poll script to use on non-Wordpress
sites is "Advanced Poll", and it's
easy
to set up, and free. 
Advanced Poll: http://www.proxy2.de/scripts.php
You can find a lot of scripts to carry out polls, quizzes, and surveys at: 
http://www.hotscripts.com/
Look for those with the
best ratings, and try them.
For Wordpress users, "Yop Poll" is a
popular choice that is updated frequently:
https://wordpress.org/plugins/yop-poll/









Software, scripts, calculators,
etc
You may not be a programmer, but that does
not mean you cannot have software written for you.  There are a number of
outsourcing websites, like https://www.upwork.com/,
which allow you to hire workers for just about anything.  I personally do some
programming, but that hasn't stopped me outsourcing programming jobs if I was
low on time.
So, what type of program or script could be
of use to your visitors?
Let me give you a few examples.
If you had a site on loans, you could offer
your visitors a loan calculator that could tell them how much their repayments
would be.  Maybe you could offer them a mortgage calculator. 
If you had a diet site, you could get a
search script created that could tell your visitors how many calories a
particular food item has.
Both of these examples offer value to your visitors
and depending on how you designed the scripts, you could give them something
that wasn't available on your competitor sites.
Other types of software include
downloadable programs that can run on Windows, Mac, Mobile or other operating
systems.  This is probably something that is more realistic for software
companies because of the cost to get complicated software created.  However,
have a think about any small utility you could get created and open a project
on Upwork asking for bids.  You might be surprised by the quotes.
An example of a small utility might be a
"times tables" generator tool for a math-related site.  People could download
the tool and generate times table tests for their kids.  It's a fairly simple
tool that would take an experienced programmer a few hours to create, so
wouldn't be that expensive.
If you have software utilities that can be
downloaded by your visitors, you can also submit your utilities to software websites,
which in return will increase downloads and give you a link back to your
website.  
Of course, you may want to sell your
software utility, and that is fine.  You could get a trial version created
which would allow your visitors to try before they buy.
Do also consider mobile apps that you can
advertise on your site.  While these can be expensive to get programmers to
create for you, there are a growing number of sites that allow non-programmers
to easily build mobile apps, like these ones:
http://appsmoment.com/
http://www.appnotch.com/
You can usually start building your app for
free!
Quotations & Trivia
Are there any famous quotations in your
niche?  Or maybe you have some strange trivia related to your content? 
People love trivia. People love famous
quotations.  Why not include them in your content?  You'd be surprised what you
can find online if you look. You could use quotations or trivia at the start,
middle, or end of an article.
A great place to find relevant quotations
is http://www.brainyquote.com/
Just type in a word or phrase related to
the piece of content you are writing and see if there is anything interesting,
amusing or controversial.
To find great trivia, simply search Google
for "dog trivia", or whatever topic you are writing about.  
If you can find a lot of trivia on a topic,
you could include a "trivia" section at the end of your article.  That would
certainly catch the eye of even the quickest skimmers.
For example, did you know:
"French Poodles did not originate in
France."
"65% of pet owners have more photos of
their pet than their spouse."
"70% of pet owners sign their pet's name on
greeting cards."
"33% of dog owners admit to talking to
their dog on the phone or leaving answer machine messages."
Would you like some more dog trivia?
Yes? 
Then you get my point about using trivia on
your web pages.
Video
Even if
you have not recorded and produced your own video for a piece of content you
are working on, there are several good video sharing sites that allow you to
embed videos created by other people. The best known is obviously Google-owned YouTube. 

If you
can find fun or informative videos that are closely relevant to your own
content, then you can embed those videos into your web page.  
On YouTube,
look for the Share link under the video, and you'll get an "embed code"
which needs to be inserted into your web page.

You'll
notice that under the embed code, you can select a video size.  Check to see
how wide the main content column is on your website, and choose a video size
that best matches that width.
TIP: Before embedding a video into your own website, watch the video all
the way through.  That sounds obvious, but you'd be surprised how many people
will skip that step and just watch the first minute or two.  Make sure that the
video is good quality, and isn't packed with advertising to the creator's own
website.  Any video you embed will be a reflection on you and your own site, so
only use the best.
I hope
this section has given you a few more ideas for making your content "stickier"
and more entertaining for your visitors.











Yoast SEO Wordpress plugin
The Yoast SEO plugin is one of the first
plugins I install on any new site I am working on.  It gives webmasters a huge
amount of SEO control over their website.  I won't cover it all here as that is
the subject of my Wordpress SEO 2017 book on Amazon.
However, before finishing this book, I
wanted to show you a really cool feature of the Yoast SEO Wordpress plugin that
we talked about this earlier in the book - changing the title tag of a post or
page.
Just as a reminder, when you create a new
post on Wordpress, the post title is used as the web page's title tag, as well
as the opening H1 header on the web page.  It's also used as the basis of the
filename.  Let me show you an example:

The post title is called "The Cardio
Benefits of Krill Oil", and so that is used as the web page H1 header:

By default, Wordpress also used this post title
to construct the filename by replacing spaces with dashes.  However, if you
look at this filename, it's not quite right:
cardio-benefits-krill-oil
The word "of" has been removed!
Do you remember earlier in the book when I
told you that some webmasters remove the "stop words" from filenames?  I also
told you that the Yoast SEO plugin could automate this for you.  That is what
you are seeing here.
To turn this on, go to the Advanced
settings in the Yoast SEO plugin, and click on the Permalinks tab.  The
setting can be found there:

In my example above, Yoast SEO was set up
to remove the stop words from "slugs" (which includes the filename).
A warning:  When stop words are removed,
the meaning of a phrase can change.  Make sure that if you turn this feature on
by default, your filenames still make sense.
The Yoast SEO plugin integrates into your
Wordpress dashboard in a lot of ways.
If you go to add/edit a post or page, you
will see the Yoast SEO plugin has inserted some options for you there:

What you see here will depend to a certain
extent on how you've set the plugin up, but you should all see the Snippet
Preview.  
Essentially, the snippet preview is
intended to show you what your listing will look like in Google.  You can see
the title (which is taken from the title tag), and the description (where this
comes from again depends on your Wordpress setup).  
The title tag you see above is the post
title, which in turn was used as the H1 heading on the web page.
However, I can change the title tag without
changing the H1 header on the web page using this snippet preview.  Simply
click on the Edit Snippet button:

This allows you to edit the web page title
tag, meta description AND the filename of the page if you want to, overwriting
the defaults created by Wordpress.
You can see that the SEO title and meta
description currently show "variables".  This is how the Yoast SEO plugin
constructs these elements of the page, with variables you can set yourself.  However,
you can also just type in what you want without using a variable.
The SEO title you type in here will be used
exclusively for the title tag of the web page.  That, in turn, will be used
(hopefully) by Google when it lists your page in the SERPs.  
When you save your post after editing the
SEO title, the title tag in the HTML code will be changed to reflect what you
entered.  Your title tag will be different from the opening headline on your
page, and your filename.
The Yoast SEO plugin is well worth
investigating for the reasons I have shown here, and everything else that it
can do.  









More information from Dr. Andy Williams
If you would like more information, tips, tutorials or
advice, consider signing up for my free weekly newsletter over at ezSEONews.com offering tips, tutorials, and
advice to online marketers and webmasters.  My newsletter, plus SEO articles, etc.
will be delivered to your inbox.  I cannot always promise a weekly schedule,
but I do try ;)









My other Webmaster books
All of my books are available as Kindle
books and paperbacks.  You can view them all here:
http://amazon.com/author/drandrewwilliams
I'll leave you to explore those if you are interested.  You'll find
books on various aspects of being a webmaster, such as creating high-quality
content, SEO, CSS etc.  









My Video
Courses
I have a growing number of video courses
hosted on Udemy.  You can view a complete list of these at my site:
http://ezseonews.com/udemy
There are courses on the same kind of
topics that my books cover, so SEO, Content Creation, Wordpress, Website
Analytics, etc.









Did
you enjoy this book?
If you liked this book (or even if you
didn't), PLEASE add a review on the Amazon website.  
Thank you!




