














 

How to Get Rich from Airbnb.






By Stephen Liddell
























































How To Get Rich From Airbnb

By Stephen Liddell



First Published 2013 by Lulu.com
ISBN 978-1-291-48240-9
Second Edition Published 2014
Copyright
© 2013 Stephen Liddell
Smashwords Edition
 
 
 
 
The moral rights of the author have been
asserted. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be
reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form
or by any means, electronic, mechanical or otherwise without the
written permission of the Publisher.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Dedication
 
This book is dedicated to the wonderful group of
people who founded Airbnb, one of the best uses of the Internet and
that truly lives up to the wishes of the Internet inventor Sir Tim
Bernard Lee who wanted to empower normal people.
 
This book is also
dedicated to the hundreds of our guests who have ever stayed with
us now and in the future. We've been blessed by
meeting some lovely people from many different backgrounds. You
make every day of our lives like a little holiday without us
leaving home.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 









Introduction
 
If you're reading this you probably already have a
vague idea of what Airbnb is. Airbnb and other similar room-rental
schemes such as Wimdu and Roomorama are some of the best and most
innovative uses of the Internet and help you make money from your
biggest asset, your home.
 
Born out of older
sites such as couch-surfer and the old student and hippy tradition
of crashing on the sofa wherever you can find one; Airbnb takes it
to another level.  It allows you
to rent out your spare rooms or indeed properties to travellers
allowing them to stay somewhere friendly, homely and usually
cheaper than if they were to stay in a hotel.
 
Whilst it started off as a way for friends to find
somewhere to stay in San Francisco, it has now spread around the
world with millions of people opening their homes to strangers,
making new friends and making a bit of extra money as a bonus.
 
The author and his wife have made over tens of
thousands in the last two years with over seventy 5-star rated
reviews on our average suburban home and I want to give you the
best chance to do the same.
 
This e-book will show you how to maximise your
earnings from Airbnb but the ideas behind it can be used for the
many other similar websites.













Early Decisions
 
The biggest decision
you have to make first of all
you is whether Airbnb is for you.  Essentially you
are opening your home to strangers and this isn't for
everyone.  There are
safety issues that people have to overcome and simple privacy and
personal space issues as well.  Airbnb goes a
long way to make the whole experience as safe as possible.
 In our experience we have had over 100 people stay with us
in the last year and we haven't had a single problem.
 Yes on the first night we hardly slept as we knew that with
our luck we had just let an axe murderer into our home but as it
happened we had nothing to worry about and neither did our equally
nervous guest. We very quickly became used to sharing our home with
strangers but not every does.
 
Everyone who uses Airbnb is vetted before they
can open their homes to any guests.  There are
different levels of vetting that one can go through but the minimal
level ensures that both guest and host have their ID, address and
contact details verified.  Additionally,
Airbnb offer a comprehensive insurance policy to cover against
damages and losses by your guest.   In all
the time that Airbnb has been running only one, admittedly
high-profile claim, has come to light of a guy in the USA who came
back to his apartment to find it totally trashed. That's one person
out of millions.
 
Decide on your
check-in and check-out times. Some people may decide to haggle over
the times and the price, it's up to you if you
want to agree to your requests depending on your circumstances.
Originally my listings had a check-in time of 5pm or later to allow
time to get back from work. These days I largely work from home so
they can arrive early if they really want to but I
won't have anyone arriving after 9pm. Once you have been
up until 11pm or midnight a few times just for guests to arrive
from the airport, it quickly loses its charm and late arrivers
often underestimate the travel time or possible delays.
 
An important new feature on Airbnb is that of Instant
Booking. This feature allows guests to book your listing without
you having to respond to emails. However it also takes away much of
the control you have over who stays with you and when. If your room
or property is listed on more than one site then it makes using
Instant Booking impractical. Most Airbnb hosts seem to have decided
not to use Instant Booking due to the lack of control it offers but
of course it might be just the thing for you particularly if your
listing is not at your home.
 
The other issue about
having someone stay with you is not one of personal safety but
rather one of personal freedom.  Letting guests
stay at your home means that guess what, you will have complete
strangers in your home.  This means that
when you come home tired from work and just want to watch TV in
peace, you might have to talk to someone.  If you
like to potter round the kitchen at 8am on a Sunday morning with no
clothes on well you might want to put a dressing gown on unless you
want to scare your guests and ruin your online reputation!
 There will be times when you want to go out and you
can't because guests are due to arrive and there will be
nights with interrupted sleep as guests from different time-zones
are up half the night chatting on Skype to their family.
 In my experience though and I'm writing as someone who is
more than happy on my own for days on end and who likes my own
space, you quickly get used to it.  You meet nice
new people, many of whom come back to you and then there is the
bonus, you make money.
 
Before you get
properly started, you may have to check out before you go live on
Airbnb is that you are actually not breaking any bylaws by renting
out your spare room or property. There have been a number of
high-profile cases in New York where tenants have had their
listings shut down and worse as doing so violates local laws or
tenancy agreements. If in doubt check first before you open up your
home to guests. On a related matter you may want to check with your
mortgage and or home-insurance provider as having strangers stay in
your home may technically breach certain policies. If
you're worried a guest might fall down your stairs or slip
in the bath, do make sure you're
covered.
 
You're
probably wondering how on a get rich style book it took so long to
mention money.  Don't worry, I
haven't forgotten.  Before we get
to the key parts about making money on Airbnb, it is important to
mention how transactions are handled by the website.
 All of the room rental sites offer slightly different
methods but what they have in common is that they guarantee payment
to the host and the ability not to be ripped off to the guest. To
make this run smoothly, and it always does, both parties register
their banking details through Airbnb or the other providers.
 
 
When a booking request
is confirmed, the guests money goes into a holding account with
Airbnb and once they have checked in to your house and confirmed
that you are a nice decent person then the money will automatically
transferred into your account.  It takes a few
days but it works time and time again.  It also
means there are no awkward moments of asking guests for money or
have them try and wangle a discount from you.
 
 
All Airbnb hosts can
choose what cancellation policy they want to have for their
listings. The Flexible setting allows guests to cancel their
booking without losing their money whilst the Strict setting means
that if the guest cancels their booking, they
don't get a refund with the Moderate setting being
somewhere in between. You are always likely to have a certain low
level of bookings being cancelled. Having a Flexible policy means
you might attract more guests but more cancellations too whilst a
Strict setting may see you getting few visitors but at least those
you do get, you know you'll receive their
money. Which one is right for you depends on how quickly you can
re-rent out your listing or whether it matters to you at all.
Personally speaking, we have a Flexible policy and most of our
local competitors don't and they generally
have less than 10% of our bookings so if you want to make money
then you have to give guests every opportunity to book with
you.
 
Hopefully all of this
will have just wetted your appetite about registering with Airbnb
or similar services rather than scaring you off.
  I have had plenty of people stay with me and not one
of them has cheated me of money, I have never felt unsafe in my own
home and nothing has ever been damaged or stolen even when
I've been away from home.  Let's face it, if your
home is anything like mine what is there actually worth
stealing?  A DVD which
they can probably get cheaply from home? Foreign guests are likely
to be backpacking or flying home which means they are unlikely to
be able to carry off your flat screen TV and people from your own
country, wherever that may be most likely have everything that you
have anyway.  
 
Travellers have always
generally been an honest bunch wherever you go; they have come to
see the sights, meet new people and not to deprive you of your life
savings.  Using Airbnb is
a good way to restore your faith in humanity when you realise that
99.999% of guests look after your house and don't actually want to
do anything bad to it or to you, even when you aren't around to
keep an eye on you.  If for one
moment they did, Airbnb will most likely reimburse you for your
losses and most likely would quickly get the police to track them
down and they would never stay anywhere else ever which is probably
the worst that could happen to a keen traveller.
 
That being said,
accidents happen and there will be increased wear and tear on
carpets, showers and hoovers. You'll find yourself
spending more time washing towels and bedding and some hosts like
to make a small cleaning charge that is automatically be added to
any bookings. Airbnb also includes the ability ask all guests for a
Security Deposit to cover breakages. Both of these options can be
easily selected from your Airbnb Dashboard. Personally, I have
never used either of these but instead have towels and bedding that
are exclusively for guests. You may want to buy some plates,
glasses and mugs that you won't cry over should a
guest accidentally drop one on the floor but so far the only thing
we have had broken was an umbrella of all things.
 
Airbnb lets you make
money from the one asset that you have, your home.
 It is a tangible way to make money from something real. It
isn't a money-making scam or a pyramid scheme that promises the
world and delivers nothing.  It's a great
invention to help you make money for virtually zero
outlay.











Know your competition and Pricing
 
So you've made the
wise choice to list your home on Airbnb. Well done
you! It's the best thing you'll do all day, maybe even all
year.  Heck you might
meet me for a drink on a beach in Barbados one day just to say
thanks Stephen for changing my life or at least making it more
interesting.
 
Though many people who
use Airbnb do so just to make a little extra cash or as a bit of
fun, we are here to make money aren't we?  Yes we
are.  So if we are
going to make money, we have to treat it a bit like a
business.  There is no
genuine way to make money without putting in a little
effort.  Even drug
running requires a little investment and making a successful Airbnb
listing is a lot safer that going through the jungles of
Columbia.   
 
To be successful you
have to make your listing stand out, be competitively priced and
make your home look inviting to prospective guests.
 Far too many hosts on Airbnb don't understand these simple
concepts but a little time spent here will pay huge dividends later
on.  
 
The best way to do
this is to take a peek at your competitors.  It
is vital to price your room at a good rate for the area, especially
when you are starting off. Once you have built a good reputation
and your reliability and quality of service gives you a perception
of being the best or most popular in your neighbourhood, then you
can think about increasing your price.  My advice
would be initially to go in as the cheapest listing in your
locality. Lots of people list their homes at extortionate
prices.  It might seem
cool to have your room up for grabs at £100 a night or
a $150 dollars but guess what? No-one is going to pay that.
 If you have a flat just above Piccadilly Circus then you
might pull it off.  If your
apartment over looks Time Square then that's ok but if
like me you live in an unremarkable area then price your room
unremarkably.  Better than
that, price it attractively.  Don't give
anyone any reason not to stay with you.  Would you
rather have a £100 room with no
visitors every month or a £30 room with 5
visitors a month?  I know which
I'd have but a quick scan of Airbnb listings around the
world show many people have gone to the effort of creating a
listing but they don't seem to want to
attract any guests.  
 
Remember you are not
just competing against our friendly Airbnb and other rival listings
but against hotels.  Personally, if
I stayed in a town where a private room cost more than a nice hotel
then 9 times out of 10 I would be off to the Hilton. With the
exception of people who have homes in lucrative areas, the only
people who attract visitors are those that are well priced.
 Many of these homes will attract lots of visitors and many
long-term stayers who will make thousands because they are being
clever and not just trying to overcharge people for some easy
money.
 
You can always increase your price later and what is
great about this is that all those reviews you gained from guests
who state they love your competitively priced home will stay there
at your new pricing level.
 
Think of who might be
your most likely visitor type and write your listing to target
them; if you are near a tourist site then make sure people know
it.  If you live in a boring suburb next to a
business zone then target it to travelling salesmen.
 Be smart and think outside the box.  You're trying to make money so be inventive.








 
Make yours The
Best Listing Possible
 
It
isn't hard to make a good listing in Airbnb.
 Sometimes you don't even need a good listing, you just have
to be better than anyone else in your area.  If
you are the sole listing in your town or village then it is yours
to lose.   Too many
people have simply awful listings.  Photos of messy
living rooms, cluttered and dirty bathrooms and bedrooms that look
like they were either hit by a bomb or used in a Gaza hostage video
aren't going to entice anyone and if they do, it is likely
to be exactly the sort of people you don't want to share
your home with.
 
The tactics that you
need to employ are almost identical to those you need to use to
sell your home. If you want
to use your garden as a selling point, cut the lawn first and hide
your 15 year old rusty childs swing behind the shed before you do
so. A photo of a unpainted chair on a weed infested patio sends a
message that your home is a mess and you probably
aren't work risking staying with or ruining their holiday
on.
 
Below are some of the
many photos on our profile. We can't reproduce the
photos taken by the professional photographer but these give an
idea of what you should be aiming for.
 
 
 
 

 
Think of a listing as
a hotel or resort website or even a product commercial. Make sure
your listing it bright and breezy.  Take lots of
photos but make them photos of something worth looking at.
 Tidy up your house before you take them.
 Even if your bathroom normally has shampoo bottles and
toothpaste tubes on the windowsill, just for the moment you take
your photos, please hide them away.  No-one is going
to want to stay in a house that looks unappealing or worse still
messy or dirty.  Look at your
photos and ask yourself if you would stay there or better still,
would the strictest, cleanest and comfort loving person you know
want to pay money to stay there?
 
Make sure the bedrooms look smart and tidy. If
possible have your photos include some of the features your listing
is offering. If you have a TV in the room then show it in the
photo. If your home is targeting romantic couples, make sure that
this is shown in the photos. If your home has a great location then
include some photos of the nearby beach, countryside or urban
skyline.
 
Airbnb offer
free professional photo shoots by a professional photographer. If
you're serious about Airbnb then take up this offer. The photos
look amazing and this free service can only help make you stand out
from all your competitors.
 
Remember you want to
make money, to do this you have to attract guests and not just
attract them but make sure they are happy so they write positive
reviews on your listing that encourages other people to stay with
you. It pays to put some effort in.  Think of it if
you were a guest, would you want a holiday of lifetime backpacking
or travelling to a distant country only to live in a dump? Probably
not.  If you have a
small room, it might be handy for business types who only going to
be staying to sleep but still, you should make it look and be as
comfortable as possible.
 
Make sure you make it
explicit in your listing what you are offering and what is not
acceptable in your home.  If you don't
want smoking in your room that is fine, people will respect that
and most if they think it is that big an issue will simply go
elsewhere.  Don't worry,
there are plenty of other visitors, you shouldn't have to
compromise what is your home.  However it
helps a lot if you can offer some freebies.  Wi-Fi is a good example, some homes don't have it.
 Some have it but don't offer it to travellers.
 It really is incredibly popular and needed by guests
wanting to contact their friends and family and doesn't cost you a
penny.  If you have a
list of "Don'ts" more than 2 or 3 items long then maybe you should
think twice whether Airbnb is for you.  Guests
don't want to feel like they are in a prison no matter how cheap
their room is.


In the last
year or so Airbnb has given hosts the ability to list the features
which your guests will have access to. Make sure you take the time
to get to grips with your Airbnb profile and list elements like
Wi-Fi, cooking and washing facilities. I'd recommend providing
some sort of breakfast as that will make your home attractive to
both leisure and business guests.
































Make sure to list your amenities to your
guests (Photo acknowledges all copyright to Airbnb and used under
fair-use police).











Go The Extra Mile
 
You can't do too much
for a nice guest.  Lots of Airbnb
hosts will just do the minimum needed to get people into their
home.  I though like
to make guests feel at home once they have arrived.
 My home is their home at least while they are paying for
their room.  Guests who are
staying for more than a few days really appreciate using a clothes
washing machine.  We give them a
shelf of the fridge and one in the pantry too. Of course these
things cost you money as well as wear and tear so you may want to
set stipulations such as no washing machines for guests staying
less than 3 days.
 
Sometimes I have
driven 30 or 40 miles to the nearest airport to pick up or collect
guests staying with us. If your guest has lots of luggage, is
elderly or from a different culture then consider giving them a
lift to the local bus or train station.  If
you are going to offer a breakfast, make sure you mention it in
your listing.   Take a
photo of your breakfast bar and show it off on your listing.
You don't have to personally
make breakfast. Think about making a self-service breakfast tray
with some long-life products such as breakfast cereals, spreads and
preserves and maybe some canned items like baked beans. If you have
time, once someone has booked with you then ask them if they have
any food preferences. You never know when you may get vegetarians
or vegans. The diet of someone from Japan or India is likely to be
much different from that of the U.K. USA or Europe. Guests will
really appreciate it and likely give you a better
review.
 
Of course I like to
take things a bit further.  Whilst some of
your guests will just shut themselves in their room and you will
hardly see them, others will happily sit down with you in the
evening and weekends and chat away.  Always off er
them the chance to sit down in the main room with you. Many
won't want to but at least they will feel welcome. One or
two will spend their spare time with you so just treat them like
one of the family and make new friends.  Maybe
think of cooking for them if you are already cooking for yourself
anyway. We've offered some of our guests cooked British breakfasts
and Sunday Roasts and in return we've enjoyed numerous bottles of
wine and some fine foreign cooking.  If you can't or
won't cook, consider taking a special guest to a local
restaurant or pub that offers them a taste of real England or
wherever you are.  Airbnb is about
travelling and living like a local.
 
All of this does wonders for your reviews, your
reputation, the number of friends around the country and the world
you have and will also boost your bank balance in a big way.







 
 
Your First Guests


So
you've decided that you're going to become an
Airbnb host. If all goes well you should soon start receiving
inquiries from potential guests. A key element of Airbnb is that you only let guests stay with
you who you are sure of. Basically, if you don't like the look of
them for any reason at all, legitimate or simply playing a hunch,
you don't have to let them stay with you. In fact you don't even
have to contact them to turn them down, just click the Reject
button.
Like hosts, all guests have to verify their ID
and contact details.  If you are
opening your home to strangers then you are entitled to ask for
additional ID or other reassurances such as their photo, often
linked to Facebook or LinkedIn or the reasons for their
trip.  Perhaps the
best way to decide whether your potential visitor is a model guest
or the next Jack The Ripper is to check their reviews. Reviews are
an excellent feature of Airbnb and really are central to the whole
secret of it working so well and also for you to make money from
it.   If the
person has good reviews and or has written good reviews about their
previous hosts then they are likely going to be safe and hopefully
fun to have around.
 
If the prospective
guest has some dodgy reviews or they appear demanding in their
profile or email to you then maybe it is best to let that one go.
There is nothing worse than having an unreasonable or unpleasant
guest making you feel uneasy in your own home. Whilst you may be
eager to accept almost anyone especially in the beginning,
don't feel pressured to say yes to people you
don't like or trust. Tomorrow is another day and if your
profile is attractive to guests then you'll soon get a
better guest contacting you.
 
In my experience a
guest who is unusually demanding in their email will be at best
annoying and at worst a total nightmare during their stay. They may
also be more likely to write you a less than stellar review after
they leave which can effect your ability to attract guests in the
future. Sooner or later you may encounter a difficult guest,
don't worry after that you'll at least no what
sort of person you want to reject in future.
 
It
won't be long before you will have a newbie wanting to
stay with you that has no reviews whatsoever.  Once
you have had one or two guests stay with you, you'll quickly become
comfortable with the whole Airbnb concept and let them stay. The
chances are, they will be more nervous of it than than you as after
all, they are coming to stay in your home but in reality there is
nothing for either party to be very nervous about. However if you
have any doubts then email them through the Airbnb mail system and
ask for more information. I put more value on their emails than
almost anything else on Airbnb. If they take the time to write a
pleasant message then in my experience they will be ok. More than
once we have had someone stay with us who whilst not the worst
person in the world, were not the type of person we would invite
back to our home and we knew we should have trusted our gut
instinct from that first email.
 
Your home is your home
and even if someone has arrived at your house you are perfectly
entitled to ask them to leave if you really don't like
someone. Airbnb has an emergency telephone number which you can
call 24/7 to explain the situation and these same people can help
your unwanted guest find somewhere else to stay.
 
Airbnb makes it very
easy to decline bookings or inquiries from people
you're not 100% comfortable with. Maybe they
don't have a photo or they are rude or abrupt in their
email to you. You don't need a reason to
turn anyone away so follow your instinct. You might decide for your
first few bookings to accept pretty much anyone and then later when
you have some reviews under your belt you can be more choosy over
who to accept.







 
 
Make Your Guests Feel At Home
 
 
Your guests are your
business in Airbnb and you should look after them. As soon as they
arrive, offer them a drink and check that they are okay.
 Is there anything you can help them with settling in?
It's a good idea to give your guests a guided tour of
your home. You don't have to show them
the whole house but show them where the bathrooms are, how the
shower works and the basics like heating and lighting. If you offer
breakfasts, show them where everything is and if they are staying
for more than a night then consider giving them a shelf of your
fridge or pantry. It will help them relax and feel at home so they
will enjoy their stay more.
 
You can be sure that your guests will want to access
the internet. Leave them a sheet of paper with your wifi network
name and password. You could also give them your day-time contact
numbers or email addresses and the local emergency numbers for
police, ambulance and fire and similar organisations.
 
If you are renting an
entire property or you are not going to be home whilst you have
guests present then consider leaving your key with a good neighbour
or at least letting both guests and neighbour know what is going on
just so the police aren't called for
suspicious burglars and the guest has someone to go to in case of
an emergency.
 
Some people have
concerns about giving guests a key to the property. Whilst it is
entirely understandable, if the guests are staying for more than a
night or two and you aren't going to be at
home 24/7 then you really should offer them a key. Just be sure to
ask for it back the night before they leave or remind the guests to
push the key through the letterbox after they leave.
 
It's always
worth showing guests how to open and more importantly close and
lock the front door or the back door too should there be an
emergency. More than once in our early days did I come home from
work to find the front door which opens almost onto the street was
open even though we tried to minimise issues with this guest by
telling her to just shut the door. Similar issues can happen with
windows if you're not
careful.
 
Try and find out what
time guests will be up in the morning so that if you have only one
shower that your guests aren't hogging it when
you are running late for work. If you don't have or want
a lock on the bathroom door then inform the guest that if the door
is close it is occupied but once the room is vacated the door
should be left open.
 
Maybe you can plan a
day trip for the guests or help them with the next stage of their
holiday.  Why not produce
an info pack in your room with leaflets of some nearby
attractions.  Include some
bus and train timetables and local maps.  Have a
word with your local store and put some money saving coupons in the
pack too.  
One big advantage of Airbnb for
guests is that unlike with hotels, the hosts live and work in the
area and may have done for years. We have experience of where to
go, what to see. If you can help guests that way then go right
ahead.
 







 
 
The Importance of reviews
 
As I have mentioned
earlier, reviews are really one of the most important aspects of
having a successful and lucrative Airbnb listing.
 The same goes for Wimdu, Roomorama and many others.
 The prospect of being reviewed places a certain morality on
hosts and guests because whatever you do, good or bad could be made
public.  It is one of
the extra guarantees that just make Airbnb easy to use and to a
large extent guarantee a certain quality in terms of guest, host
and accommodation. Whilst it is rare to get bad reviews, it can
happen.  As we're in the
business of making lots of money and being outstanding then we want
stellar 5* reviews too.
 
There is no compulsion
for you to review your guest or indeed for your guest to review
you.  Some don't
because they forget, are too busy or they don't really care too
much and don't appreciate how
important they are to hosts.  Maybe they felt
their stay with you was just a bit Meh.  Maybe that
is just the type of person they are.  It's all too
easy to simply write a review to say someone was a good guest or a
good host but when you receive a great review it will make your
day, make your local Airbnb rivals a touch jealous but also mean
that you will be most likely to gain the next booking of someone
visiting your area.  Having good
reviews and many of them, boosts your standing on the Airbnb
listings so that you become the default must-see listing for your
town or city.
 
We have over seventy 5-star reviews and it
makes us a magnet for Airbnb visitors not just in our immediate
area but for people who want to visit or work 30 miles away. There
are dozens or even hundreds of Airbnb hosts in this radius but
having a good profile with lots of good reviews show that it is
worth 30 miles of travel in the crowded London area just for the
security of having a good place to stay with a reputation
overflowing with positive reviews.
 
The best way to
receive a glowing review from a guest is to not just ensure they
have a great stay with you in every way possible,
don't treat guests as cash-cows but as special friends you
genuinely want to enjoy their time with you. Make them feel good
and the money and reviews side will take care of
themselves.
 
In my experience, a
huge number of our guests are attracted to us by our reviews. When
you have one or two good reviews it means you are probably better
than your rivals.  When you have
20 or 30 it means that you must be doing a lot right and that
strangers know they can rely on you for a happy, friendly and safe
stay.

With now over 70 Five-Star reviews on Airbnb
(and many others elsewhere or for privately arranged guests. (Photo
acknowledges all copyright to Airbnb and used under fair-use
police).







 
 
Run Your Listing Like A Business
 
Airbnb makes it very
easy to run your listing as a business.  It has
various marketing tools to make your listing stand out and a very
easy to use calendar to make sure you plan your guests stay; it
also keeps a record of all your transactions too.
 
If you want to take
things to another level then you will want multiple listings. We
live in a 3 bedroom house but only use one bedroom.
 The rest of the rooms are sitting empty unless we rent them
out which we do.  We have
listings on various websites and our price and reputation mean that
we are frequently turning people down as we are full.
 We are also receiving guests who have stayed with rivals
but prefer us due to comfort and competitive pricing.
 
You'll no doubt see that there are plenty of profiles in your
area. When you are starting off the real battle is to get noticed.
Profiles of everyone, new hosts and old alike are ranked on a
number of categories which determine how high up the list you are.
Some of these you can't immediately improve such as the number of
reviews you have. However, all profiles are marked down if they do
not respond promptly to inquiries. If you can reply, answer
questions and booking requests immediately but at least within 24
hours. Longer than 24 hours will mean your profile will plummet
down the rankings and to make things worse your poor response rate
will be shown on your profile which makes it less attractive to
potential visitors.
 
Even if you have to turn down someone, try
and take the time to write a polite email as you can almost
guarantee that a few months down the line, they will ask to stay
with you again or refer a friend who is visiting your area.
 
Your listing can also sink down the listings
if you cancel a booking or if there are disputes between you and
third parties. Multiple infringements can mean your listings are
suspended or permanently removed. However all is not lost if
something goes wrong as your profile rating is based on the last 3
months activities and so if you hold tight and get back to doing
things promptly you will soon see your ranking improve.
 
It's easy to get
confused if you are running multiple room listings on multiple
sites.  I'd recommend
doing a simple Excel spreadsheet that will compliment the website
calendars.  Here you can
keep track of when guests come and go, their contact details and
how much money you make after deducting the nominal fees that
Airbnb impose.
 
If you live in the
United Kingdom, you are actually allowed to rent to your rooms
tax-free each year to the value of over £4,000.
 In effect it's like receiving a
large pay-rise that can buy you a holiday or two, go towards a new
car or pay off a chunk of your mortgage.  If nothing
else, a regular stream of Airbnb guests will pay your bills so you
can use your cash on more fun things.
 
It may be worth adjusting your prices at peak season,
Christmas, weekends or if there is a large sporting or cultural
event taking part nearby.
 
Often when you have
guests stay, they will come back again and again, especially if
they are on business.  It may be worth
contacting the companies and organisations that they work for and
letting their HR Departments know that you offer quality and
comfortable accommodation.  This is
especially useful for workers who are working in an office hundreds
of miles from home or who are in the process of re-locating.
 No-one wants to stay in a impersonal and lonely hotel week
after week.  Staying at your
home will save them money and make you money and a long-term guest
means you have less washing and cleaning to do.  Many
people can make more money by renting out one room to a business
traveller during weekdays on Airbnb than others do by renting out
an entire flat/apartment or house for an entire month.
 This leaves you with your home to yourself at weekends if
you so wish or the ability to host some weekend
sight-seers.
 
This e-book doesn't
claim to give anyone any legal or financial advice and it is
important that you know your legal responsibilities,pay any taxes
that are owed and to keep good records not only for official
reasons but to make sure you are making the most money that you
can.  Depending on
your personal circumstances, officially your council or landlord
may not allow you to take in guests on short-term stays; this is
particularly the case in some North American cities although the
laws seem widely ignored and unenforceable.  For
your own peace of mind, you might want to check and adjust your
insurance policies, especially if you have a mortgage.







 
 
Keeping Records And Sticking to Airbnb
Rules
 
 
If you are even moderately successful with
Airbnb or Wimdu then it is well worth keeping certain basic records
of who you have staying with you. Over the years Airbnb (though not
rival sites) have reduced the information that they provide with
hosts ostensibly for our own security but in reality it seems to be
simply a pointless way to try and keep people from conducting
transactions on the system. It can be annoying though as it can
restrict you from easily obtaining pretty essential information
that you might want if you ever have to file your taxes.
 
It's a good idea to get in the habit of keeping a log book
whether on paper or on your computer using Excel or Numbers to
record the names, contact addresses, telephone numbers of your
guests and also the dates they stayed for, prices you charged and
the income you received minus the Airbnb fees. Though Airbnb now
hide some of this information, once a booking has been made then
you can still request it from your guest before they arrive or
whilst they are staying with you.
 
If there is one thing that Airbnb and other
operators are tight on, it is swapping contact information and
making bookings off the system. Understandably this is because for
every night booked through the Airbnb system, they take a small fee
from the host and a larger fee from the guest. As a result, if you
try and swap contact details before making a booking, Airbnb
software algorithms will likely detect it and black out the
information or block it entirely. Repeated attempts to beat the
system may end up with either guest or host removed from the
system.
 
If you do get
someone trying to book outside the system, it's always wise to
politely inform them you only make bookings through Airbnb. This
way their ID is verified and you are covered by the insurance.
Sometimes on very rare occasions, potential guests may want to view
your property. To be honest, I always decline such guests but if
you feel you want to do this, contact Airbnb and they can arrange a
visit.
 
Of course being
a great guest will likely mean that you make several friends and
you'll have people wanting to stay with you again and again.
Once you get to know your guest and they have stayed with you once
or twice or perhaps they book with you for a week and want to stay
with you for longer or return another time then it is entirely up
to you whether to make arrangements privately. It will save both
parties money and can often be just easier for guest or host alike.
Of course you'd lose the Airbnb insurance and protection for
subsequent visits but hopefully you know your guests well enough to
work out if this is going to be a problem and if it
is....
there is always the Police! If you do take some bookings privately,
do remember to keep your financial records up to date and block out
your calendar on Airbnb too save you getting bombarded by inquiries
that you can't accept.
 







 
 
Conclusions
 
Airbnb and its rivals
are perhaps one of the best uses of the internet.
 They allow travellers to plan their accommodation at both
very short or very long term notice and help bring some of the
wealth that would otherwise go to corporate companies to every day
people like you and me.  Lets face it,
if someone stays at the London Hilton, it doesn't do me any good at
all but if they stay with me then not only will the money they
would have spent go to me (well actually about a quarter of it as I
charge a fraction of a London hotel) but I then get to spend the
money on local businesses and shops too as do my guests,
 
Making money from
Airbnb does take a little effort but then most ways that make money
do.  If you have the philosophy of a business person
combined with a heart of a generous host then you really will make
lots of money and lots of friends too.  You'll
meet people from all sorts of different trades, backgrounds and
nationalities and if you're lucky with some of that money you have
made you can then go and visit some of your new friends around the
world share some of the love and money you have made.
 
I hope that
you like my guide to making money from Airbnb.  I'd
love any comments, feedback and suggestions at
Email:stephenliddell@gmail.com or visit my blog and website at
www.stephenliddell.co.uk    You might even like one of my other books I have written
at 
http://www.amazon.co.uk/Stephen-Liddell/e/B008FVZPD8/ref=sr_ntt_srch_lnk_1?qid=1373289161&sr=8-1
or for
American readers 
http://www.amazon.com/Stephen-Liddell/e/B008FVZPD8/ref=sr_ntt_srch_lnk_1?qid=1373289228&sr=8-1

 




