




 MINDSET
How Positive Thinking Will Set You Free & Help You Achieve Massive Success In Your Life










Introduction
I want to thank you and congratulate you for downloading the book, "MINDSET- How Positive Thinking Will Set You Free & Help You Achieve Massive Success In Your Life".
This book will help you learn how to embrace positive thinking in order to achieve success in your life.
Do you ever wonder why some people get to achieve their dreams whereas some people never even get close to that? So, what makes the difference between someone who seems to get things done, achieve success, and seem to have it all and someone who does not seem to get things done? Well, the one thing that has a huge impact on whether you pursue your dreams or not is your mind. 
While your mind is a very powerful organ, if you don't harness its full potential, then you will not live the kind of life you desire. Think about it; when your mind believes that you are already defeated, no amount of practice or training can make you believe otherwise. In fact, even when people keep telling you that you can do it, when your mind thinks you can't, you won't make any significant progress in whatever it is you wanted to do. 
So in essence, the secret to success in life lies in harnessing the power of the mind. If you are fully aware of that but find it hard to use your mind's unlimited power to unleash your full potential, this book will help you to achieve just that.  
If you are looking for actionable information on how to harness the power of the mind to transform yourself, then this book will teach you how to unleash the full power of your mindset to transform your life. 
Thanks again for downloading this book, I hope you enjoy it!











© Copyright 2015 by Benjamin Smith - All rights reserved.
This document is geared towards providing exact and reliable information in regards to the topic and issue covered. The publication is sold with the idea that the publisher is not required to render accounting, officially permitted, or otherwise, qualified services. If advice is necessary, legal or professional, a practiced individual in the profession should be ordered. 
- From a Declaration of Principles which was accepted and approved equally by a Committee of the American Bar Association and a Committee of Publishers and Associations. 
In no way is it legal to reproduce, duplicate, or transmit any part of this document in either electronic means or in printed format. Recording of this publication is strictly prohibited and any storage of this document is not allowed unless with written permission from the publisher. All rights reserved. 
The information provided herein is stated to be truthful and consistent, in that any liability, in terms of inattention or otherwise, by any usage or abuse of any policies, processes, or directions contained within is the solitary and utter responsibility of the recipient reader. Under no circumstances will any legal responsibility or blame be held against the publisher for any reparation, damages, or monetary loss due to the information herein, either directly or indirectly. 
Respective authors own all copyrights not held by the publisher. 
The information herein is offered for informational purposes solely, and is universal as so. The presentation of the information is without contract or any type of guarantee assurance. 
The trademarks that are used are without any consent, and the publication of the trademark is without permission or backing by the trademark owner. All trademarks and brands within this book are for clarifying purposes only and are the owned by the owners themselves, not affiliated with this document. 











Table of Contents
Introduction
Chapter 1: Why The Need To Embrace Positive Thinking
Chapter 2: How To Develop Positive Mindset: Understanding That You Possess The Ultimate Power Over Yourself
Chapter 3: Develop A Positive Thought Process
Chapter 4: Appreciate Yourself
Chapter 5: Become Mindful Of The Negative Thoughts To Eradicate Them
Chapter 6: Finding the Good in Every Bad Situation
Chapter 7: Step 6- Practicing NLP Techniques For Developing A Positive Mindset
Conclusion




Wait! Before you start reading claim your FREE limited-time BONUS
Valued at $29 now!
 










Chapter 1: Why The Need To Embrace Positive Thinking
Before discussing how exactly to develop a positive mindset, it is essential to discuss its amazing benefits. Below are some benefits of how you stand to benefit by embracing positive thinking.
Freedom from Negative Thinking
Positive thinking liberates you and makes you free, but what precisely does it free you from? Well, by developing a positive mindset, you get freedom from all the negativity inhabiting your mind. Your negative thoughts corrupt your mind and gradually pollute your emotions, behavior, and attitude. Thoughts like 'How can I achieve that?', 'I am incapable of doing that', 'No, I am not good enough for this', 'I am a failure', 'What if something goes wrong' and similar thoughts are negative thoughts because they instill fear in you and make you succumb to your fears. These negative thoughts prevent you from taking a step forward because they make you feel incapable of doing something. You surrender to them each time and never consider going against them. This is precisely why you stay stuck in your cocoon for life and are never able to live freely.
However, by learning to develop a positive mindset, you learn to battle the negative thoughts emerging inside you. The positive thinking helps you realize that your ill thoughts, feelings, and emotions are nothing, but a corruption of normal thoughts. There isn't anything you cannot do; it is just a matter of trying. With time, your positive mindset helps to liberate you from the negativity rooted inside you, making you strong enough to stand on your own and put an end to pessimism for once. As soon as you are able to shatter the negative mindset, you find out that life is indeed very beautiful and simple. Hence, the biggest benefit of a positive mindset is to provide you with complete freedom from negativity that stops you from chasing your dreams and goals.
Helps You See Possibilities in Life
In addition to freeing you from your negative thoughts, positive thinking helps you become free and liberated by helping you see the different possibilities in life. Research has proven that a negative mindset compels you to behave in a specified manner only. When you have a negative thought, this makes you frightened of a certain outcome and restricts you from taking any action against that outcome. Hence, you cannot go beyond that outcome and are never able to see the other side of the coin. Your mind is conditioned to see the dark and bleak side of things only.
On the other hand, by adopting a positive attitude and mindset, you are able to become more open to things. Instead of becoming restricted to doing a certain act, you start considering different ideas and are able to see various possibilities in life. 
This fact was concluded by a research conducted by Barbara Fredrickson who is a psychology researcher working at the University of North Carolina. To test the influence of different positive emotions and feelings on the human brain, she invited some participants and divided them into five groups. The first and second groups were shown different clips showing positive emotions. The first group saw clips containing joy while the second one saw clips based on contentment. The third group was labeled as the 'control' group and was shown neutral images. The fourth group saw images based on fear, while the fifth one saw images based on anger. Later on, every participant was requested to share their feelings regarding what they would have done in situations shown in the images. Participants of the first groups wrote several possibilities and actions, whereas the ones belonging to the neutral group wrote fewer possibilities and the ones from the fourth and fifth group jotted down only a couple of actions.
This clearly exhibits that positive emotions and thinking help you see different options in a situation to resolve it in the best possible manner, whereas a negative mindset limits your actions and thinking capabilities as well.
Builds Your Skills
Positive thinking empowers you by building your unique skill set. Each one of us is gifted in our own special way. Similarly, you too have some amazing hidden talents, but you are unaware of them. Why? Well, this is simply because you never explored them due to your negative mindset. This is why you are stuck in a terrible job or dependent on others for financial support because you do not bother finding out if you have an extraordinary talent. 
However, by developing positive thinking, you become open to the thought that there might be something special about you as well. You might have a talent that could be polished to turn into an amazing skill that could assist you in actualizing all that you have dreamt. This thinking boosts your self-confidence, making you dig deeper in yourself to find out your potential and what you are good at. And once you do that, you can refine your raw talents and enhance them to make them help you achieve all your goals. This frees you from being codependent on others and from doing things that you do not enjoy and love.
If you want to become empowered in these three amazing ways and want to live a free, happy life full of possibilities, then you must focus on developing an optimistic mindset. Let us move on to the next chapter to find out the first step of accomplishing this goal.
 
**FREE bonus reminder claim now!**











Chapter 2: How To Develop Positive Mindset: Understanding That You Possess The Ultimate Power Over Yourself
'I can't change the direction of the wind, but I can adjust my sails to always reach my destination. ''Jimmy Dean''
This meaningful quote is a very good example that shows the kind of power that you have over yourself. Examine the quote carefully. What is your understanding of it? If you focus on every word of the quote, you will grasp its true meaning which clearly states that it is you who has the ultimate power over yourself and it is you alone who decides whether or not you can reach your set direction. Yes, you cannot change how the wind moves and you cannot force it to move in the direction that benefits you. There are many things that you cannot control, but the good news is, you still have power over the situation. What can you do to improve the situation? You can adjust your sails accordingly so they favor you in moving closer to your destination. Similarly, you cannot stop different obstacles from coming your way, but you can make yourself strong enough to battle any problem that you face and overcome them for good. This idea might sound a bit intimidating and difficult for many, but it is something that everyone is be capable of. If you figure out that you have the power to get through every difficulty in the world, then this should not be impossible for you. Here's how you can do that.
Understand the Power of Your Subconscious
In order to fully understand your subconscious, you must first learn more about how the mind works. Your mind is broadly divided into two main parts: conscious and subconscious minds. The conscious mind is the alert one of the two. This part is what you use for most of your actions while you are awake. You create thoughts, make decisions and perform daily functions with the conscious mind. It knows what's going on and makes you aware of different things happening around you. In addition to that, it orders your subconscious to act in a specific way. Because you know what the conscious mind can do, it is easy to believe that this is the more superior part of your mind when in reality, the subconscious mind is the real player.
Your true and special power lies deep in your subconscious. Because this part of the mind remains largely untapped, a lot of people think that it is inactive or perhaps not as functional as the conscious mind. While your conscious mind takes care of all the visible thoughts, emotions, behaviors and activities, your subconscious is in charge of storing all your memories, past feelings, emotions, and thoughts. Each thought that ever formed inside your mind is safely stored in the subconscious and it re-emerges whenever you perceive a similar stimulus. If you use the information locked inside the subconscious in the right manner, you would be able to erase all the bad memories, strengthen your good feelings and thoughts, and enhance your potential. Your subconscious is like a secret trove that has the ability to influence your decisions and actions, but you need to be wise in using it. If you guide it in a positive direction, then it will help you get what you want. However, if you allow your subconscious to be filled with negativity and other dangerous ideas, then it will create a lot of roadblocks ahead and ultimately work against you.
For example, what happens when you always tell yourself that you aren't capable of becoming a good doctor? Your thoughts become infected with this notion and soon enough, you consciously start doing things that prove you can never become an established doctor. This idea will be reflected in most of your actions. The subconscious has the power of framing your emotions, thoughts, and feelings in the exact manner you suggest it to be. A single thought can have a great and lasting effect. What you constantly think about eventually becomes what you are.
Similarly, if you keep appreciating yourself and confidently affirming yourself that nothing could stop you from becoming an excellent doctor, then this positive thinking would make your subconscious believe that you have full potential of achieving your goals. Constant positive thinking will lead you to believe that you would eventually accomplish them. When you exercise control over your thoughts, you will be able to program it in any which way you want. Think of it as a machine that is fueled by the thoughts and energy that you put in it.
This just proves that your subconscious is an extremely strong and indispensable part of your mind. Many people miss out on its full potential mainly due to a lack of knowledge on how vital it is in changing their lives. Becoming truly powerful begins when you learn how to unleash the full abilities of your subconscious. It is your authentic, special power that will allow you to maximize your potential and do countless things that you never thought you can do.
Unlocking the Potential of Subconscious
Now that you are becoming more aware that your subconscious has unimaginable power that can be harnessed to your advantage, you need to work on some techniques that will enable you to release that power. But before you proceed, there is one thing that you need to do first. You need to believe that you can be free and powerful. How can you do that? Start with this simple trick that everyone can do.
Simple Practice
Believing in the power of your subconscious mind may prove to be quite challenging especially if you are not at all familiar with this practice. Before today, you didn't even bother crediting your subconscious with some power, let alone believing it. Therefore, you won't be able to place all your faith in it effectively right away. However, a small and helpful practice can make this exercise easier. 
Begin by telling yourself, 'I believe in the power of my subconscious mind and I am going to completely harness it.' Repeat this to yourself aloud about 20 times. Yes, it is important that you say it at least 20 times. Once you are finished repeating this positive suggestion 20 times, take note of the feeling brimming inside you. Be conscious of your inner emotion. Is it a positive one? Does it make you feel a tad bit confident about yourself? If yes, then that suggestion has certainly worked its magic. To believe in your subconscious mind's powerful and limitless ability, you need to tell yourself that these powers indeed exist. You need to acknowledge that your subconscious can help bring you closer to what you want to achieve. Repeatedly speaking about it will soon make you trust this suggestion. It is a simple but effective way to channel positivity and to transform your thoughts and actions. By starting with this habit, you are now on the path of taking full control your subconscious.
As we delve deeper into understanding the subconscious, we will talk about essential techniques that you need to be familiar with. These include using positive affirmations, becoming mindful, developing a positive thinking pattern, using NLP techniques and finding good in bad situations. These will all be discussed in detail in the following chapters.











Chapter 3: Develop A Positive Thought Process
At this point, you are most likely determined to liberate your mind from any limitations that keep you from attaining everything you have ever wanted. You know well that this is possible with the help of your subconscious. The first step to accomplishing this goal is to develop a positive thought process. A positive thought process refers to having a healthy, optimistic thinking pattern wherein you think assuredly about everything that is going to happen to you or is happening with you. 
For instance, if you were to participate in a debate competition and have a positive thought process, you wouldn't think that you would lose. Instead, you would choose to feel confident that you would be declared as a winner. And even if you did not win, you would feel that you gained a lot from participating in the said event. Hence, a positive thought process enhances your thinking pattern. It helps you focus on the positive and productive and shut out the negative and unrewarding. Once you develop this ability, you will acquire complete freedom from negative thoughts. You will never be bothered by such ideas again. 
Let us look at the things you need to do to gain a better thought process and change it from an unconstructive one to an optimistic one.
Step 1- Identifying the Negative Thought Patterns
First and most importantly, you need to identify what sort of negative thoughts usually form in your mind. These negative thought patterns commonly occur and are experienced by many:
●       Catastrophizing: When you think that a bad situation is going to end up far worse than it actually is, you are catastrophizing. In a way, you are blowing things out of proportion. For instance, if you become feverish, you immediately think you are going to die.
●       Mind Reading: You think you know exactly what other people are thinking. For instance, if you always assume that your boss hates you, then you will end up believing that you will never get that promotion.
●       Over-generalizing: This refers to making a decision based on just one incident. For instance, if you forgot to include an important report in a presentation, you'd say, 'I always forget to do this.' even if it only occurred once.
●       Black and White Thinking: This means that you think that a certain scenario can only have either a bad or a good outcome, and that there can't be any middle way. For instance, you may think 'He is the best or the worst.' Because of black and white thinking, you won't probably consider that 'He has his flaws, but he is a decent man.'
●       Critical Self-Talk: It refers to having a negative image of yourself. You constantly tell yourself that you can't do something, or highlight your flaws and mistakes. For instance, always thinking that 'I am a loser' or 'I am a failure.'
●       Predicting your Future: You believe that you know exactly how things are going to turn out. For instance, you think that you will definitely fail a test even before you actually take it.
Which of these do you normally experience? It is important to find out which negative thinking pattern is affecting your mindset. Keeping a log or a journal will help you become more aware of determining this. Whenever a negative thought pops in your mind, jot it down in the journal along with the time, date and incident related to that thought. Figure out to which category it belongs, in order to keep track of your current thought process.
Step 2- Replacing Negative Words with Positive Ones
The second step in developing a positive thought process is to slowly eliminate negative words from your routine speech. Gradually get rid of negative thinking by adding more simple and positive words to your speech. For instance, words like 'always', 'must', 'should', 'won't' and 'cannot' and phrases like 'I am sure', 'I already know', add a more decisive tone to your talk including the negative thought. 
What kind of words do you usually tell yourself? Are they helpful, or do they make you feel burdened? Observe how your daily thoughts affect you. When you say things like, 'I always make so many mistakes' or 'I cannot get anything done', you assure yourself that you are never going to improve. By saying negative things such as, 'I am sure I am going to fail' or 'I am never going to pass the test', you let yourself believe that you are incapable of doing something. Words and thoughts like these can easily plague your mind and infiltrate your thought process. Therefore, these words need to be eliminated from your mind and from your speech. Jot down all the negative words you commonly use in your 'thought journal' and find positive replacements for them. 
For instance, replace 'cannot' with 'can' and 'won't' with 'will.' Instead of thinking 'I cannot do it', tell yourself 'I can try' or 'I can do it.' By adding positive words and phrases to your speech, you will feel that your thoughts are slowly becoming more positive as well.
Step 3- Practice Positive Self-talk
Positive self-talk or positive affirmation refers to saying affirmative things to yourself. It is the best tactic to get rid of the catastrophic, over-generalizing, mind reading, future predicting and critical self-talk practices your mind tends to fall into. In positive self-talk, you constantly tell yourself good and productive things to make your subconscious believe that you have what it takes to achieve something. Whenever a negative thought pops in your mind, you quickly replace it with a positive affirmation. Always be ready to transform any negative idea into a positive thought. Make yourself familiar with affirmative phrases, and always keep them in mind. For instance, 'I am sure I'm going to fail' should be replaced with 'I am going to pass' and 'I always err' needs to be converted to 'I am going to do it right.' When you find yourself thinking 'I am not good enough for this job', you can tell yourself 'I may not be the best at this job, but I will learn and improve.' 
On the other hand, be careful with using words and phrases such as always, I'm sure, I already know, must and should to your affirmation because these words burden you. It is best to steer clear of those. These words make you feel that you need to do something a certain way and when that happens, you start doubting yourself. For instance, by saying, 'I'm sure I am going to pass', you are burdened with the responsibility of passing the exam and in case that doesn't happen, you will start losing yourself to negative thinking once again. Instead of encouraging you, it will cause you to become too hard on yourself. This is exactly why these words must be avoided at all times.
Make a habit of positively affirming yourself in every situation, so that your mind starts accepting these suggestions. It will become easier for you to dismiss any thought that is not helping you. Keep on feeding your mind with positivity, and the negative thoughts will eventually diminish. In about three to four weeks, you will experience a marked improvement in your thinking pattern and will see it slowly changing to a positive one.
Step 4- Add Yet to Your Speech
The fourth thing you need to do is to include the word 'yet' to your speech. This word adds possibility to your speech and gives you the hope that if you aren't able to do something right now, you might be able to learn it in the future. This thinking pattern is also known as the growth mindset, which believes that each person is capable of improving themselves. By accepting that you can grow and become better, you do not restrict yourself to your current state and set of skills. Instead, you focus and work on refining them. This realization imparts you with freedom: freedom to work on yourself, freedom to become better and freedom to enhance your skills and abilities. For instance, if you say 'I cannot paint', you feel that you can never learn to paint. But by saying, 'I cannot paint yet', you get the feeling that you might be able to learn this skill later on.
Don't resign to the fact that you will never be able to do something just because it seems impossible right now. Tell yourself that even thought you can do it yet, you still have the chance to do it at a later time.
So, if 'yet' hasn't been a part of your routine speech yet, you should start incorporating it into it from now onwards, so your thought process starts becoming a growth one.
Make sure to practice all these four steps routinely to improve your thought process. Remember, you are in control with what goes on in your head, so make choose only what is helpful to you. With the right habits, you will achieve a positive thought process, and a mindset that is insusceptible to negativity. 










Chapter 4: Appreciate Yourself
If you have been working on having a positive thought process, then kudos to you! You have really made great improvements to your thinking patterns. Now it is time to do another helpful practice that will be of great help in enhancing the positivity emerging inside you. For this next step, you need to learn how to start appreciating yourself and giving yourself credit for the amazing strengths you possess.
Why Appreciate Yourself?
Do you ever wonder why you are never able to accomplish your goals and achieve the success you have dreamt for? Maybe it is due to your inner critic who is constantly scrutinizing and criticizing your every action. Your inner critic is your shattered and negative inner-self; a voice inside you that only sees your weaknesses and pinpoints them as well. It is this voice you have been listening to for a long time, which is why you doubt yourself and are never able to realize your potential.
However, by learning to appreciate yourself, you give yourself confidence and the assurance that you aren't useless or hopeless and that you too, have something to be proud of. You may have some weaknesses, but there's something special about you as well. Something that you can be proud of. This gives you the courage to believe in yourself and move forward as a confident individual who isn't restricted by their self-critic and is free to do whatever they please. To enjoy the full benefits of a positive mindset, it is essential that you work on praising yourself. Here are a few steps on how you can do that.
Create an Inventory of Your Strengths
Having a list is a good way of keeping track of things you want to remember or accomplish. People make lists as a reminder for all sorts of things. Why not make a list of your strengths to remind you that you're good at something?
Take a pencil and a paper and jot down everything nice about you. Don't over think each idea, just write down whatever comes to mind. This list could include the strengths, talents or other good attributes that you think you have. If you are unable to think of any, then try to remember any positive qualities others think you have. For instance, think of the time you helped your father with his business report and he told you that you were good at making reports. Maybe, making good reports is your specialty. You can also think of any similar events and dig deeper into yourself to come up with a list of your strengths. Label this list as your 'strengths inventory.' This list will give you the hope that you aren't a lost cause and that you have a lot of things to be happy about. Always keep it with you and take look at it from time to time to strengthen the belief that you are an amazing individual with a lot of unique strengths. This will help build and increase your self-confidence.
Make Positive Suggestions Using Your List
Take your list and make suggestions for every strength that you have written down. For instance, if one of your strengths is 'good debater', then make a suggestion stating, 'I am confident and excellent at debating.' Similarly, if you have written, 'kind hearted', you should make a suggestion stating, 'I am a kind person who spreads love.' After the suggestions have been created, you need to make a habit of saying them aloud for about 20 to 30 times daily. The purpose behind creating these positive statements is to strengthen your belief that you have great abilities to be happy for. It will also help you enhance these talents. When you repeatedly say good things to yourself, your mind embraces them and starts creating positive thoughts accordingly. Your positive thoughts then start moving around, attracting positive opportunities and helping you accomplish your set goals. Like what you have learned earlier in this book, positive thinking helps create productive actions.
It's time to put an end to that constant criticism. Give yourself a much needed pat on your back so you can start feeling good about yourself. When you feel good about yourself, you start behaving accordingly as well. Your mind stops creating negative thought patterns once you make it a habit to focus on your strengths and believe in what you can do.









Do Something Nice For Yourself
After becoming more self-aware of your strengths and creating positive statements, it is important to reward yourself. Learn how to treat yourself to something once in a while. Let's say you passed a difficult test. You can reward yourself by going to a concert during the weekend. It can even be as simple as buying your favorite comfort food, watching a movie or just giving yourself some moments to relax and unwind. Allow yourself to feel good about the things you accomplish. Doing something nice for yourself is a way of reaffirming yourself for your achievements no matter how big or small they are. This will also help you in renewing your energy and perspective so that you will feel more confident in facing the challenges that come. 
 
Take Criticism Less Seriously
Appreciating yourself also means knowing how to handle criticism from others. Self-assurance will help you eliminate the burden of always wanting to get approval from others. Seeking validation from others can create unnecessary  pressure that may lead to negative and unproductive thinking. Instead,  learn how to be confident with your own abilities. Use criticism to improve yourself, but don't let it take total control of your thoughts.
 









Chapter 5: Become Mindful Of The Negative Thoughts To Eradicate Them
 
By now, you should have started having more positive thoughts courtesy of the self-appreciation technique that you are practicing. However, since your mind has been far too accustomed to negative thinking for a long time, it is possible that you are still likely to be prone to negative thoughts at times and this may greatly affect you. 
Many people begin a new job or activity with a positive mindset, but somewhere along the way, their negative thinking patterns come back. A lot of things, such as stress or criticism, may disrupt your positive mindset. This is why it is important to practice mindfulness. Having this kind of awareness will help you eradicate all sorts of negative thoughts and get back on track.
Mindfulness refers to being aware of all that is happening around you. It makes you conscious of every thought that you have, so you can realize it and get rid of the ones that are not helping you. When you aren't mindful, you aren't able to recognize a negative thought right away. This gives negative ideas the opportunity to embed in your mind. Eventually, its roots begin to grow bigger. They will become more difficult to get rid of. Also, you will become more vulnerable to negativity. If you don't want that to happen to you, especially since you are making efforts towards improvement, you need to learn the art of mindfulness. Being mindful takes a lot of practice at first. Once you become completely familiar with it, it will happen naturally.
Slow Breathing and Affirmation
The basic technique to becoming mindful starts with your breathing. Begin by practicing slow breathing with positive affirmation. Start by inhaling and exhaling deeply or slowly. Put your mind at ease and pay attention to each breath. Remember that mindfulness largely relies on your breathing. You need to breathe in naturally, and with each breath you take, say 'I am mindful of myself.' This makes you focus on yourself and the things that are happening around you. Practice this for about five full minutes and carry out this exercise several times during the day.
Concentration
Make sure that you focus on nothing else but your breathing to become completely mindful of yourself. It will help if you start this activity in a quiet place. Let your mind become fully aware of exercise and filter any random thoughts and distractions. You thoughts may wander at some points, but that's normal especially if you are new to this. Know that you can overcome any obstacle with enough time and effort. If you become interrupted, try and bring your focus again to your breathing. Practice this consistently to develop are more focused mind in any situation.
Use Daily Tasks to Become Mindful
As you practice breathing and concentration techniques, you will eventually be able to become mindful even while walking and doing various chores. Being mindful even when involved in an activity seems like it requires more effort. After all, your mind handles a lot - from finishing tasks to running errands to interacting with different people. So, how can you achieve mindfulness in a busy, stressful environment? If you practice breathing exercises every day, then this should not be too much work for you. Just like focused breathing, learn how to be simply more aware of your actions. Be completely in the moment and take in the experience. What do you see around you? How does it make you feel? Pay attention to the little things that you commonly overlook. You can also use smartphone apps to help you incorporate mindfulness techniques in your daily schedule. Doing other activities that promote mindfulness, such as walking meditation, will also be beneficial.
Once you learn how to be in the moment and mindful of everything around you, it becomes easier to identify harmful thoughts. You will gain the ability to easily notice whenever you are engaging in a negative thought process like mind reading, catastrophizing and such. This gives you the chance to take the necessary steps to stop negativity before it gets to you.










Chapter 6: Finding the Good in Every Bad Situation










The fifth and second to the last step to having  a positive frame of mind is by enhancing your perspective to find the good in even the worst case scenarios. Experiencing bad situations is a normal part of life, and it is vital that we learn how to handle them well.
Many times, people tend to look at situations in black or white. It's either good or bad. If you think of things this way, your actions become restricted and your options become limited. You begin to doubt yourself. If you don't learn how to find the good even in the bad situations, then you inevitably allow bad situations to remain as such.
Let's say your proposal at work didn't yield favorable results. You may think that you're a failure, and that you should just stop trying. However, if you take time to assess the situation, you will find that something good can come out of it. Instead of sulking over the negative outcome, think of it as a chance to do things differently. Maybe you should try an approach that you've never considered before. Maybe it's a chance for you to collaborate with your colleagues and see if it works.
When you can manage to find even a tiny ray of hope even in the dark times, you let yourself believe that there is still possibility for things to get better. This gives you the freedom of thinking clearly and liberating yourself from any doubts or limitations that bad experiences bring.
Here are a few tips that will help you figure out the good in worst situations:
●       Find a quote that speaks to you. Print it and paste it in several places around your house and look at it numerous times during the day to become inspired. It will instill in you the hope that every bad situation is accompanied by something positive. Below are some examples of inspiring quotes to help you get started:
'Every bad situation will have something positive. Even a dead clock shows correct time twice a day. Stay positive in life. God knows what's best for you....!'- Anonymous
'A problem is a chance for you to do your best.' - Duke Ellington
'The greater the difficulty, the more glory is surmounting it. Skillful pilots gain their reputation from storms and tempests.' - Epicetus
●       Whenever you experience a bad situation, you need to write it down in detail in your journal. Go through it in depth to find out any positive point that you have missed. You are bound to find something positive if you keep looking at the situation from different angles.
●       Keep telling yourself, 'There's a way out' loudly and clearly. This affirmation will help your mind think clearly to find a way out of the situation you may be in.
●       Channel your energy into creativity. You don't need to be artistic to try your hand at something new. Instead of keeping your negative feelings to yourself, use it to create something.
●       Find inspiration from others. Chances are, there is someone who has also went through something similar. Read some books or blogs and learn from other people's stories. You'll find bits of advice that you can use in battling your own problems.
●       Recall your times of victory. When was the last time you overcame something difficult? Remind yourself that you are capable of rising above any situation. 
●       Think about how this situation will help you. Tough times may give you doubt, problems and other unpleasant things. However, it can also help you develop qualities that will be useful in the future. These difficult battles can prepare you and make you more resilient to the challenges the future may bring.
Practice these simple tips and in due time, you will find it easier to see a positive opportunity in every bad situation.










Chapter 7: Practicing NLP Techniques For Developing A Positive Mindset
If you have been committed to your goal and have been implementing all the techniques discussed previously in the book, then you are doing an amazing job. You just have one more chapter to go for you to learn how to unlock the power of positive thinking. To bring you closer to your goal, this chapter will teach you a couple of fantastic NLP techniques for developing and boosting a positive mindset.
First, what is NLP? NLP or neuro-linguistic programming is a term invented by Dr. Richard Bandler in the 1970s. He defined the term as "a system of alternative therapy based on this which seeks to educate people in self-awareness and effective communication, and to change their patterns of mental and emotional behaviour."
In other words, NLP is a brilliant personal development, psychotherapy and communication approach that benefits you in a number of ways. It is designed to help you develop positive thinking. Without going into more details of NLP techniques, here are two amazing NLP techniques that will be truly beneficial in assisting you to achieve a positive mindset.
Self-Anchoring
Self-anchoring is a technique that helps you experience a positive emotion upon saying or doing something that you have anchored that response with. Start by identifying a state you are interested in experiencing; for instance, self-confidence. Next, do something that makes you feel confident. For instance, it could be speaking a positive affirmation. Once, you are in that state, start imagining a big smoke circle. Step inside that circle and slowly feel positive energy engulfing you. Then, step out of that circle and think of anything irrelevant to that emotion. Think of unrelated ideas and other distractions. And then, step in the circle after five minutes and observe how you feel. If you start feeling confident and happy, then you are starting to learn the technique of self-anchoring. If not, then you should continue to practice stepping into and out of the circle until you anchor it in your mind. Don't worry if it doesn't work for you right away. Keep practicing this technique and you will eventually realize its effects.
Content Reframing
Take any bad episode that has happened to you and ponder over your feelings associated with it. For instance, a bad interview. What feeling does it bring? It may be self-doubt, disappointment or shame. Now imagine yourself ten years from now and think how you would perceive that episode. Would you still feel embarrassed over it? It is probable that it won't seem as intimidating as it was when you first experienced it. Perhaps you would feel confident of yourself if anything similar happened again. This is what content reframing does. It reshapes a bad situation into a positive one, so that it wouldn't have the same negative effect on you again. Apply this tactic to different situations in your life to transform bad experiences into positive and uplifting ones.
Practice these two techniques as much as possible and apply them in the situations that you face. It will promote and maintain positivity in your mind. Also, it will help you develop a forward-thinking perspective that focuses on the good side of things. Remember that this is an ongoing process. At some point, you may think that you've achieved the confidence that you want, but just keep going and don't stop.
 
Conclusion
It is close to impossible to be successful unless you have a positive frame of mind. After all, achieving a goal starts with having the right mindset and breaking free from your limitations. So, if you are completely certain that you want to reach the pinnacle of success and accomplish all your goals and objectives, then you must exercise every single technique discussed in this guide. Getting started may be challenging or overwhelming, but once you learn how to transform your mind, you will gain something that can't be taken away from you.
A positive mindset can indeed bring you massive success, but it requires constant practice and application. It's an ongoing process that needs to be maintained. It should be in your nature, and not just something that you turn to when things go wrong.
You have everything that you need to transform your mind and take control of your success. It doesn't matter how bad you've faltered in the past. If you make the right choices for your life, then everything else will eventually fall into place. Today, choose to live your life with a positive mindset.
 
 
Welcome to the BONUS page! Click the image below to claim now!
>>FREE BONUS<<
 










Thank you again for downloading this book!
I hope this book was able to help you to know how to develop a positive mindset.
The next step is to practice what you have learnt in this book. This is crucial because it does not matter how many books you read but as long as you don't do anything about the information you gain, then you are wasting your time so do something about the information you have received from this book.
 
Finally, if you enjoyed this book, would you be kind enough to leave a review for this book on Amazon? 
 
Click here to leave a review for this book on Amazon!
Thank you and good luck!
















