













iMac® For Dummies®, 7th Edition
Visit www.dummies.com/cheatsheet/imac to view this book's cheat sheet.

Table of Contents
Introduction
What's Really (Not) Required
About This Book
Conventions Used in This Book
How This Book Is Organized
Part I: Know Your iMac
Part II: Shaking Hands with Mac OS X
Part III: Connecting and Communicating
Part IV: Living the iLife
Part V: Getting Productive with  iWork and Other Tools
Part VI: The Necessary Evils: Troubleshooting, Upgrading, Maintaining
Part VII: The Part of Tens
Icons Used in This Book
Where to Go from Here
A Final Word
Part I: Know Your iMac
Chapter 1: Okay, This Machine Looks  Really, Really Weird
An Introduction to the Beast
Major parts of your major appliance
Important Hidden Stuff
Choosing a Home for Your New Pet
Picking the right location
Considering the convenience factor
Unpacking and Connecting
Unpacking your iMac For Dummies
Connecting cables like a true nerd
Discovering All the Cool  Things You Can Do
What software do I get?
Looking forward to fun on the Internet
Applications that rock
Would you like to play a game?
Stuff You Oughta Buy Right Now
Chapter 2: Life! Give My iMac Life!
Throwing the Big Leaf Switch
Mark's Favorite Signs of a Healthy iMac
Harriet, It's Already Asking Me Questions!
Setting up Mac OS X Lion
Registering your iMac
Importing Documents and  Data from Your Old Mac
Manually Importing Documents  and Data from Windows
Chapter 3: Introducing the Apple  of Your iMac
A Quick Tour of the Premises
The Lion Desktop
What's going on underneath?
Similarities with that Windows behemoth
Calling for Help
The Lion built-in Help Center
The Apple web-based support center
Magazines
Mac support websites
Mac newsgroups on Usenet
Local Mac user groups
Part II: Shaking Hands with Mac OS X
Chapter 4: Opening and Closing and  Clicking and Such
Working within the Finder
Pointing in a Mac World
Launching and Quitting for  the Lazy iMac Owner
Juggling Folders and Icons
A field observer's guide to icons
Selecting items
Copying items
Moving things from place to place
Duplicating in a jiffy
Keys and Keyboard Shortcuts  to Fame and Fortune
Special keys on the keyboard
Using Finder and application  keyboard shortcuts
Performing Tricks with Finder Windows
Scrolling in and resizing windows
Minimizing and restoring windows
Moving and zooming windows
Closing windows
Chapter 5: A Plethora of Powerful Fun
Home, Sweet Home Folder
Arranging Your Desktop
Putting the Dock to the Test
Adding Dock icons
Removing Dock icons
Using Dock icon menus
What's with the Trash?
Working Magic with Dashboard,  Mission Control, and Spaces
Using Dashboard
Switching between apps  with Mission Control
Switching between desktops with Spaces
Printing within Mac OS X
Chapter 6: A Nerd's Guide to System Preferences
A Not-So-Confusing Introduction
Searching for Settings
Popular Preference Panes Explained
The Displays pane
The Desktop and Screen Saver pane
The Mission Control pane
The General pane
The Energy Saver pane
The Dock pane
The Sharing pane
The Time Machine pane
Chapter 7: Searching amidst iMac Chaos
Basic Searching 101
Is Spotlight Really That Cool?
Expanding Your Search Horizons
Customizing Spotlight to Your Taste
Part III: Connecting and Communicating
Chapter 8: Let's Go on Safari!
Pretend You've Never Used This Thing
Visiting Websites
Navigating the Web
Setting Up Your Home Page
Adding and Using Bookmarks
Downloading Files
Using Subscriptions and History
Tabs Are Your Browsing Friends
Saving Web Pages
Protecting Your Privacy
Yes, there are such things as bad cookies
Cleaning your cache
Handling ancient history
Avoiding those @*!^%$ pop-up ads
Chapter 9: Expanding Your Horizons  with iCloud
So How Does iCloud Work, Anyway?
Configuring iCloud
Managing Your iCloud Storage
Chapter 10: Hooking Up with Handy Helpers
Connecting Printers
USB printers
Network printers
Connecting Scanners
Using Photo Booth
Conversing with FaceTime
Turning Your iMac into  a TV — And More
Part IV: Living the iLife
Chapter 11: The Multimedia Joy of iTunes
What Can I Play on iTunes?
Playing an Audio CD
Playing Digital Audio and Video
Browsing the Library
Finding songs in your Music Library
Removing old music from the Library
Watching video
Keeping Slim Whitman and Slim Shady Apart: Organizing with Playlists
Know Your Songs
Setting the song information  automatically
Setting or changing the song  information manually
Ripping Audio Files
Tweaking the Audio for Your Ears
A New Kind of Radio Station
iTunes Radio
Tuning in your own stations
Radio stations in your playlists
iSending iStuff to iPod
Sharing Media across a Network
Joining the Ping People
Burning Music to Shiny Plastic Circles
Feasting on iTunes Visuals
Exercising Parental Authority
Buying Digital Media the Apple Way
Chapter 12: The Masterpiece That Is iPhoto
Delving into iPhoto
Working with Images in iPhoto
Import Images 101
Organize mode: Organizing  and sorting your images
Edit mode: Removing and  fixing stuff the right way
Producing Your Own Coffee-Table Masterpiece
Putting Photo Stream to Work
E-Mailing Photos to Aunt Mildred
Chapter 13: Making Film History with iMovie
Shaking Hands with the iMovie Window
A Bird's-Eye View of Moviemaking
Importing the Building Blocks
Pulling in video clips
Making use of still images
Importing and adding audio  from all sorts of places
Building the Cinematic Basics
Adding clips to your movie
Removing clips from your movie
Reordering clips in your movie
Editing clips in iMovie
Transitions for the masses
Even Gone with the Wind had titles
Adding Maps and Backgrounds
Creating an Honest-to-Goodness  Movie Trailer
Sharing Your Finished  Classic with Others
Chapter 14: iDVD — Your DVD Movie Factory
Hey, Where's the Complex Window?
Starting a New DVD Project
Creating a new project
Opening an existing project
Automating the whole darn process
Creating a DVD from Scratch
Choosing just the right theme
Adding movies
Great, now my audience  demands a slideshow
Now for the music . . .
Giving Your DVD the Personal Touch
Using Uncle Morty for your  DVD Menu background
Adding your own titles
Changing buttons like a  highly paid professional
Giving motion to your creation
Previewing Your Masterpiece
A Word about Automation
One-click paradise with OneStep DVD
Exercising control with Magic iDVD
Recording a Finished Project  to a Shiny Disc
Chapter 15: Recording Your Hits  with GarageBand
Shaking Hands with Your Band
Composing and Podcasting Made Easy
Adding tracks
Choosing loops
Resizing, repeating, and moving loops
Using the Arrange track
Tweaking the settings for a track
Automatic Composition with  Magic GarageBand
Sharing Your Songs and Podcasts
Creating MP3 and AAC files and ringtones
Sending a podcast to iWeb or iTunes
Burning an audio CD
Chapter 16: Creating a Website with iWeb
Looking around the iWeb Window
Planning Your Pages
Adding a New Site
Adding a New Page
Editing a Page
Modifying text
Replacing images
Adding new elements
Tweaking with the Inspector
Publishing Your Website
Part V: Getting Productive with iWork and Other Tools
Chapter 17: Desktop Publishing with Pages
Creating a New Pages Document
Open an Existing Pages Document
Saving Your Work
Touring the Pages Window
Entering and Editing Text
Using Text and Graphics Boxes
The Three Amigos: Cut, Copy, and Paste
Cutting stuff
Copying text and images
Pasting from the Clipboard
Formatting Text the Easy Way
Adding a Spiffy Table
Adding Alluring Photos
Adding a Background Shape
Are You Sure about That Spelling?
Printing Your Pages Documents
Sharing That Poster with Others
Chapter 18: Creating Spreadsheets  with Numbers
Before You Launch Numbers . . .
Creating a New Numbers Document
Opening an Existing Spreadsheet File
Save Those Spreadsheets!
Exploring the Numbers Window
Navigating and Selecting  Cells in a Spreadsheet
Entering and Editing Data  in a Spreadsheet
Selecting the Correct Number Format
Aligning Cell Text Just So
Formatting with Shading
Inserting and Deleting  Rows and Columns
The Formula Is Your Friend
Adding Visual Punch with a Chart
Chapter 19: Building Presentations  with Keynote
Creating a New Keynote Project
Opening a Keynote Presentation
Saving Your Presentation
Putting Keynote to Work
Adding Slides
Working with Text and Graphics Boxes
Adding and Editing Slide Text
Formatting Slide Text  for the Perfect Look
Using Presenter's Notes in Your Project
Every Good Presentation Needs Media
Adding a Background Shape
Creating Your Keynote Slideshow
Printing Your Slides and Notes
Chapter 20: Creating a Multiuser iMac
Once Upon a Time (An  Access Fairy Tale)
Big-Shot Administrator Stuff
Deciding who needs what access
Adding users
Modifying user accounts
I banish thee, Mischievous User!
Setting up Login Items  and Parental Controls
Multiuser Rules for Everyone
Logging on and off in Lion For Dummies
Interesting stuff about sharing stuff
Encrypting your hard drive can be fun
Chapter 21: Building (Or Joining) a Network
What, Exactly, Is the  Network Advantage?
The Great Debate: Wired versus Wireless
Sharing Internet Access
Using your iMac as a sharing device
Using a dedicated Internet sharing device
What Do You Need to Connect?
Wireless connections
Wired connections
Connecting to the Network
Verifying that the contraption works
Sharing stuff nicely with others
USE YOUR FIREWALL!
Part VI: The Necessary Evils: Troubleshooting, Upgrading, Maintaining
Chapter 22: It Just . . . Sits . . . There
Can You Troubleshoot? Yes, You Can!
Basic Troubleshooting 101
The Number One Rule: Reboot!
Special keys that can come in handy
All hail Disk Utility, the  troubleshooter's friend
Mark's iMac Troubleshooting Tree
Okay, I Kicked It, and  It Still Won't Work
Apple Help Online
Local service, at your service
Chapter 23: I Want to Add Stuff
More Memory Will Help
Figuring out how much memory you have
Installing memory modules
Can I Upgrade My Hard Drive?
Consider your external options
Gotta have internal
Attractive Add-Ons
Game controllers
Hard drive arrays
Video controllers
Audio hardware
Chapter 24: Tackling the Housekeeping
Cleaning Unseemly Data Deposits
Getting dirty (or, cleaning  things the manual way)
Using a commercial cleanup tool
Backing Up Your Treasure
Saving Files
Backing up to an external hard drive
Backing up to CD and DVD
Putting Things Right with Time Machine
Maintaining Hard Drive Health
Automating Those Mundane Chores
Creating an application in Automator
Running applications at startup
Updating Mac OS X Automatically
Chapter 25: Running Windows on Your iMac
Figuring Out How Boot Camp Works
Comparing Boot Camp to  Windows Emulators
Configuring Boot Camp
Switching to Windows
Checking for Apple Updates
Part VII: The Part of Tens
Chapter 26: Ten Ways to Speed Up Your iMac
Nothing Works Like a Shot of Memory
Hold a Conversation with Your iMac
Vamoose, Unwanted Fragments!
Keep Your Desktop Background Simple
Column Mode Is for Power Users
Make the Dock Do Your Bidding
It All Started with Keyboard Shortcuts
Hey, You Tweaked Your Finder!
Keep in Touch with Your Recent Past
Go Where the Going Is Good
Chapter 27: Ten Things to Avoid  Like the Plague
Man, Dig That Crazy Disc
Phishing Is No Phun
Don't Rely on a Single Password
Do You Really Want a  Submerged Keyboard?
Don't Use Antiquated Utility Software
Don't Endorse Software Piracy
Call It the Forbidden Account
Don't Settle for a Surge Suppressor
Refurbished Hardware Is No Deal at All
iMacs Appreciate Cleanliness
Cheat Sheet








iMac® For Dummies®, 7th Edition
by Mark L. Chambers


iMac® For Dummies®, 7th Edition
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 111 River Street Hoboken, NJ 07030-5774
www.wiley.com
Copyright © 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey
Published simultaneously in Canada
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning or otherwise, except as permitted under Sections 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 646-8600. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Trademarks: Wiley, the Wiley logo, For Dummies, the Dummies Man logo, A Reference for the Rest of Us!, The Dummies Way, Dummies Daily, The Fun and Easy Way, Dummies.com, Making Everything Easier, and related trade dress are trademarks or registered trademarks of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and other countries, and may not be used without written permission. iMac is a registered trademark of Apple, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book.
LIMIT OF LIABILITY/DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY: THE PUBLISHER AND THE AUTHOR MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE CONTENTS OF THIS WORK AND SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. NO WARRANTY MAY BE CREATED OR EXTENDED BY SALES OR PROMOTIONAL MATERIALS. THE ADVICE AND STRATEGIES CONTAINED HEREIN MAY NOT BE SUITABLE FOR EVERY SITUATION. THIS WORK IS SOLD WITH THE UNDERSTANDING THAT THE PUBLISHER IS NOT ENGAGED IN RENDERING LEGAL, ACCOUNTING, OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. IF PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE IS REQUIRED, THE SERVICES OF A COMPETENT PROFESSIONAL PERSON SHOULD BE SOUGHT. NEITHER THE PUBLISHER NOR THE AUTHOR SHALL BE LIABLE FOR DAMAGES ARISING HEREFROM. THE FACT THAT AN ORGANIZATION OR WEBSITE IS REFERRED TO IN THIS WORK AS A CITATION AND/OR A POTENTIAL SOURCE OF FURTHER INFORMATION DOES NOT MEAN THAT THE AUTHOR OR THE PUBLISHER ENDORSES THE INFORMATION THE ORGANIZATION OR WEBSITE MAY PROVIDE OR RECOMMENDATIONS IT MAY MAKE. FURTHER, READERS SHOULD BE AWARE THAT INTERNET WEBSITES LISTED IN THIS WORK MAY HAVE CHANGED OR DISAPPEARED BETWEEN WHEN THIS WORK WAS WRITTEN AND WHEN IT IS READ.
For general information on our other products and services, please contact our Customer Care Department within the U.S. at 877-762-2974, outside the U.S. at 317-572-3993, or fax 317-572-4002.
For technical support, please visit www.wiley.com/techsupport.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Not all content that is available in standard print versions of this book may appear or be packaged in all book formats. If you have purchased a version of this book that did not include media that is referenced by or accompanies a standard print version, you may request this media by visiting http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information about Wiley products, visit us at www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Control Number: 2012941127
ISBN 978-1-118-20271-5 (pbk); ISBN 978-1-118-22834-0 (ebk); ISBN 978-1-118-24071-7 (ebk);  ISBN 978-1-118-26543-7 (ebk)
Manufactured in the United States of America
10   9   8   7   6   5   4   3   2   1

About the Author
Mark L. Chambers has been an author, computer consultant, BBS sysop, programmer, and hardware technician for more than 30 years — pushing computers and their uses far beyond "normal" performance limits for decades now. His first love affair with a computer peripheral blossomed in 1984 when he bought his lightning-fast 300 BPS modem for his Atari 400. Now he spends entirely too much time on the Internet and drinks far too much caffeine-laden soda.
With a degree in journalism and creative writing from Louisiana State University, Mark took the logical career choice: programming computers. However, after five years as a COBOL programmer for a hospital system, he decided there must be a better way to earn a living, and he became the Documentation Manager for Datastorm Technologies, a well-known communications software developer. Somewhere in between writing software manuals, Mark began writing computer how-to books. His first book, Running a Perfect BBS, was published in 1994 — and after a short eighteen years of fun (disguised as hard work), Mark is one of the most productive and best-selling technology authors on the planet.
His favorite pastimes include collecting gargoyles, watching St. Louis Cardinals baseball, playing his three pinball machines and the latest computer games, supercharging computers, and rendering 3D flights of fancy — and during all that, he listens to just about every type of music imaginable. Mark's worldwide Internet radio station, MLC Radio (at www.mlcbooks.com), plays only CD-quality classics from 1970 to 1979, including everything from Rush to Billy Joel to the Rocky Horror Picture Show.
Mark's rapidly expanding list of books includes MacBook All-in-One For Dummies, 2nd Edition; MacBook For Dummies, 2nd Edition; Mac OS X Lion All-in-One For Dummies; Macs for Seniors For Dummies, 2nd Edition;  Build Your Own PC Do-It-Yourself For Dummies; Building a PC For Dummies, 5th Edition; Scanners For Dummies, 2nd Edition; CD & DVD Recording For Dummies, 2nd Edition; PCs All-in-One Desk Reference For Dummies, 5th Edition; Mac OS X Tiger: Top 100 Simplified Tips & Tricks; Microsoft Office v. X Power User's Guide; BURN IT! Creating Your Own Great DVDs and CDs; The Hewlett-Packard Official Printer Handbook; The Hewlett-Packard Official Recordable CD Handbook; The Hewlett-Packard Official Digital Photography Handbook; Computer Gamer's Bible; Recordable CD Bible; Teach Yourself the iMac Visually; Running a Perfect BBS; Official Netscape Guide to Web Animation; and Windows 98 Troubleshooting and Optimizing Little Black Book.
His books have been translated into 15 different languages so far — his favorites are German, Polish, Dutch, and French. Although he can't read them, he enjoys the pictures a great deal.
Mark welcomes all comments about his books. You can reach him at mark@mlcbooks.com, or visit MLC Books Online, his website, at www.mlcbooks.com.

Dedication
This book is dedicated to my youngest daughter, Rose Chambers — she of the Boris Beast and Major Tom — with all the love and happiness I can give her.
Author's Acknowledgments
A guide to Apple's iMac should be as elegantly designed and straightforward as the computer itself . . . and luckily, I had just the right mix of folks to make sure that it turned out that way!
First, my thanks are due to my technical editor, Dennis Cohen, who kept watch on the accuracy of my facts, comments, and step-by-step procedures concerning both the Apple iMac and Mac OS X Lion.
I've often said that Wiley's Production team is the best in the business, and the layout and composition of this book is proof positive — my appreciation to everyone who lent a hand with the graphics, proofing, and cover work for iMac For Dummies, 7th Edition.
As with all my books, I'd like to thank my wife, Anne; and my children, Erin, Chelsea, and Rose; for their support and love — and for letting me follow  my dream!
Last, I'd like to thank the two editorial professionals who made this book happen: my good friend Bob Woerner, the Wiley acquisitions editor who has guided my way through the jungle of technology yet again; and Susan Christophersen, the hard-working project editor who worked her organizational magic on every paragraph and every figure between these covers. It's folks like the two of you who make this the greatest career on the planet — my heartfelt thanks to you both from a very grateful iMac owner!




Publisher's Acknowledgments
We're proud of this book; please send us your comments at http://dummies.custhelp.com. For other comments, please contact our Customer Care Department within the U.S. at 877-762-2974, outside the U.S. at 317-572-3993, or fax 317-572-4002.
Some of the people who helped bring this book to market include the following:
Acquisitions, Editorial, and Vertical Websites
Project Editor: Susan Christophersen  (Previous Edition: Nicole Haims)
Senior Acquisitions Editor: Bob Woerner 
Copy Editor: Susan Christophersen
Technical Editor: Dennis Cohen
Editorial Manager: Jodi Jensen
Vertical Websites Project Manager:  Laura Moss-Hollister
Vertical Websites Assistant Project Manager: Jenny Swisher
Vertical Websites Associate Producers:  Josh Frank, Marilyn Hummel, Douglas Kuhn, and Shawn Patrick
Editorial Assistant: Amanda Graham
Sr. Editorial Assistant: Cherie Case
Cartoons: Rich Tennant (www.the5thwave.com)
Composition Services
Project Coordinator: Katherine Crocker
Layout and Graphics: Claudia Bell, Jennifer Creasey, Joyce Haughey, Corrie Niehaus
Proofreaders: Rebecca Denoncour,  Kathy Simpson
Indexer: Estalita Slivoskey

Publishing and Editorial for Technology Dummies
Richard Swadley, Vice President and Executive Group Publisher
Andy Cummings, Vice President and Publisher
Mary Bednarek, Executive Acquisitions Director
Mary C. Corder, Editorial Director
Publishing for Consumer Dummies
Kathleen Nebenhaus, Vice President and Executive Publisher 
Composition Services
Debbie Stailey, Director of Composition Services














Introduction
Skeptical about your new anodized aluminum iMac, with that supercharged Intel quad-core processor? Perhaps you're thinking it's too doggone thin, or you're wondering where all the buttons are. Shouldn't there be places to plug in cables? And where the heck is the DVD drive you paid for? (Oh, there it is, on the side, at the top right.)
Ladies and gentlemen, I have great news for you: Not only did you make The Right Decision about which computer to buy — you shot a hole in one! The aluminum iMac has everything a computer power user could want: speed, the latest in hardware and standards, a top-of-the-line LED screen, and all the connectors you need to add just about any device meant for today's computers.
I wrote this book especially for the proud Intel iMac owner who wants to make the most of this new stunning aluminum computer, so this book is a guide to both the iMac hardware and Lion, Apple's superb Mac OS X (operating system). I start by describing the basics that every iMac owner should know. Then I move on to chapters devoted to the software that comes with your iMac. Along the way, you come across a generous sprinkling of power-user tips and tricks that save you time, effort, and money.
As in my half-dozen other For Dummies titles, I respect and use the same English language you do, avoiding jargon, ridiculous computer acronyms, and confusing techno-babble whenever possible.
What's Really (Not) Required
Here's a reasonably complete list of what's not required to use this book:
 I make no assumptions about your previous knowledge of computers and software.
 Heck, you don't even need the computer! If you're evaluating whether the new iMac is right for you, this book is a great choice.
 Upgrading from the monster that is a PC running the Windows operating system? I've got tips, tricks, and entire sections devoted to those hardy pioneers called Switchers! You can see all about the similarities and differences between the iMac running Lion and the PC running Windows. I also show you how to make the switch as easy and quick as possible — and how you can even run Windows on your iMac, if necessary.
 If your friends and family told you that you're going to spend half your life savings on software — or that no "decent" software is available for Mac computers — just smile quietly to yourself! The iMac comes complete with about a ton more software than any Windows box, and the iLife '11 suite of applications is better than anything available on a PC!
So what is required? Only your desire to become a power user (someone who produces the best work in the least amount of time and has the most fun doing it)!
	This book was written using the latest Intel quad-core iMac computer, so owners of older iMac computers might not be able to follow along with everything I cover. If you upgraded an older Intel iMac with Mac OS X Lion and the iLife '11 application suite, you should be able to use most of the book with no problem!
About This Book
Each chapter in this book is written as a reference on a specific hardware or software topic. You can begin reading anywhere you like because each chapter is self-contained. However, I recommend that you read the book from front to back because the order of this book makes a great deal of sense.
Conventions Used in This Book
Even with a minimum of techno-speak, this book needs to cover the special keys that you have to press or menu commands that you have to choose to make things work — hence this short list of conventions. (Note that you usually have to press the Return key before anything happens when entering a manual command.)
 Stuff you type. If I ask you to type (or enter) something, such as in a text box or field, that text appears in bold, like this:
Type me.
		If I ask you to type a command within an application, that text appears like this:

Type me.
 Menu commands. I list menu paths and commands using another format. For example, this instruction indicates that you should click the Edit menu and then choose the Copy menu item:
		Edit⇒Copy
 Web addresses. No up-to-date book on a computer would be complete without a bag full of web addresses for you to check out. When you see these in the text, they look like this: www.mlcbooks.com.
 For the technically curious. Tangential techy stuff is presented in sidebars, and you don't have to read them unless you want to know what makes things tick.
How This Book Is Organized
After careful thought (read that flipping a coin), I divided this book into seven major parts — plus an index, just because you deserve one! For your convenience, cross-references to additional coverage of many topics are also sprinkled liberally throughout the book.
Part I: Know Your iMac
This part introduces you to the important features of your iMac — like where all the cables connect (or don't) — and helps you set up your system. I also introduce Mac OS X Lion, the Apple operating system that comes preinstalled on your aluminum iMac.
Part II: Shaking Hands with Mac OS X
Time to familiarize you with Lion, including with tasks such as how to take care of mundane chores (like moving your stuff) as well as how to customize and personalize your system until it fits like the proverbial glove! Switchers from the PC world will be especially interested in mastering the ins and outs of Mac OS X.
Part III: Connecting and Communicating
Time to jump into the one application you're likely to use every single day: your Safari web browser! You can also read here about Apple's iCloud Internet service and how to connect your iMac for printing, scanning, and videoconferencing. (I told you this thing was powerful, didn't I?)
Part IV: Living the iLife
Ah, readers, you can begin humming happily to yourself right this second! Yep, this part provides coverage of the latest iLife '11 release, with the names that are the envy of the Windows crowd: iPhoto, iMovie, iDVD, iWeb, and GarageBand (along with iTunes, which is also available for Windows). You see how to turn your iMac into the hub for all your digital media. Whether you listen to it, display it, compose it, offer it online, or direct it, this part of the book explains it!
Part V: Getting Productive with  iWork and Other Tools
Part V is dedicated to the iWork '09 productivity suite. You'll learn how to produce works of office art: spreadsheets, presentations, and printed documents that deliver your message with aplomb. I also discuss how to share your iMac among a group of people and how to connect your iMac to a network. (Wired or wireless, I cover 'em both!)
Part VI: The Necessary Evils: Troubleshooting, Upgrading, Maintaining
So you want to upgrade your iMac with more memory or new hardware? If you need to troubleshoot a problem with your hardware or software, my should-be-patented troubleshooting guide resides in this part. I describe what you can do to help keep your iMac running as fast and as trouble free as the day you took it out of the box. Finally, I show you how to run Windows effortlessly — on your iMac!
Part VII: The Part of Tens
The two chapters that make up the famous "Part of Tens" section are served in classic Late Night style: Each chapter contains a quick reference of tips and advice on a specific iMac topic. Each list has ten concise tips, and one or two readers have told me that they make excellent tattoos. (Personally, I'm not that much of a Mac guru.)
	If you're dying to find out how to share data among wireless devices via Bluetooth technology, check out the handy Bluetooth and Wireless bonus chapter at the Wiley website (www.dummies.com/go/imacfd7e).
Icons Used in This Book
Like other technology authors, I firmly believe that important nuggets of wisdom should stand out on the page! With that in mind, this For Dummies book includes a number of margin icons for certain situations:
	This is the most popular icon in the book, and you find it parked next to suggestions that I make to save you time and effort (and even cash!).
	You don't have to know this stuff, but the technologically curious love high-tech details. (Of course, we're great fun at parties, too.)
 Always read the information before you take action! I'm discussing something that could actually harm your hardware or throw a plumber's helper into your software.
	Consider these nuggets to be highlighter stuff — not quite as universally accepted (or as important to the author) as a Mark's Maxim (described next), but good reminders nonetheless. I use these icons to reinforce what you should remember.
 These gold-plated truisms are easily spotted; just look for the likeness of my rugged, iMac-lovin' mug. These are My Favorite Recommendations. In fact, I'll bet just about any iMac power user would tell you the same. Follow my Maxims to avoid the quicksand and pitfalls that I've encountered with all sorts of Macs for well over two decades!
Where to Go from Here
My recommendations on how to proceed? You know, I just happen to have three:
 If you're thinking about buying a new iMac, the box is still unopened in your living room, or you'd like help setting things up, I would start with Part I.
 If your iMac is already running but you'd like guidance with running Mac OS X — Windows Switchers, take note — start with Part II.
 For all other concerns, use the index or jump straight to the chapter you need. (You can always return later, at your leisure.)
A Final Word
I'd like to thank you for buying this book, and I hope that you find iMac For Dummies, 7th Edition, valuable! With this book in hand, I believe that you and your aluminum iMac supercomputer will bond together as I have with mine. (That sounds somewhat wrong, but it's really not.)

Please note that some special symbols used in this eBook may not display properly on all eReader devices. If you have trouble determining any symbol, please call Wiley Product Technical Support at 800-762-2974. Outside of the United States, please call 317-572-3993.  You can also contact Wiley Product Technical Support at www.wiley.com/techsupport.











Part I
Know Your iMac





In this part . . .
Your iMac odyssey begins with a description of the computer itself, as well as the details you need to know when unpacking and setting up your newest family member. You also find an introduction to Mac OS X Lion, the latest version of Apple's super-popular operating system.











Chapter 1
Okay, This Machine Looks  Really, Really Weird
In This Chapter
 Identifying the important parts of your iMac
 Locating the right home for your computer
 Plugging stuff in and getting hooked up
 Playing with your bundled software
 Buying additional stuff that you might need
You bought a brand-new iMac, and there it sits, in the box. Waiting. Waiting for you.
If you're a little nervous about unpacking that shiny aluminum-and-glass rectangle, I completely understand. Face it: The latest iMac follows in the footsteps of many revolutionary iMac designs that have come before it. (In other words, it doesn't look like a computer at all, and that can be a bit disconcerting.) And if you're switching from a Windows PC to the Apple universe, you might find yourself floating weightlessly in your office or your living room without a familiar bulky PC case to anchor yourself. Hence the reluctance you might be feeling.
However, dear reader, let me assure you that you've indeed made The Right Choice. I commend you! The aluminum Intel iMac is the fastest, leanest, and easiest-to-use self-contained all-in-one computer ever built. Practically everything's in one shining panel (except for your keyboard and mouse). You've got  one of the best backlit LED screens on the planet, a super-fast processor, room for a ton of RAM (memory), and a regular laundry list of the latest technology. Best of all, you don't have to be a techno-nerd to use all that power!
In this chapter, I introduce you to your new dream machine, giving you an overview of the more important locations within iMac City. I show you how to unpack your new computer, what wires go where, and where your iMac should set up housekeeping. I preview the awesome software that's waiting within that powerful panel. Finally, I list the accessories that help keep both you and your new iMac computing smoothly.
An Introduction to the Beast
The Intel iMac might look like a sculpture straight out of your local museum of modern art, but it still sports everything that it needs to function as a computer. In this section, I identify the important stuff that you need to live your life — you know, write a term paper in Pages, hear the music you downloaded, or manage the affairs of those lazy Sims.
Major parts of your major appliance
Every computer requires some of the same gizmos. Figure 1-1 helps you track them down. Of course, as you'd expect, a computer has a "body" of sorts in which all the innards and brains are stored (the screen, in this case), a display screen, a keyboard, a mouse/pointing device, and ports for powering and exchanging data with peripherals.
That magnificent screen
What a view you've got! An aluminum iMac is graced with either a 21.5" or  27" LED display.
	LED screens use far less electricity than their antique CRT ancestors, and they emit practically no radiation (less, in fact, than even the LCD screens Apple recently used).
 

Figure 1-1: The charismatic form of  your aluminum Intel iMac.

 
Both sizes of iMac screens offer a widescreen aspect ratio (the screen is considerably wider than it is tall), which augurs well for those who enjoy watching DVD movies. (A favorite editor of mine loves it when I use the antique word augur, meaning to predict or foretell.) For example, the 27" screen boasts a whopping 2560 x 1440 resolution.
	That reminds me: Throw away your printed dictionary! You won't need it, because Mac OS X Lion includes the fantastic Dictionary widget that uses the Internet to retrieve definitions from Dictionary.com. More on the widgets in Chapter 5 . . . and yes, the Dictionary widget does contain the word augur.
The keyboard and mouse
Hey, here's something novel for the Intel iMac — something external (outside the computer's case). Gotta have a keyboard and mouse, right? And you gotta love the options with iMac: You'll go nomadic . . . um, that is, wireless and free.
The iMac comes standard with a truly 21st-century combo of an Apple wireless keyboard and either a Magic Mouse or a Magic Trackpad! This dynamic duo lets you sit back and relax with your keyboard in your lap, without being tied down by a cord. (Say it with me: "Death to cords, death to cords.") Just stay within about 30 feet of your iMac screen, and sweet freedom is yours. You can also feel safe using these wireless peripherals because they offer secure 128-bit, over-the-air encryption, which helps keep sensitive information safe while you type and click away. One downside about the wireless keyboard, though: Unlike the previous wired keyboard, the wireless model doesn't include any USB ports, and you will need a supply of batteries. (Go rechargeable!)
The keyboard layout is a particular favorite of mine because from here
 You can either control the sound volume (using the volume control buttons F11 and F12) or mute all that noise completely (using the Mute button F10).
 A handy-dandy Media Eject key lets you eject a CD or DVD.
	Both the wireless Magic Mouse and Magic Trackpad need a flat surface, but that's what TV trays are for, right?
The disc slot
You'll notice a long groove on the right edge of your iMac. No, it's not for your  credit card. (If you order online often enough, you'll memorize your card number.) This slot accepts standard-size CDs and DVDs into your optical drive (don't try using mini-CD or DVD discs in your iMac — they can get stuck and Ruin Your Day). If the drive is empty, loading a disc is as simple as sliding it in an inch or so; the drive sucks in the disc automatically. (And we don't need no stinkin' floppy drive. Macs haven't had floppy drives for years now, and the PC types have finally caught up and discarded the floppy as well.)
	"Luke, the printed label side of the disc should always be facing you when you load a disc. Always."
Yes, your computer has a foot . . . just one
You and I — normal human beings — would say that the iMac is supported by a sturdy aluminum stand, but Apple calls it a foot. The foot lets you tilt the iMac panel up and down for the best viewing angle. Most important, though, the foot minimizes the computer's desk space requirements (or its footprint). (Engineers . . . sheesh.) And yes, that foot is perfectly balanced and quite stable, so there's no danger of your treasured iMac taking a dive.
If you decide to get really snazzy and mount your 27-inch iMac to the wall, you can remove the foot and install the VESA mounting adapter (available separately for about $40). You can use any VESA standard mounting bracket on your wall, too. You can be positioned within 30 yards or so of your wall-mounted iMac with a wireless Apple keyboard and mouse (or trackpad).
Hey, Hewlett-Packard or Dell, can you mount one of those monolithic PCs to the wall? I think not.
Food for your ears
A machine this nice had better have great sound, and the iMac doesn't disappoint. You have a couple of options for iMac audio:
 The iMac sports built-in stereo speakers (and a microphone to boot).
 Built-in ports connect your iMac audio to either
	•	More powerful (and more expensive) external speaker systems
	•	A set of headphones (including the Apple iPhone headset)
	•	A home stereo system
The power cable
Sorry, but you can't get a wireless power system . . . yet. (Apple's working hard on that one.) With the wireless keyboard and mouse/trackpad setup, the power cable is actually the only required cable that you need to run your computer! Now that's sassy.
The power button
Yep, you've got one of these, too. It's on the back of the case.
Those holes are called ports
Our next stop on your tour of Planet iMac is Port Central — that row of holes on the back of your computer (see Figure 1-2). Each port connects a different type of cable or device, allowing you to easily add all sorts of extra functionality to your computer.
One of the holes is an exception to the Rule of Ports: The iMac's SDXC card slot accepts the same type of SD memory cards as most of today's digital cameras and video cameras. (In other words, that hole is not for connecting a cable; you insert the card instead.) You'll find the SDXC slot underneath the disc slot on the right side of your iMac.
 

Figure 1-2: Only slightly less sexy — it's the back end of an aluminum Intel iMac.

 
Each of these stellar holes is identified by an icon. Here's a list of what you'll find as well as a quick rundown on what these ports do:
  FireWire: This port is the standard in the Apple universe for connecting external hard drives and DVD recorders, but it does double duty as the connector of choice for some digital video (DV) camcorders. (A peripheral is another silly techno-nerd term, meaning a separate device that you connect to your computer.) Note that the iMac offers a FireWire 800 port, which is twice as fast as the older FireWire 400 port. The ports are shaped differently, so you can't plug a FireWire 400 device into a FireWire 800 port in error. (Converter cables are available that allow you to plug a FireWire 400 device into your FireWire 800 port.)
  USB: Short for Universal Serial Bus, the familiar USB port is the jack-of-all-trades in today's world of computer add-ons. Most external devices (such as portable hard drives, scanners, or digital cameras) that you want to connect to your iMac use a USB port. The iMac sports four USB 2.0 ports on its back. USB 2.0 connections are much faster than the old USB 1.1 standard. You get four USB ports.
		For the specs on connecting your keyboard and mouse, see the upcoming section "Absolutely essential connections."
		For more on FireWire and USB ports, get the lowdown in Chapter 23.
  Ethernet: The iMac includes a standard 10/100/1000 Ethernet port, so it's ready to join your existing wired Ethernet network. (Alternatively, you can go wireless for your network connection; find more on that in the next section and in Chapter 21.)
		Apple doesn't include a built-in modem on the iMac, so if you need a dialup connection to the Internet, you need an external 56K v.92 USB modem that's compatible with Mac OS X Lion (version 10.7).
  Thunderbolt: Yes, I know, it's a dumb name, but it really is that fast. Thunderbolt ports offer the absolute speediest connection between external devices and your iMac, including the fastest (and most expensive) external hard drives and storage systems. Thunderbolt's appeal doesn't end there, though: In case that splendid screen isn't quite big enough, you can add an adapter or cable to this port and send the video signal from your iMac to an Apple Thunderbolt monitor, a standard LCD/LED monitor, or a flat-screen TV. (Apple also offers different adapters that can connect your iMac to standard VGA monitors and projectors.) iMacs with a 27-inch screen sport two Thunderbolt ports, whereas 21.5" iMacs have one Thunderbolt port.
Connections for external audio
Your Intel iMac comes equipped with two pretty powerful stereo speakers on the bottom of the case, but you're certainly not limited to them. Apple provides two connectors to add a wide range of audiophile equipment to your system:
  Audio Line Out: You can send the high-quality audio from your rectangular beast to a set of standard headphones or to an optical digital audio device, such as a high-end home theater system.
  Audio Line In: Last (but certainly not least) is the audio Line In jack, which allows you to pipe the signal from another audio device into your iMac. This one comes in particularly handy when you record MP3 files from your old vinyl albums or when you want to record loops within GarageBand, which you can read more about in Chapter 15. This jack supports both analog and digital input.
		You can also connect Lion-compatible USB speakers to your iMac.
Important Hidden Stuff
When you bought your new digital pride and joy, you probably noticed a number of subtle differences between the low-end iMac and the über-expensive top-end model. I call these differences the Important Hidden Stuff (or IHS, in case you're addicted to acronyms), and they're just as important as the parts and ports that you can see:
 Hard drive: The aluminum iMac uses serial ATA hard drives.
		As I type these words, the iMac product line offers three different hard drive sizes, depending on the processor speed and screen size you choose: 500GB, 1TB, and an immense 2TB (yes, friends and neighbors, that TB means terabyte, or 1,000GB). The bigger, the better. You can also opt for a 256GB solid-state drive (or SSD) as either your primary or second drive.
 Optical drive: Okay, I'm cheating a little here. I mention the optical drive in an earlier section, but all you can see is the slot, so it qualifies as an IHS item. All new iMac models include a DVD-R SuperDrive (which can play and record both CDs and DVDs).
 Wireless Ethernet: "Look, Ma, no wires!" As I mention earlier, your iMac can join an existing wireless Ethernet network with its built-in AirPort Extreme card. With wireless connectivity, you can share documents with another computer in another room, share a single high-speed Internet connection amongst several computers, or enjoy wireless printing. Truly sassy!
		Although Apple would want you to build your wireless wonderland with an Apple AirPort Extreme Base Station or a Time Capsule unit — go figure — you can actually use your iMac with any standard 802.11g or 802.11n wireless network. And yes, PCs and Macs can intermingle on the same wireless network without a hitch. (Scandalous, ain't it?)
 Bluetooth: Let's get the old "digital pirate" joke out of the way: "Arrgg, matey, I needs me a wireless parrot." (Engineers again . . . sheesh.) Although strangely named, Bluetooth is actually another form of wireless connectivity. This time, however, the standard was designed for accessories like your keyboard and mouse, and devices like your personal digital assistant (PDA) and cellphone. Bluetooth is built into every aluminum iMac.
 SDXC Card slot: As I mention earlier, this slot allows you to read photos and video directly from standard SD memory cards — photographers and video junkies, rejoice!
 FaceTime HD camera: The iMac's built-in video and still camera appears as a tiny lens and activity light at the top of your computer.
 Video card: If your applications rely heavily on high-speed 3D graphics, you'll be pleased as punch to find that your iMac comes equipped with one of three AMD Radeon HD cards. All three cards are well suited to 3-D modeling, video editing, and, well, honestly, blasting the enemy into small, smoking pieces with aplomb.
Choosing a Home for Your New Pet
If you pick the wrong spot to park your new iMac, I can guarantee that you'll regret it later. Some domiciles and office cubicles obviously don't offer a choice — you've got one desk at work, for example, and nobody's going to hand over another one — but if you can select a home for your iMac, consider the important placement points in this section.
Picking the right location
You know the mantra: Location, location, location.
 There's always the wall. Your iMac can disguise itself as a particularly interesting digital picture frame. With the right mounting adapter,  you can hang your computer right on the wall and snub your desk  altogether.
		This wall-mounted solution has three big problems:
	•	Your VESA mounting plate must be installed safely and correctly (for example, using the studs within your walls).
		The iMac is slim and trim, but it's no lightweight, and it doesn't bounce well. You don't want it to take a high dive!
	•	You may have to remove your iMac from the wall mount to connect or disconnect cables from the ports on the back. (As long as the side of the case is unobstructed, however, you should still be able to load and eject discs.)
	•	External peripherals aren't happy campers — that includes any FireWire and USB devices, which must either camp out on the floor or on a nearby (and conspicuous) shelf. (Personally, I think the cables for external devices tend to spoil the appearance of a wall-mounted computer.)
		Your iMac must be mounted at the proper height on the wall. It's not good ergonomic practice to sit more than two feet away from your iMac's screen, and the screen should be placed at (or slightly below) eye level.
		My solution? Don't plan on using any external devices. Instead, opt for a wireless network with a remote printer and remote backup storage space, like a Time Capsule unit on your network.
 Keep things cool. Your new iMac is nearly silent, but that super-fast Intel quad-core processor generates quite a bit of heat. Fans inside the case draw the heat away. (Nothing like an overheated processor to spoil an evening of Rage.)
		Follow these three rules to keep your cool. Make sure that
	•	The location you choose is far from heating vents.
	•	The location you choose is shielded from direct sunlight.
	•	You allow plenty of room below the machine (where the air enters the case) and above the machine (where heated air escapes from the slot at the top of the case).
		Hot air from a wall-mounted iMac can discolor the wall.
Considering the convenience factor
Technology is nothing if you can't make it convenient:
 Outlets, outlets, outlets! Your computer needs a minimum of at least one nearby outlet, and perhaps as many as three or four:
	•	A standard AC outlet (I discuss surge protectors and uninterruptible power supplies at the end of this chapter)
	•	A telephone jack (if you use a Lion-compatible external USB modem for connecting to the Internet or sending and receiving faxes)
	•	A nearby Ethernet jack (if you use the iMac's built-in Ethernet port for connecting to a wired Ethernet network)
		If you prefer to send your data over the airwaves, consider wireless networking for your iMac. I discuss everything you need to know about wireless networking in Chapter 21.
 Don't forget the lighting. Let me act as your mom. (I know that's a stretch, but bear with me.) She'd say, "You can't possibly expect to work without decent lighting! You'll go blind!" She's right, you know. At a minimum, you need a desk or floor lamp.
 Plan to expand. If your iMac hangs out on a desk, allow an additional foot of space on each side. That way, you have space for external peripherals, more powerful speakers, and that wired keyboard and mouse.
Unpacking and Connecting
You are going to love this section — it's short and sweet because the installation of an aluminum iMac on your desktop is a piece of cake. (Sorry about the cliché overload, but this really is easy.)
Unpacking your iMac For Dummies
Follow these guidelines when unpacking your system:
 Check for damage. I've never had a box arrive from Apple with shipping damage, but I've heard horror stories from others (who claim that King Kong must have been working for That Shipping Company). Check all sides of your box before you open it.
		Take a photograph of any significant damage (just in case).
 Search for all the parts. When you're removing those chunks o' Styrofoam, make certain that you check all sides of each foam block for parts that are snuggled therein or taped for shipment.
 Keep all those packing materials. Do not head for the trash can with that box and those packing materials. Keep your box intact, complete with all the packing materials, for at least a year until your standard Apple warranty runs out. If you have to ship it to an Apple service center, the box with the original packing is the only way for your iMac to fly.
		And now, a dramatic Mark's Maxim about cardboard containers:
 	Smart computer owners keep their boxes far longer than a year.
		For example, if you sell your iMac or move across the country, you'll want that box. Trust me on this one.
 Store the invoice for safekeeping. Your invoice is a valuable piece of paper indeed.
		Save your original invoice in a plastic bag, along with your computer's manuals and original software, manuals, and other assorted hoo-hah. Keep the bag on your shelf or stored safely in your desk, and enjoy a little peace of mind.
 Read the iMac's manual. "Hey, wait a minute, Mark — why do I have to read the manual from Apple along with this tome?" Good question, and here's the answer: There might be new and updated instructions in the documentation from Apple that override what I tell you in this book. (For example, "Never cut the red wire. Cut the blue wire instead." Or something to that effect.)
		Besides, Apple manuals are rarely thicker than a restaurant menu.
Connecting cables like a true nerd
The iMac makes all its connections really simple, but your computer depends on you to get the outside wires and thingamabobs where they go.
Absolutely essential connections
After your new iMac is resting comfortably in its assigned spot (I assume that's a desktop or a wall), you need to make a minimum of one connection: the power cable. Plug the cable into the corresponding socket on the iMac first; then plug 'er into that handy AC outlet.
	Apple has already installed your batteries in your wireless keyboard and mouse (or trackpad). How thoughtful! If you ordered your iMac with a wired Apple keyboard, of course, you have no batteries to worry about at all.
Adding the Internet to the mix
If you have Internet access or a local computer network, you need to make at least one of the following connections.
	If you don't already have any Internet service, you may want to start with local dialup Internet access (if you have an external USB modem for your iMac). If you decide to investigate your high-speed options immediately, your local cable and telephone companies can provide you more information on cable or DSL Internet service.
Dialup Internet access
If you get on the Internet by dialing a standard phone number, you'll need an external USB modem that's compatible with Mac OS X 10.7 to connect your iMac. Follow these steps:
	1.	Plug your external USB modem into one of the USB ports on the back of your iMac.
	2.	Plug one of the telephone cable's connectors into your modem's line port.
	3.	Plug the other telephone cable connector into your telephone line's wall jack.
Networks and high-speed Internet access
If you have high-speed Internet service, or if you're in an office or school with a local computer network, you can probably connect through the iMac's built-in Ethernet port. You make two connections:
	1.	Plug one end of the Ethernet cable into the Ethernet port on the iMac.
	2.	Plug the other end of the Ethernet cable into the Ethernet port from your network.
		It's probably one of the following:
	•	An Ethernet wall jack
	•	An Ethernet switch
	•	A cable or DSL Internet router (or sharing device)
	Will you be joining a wireless network? If so, look to Chapter 21 to find all the details you need to configure Lion for wireless networking.
Discovering All the Cool  Things You Can Do
This section answers the most common of all novice computer questions: "What the heck will I do with this thing?" You find additional details and exciting factoids about the software that you get for free, software you'll want to buy, and stuff you can do on the Internet.
What software do I get?
Currently, all iMac computers ship with these major software applications installed and ready to use:
 The iLife suite: You know you want these applications! They turn your iMac into a digital hub for practically every kind of high-tech device on the planet, including DV camcorders, digital cameras, portable music players, personal digital assistants (PDAs), and even cellphones.
		Chapters 11-16 of this book focus on the six major applications that make up iLife: iMovie, iDVD, iTunes, iPhoto, iWeb, and GarageBand.
 The iWork suite: A demo version of Apple's powerful office productivity suite may be included with your iMac. You can create documents, spreadsheets, and presentations within Pages, Numbers, and Keynote. It's much like that Other Office Suite from those guys in Redmond.
		Figure 1-3 illustrates a flyer under construction in Pages.
	The installed software on your iMac might change as new programs become available.
Looking forward to fun on the Internet
What is a modern computer without the Internet? Apple gives you great tools to take full advantage of every road sign and off ramp on the Information Superhighway, right out of the box:
 Web surfing: I use Lion's Safari web browser every single day. It's faster and better designed than other browsers (although I might be biased). Safari includes tabbed browsing and has built-in RSS feeds.
		If tabbed browsing and RSS feeds sound like ancient Aztec to you, don't worry. Chapter 8 is devoted entirely to Safari.
 Web searches: Your Dashboard widgets can search the entire Internet for stocks, movie listings, business locations, and dictionaries.
 FaceTime: You can videoconference with someone using another Mac, or even with those using iOS devices like the iPhone 4/4S or iPad. You'll find more on FaceTime in Chapter 10.
 Chat: iChat lets you use your iMac to chat with others around the world for free via the Internet — by keyboard, voice, or (with your built-in iSight web camera) full-color video. This is awesome stuff straight out of Dick Tracy and Buck Rogers. If you've never seen a video chat, you'll be surprised by just how good your friends and family look!
		Always wear a shirt when videoconferencing.
 E-mail: Soldier, Apple's got you covered. The Mail application is a full-featured e-mail system, complete with defenses against the torrent of junk mail awaiting you. (Imagine a hungry, digital, saber-toothed tiger with an appetite for spam.) Send pictures and attached files to everyone else on the planet, and look doggone good doing it.
 

Figure 1-3: Pages is a great tool for home and office.

 
Applications that rock
Dozens of small applications are built into Mac OS X. I mention them in later chapters, but here are three good examples to whet your appetite:
 iCal: Keep track of your schedule and upcoming events, and even share your calendar online with others in your company or your circle of friends. Figure 1-4 illustrates iCal in action.
 DVD Player: Put all that widescreen beauty to work and watch your favorite DVD movies with DVD Player! You have all the features of today's most expensive stand-alone DVD players, too, including a spiffy onscreen control that looks like a remote.
 Address Book: Throw away that well-thumbed collection of fading addresses. Lion's Address Book can store, search, and recall just about any piece of information on your friends, family, and acquaintances.
		You can use the data you store in your Address Book in other Apple applications that are included with Lion, such as Apple Mail and iChat.
 

Figure 1-4: Hey, isn't that iCal running on your iMac? You are  iTogether!

 
Would you like to play a game?
"All productivity and no play. . . ." Hey, even a hard-working person like yourself enjoys a good challenging game, so you can look forward to playing Chess on your iMac right out of the box — ah, but this isn't the chessboard your dad used! Play the game of kings against a tough (and configurable) opponent — your iMac — on a beautiful 3-D board. Heck, your iMac even narrates the game by speaking the moves!
Stuff You Oughta Buy Right Now
No man is an island, and no computer is, either. I always recommend the same set of stuff for new PC and Mac owners. These extras help keep your new computer clean and healthy (and some make sure you're happy as well):
 Surge suppressor or UPS (uninterruptible power supply): Even an all-in-one computer like your iMac can fall prey to a power surge. I recommend one of these:
	•	A basic surge suppressor with a fuse can help protect your iMac from an overload.
	•	A UPS costs a little more, but it does a better job of filtering your AC line voltage to prevent brownouts or line interference from reaching your computer.
		A UPS also provides a few minutes of battery power during a blackout so that you can save your documents and safely shut down your iMac.
 Screen wipes: Invest in a box of premoistened screen wipes. Your iMac's screen can pick up dirt, fingerprints, and other unmentionables faster than you think.
		Make sure your wipes are especially meant for flat-panel monitors or laptop computer screens.
 Blank CDs and DVDs: Depending on the type of media you're recording — like computer data CDs, DVD movies, or audio CDs — you'll want blank discs for
	•	CD-R (record once)
	•	CD-RW (record multiple times)
	•	DVD-R (record once)
	•	DVD-RW (record multiple times)
 Cables: Depending on the external devices and wired network connectivity you'll be using, these are
	•	A standard Ethernet cable (for wired networks or high-speed Internet)
	•	FireWire, Thunderbolt, or USB cables for devices you already have
		Most hardware manufacturers are nice enough to include a cable with their products, but there are exceptions, especially USB printers. Shame on those cheapskates!
 A wrist rest for both your keyboard and mouse: You might have many reasons to buy a new iMac, but I know that a bad case of carpal tunnel syndrome is not one of them. Take care of your wrists by adding a keyboard and mouse rest (even for a wireless keyboard/mouse combo, even on a TV tray).












Chapter 2
Life! Give My iMac Life!
In This Chapter
 Turning on your iMac
 Checking your iMac for proper operation
 Setting up Mac OS X Lion
 Registering your iMac
 Using Migration Assistant
 Copying information from a Windows PC
If you've already been through Chapter 1, you got as far as unpacking your iMac and connecting at least one cable to it. And unless you bought this computer solely as a work of modern art, it's time to actually turn on your iMac and begin living The Good Life. (Plus you still get to admire that Apple design whilst using iTunes.) After you get your new beauty powered on, I help you here with an initial checkup on your iMac's health.
I also familiarize you with the initial chores that you need to complete — such as using Mac OS X Setup as well as moving the data and settings from your existing computer to your iMac — before you settle in with your favorite applications.
In this chapter, I assume that Mac OS X Lion (version 10.7) was preinstalled on your iMac or that you just completed an upgrade to Lion from Mac OS X Snow Leopard. (If you're upgrading, your iMac is already turned on — and you can skip the next section!)
Throwing the Big Leaf Switch
Your iMac's power switch is located on the back of the computer, at the lower-left corner of the case (as you look at the screen). Press it now to turn on your iMac, and you hear the pleasant startup tone that's been a hallmark of Apple computers for many years now. Don't be alarmed if you don't immediately see anything onscreen, because it takes a few seconds for the initial Apple logo to appear.
	In my experience, a simple, quick press of the power button on some iMacs sometimes just doesn't do it. Instead, you actually have to hold down the button for a count of two or so before the computer turns on.
While the Apple logo appears, you see a twirling, circular high-tech progress indicator appear that looks like something from a Star Wars movie. That's the sign that your iMac is loading Lion and checking your internal drive for problems. Sometimes the twirling circle can take a bit longer to disappear. As long as it's twirling, though, something good is happening.
Next, Lion displays the soon-to-be-quite-familiar Aqua Blue (yup, that's its name) background while it loads file sharing, networking, and printing components (and such).
At last, your patience of a whole 10-15 seconds is rewarded, and after a short (but neat) video, you see the Lion Setup Assistant appear.
Mark's Favorite Signs of a Healthy iMac
Before you jump into the fun stuff, don't forget an important step — a quick preliminary check to make sure that your iMac survived shipment intact and happy. (Although the shipping box that Apple uses for the aluminum iMac series is one of the best I've ever encountered in 30 years of swapping computer hardware, your computer could still have met with foul play.)
If you can answer Yes to each of these questions, your iMac likely made the trip without serious damage:
 1.	Does the computer's chassis appear undamaged?
		It's pretty easy to spot damage to your iMac's svelte metal and glass design. Look for scratches, puncture damage, and misalignment of the screen.
 2.	Does the LED screen work, and is it undamaged?
		I'm talking about obvious scratches or puncture damage to your screen. Additionally, you should also check whether any individual dots (or pixels) on your LED monitor are obviously malfunctioning. Bad pixels either appear black or in a different color from everything surrounding them.
		Techs call these irritating anarchists dead pixels. Unfortunately, many new LED screens include one or two. After all, a 21.5" iMac screen sports literally more than 1 million pixels.
 3.	Can you feel a flow of air from the vent on top?
		Your iMac's Intel processor, hard drive, and power supply generate quite a bit of heat, so the fan system never turns off completely. If you don't feel warm air from the fan system after your iMac has been on for a minute or two, you might have a problem.
	4.	Do the keyboard and mouse work?
		Check your iMac's Bluetooth connection by moving the mouse or running your finger across the trackpad; the cursor should move on your screen. To check the keyboard, press the Caps Lock key and observe whether the green Caps Lock light turns on and off.
If you do notice a problem with your iMac (and you can still use your Safari browser and reach the web), you can make the connection to an Apple support technician at www.apple.com. If your iMac is lying on its back with its foot in the air and you can't get to the Internet, you can check your phone book for a local Apple service center, or call the AppleCare toll-free number at 1-800-275-2273. Chapter 22 also offers troubleshooting information.
Harriet, It's Already Asking Me Questions!
After your iMac is running and you've given it the once-over for obvious shipping damage, your next chore is to set up your iMac. Unlike other tasks in this book, I don't cover the setup process step by step. Apple "tweaks" the questions that you see during setup on a regular basis, and the questions are really very easy to answer. Everything is explained onscreen, complete with onscreen Help if you need it.
However, I do want you to know what to expect as well as what information you need to have at hand. I also want you to know about support opportunities, such as the AppleCare Protection Plan and Apple's iCloud Internet services. Hence, this section. Consider it a study guide for whatever your iMac's setup procedure has to throw at you.
Setting up Mac OS X Lion
After you start your iMac for the first time — or if you just upgraded from an earlier version of Mac OS X — your iMac will likely automatically launch the Lion setup procedure. (Note that some custom install options, like the Archive and Install option, might not launch the Setup procedure.) The setup process takes care of a number of different tasks:
 Setup provides Lion with your personal information.
		As I mention in Chapter 1, your iMac ships with a bathtub full of applications, and many of those use your personal data (like your address and telephone number) to automatically fill out your documents.
		If that personal stored information starts you worrying about identity theft, I congratulate you. If you're using your common sense, it should. However, Apple doesn't disseminate this information anywhere else, and the applications that use your personal data won't send it anywhere, either. And the Safari web browser fills out forms on a web page automatically only if you give your permission.
 Setup configures your language and keyboard choices.
		Mac OS X Lion is a truly international operating system, so Setup offers you a chance to configure your iMac to use a specific language and keyboard layout.
 Setup configures your e-mail accounts within Apple Mail.
		If you already have an e-mail account set up with your Internet service provider (ISP), keep that e-mail account information that the ISP provided handy to answer these questions. (The list should include the incoming POP3/IMAP and outgoing SMTP mail servers you'll be using, your e-mail address, and your login name and password. Don't worry about those crazy acronyms — your ISP will know exactly what you mean when you ask for this information.) Lion can even automatically configure many e-mail accounts for you (including web-based services like Google Mail, Yahoo! Mail, and AOL Mail) if you supply your account ID and password. Sweet.
 Setup allows you to sign up for an Apple ID and Apple's iCloud service.
		iCloud makes it easy to share data automatically between your iMac and iOS 5 devices (like an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, along with Apple e-mail accounts (through both web mail and the Apple Mail application). I go into all these in detail in Chapter 9. For now, just create your Apple ID, sign up for iCloud, and take the opportunity to feel smug about owning an Apple computer.
 Setup sends your registration information to Apple.
		As a proud owner of an iMac, take advantage of the year of hardware warranty support and the free 90 days of telephone support. You have to register to use 'em, but rest assured that all this info is confidential.
 Setup launches Migration Assistant.
		This assistant guides you through the process of migrating (an engineer's term for moving) your existing user data from your old Mac or PC to your new iMac. Naturally, if your iMac is your first computer, you can skip this step with a song in your heart! (Read more on Migration Assistant in the section "Importing Documents and Data from Your  Old Mac.")
Registering your iMac
I'll be honest here: I know that many of us, myself included, don't register every piece of computer hardware we buy. However, your iMac is a different kettle of fish altogether, and I strongly recommend that you register your purchase with Apple during the setup process. You spent a fair amount of moolah on your computer, and it's an investment with a significant number of moving parts.
Even the hardiest of techno-wizards would agree with this important  Mark's Maxim:
 If you don't register your iMac, you can't receive support.
Rest assured that Apple is not one of those companies that constantly pesters you with e-mail advertisements and near-spam. I've registered every Apple computer I've owned, and I've never felt pestered. (And I have an extremely low tolerance for pester. However, just in case your tolerance is even lower than mine, Apple's registration process allows you to disable this e-mail  communication!)
Importing Documents and  Data from Your Old Mac
If you're upgrading from an older Mac computer running Mac OS X to your new iMac, I have great news for you: Apple includes the Migration Assistant utility application that can help you copy (whoops, I mean, migrate) all sorts of data from your old Mac to your new machine. The list of stuff that gets copied over includes
 User accounts: If you set up multiple user accounts (so that more than one person can share the computer), the utility ports them all to your new iMac.
 Network settings: Boy, howdy, this is a real treat for those with manual network settings provided by an ISP or network administrator! Migration Assistant can re-create the entire network environment of your old Mac on your new iMac.
 System Preferences settings: If you're a fan of tweaking and customizing Mac OS X to fit you like a glove, rejoice. The Assistant actually copies over all the changes that you've made within System Preferences on your old Mac! (Insert sound of angelic chorus of cherubim and seraphim: Hallelujah!)
 Documents: The files in your Documents folder(s) are copied to your new iMac.
 Applications: Migration Assistant tries its best to copy over the third-party applications that you've installed in your Applications folder on the older Mac. I say tries its best because you might have to reinstall some applications anyway. Some developers create applications that spread out all sorts of files across your hard drive, and the Assistant just can't keep track of those nomadic files. Too, some other applications make the trek just fine, but you might have to reenter their serial numbers.
	Setup launches its Migration Assistant automatically if you indicate that you need to transfer stuff during the Setup process, but you can also launch Migration Assistant manually at any time. Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock (which bears a rocket ship icon); then click the Utilities icon. Click the Migration Assistant icon to launch the application.
To use Migration Assistant to copy your system from your older Mac, you need either:
 A FireWire cable (compatible with most Macs made within the last five years or so) to connect the computers. If you don't already have one, you can pick up a standard FireWire cable at your local Maze o' Wires electronics store or at your computer store. (This cable will probably come in handy in the future as well, so it's not a one-use wonder.)
		The latest crop of iMacs includes only a FireWire 800 port! If you're upgrading from an older Mac that has only FireWire 400 ports, you'll need a FireWire cable and a 400-to-800 adapter, which you can typically get at any large computer store (or through Amazon, or through eBay).
 A Thunderbolt cable (compatible with the most recent iMac, Mac mini, and MacBook laptops). Although harder to locate than a FireWire 800 cable, a Thunderbolt connection will transfer your data between the two computers at lightning speed! (Bad pun intended.) Luckily, Apple sells a Thunderbolt cable that's perfect for the job for $49 at the Apple Store (http://store.apple.com).
 A wired or wireless network connection between the computers. If you've already hooked up your new iMac to your wired or wireless Ethernet network while using the Setup Assistant, eschew the FireWire cable and click Use Network instead! (Note, however, that a Wi-Fi migration will be much slower than migrating with either a direct cable connection or a wired network connection.)
 A Time Machine external drive or a Time Capsule backup unit. If you're using Time Machine on the older Mac with an external USB or FireWire drive, you can migrate directly from your most recent backup. The same option applies if you've invested in Apple's Time Capsule wireless backup device.
If you'll be using a FireWire or Thunderbolt cable, make sure that the two machines are connected with the cable first (if you're using a network connection, both computers should be connected to the network).
Follow these steps to use Migration Assistant:
 1.	Select the From Another Mac radio button and then click Continue.
		Migration Assistant prompts you for your account name and password that you created during the Setup procedure, as shown in Figure 2-1. Your account is an admin account, meaning that you have a higher security level that allows you to change things within Lion. (I cover user accounts in much more detail in Chapter 20.)
 

Figure 2-1: Enter your admin password to use Migration Assistant.

 
 2.	Type your account name and password and then click OK.
		Characters in your password are displayed as bullet characters for security. After you've successfully entered your admin account name and password, this dialog disappears, and you get to play in the real Migration Assistant dialog.
 3.	If you're using a wireless or wired network connection, launch Migration Assistant on the other Mac or PC and select the To Another Mac radio button on your other computer.
		The other computer will display a passcode, which you should compare later to the passcode displayed on your iMac. This is Apple's way of verifying that someone else can't access your stuff over the network.
  To migrate from a PC, you must download and install the Windows Migration Assistant on your PC (visit www.apple.com/migrate-to-mac to download the program).
 4.	Choose the migration method and click Continue.
	•	For a FireWire or Thunderbolt connection, choose the From a Time Machine Backup or Other Disk radio button.
	•	For a Time Machine or Time Capsule migration, choose the From a Time Machine Backup or Other Disk radio button.
	•	For a network connection, choose the From Another Mac or PC radio button.
	5.	If you're using a FireWire or Thunderbolt connection, restart your older Mac while holding down the T key.
		Holding down the T key restarts your older computer in Target Disk mode, in which your older Mac essentially becomes a huge external FireWire or Thunderbolt hard drive. (Neat trick.)
		You must hold down the T key until either the FireWire symbol (which looks like a stylized Y) or the Thunderbolt symbol (which looks like a thunderbolt) appears on your older machine.
	6.	If you're migrating over a network, compare the passcodes displayed on both machines. If the passcodes match, click Continue — if not, click Go Back.
	7.	Select the check boxes next to the items that you want to transfer from your older machine and then click Continue.
		The Assistant displays how much space is required to hold the selected accounts on your iMac's hard drive.
	8.	After everything is copied, click the Apple icon on the Finder menu bar and choose Shutdown to turn off your older Mac.
		If you used a FireWire or Thunderbolt connection, it's safe to disconnect the cable.
Manually Importing Documents  and Data from Windows
If you're a classic Windows-to-Mac Switcher, you made a wise choice, especially if you're interested in the creative applications within the iLife suite! Although you can choose to start your Apple computing life anew, you probably want to migrate some of your existing documents and files from that tired PC to your bright, shiny new iMac.
In the previous section, I discussed how you can use the Windows Migration Assistant on your PC to automatically handle most of your migration tasks for you — you should witness the miracle of your PC's photos, video, music and documents suddenly appearing on your iMac. Unfortunately, you'll have some exceptions; some stuff won't make the move. That's because the Windows Migration Assistant simply can't recognize and transfer files and folders from some nonstandard locations (for example, folders you've created yourself at the root of your PC's hard drive likely won't be recognized).
Here's the good news: You can easily copy those files that weren't transferred yourself! Moving items manually from a CD or DVD, from a USB flash drive, or over a network is easy. (Note, however, that the iMac doesn't come with a floppy drive. And trust me, you wouldn't want to use one to move anything that matters, anyway.)
	The Mac OS X Help system contains an entire subsection on specific tricks that you can use when switching from Windows to Mac, including how to connect to a Windows network and how to directly connect the two computers.
In general, you can move documents, movies, photos, and music without a problem. Table 2-1 illustrates what can be moved between Windows and Mac OS X as well as the application that you use in Lion to open those files and documents.
Switching from a PC to . . . an Apple PC?
With the Lion Boot Camp feature, you can actually create a full Windows XP, Vista, or Windows 7 system on your Intel iMac. Yup, Windows and Lion coexist peacefully on the same computer. However, you have to reboot your computer to use your iMac as a Windows system.
This capability brings a whole new meaning to the term Switcher, because some iMac owners are moving their stuff from Windows (running on their old PC) to . . . well, Windows (running on their new iMac) rather than Lion. If you do decide to create a Windows system on your iMac by using Boot Camp, the files and folders on your existing PC can be copied directly by using a good, old-fashioned Windows wizard.














Chapter 3
Introducing the Apple  of Your iMac
In This Chapter
 Introducing Mac OS X Lion
 Appreciating the Unix core underneath Lion
 Recognizing similarities between Windows and Lion
 Getting help while exploring Lion
In the other books that I've written about Mac OS X Lion, I use all sorts of somewhat understated phrases to describe my operating system of choice, such as elegantly reliable, purely powerful, and supremely user friendly.
But why is Lion such a standout? To be specific, why do creative professionals and computer techno-wizards across the globe hunger for the very same  Mac OS X that runs your iMac? Why is Lion so far ahead of Windows 7 in  features and performance? Good questions, all!
In this chapter, I answer those queries and satisfy your curiosity about your new big cat. I introduce the main elements of the Lion Desktop, and I show you the fearless Unix heart that beats underneath Lion's sleek exterior. I also point out the most important similarities between Lion and Windows 7, and I outline the resources available if you need help with Mac OS X.
Oh, and I promise to use honest-to-goodness English in my explanations, with a minimum of engineer-speak and indecipherable acronyms. (Hey, you've got to boast about Lion in turn to your family and friends. Aunt Harriet might not be as technologically savvy as we are.)
A Quick Tour of the Premises
Lion is a special type of software called an operating system. You know, OS, as in Mac OS X? That means that Lion essentially runs your iMac as well as allows you to run all your other applications, such as iTunes or Adobe Photoshop. It's the most important computer application — or software — that you run.
	Think of a pyramid, with Lion as the foundation and other applications running on top of it.
You're using the OS when you aren't running a specific application, such as these actions:
 Copying files from a CD to your hard drive
 Choosing a different screen saver
Sometimes, Lion even peeks through an application while it's running. For example, Lion also controls actions such as these:
 The Open and Save As dialogs that you see when working with files in Photoshop
 The Print dialog that appears when you print a document in Microsoft Word
In this section, I escort you personally around the most important hotspots in Lion, and you meet the most interesting onscreen thingamabobs that you use to control your iMac. (I told you I wasn't going to talk like an engineer!)
The Lion Desktop
This particular desktop isn't made of wood, and you can't stick your gum underneath. However, your Lion Desktop does indeed work much like the surface of a traditional desk. You can store things there, organize things into folders, and take care of important tasks like running other applications. Heck, you've even got a clock and a trash can.
Gaze upon Figure 3-1 and follow along as you venture to your Desktop and beyond.
 

Figure 3-1: Everything Lion starts here — the Mac OS X Desktop.

 
Meet me at the Dock
The Dock is the closest thing to the pilot's cabin of a jumbo jet that you're likely to find on a Macintosh. It's a pretty versatile combination: one part organizer, one part application launcher, and one part system monitor. From the Dock, you can launch applications, see what's running, and display or hide the application windows.
Each icon in the Dock represents one of the following:
 An application that you can run (or that is running)
 An application window that's minimized (shrunk)
 A web page
 A document or folder on your system
 A network server or shared folder
 Your Trash
I cover the Dock in more detail in Chapter 5.
	The Dock is highly configurable:
 It can appear at different sides of the screen.
 It can disappear until you move your mouse pointer to the edge to call  it forth.
 You can resize it larger or smaller.
Dig those crazy icons
By default, Lion always displays at least one icon on your Desktop: typically, it's the icon representing your iMac's internal hard drive. To open the hard drive and view or use the contents, you double-click the icon. Depending on the preferences you choose, other icons that might appear on your Desktop can include
 CDs and DVDs
 An iPod, iPhone, or iPad
 External hard drives or USB flash drives
 Applications, folders, and documents
 Files you downloaded from the Internet
 Network servers you access
Chapter 4 provides the good stuff on icons and their uses within Lion.
There's no food on this menu
The Finder menu isn't found in a restaurant. You find it at the top of the Desktop, where you can use it to control your applications. Virtually every application that you run on your iMac has a menu.
	To use a menu command, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the menu title (like File or Edit).
	2.	Choose the desired command from the list that appears.
	Virtually every Macintosh application has some menu titles, such as File, Edit, and Window. You're likely to find similar commands under these titles. However, only two menu titles are in every Mac OS X application that displays a menu bar:
 The Apple menu (which is identified with that jaunty Apple Corporation icon, ).
 The application menu (which always bears the name of the active application). For instance, the DVD Player menu title appears when you run the Lion DVD Player, and the Word menu group appears when you launch Microsoft Word.
Isn't Windows 7 the latest thing?
You've seen highly customized "pocket rocket" compact cars with the flashy paint jobs, huge noisy mufflers, and aerodynamic fiberglass stuff. You might think that these cars are real road racers, but what's underneath is different. The four-cylinder engine that you don't see is completely stock. These cars don't perform any better than mundane models straight from the factory.
The same holds true for Microsoft Windows 7 —  another attempt by the folks at Redmond to put a modern face on an antique OS. Forget the flashy colors and the visual effects: Windows 7 is simply more of the same (at least it's newer than Windows Vista, which was beginning to creak). Sure, it's more reliable and faster than older versions of Windows, but you won't find a boatload of revolutionary features in 7; instead, Microsoft focused on making Windows 7 simpler to use. (Unfortunately, if you're running PC hardware, the only other practical choice for a computing novice is Linux, which is still regarded as too complex by major manufacturers like Dell and Hewlett-Packard. Therefore, with a PC, you're usually stuck with Windows Vista, Windows 7, or the upcoming Windows 8 — or you've picked up a very expensive paperweight.)

I cover these two common titles in more detail in Chapters 4 and 5.
	You can also display a contextual menu — regular human beings call it a right-click menu or shortcut menu — by right-clicking (or, as Apple calls it, secondary-clicking) your Lion Desktop or an application, folder, or file icon. I discuss right-click menus in detail in Chapter 4.
There's always room for one more window
You're probably already familiar with the ubiquitous window itself. Both Lion and the applications that you run use windows to display things like
 The documents that you create
 A web page
 The contents of your hard drive
Lion gives you access to the applications, documents, and folders on your system through Finder windows.
Windows are surprisingly configurable. I cover them at length in Chapter 4.
What's going on underneath?
How the core of your operating system is designed makes more of a difference than all the visual bells and whistles, which tend to be similar between Windows and Mac OS X Lion (and Linux as well, for that matter). Time for a Mark's Maxim:
 Sure, Lion's elegant exterior is a joy to use, but Mac OS X is a better OS than Windows because of the unique Unix muscle that lies underneath!
So what should you and I look for in an OS? Keep in mind that today's computer techno-wizard demands four requirements for a truly high-powered software wonderland — and Mac OS X Lion easily meets all four:
 Reliability: Your OS has to stay up and running reliably for as long as necessary — I'm talking months here — without lockups or error messages. If an application crashes, the rest of your work should remain safe, and you should be able to shut down the offending software.
 Performance: If your computer has advanced hardware, your OS must be able to use those resources to speed things up big time. The OS has to be highly configurable, and it has to be updated often to keep up with the latest in computer hardware.
		"Mark, what do you mean by advanced hardware?" Well, if you're already knowledgeable about state-of-the-art hardware, examples include
	•	True 64-bit computing
	•	Multicore processors (like the Intel chip in your iMac, which has two or four "virtual" processors on one chip)
	•	A huge amount of RAM (16GB on the iMac, or far more on today's Mac Pro computers)
	•	Multiple hard drives used as a RAID array
		If all that sounds like ancient Sumerian, gleefully ignore this technical drabble and keep reading.
 Security: You want your stuff to remain your own — which is why Lion  offers a strong level of security across your local network and the Internet. If you share your iMac with others, you'll be happy to know that Lion keeps track of your personal information and private files, and prevents others from accessing them. Heck, Lion even provides parental controls to help safeguard kids using your iMac!
 Ease of use: All the speed, security and reliability in the world won't help an OS if it's difficult to use.
		DOS was the PC OS of choice before the arrival of Windows. It was doomed because it wasn't intuitive or easy to master, requiring a PC owner to remember all sorts of commands that looked like hieroglyphics. (This is one of the reasons that the Macintosh was so incredibly popular in the days of DOS-based PCs. Macs had a mouse, and they were far easier to master and use.)

It's Apple to the rescue!
Unix is the established, super-reliable OS that powers most of the high-performance servers  that make up the Internet. Unix has built-in  support for virtually every hardware device ever wrought by the Hand of Man (including all the cool stuff that came with your iMac), and Unix is well designed and highly efficient.
Unfortunately, standard Unix looks as hideous as DOS, complete with a confusing command line, so ease of use for normal human beings like you and me goes out the door. Enter the genius types at Apple, who understood several years ago that all Unix needed was a state-of-the-art, novice-friendly interface! To wit: Mac OS X was developed with a Unix foundation (or core), so it has the same reliability and performance as Unix. However, the software engineers at Apple (who know a thing or two about ease of use) made it good looking and easy to use.
This is the secret to the worldwide fever over Mac OS X: It blends the best of Unix with the best of earlier Macintosh operating systems like Mac OS 9. Mac OS X is not only easy to use but also runs tight, concentric, sassy rings around anything that Microsoft has to offer today.
That's as far as I delve into the foundation of Lion in this volume — understandably. If you're interested in all the details about what makes Mac OS X tick, as well as its settings and features, I can heartily recommend another of my books, the bestselling (and extremely heavy) Mac OS X Lion All-in-One For Dummies (John Wiley & Sons, Inc.). It comprehensively covers everything Lion — more than 700 pages devoted entirely to Mac OS X and its companion applications!

Similarities with that Windows behemoth
You might have heard of the Windows Switcher: a uniquely intelligent species that's becoming more and more common these days. Switchers are former PC owners who have abandoned Windows and bought a Macintosh, thereby joining the Apple faithful running Mac OS X. (Apple loves to document this migration on its website.) Because today's Macintosh computers are significantly faster than their PC counterparts — and you get neat software, such as Lion and the iLife suite when you buy a new Mac — switching makes perfect sense.
Switchers aren't moving to totally unfamiliar waters. Windows 7 and Lion share a number of important concepts. Familiarizing yourself with Lion takes far less time than you might think.
Here's an overview of the basic similarities between the two operating systems:
 The Desktop: The Lion Desktop is a neat representation of a real physical desktop, and Windows uses the same idea:
	•	You can arrange files, folders, and applications on your Desktop to help keep things handy.
	•	Application windows appear on the Desktop.
 Drives, files, and folders: Data is stored in files on your hard drive(s), and those files can be organized in folders. Both Lion and Windows use the same file/folder concept.
 Specific locations: Both Windows and Lion provide every user with a set of folders to help keep various types of files organized. For example, the My Videos folder that you can use in Windows 7 corresponds to the Movies folder that you find in your Home folder within Lion.
 Running programs: Both Lion and Windows run programs (or applications) in the same manner:
	•	Double-clicking an application icon launches that application.
	•	Double-clicking a document runs the corresponding application and then automatically loads the document.
 Window control: Yep, both operating systems use windows, and those windows can be resized, hidden (or minimized), and closed in similar fashions. (Are you starting to see the connections here?)
 Drag-and-drop: One of the basics behind a GUI (a ridiculous acronym that stands for graphical user interface) like Windows and Lion is the ability to drag documents and folders around to move, delete, copy, and open them. Drag-and-drop is one of the primary advantages of both of these operating systems because copying a file by dragging it from one window to another is intuitive and easy enough for a kid to accomplish.
 Editing: Along the same lines as drag-and-drop, both Lion and Windows offer similar cut-and-paste editing features. You've likely used Cut, Copy, and Paste for years, so this is familiar stuff.
But what if you feel homesick for your Windows Desktop from time to time? No worries — you can actually run Windows effortlessly on your iMac! I show you how to use Apple's Boot Camp feature in Chapter 25.
Calling for Help
You can call on these resources if you need additional help while you're  discovering how to tame the Lion.
	Some of the help resources are located on the Internet, so your web browser will come in handy.
The Lion built-in Help Center
Sometimes the help you need is as close as the Help title on the menu bar. You can get help for either
 A specific application: Just click Help. Then click in the Search box and type a short phrase that sums up your query (such as startup keys). You'll see a list of help topics appear on the menu. Just click a topic to display more information.
 Actions and functions (topics): Click a Finder window and then click Help on the menu bar. Again, you'll see the Search box, and you can enter a word or phrase to find within the Help system. To display the Help Center window, click the Help Center item under the Search box.
The Apple web-based support center
Apple has online product support areas for every hardware and software product that it manufactures. Visit www.apple.com and click the Support tab at the top of the web page.
	The Search box works just like the Mac OS Help system, but the Knowledge Base that Apple provides online has a lot more answers.
Magazines
Many magazines (both in print and online) offer tips and tricks on using and maintaining Mac OS X Lion.
	My personal online favorites are Macworld (www.macworld.com) and MacLife (www.maclife.com).
Mac support websites
Numerous private individuals and groups offer support forums on the web, and you can often find help from other Mac owners on these sites within a few hours of posting a question.
	I'm very fond of the CNET forum MacFixIt (www.macfixit.com) and Mac OS X Hints (http://forums.macosxhints.com).
Mac newsgroups on Usenet
If you're familiar with Usenet newsgroups, you can find lots of help (typically dispensed with a healthy dose of opinion) in newsgroups such as comp.sys.mac.system. Simply post a message and then check back within a few hours to read the replies.
Local Mac user groups
I'd be remiss if I didn't mention your local Mac user group. Often, a user group maintains its own website and discussion forum. If you can wait until the next meeting, you can even ask your question and receive a reply from a real-live human being . . . quite a thrill in today's web-riffic world!













Part II
Shaking Hands with Mac OS X





In this part . . .
In this part, you delve deeper into the works of Mac OS X Lion. I show you how to perform all sorts of common tasks as well as how to customize your system; how to change settings in System Preferences, where your personal files are stored; and how to use the latest Spotlight search technology to find virtually anything you've stored on your iMac!











Chapter 4
Opening and Closing and  Clicking and Such
In This Chapter
 Introducing the highlights of the Finder
 Discussing that missing button on your pointing device
 Launching and quitting applications
 Identifying and selecting icons
 Using keyboard shortcuts to speed things up
 Managing windows in Lion
Ah, the Finder — many admire its scenic beauty, but don't ignore its unsurpassed power nor its many moods. And send a postcard while you're there.
Okay, so Lion's Finder might not be quite as majestic as the mighty Mississippi River, but it's the basic toolbox that you use every single day while piloting  your iMac. The Finder includes the most common elements of Mac OS X: window controls, common menu commands, icon fun (everything from launching applications to copying files), network connections, keyboard shortcuts, and even emptying the Trash. In fact, one could say that if you master the Finder and find how to use it efficiently, you're on your way to becoming a power user! (My editor calls this the Finder "window of opportunity." She's a hoot.)
That's what this chapter is designed to do: This is your Finder tour guide, and we're ready to roll.
Working within the Finder
This is a hands-on tour, with none of that "On your right, you'll see the historic Go menu" for you! Time to get off the bus and start the tour with Figure 4-1, in which I show you around the most important elements of the Finder. (In the upcoming section "Performing Tricks with Finder Windows," I give you a close-up view of window controls.)
 

Figure 4-1:  Lion's friendliest face — the Finder,  complete with a window, window  bar, and menu bar.

 
The popular attractions include
 The Apple menu (): This is a special menu because it appears both in the Finder and within every application menu that you run. It doesn't matter whether you're in iTunes or Adobe Photoshop or Microsoft Word: If you can see a menu bar, the Apple menu is there. The Apple menu contains common commands to use no matter where you are in Lion, such as Restart, Shut Down, and System Preferences.
 The Finder menu bar: Whenever the Finder is ready to use (or, in Mac-speak, whenever the Finder is the active application, rather than another application), the Finder menu bar appears at the top of your screen. You know the Finder is active and ready when the word Finder appears at the left of the menu bar.
		In case you're brand-new to computers, a menu is simply a list of commands. For example, you click the File menu and then choose Save to save a document. When you click a menu, it extends down so that you can see the commands it includes. While the menu is extended, you can choose any enabled menu item (just click it) to perform that action. You can tell that an item is enabled if its name appears in black. Conversely, a menu command is disabled if it is grayed out — clicking it does nothing.
		When you see a menu path, like this example — File⇒Save — it's just a visual shortcut that tells you to click the File menu and then choose Save from the drop-down menu that appears.
 The Desktop: Your Desktop serves the same purpose as your physical desktop: You can store stuff here (files, alias icons, and so on), and it's a solid, stable surface where you can work comfortably. Application windows appear on the Desktop, for example, as do other applications, such as your Stickies notes and your DVD player. Just double-click an application or document icon on the Desktop to launch it.
		You can easily customize your Desktop. For example, you can use your own images to decorate the Desktop, organize it to store new folders and documents, arrange icons how you like, or put the Dock in another location. Don't worry — I cover all this in other areas of the book — I just want you to know that you don't have to settle for what Apple gives you as a default Desktop.
 All sorts of icons: This is a Macintosh computer, after all, replete with tons of make-your-life-easier tools. Icons can appear on your Desktop as well as within the Finder window itself. Each icon is a shortcut to a file, folder, network connection, or device in your system, including applications that you run and documents that you create. Refer to Figure 4-1 to see the icon for my Time Machine backup drive at the upper-right corner of the Desktop.
		Sometimes you click an icon to watch it do its thing (like icons in the Dock, which I cover next), but usually you double-click an icon to make something happen.
		If you're using a late-model iMac, you may be able to share files with other Macs on your local network using Lion's new AirDrop feature. For the full scoop on AirDrop, visit Chapter 21 and check out the sidebar "Sending files the easy AirDrop way".
 The Dock: The Dock is an organizational tool for your favorite applications, documents, folders, network connections, and websites. You can also refer to it to see what applications are running. Click an icon there to open the item. For example, the postage-stamp icon represents the Apple Mail application, and clicking the spiffy compass icon launches your Safari web browser.
 The Finder window: Finally! The basic Finder window in Figure 4-1 displays the contents of my Utilities folder. You use Finder windows to launch applications; perform disk chores, such as copying and moving files; and navigate your hard drive.
Pointing in a Mac World
Lion takes a visual approach to everything, and what you see in Figure 4-1 is designed for point-and-click convenience. You click (or double-click) an item, it opens, you do your thing, and life is good. If you've grazed on the other side of the fence — one of Those Who Were Once Windows Users — you're probably accustomed to using a mouse with at least two buttons. This brings up the nagging question: "Hey, Mark! Where the heck are my mouse buttons?" Or perhaps you're thinking even farther out of the box, and you ordered a Magic Trackpad as your pointing device of choice — again, no buttons!
In a nutshell, the "buttons" on your iMac's Magic Mouse (or Magic Trackpad) are the entire top surface! Although you won't see any separate buttons for clicking, your Magic pointing device can tell when you tap with one finger (to single-click).
	To configure everything Magic Mouse — including all your buttons and your double-click/tracking/scrolling speeds — visit the Mouse pane within System Preferences. You can also configure your wireless mouse from here as well. Similarly, you can configure your wireless Magic Trackpad using the Trackpad pane. (More on the System Preferences window in the next section.)
Speaking of right-clicking, you can easily configure your Apple pointing device to recognize a right-click (also called a secondary click) within System Preferences. Tapping the top-right corner (of a Magic Mouse) or tapping with two fingers (on the Magic Trackpad) performs the same default function in Lion that clicking the right mouse button does in Windows. Namely, when you right-click most items — icons, documents, even your Desktop — you get a shortcut menu of things. That is, you get more commands specific to that item. (To keep familiar things familiar, I call it the right-click menu, and I promise to refer to it as such for the rest of the book.)
 If you're using a Magic Trackpad with your iMac, never use any object other than your finger on the trackpad surface! That means no pencils (no, not even the eraser end), pens, or chopsticks; they can damage your trackpad in no time at all. And no, that doesn't bode well for ladies with long fingernails.
Figure 4-2 illustrates a typical convenient right-click menu within a Finder window.
 

Figure 4-2:  Well-adjusted folks call this a right-click menu.

 
But that's not all — Apple's series of Multi-Touch gestures for your Magic Mouse or Trackpad includes all sorts of handy time-saving commands! Depending on the changes you make within the Mouse and Trackpad panes in System Preferences, these gestures can include
 Double-clicking: Tap twice with one finger to double-click.
 Scrolling (Magic Mouse): To move in any direction within a document window, just swipe your finger across the surface in that direction.
 Two-finger paging: Swipe your thumb and first fingertip to the left or right across the surface to page through a document or move to the next or previous image in a set (like web pages in Safari or photos in your iPhoto library).
 Two-finger zooming (Magic Trackpad): Pinching your thumb and first fingertip toward each other on the surface zooms in on a document or image. The reverse (moving your fingertips away from each other) zooms out. You can also enable zooming with a modifier key.
 Three-finger full-screen switching (Magic Trackpad): Swipe your thumb and first two fingertips to the left or right across the surface to move between open applications in full-screen mode.
 Rotate (Magic Trackpad): Place your thumb and index finger on the trackpad and turn clockwise (or counterclockwise) to rotate a photo.
 Perform actions in Mission Control, Launchpad, and your Desktop: Using the combination of thumb and fingers you specify, you can configure the display and operation of these features within Lion.
I know all these gestures sound like a kids' gymnastics meet, but they'll soon become second nature to you. I recommend that you visit the Mouse and Trackpad panes in System Preferences and simply experiment with the possibilities of Multi-Touch!
Launching and Quitting for  the Lazy iMac Owner
Now it's time for you to pair your newly found mouse acumen with Lion's Finder window. Follow along this simple exercise. Move your cursor over the iTunes icon in the Dock (the round blue icon bearing a musical note), and click once. Whoosh! Lion launches (or starts) the iTunes application, and you see a window much like the one in Figure 4-3.
	If an application icon is already selected (which I discuss in the next section), you can simply press +O to launch it. The same key shortcut works with documents, too.
 

Figure 4-3: Click a Dock icon to launch that application.

 
Dig that crazy Launchpad!
You can customize your Launchpad display by dragging icons to display in the order you prefer (for example, I have all the applications I use the most on the first Launchpad page). Drag an application icon to the right or left side of the screen to move it to another page.
Just as a Finder window does, Launchpad allows you to create folders to help you organize your applications. To create a folder within Launchpad, drag one application icon on top of another and then add other icons by dragging them to the folder (or remove them by dragging them out of the folder). To run an application within a folder, click the folder icon to display the icons within it and then click the desired application.
Oh, and there's no need to stick with the boring folder names assigned by Launchpad! To change a folder name, click the folder to open it and then click the folder name to display a text-editing box. Type the new moniker for the folder and press Return.
If you want to remove an application from Launchpad — which also deletes the application from your iMac entirely — click the icon and continue pressing on the trackpad until the icons start to wiggle. (Yes, you read that  correctly; I said wiggle. iPhone and iPad owners know what I mean.) Click the tiny Delete button that appears next to the icon — the one with the x — and the icon disappears. Press Esc to stop all that wiggling. (Note that the applications  supplied with Lion can't be deleted this way.)

Besides the Dock, you have several other ways to launch an application or open a document in Lion:
 Using Launchpad: Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock (it's the second one to the right of the Finder icon, sporting a rocket-ship icon) to display all your application icons in a full-screen display. If you have more than one screen (or page) worth of applications, press the arrow keys to move between Launchpad pages (with a Magic Trackpad or Mouse, swipe two fingers to the left or right). To launch an application, just click the icon. (If you're a proud owner of an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, you'll be very familiar with Launchpad because it corresponds directly to the Home screen on those devices.)
 From the Apple menu (): A number of applications can always be launched anywhere within Lion from the Apple menu:
	•	System Preferences: This is where you change all sorts of settings, such as your display background and how icons appear.
	•	Software Update: This uses the Internet to see whether update patches are available for your Apple software, as I discuss in Chapter 24.
	•	App Store: This launches the App Store and displays software that you can download for your iMac.
 From the Desktop: If you have a document that you created, an application icon, or an application alias on your Desktop, you can launch or open it here by double-clicking that icon (tapping with one finger twice in rapid succession when the cursor is on top of the icon).
		Double-clicking a device or network connection on your Desktop opens the contents in a Finder window. This trick works for CDs and DVDs that you've loaded as well as for external hard drives and USB flash drives. Applications and documents launch from a CD, a DVD, or an external drive just the same as they launch from your internal drive (the one that's named Macintosh HD), so you don't have to copy stuff from the external drive just to use it. (You can't change the contents of most CDs and DVDs; they're read-only, so you can't write to them.)
 From the Recent Items selection: When you click the Apple menu and hover your mouse over the Recent Items menu item, the Finder displays all the applications and documents that you used over the past few computing sessions. Click an item in this list to launch or open it.
 From the Login Items list: Login Items are applications that Lion launches automatically each time you log in to your user account.
		I cover Login Items in detail in Chapter 20.
 From the Finder window: You can also double-click an icon within the confines of a Finder window to open it (for documents), launch it (for applications), or display the contents (for a folder).
	The Quick Look feature can display the contents of just about any document or file — without actually opening the corresponding application! Sweet. To use Quick Look from a Finder window, click a file to select it, click the Action button (which bears an eye icon) on the Finder window toolbar, and then choose Quick Look. My favorite method of using Quick Look? Just click a file to select it and press the spacebar!
After you finish using an application, you can quit that application to close its window and return to the Desktop. Here are a number of ways to quit an application:
 Press +Q. This keyboard shortcut quits virtually every Macintosh application on the planet. Just first make sure that the application that you want to quit is active!
 Choose the Quit command from the application's menu. To display the Quit command, click the application's name — its menu — from the menu bar. This menu is always to the immediate right of the Apple () menu. For example, Safari displays a Safari menu, and that same spot in the menu is taken up by iCal when iCal is the active application. In Figure 4-3, look for the iTunes menu, right next to .
 Choose Quit from the Dock. You can right-click an application's icon in the Dock and then choose Quit from the right-click menu that appears.
		A running application displays a small blue ball under its icon in the Dock.
 Click the Close button on the application window (refer to Figure 4-3). Some applications quit entirely when you close their window, like the System Preferences window or the Apple DVD Player. Other applications might continue running without any window, like Safari or iTunes; to close these applications, you have to use another method in this list.
  Choose Force Quit from the Apple menu. This is a last-resort measure!  Use this only if an application has frozen and you can't use another method in this list to quit. Force-quitting an application doesn't save any changes to any open documents within that application!
Juggling Folders and Icons
Finder windows aren't just for launching applications and opening the files and documents that you create. You can also use the icons within a Finder window to select one or more specific items or to copy and move items from place to place within your system.
A field observer's guide to icons
Not all icons are created equal. Earlier in this chapter, I introduce you to your iMac's hard drive icon on the Desktop, but here is a little background on the other types of icons that you might encounter during your iMac travels:
 Hardware: These are your storage devices (such as your hard drive and DVD drive) as well as external peripherals (such as your iPod and printer).
 Applications: These icons represent the applications (or programs) that you can launch. Most applications have a custom icon that incorporates the company's logo or the specific application logo, so they're very easy to recognize, as you can see in Figure 4-4. Many applications written for Lion will automatically load any open documents you were working on when you last closed the application; otherwise, you typically get a new blank document or an Open dialog from which you can choose the existing file you want to open.
 Documents: Many of the files on your hard drive are documents that can be opened within the corresponding application, and the icon usually looks similar to the application's icon. Double-clicking a document automatically launches the required application (that is, as long as Mac OS X recognizes the file extension or associated application).
 

Figure 4-4: A collection of some of my favorite application icons.

 
 Files: Most of the file icons on your system are mundane things (such as preference and settings files, text files, log files, and miscellaneous data files), yet most are identified with at least some type of recognizable icon that lets you guess what purpose the file serves. You also come across generic file icons that look like a blank sheet of paper (used when Lion has no earthly idea what application opens that type of file).
 Aliases: An alias acts as a link to another item elsewhere on your system. For example, to launch Adobe Acrobat, you can click an Adobe Acrobat alias icon that you can create on your Desktop rather than click the actual Acrobat application icon. The alias essentially acts the same way as the original icon, but it doesn't take up the same space — only a few bytes for the icon itself, compared with the size of the actual application. Plus, you don't have to go digging through folders galore to find the original application icon. (Windows switchers know an alias as a shortcut, and the idea is the same although Macs had it first. Harrumph.) You can always identify an alias by the small curved arrow at the base of the icon, and the icon might also sport the tag alias at the end of its name.
		You have three ways to create an alias. Here's one:
	a.	Select the item. The following section has details about selecting icons.
	b.	Choose File⇒Make Alias, or press +L.
		Figure 4-5 illustrates a number of aliases, arranged next to their linked files.
 

Figure 4-5: No, not the famous girl-spy TV show. These are alias icons in Lion.

 
		Here's another way to create an alias:
	a.	Hold down +Option.
	b.	Drag the original icon to the location where you want the alias.
		Note that this funky method doesn't add the alias tag to the end of the alias icon name (unless you drag it to another location in the same directory)!
		Another option for creating an alias is to right-click the original icon and choose Make Alias.
So why bother to use an alias? Three good reasons:
 Launch an application or open a document from anywhere on your drive. For example, you can start Pages directly from the folder where you store the documents for your current Pages project without using Launchpad. Speed, organization, and convenience . . . life is good.
 Add aliases wherever you need them. Aliases take up very little hard drive space, and that tiny size allows you to add multiple aliases (and mucho convenience) for a single application without gulping down hard drive real estate.
 Send an alias to the Trash without affecting the original item. When that Pages project is finished, you can safely delete the alias without worrying about deleting the actual application icon.
	If you move or rename the original file, Lion is actually smart enough to update the alias, too! However, if the original file is deleted (or if the original is moved to a different volume, such as an external hard drive), the alias no longer works. (Go figure.)
Selecting items
Often, the menu commands or keyboard commands that you perform in the Finder need to be performed on something: Perhaps you're moving an item to the Trash, or getting more information on the item, or creating an alias for that item. To identify the target of your action to the Finder, you need to select one or more items on your Desktop or in a Finder window. In this section, I show you how to do just that.
Selecting one thing
Lion gives you a couple of options when selecting just one item for an upcoming action:
 Move your pointer over the item and click. A dark border (or highlight) appears around the icon, indicating that it's selected.
 Type the first few letter of the icon's name. After you type a letter, Mac OS X highlights the first icon that matches that character.
 If an icon is already highlighted on your Desktop or within a window, move the selection highlight to another icon in the same location by using the arrow keys. To shift the selection highlight alphabetically, press Tab (to move in order) or press Shift+Tab (to move in reverse order).
	Selecting items in the Finder doesn't actually do anything to them by itself. You have to perform an action on the selected items to make something happen.
Selecting a whole bunch of things
You can also select multiple items with aplomb by using one of these methods:
 Adjacent items
	•	Drag a box around them. In case that sounds like ancient Sumerian, here's the explanation: Click a spot above and to the left of the first  item; then hold down your finger on the surface of the mouse and drag the mouse down and to the right. If you're using a trackpad, just hold down your finger while moving it down and to the right. (This is dragging, in Mac-speak.) A box outline like the one in Figure 4-6 appears, indicating what you're selecting. Any icons that touch or appear within the box outline are selected when you release the mouse button.
 

Figure 4-6: Drag a box around icons to select them.

 
	•	Click the first item to select it and then hold down the Shift key while you click the last item. Lion selects both items and everything between them.
 Nonadjacent items: Select these by holding down the  key while you click each item.
	If you turn it on, the status bar displays additional information on what you're doing within a Finder window. (To check it out, click View⇒Show Status Bar from the Finder menu.) The status bar tells you how much space is available on the drive you're working in as well as how many items are displayed in the current Finder window. When you select items, it shows you how many you highlighted.
Copying items
Want to copy items from one Finder window to another, or from one location (like a CD) to another (like your Desktop)? Très easy. Just use one of these methods:
 On the same drive
	•	To copy one item to another location: Hold down the Option key (you don't have to select the icon first) and then click and drag the item from its current home to the new location.
		To put a copy of an item within a folder, just drop the item on top of the receiving folder. If you hold the item that you're dragging over the destination folder for a second or two, Lion opens a new window so that you can see the contents of the target.
	•	To copy multiple items to another location: Select them all first (see the earlier section "Selecting a whole bunch of things"), hold down the Option key, and then drag and drop one of the selected items where you want it. All the items that you selected follow the item you drag. (Rather like lemmings. Nice touch, don't you think?)
		To help indicate your target when you're copying files, Lion highlights the location to show you where the items will end up. (This works whether the target location is a folder or a drive icon.) If the target location is a window, Lion adds a highlight to the window border.
 On a different drive
	•	To copy one or multiple items: Click and drag the icon (or the selected items, if you have more than one) from the original window to a window you open on the target drive. (No need to hold down the Option key whilst moving.) You can also drag one item (or a selected group of items) and simply drop the items on top of the drive icon on your Desktop.
		The items are copied to the top level, or root, of the target drive.
If you try to move or copy something to a location that already has an item with the same name, Figure 4-7 illustrates the answer: You get a dialog that prompts you to decide whether to replace the file or to stop the copy/move procedure and leave the existing file alone. Good insurance indeed.
 

Figure 4-7: Replace the existing file only if you're sure.

 
Moving things from place to place
Moving things from one location to another location on the same drive is the easiest action you can take. Just drag the item (or selected items) to the new location. The item disappears from the original spot and reappears in the new spot.
Duplicating in a jiffy
If you need more than one copy of the same item within a folder, use the Lion Duplicate command. I use Duplicate often when I want to edit a document but ensure that the original document stays pristine, no matter what. I just create a duplicate and edit that file instead.
To use Duplicate, you can
 Click an item to select it and then choose File⇒Duplicate.
 Right-click the item and choose Duplicate from the menu.
 Hold down the Option key and drag the original item to another spot in the same window. When you release the mouse button, the duplicate file appears like magic!
The duplicate item has the word copy appended to its name. A second copy is named copy2, a third is copy3, and so on.
	You can also hold down the Option key while dragging the item to a different Finder window, and the duplicate is created there (but without the word copy appended.)
	Duplicating a folder also duplicates all the contents of that folder, so creating a duplicate folder can take some time to create if the original folder was stuffed full (or contained very large files). The duplicate folder has copy appended to its name, but the contents of the duplicate folder keep their original names.
Keys and Keyboard Shortcuts  to Fame and Fortune
Your iMac keyboard might not be as glamorous as your mouse, but any Macintosh power user will tell you that using keyboard shortcuts is usually the fastest method of performing certain tasks in the Finder, such as saving or closing a file. I recommend committing these shortcuts to memory and putting them to work as soon as you begin using your iMac so that they become second nature to you as quickly as possible.
Special keys on the keyboard
The Apple standard keyboard has a number of special keys that you might not recognize — especially if you've made the smart move and decided to migrate from the chaos that is Windows to Mac OS X! Table 4-1 lists the  keys that bear strange hieroglyphics on the Apple keyboard as well as what they do.

Using Finder and application  keyboard shortcuts
The Finder is chock-full of keyboard shortcuts that you can use to take care of common tasks. Some of the handiest shortcuts are included in the online Cheat Sheet for this book, which you'll find at

www.dummies.com/how-to/content/imac-for-dummies-cheat-sheet.html
	But wait, there's more! Most of your applications also provide their own set of keyboard shortcuts. While you're working with a new application, display the application's Help file and print a copy of the keyboard shortcuts as a handy cheat sheet.
	If you've used a PC before, you're certainly familiar with three-key shortcuts — the most infamous being Ctrl+Alt+Delete, the beloved shutdown shortcut nicknamed the Windows Three-Finger Salute. Three-key shortcuts work the same way in Lion (but you'll be thrilled to know that you won't need to reboot your iMac using that notorious Windows shortcut)! If you're new to computing, just hold down the first two keys simultaneously and then press the third key to activate a three-key shortcut.
	You're not limited to the keyboard shortcuts listed previously, either. Within System Preferences, visit the Keyboard pane and click the Keyboard Shortcuts button to change an existing shortcut or add another.
Performing Tricks with Finder Windows
In this section of your introduction to Mac OS X, I describe basic windows management within Lion: how to move things around, how to close windows, and how to make 'em disappear and reappear like magic.
Scrolling in and resizing windows
Can you imagine what life would be like if you couldn't see more than a single window's worth of stuff? Shopping would be curtailed quite a bit — and so would the contents of the folders on your hard drives!
That's why Lion adds scroll bars that you can click and drag to move through the contents of the window. By default, scroll bars don't appear until you move your pointer close to them, but when they're visible, you can either
 Click the scroll box and drag it. (For the uninitiated, that means clicking  the darker portion of the bar and holding down your finger on the  surface of your pointing device while you move in the desired direction.)
 Click anywhere in the empty area above or below the box to scroll pages one at a time.
 Hold down the Option key and click anywhere in the empty area above or below the bar to scroll to that spot in the window.
	Of course, you can also scroll by moving one finger on the surface of your Magic Mouse in the desired direction (both vertically and horizontally). To set the scroll gesture behavior, open System Preferences and click the Mouse pane.
Figure 4-8 illustrates both vertical and horizontal scroll bars in a typical Finder window.
	Often, pressing your Page Up and Page Down keys moves you through a document one page at a time. Also, pressing your arrow keys moves your insertion cursor one line or one character in the four compass directions.
 

Figure 4-8: A plethora of helpful window controls.

 
You can also resize most Finder and application windows by enlarging or reducing the window frame itself. Move your pointer over any edge of the window and then drag the edge in any direction until the window is the precise size you need. You can also drag a corner of the window diagonally to resize two dimensions at once.

Only one can be active at one time
Yes, here's a very special Mark's Maxim in the Mac OS X universe.
Only one application window can be active in Lion at any time.
You can always tell which window is active:
 The active window is on top of other  windows.
 Some applications provide smaller floating windows that offer additional controls and information. Floating windows are subsets of their parent applications, but they may appear on top of the parent window.
		Tip: You can still use a window's Close, Minimize, and Zoom buttons when it's  inactive.
 Any input you make by typing or by moving your mouse appears in the active window.
 Mac OS X dims inactive windows that you haven't minimized.

Toggling toolbars the Lion way
Time to define a window control that's actually inside the window for a change. A toolbar is a strip of icons that appears under the window's title bar. These icons typically perform the most common actions within an application; the effect is the same as if you use a menu or press a keyboard shortcut. Toolbars are very popular these days. You see 'em within everything from the Finder window to most application windows.
Most windows that include a toolbar also include some method of hiding the toolbar (to save screen real estate for your document). For example, you can toggle the display of the toolbar on and off in a Finder window from the View menu, or you can use the convenient +Option+T key shortcut to toggle the toolbar display on and off.

Minimizing and restoring windows
Resizing a window is indeed helpful, but maybe you simply want to banish the doggone thing until you need it again. That's a situation for the Minimize button, which also appears in Figure 4-8. A minimized window disappears from the Desktop but isn't closed; by default, it simply reappears in the Dock as a miniature icon. Minimizing a window is easy: Move your pointer over the Minimize button at the top-left corner of the window — a minus sign appears in the button to tell you that you're on target — and then click.
	Hold down the Shift key whilst you minimize, and prepare to be amazed when the window shrinks in slow motion like Alice in Wonderland!
To restore the window to its full size again (and its original position on the Desktop), just click its window icon in the Dock.
Moving and zooming windows
Perhaps you want to move a window to another location on the Desktop so that you can see the contents of multiple windows at the same time. Click the window's title bar (that's the top frame of the window, which usually includes a document or application name) and drag the window anywhere you like. Then lift your finger. (Don't click the icon in the center of the title bar, though. You won't move the window, just the icon itself.)
	Many applications can automatically arrange multiple windows for you. Choose the Window⇒Arrange All menu item (if it appears).
Doing the full-screen dance
Lion is the first version of Mac OS X to provide system-wide support for full-screen operation —  which means that a single application fills the entire screen without displaying a window frame or traditional Finder menu bar.
The method you use to switch to full-screen mode varies within applications, so there's no One Menu Command or One Keyboard Shortcut that will always do the deed. Most of the applications that are included with Mac OS X Lion use View⇒Enter Full Screen, and many applications have a button you can click in the window to switch back and forth. You may also see a button with a double-diagonal arrowhead icon in the upper-right corner of the window.
So how do you switch among applications if they're all in full-screen mode?
 If you use a mouse, you can move your pointer to the bottom of the screen to display  the Dock, where you can click another application to switch to it.
 You can invoke Mission Control and choose another application from there.
 If you're working with a Magic Trackpad or Magic Mouse, swipe three fingers to the left or right across the surface.
 From the keyboard, use the +Tab shortcut to cycle through the applications you have running.

To see all that a window can show you, use the Zoom feature to expand any Finder or application window to its maximum practical size. Note that a zoomed window can fill the entire screen, or (if that extra space isn't applicable for the application) the window might expand only to a larger part of the Desktop. To zoom a window, move your pointer over the button (as shown in the earlier Figure 4-8) at the top-left corner of the window. When the plus sign appears in the Zoom button, click to claim the additional territory on your Desktop. (You can click the Zoom button again to automatically return the same window to its previous dimensions.)
Closing windows
When you're finished with an application or no longer need a window open, move your pointer over the Close button at the top-left corner of the window. When the X appears in the button, click it. (And yes, I can get one more reference out of Figure 4-8, which I'm thinking of nominating as Figure of the Year.)
	If you have more than one window open in the same application and you want to close 'em all in one swoop, hold down the Option key whilst you click the Close button in any of the windows.
	If you haven't saved a document and you try to close that document's window, Lion gets downright surly and prompts you for confirmation. "Hey, human, you don't really want to do this, do you?" If you answer in the affirmative — "Why, yes, machine. Yes, indeed, I do want to throw this away and not save it." — the application discards the document that you were working on. If you decide to save the current state of your document (thereby saving your posterior from harm), you can use the File⇒Save a Version menu command. (For those applications that don't support Lion's Version feature, the menu command is File⇒Save As.)












Chapter 5
A Plethora of Powerful Fun
In This Chapter
 Making the most of your Home folder
 Arranging your Desktop for greater efficiency
 Adding time savers to the Dock
 Using the Trash (and rescuing precious stuff from it)
 Using Mission Control and Dashboard to perform Desktop magic
 Printing documents
When you're no longer a novice to Lion and the basics of the Finder, turn your attention to a number of more advanced topics 'n tricks to turn you into an iMac power user — which, after all, is the goal of every civilized consciousness on Planet Earth.
Consider this chapter a grab bag of Lion knowledge. Sure, I jump around a little, but these topics are indeed connected by a common thread: They're all surefire problem-solvers and speeder-uppers. (I can't believe the latter is really a word, but evidently it is. My editors told me so.)
Home, Sweet Home Folder
Each user account that you create within Lion is actually a self-contained universe. For example, each user has a number of unique characteristics and folders devoted just to that person, and Lion keeps track of everything that a user changes or creates. (In Chapter 20, I describe the innate loveliness of multiple users living in peace and harmony on your iMac.)
This unique universe includes a different system of folders for each user account on your system. The top-level folder uses the short name that Lion assigns when that user account is created. Naturally, the actual folder name is different for each person, so Mac techno-types typically refer to this folder as your Home folder.
Each account's Home folder contains a set of subfolders, including
 Movies
 Music
 Pictures
 Downloads (for files you download via Safari)
 Sites (for web pages created by [or provided to] the user)
 Documents (created by the user)
Although you can store your stuff at the root (top level) of your hard drive, that gaggle of files, folders, and aliases can get very crowded and confusing very quickly. Here's a Mark's Maxim to live by:
 Your Home folder is where you hang out and where you store your stuff. Use it to make your computing life much easier!
	Create subfolders within your Documents folder to organize your files and folders even further. For example, I always create a subfolder in my Documents folder for every book that I write so that I can quickly and easily locate all the documents and files associated with that book project.
I discuss security within your Home folder and what gets stored where in Chapter 20. For now, Figure 5-1 shows how convenient your Home folder is to reach because it appears in the Finder window Sidebar. One click of your Home folder and all your stuff is within easy reach.
In addition to the Finder window Sidebar, you can reach your Home folder in other convenient ways:
 From the Go menu: Choose Go⇒Home to display your Home folder immediately from the Finder window. Alternatively, you can press +Shift+H to accomplish the same thing.
 From within Open and Save dialogs: Lion's standard File Open and File Save dialogs also include the same Home folder (and subfolder) icons as the Finder window Sidebar.
 Within any new Finder window you open: If you like, you can set every Finder window that you open to open automatically within your Home folder.
	a.	Choose Finder⇒Preferences to display the dialog that you see in Figure 5-2.
	b.	Click the arrow button at the right side of the New Finder Windows Show pop-up menu.
		A menu pops up (hence the name).
	c.	Click the your Home folder entry in the menu.
	d.	Click the Close button at the top-left corner of the dialog.
		You're set to go. From now on, every Finder window you open  displays your Home folder as the starting location!
 

Figure 5-1: Your Home folder is the central location for all your  stuff on  your iMac.

 
 

Figure 5-2: Set Lion to open your Home folder within new Finder  windows.

 
	Here's another reason to use your Home folder to store your stuff: Lion expects your stuff to be there when you migrate your files from an older  Mac to a new Mac.
Arranging Your Desktop
Many folks put all their documents, pictures, and videos on their Lion Desktop because the file icons are easy to locate! Your computing stuff is right in front of you . . . or is it?
Call me a finicky, stubborn fussbudget — go ahead, I don't mind — but I prefer a clean Lion Desktop without all the iconic clutter. In fact, my Desktop usually has just three or four icons even though I use my iMac several hours every day. It's an organizational thing; I work with literally hundreds of applications, documents, and assorted knickknacks daily. Sooner or later, you'll find that you're using that many, too. When you keep your stuff crammed on your Desktop, you end up having to scan your screen for one particular file, an alias, or a particular type of icon, which ends up taking you more time to locate it on your Desktop than in your Documents folder!
Plus, you'll likely find yourself looking at old icons that no longer mean anything to you, or stuff that's covered in cobwebs that you haven't used in years. Stale icons . . . yuck.
I recommend that you arrange your Desktop so that you see only a couple of icons for the files or documents that you use the most. Leave the rest of the Desktop for that cool image of your favorite actor or actress.
Besides keeping things clean, I can recommend a number of other favorite tweaks that you can make to your Desktop:
 Keep Desktop icons arranged as you like.
	a.	Close all windows and right-click any open space within your Desktop to display the Finder menu.
	b.	From the right-click menu, choose Show View Options.
	c.	Select the Sort By check box.
	d.	From the pop-up menu, choose the criteria that Lion uses to automatically arrange your Desktop icons, including the item name, the last modification date, or the size of the items.
		I personally like things organized by name.
 Choose a favorite background.
	a.	Tap two fingers on the surface of your Magic Mouse (or Trackpad) over any open spot on your Desktop. (Or, if you use an older pointing thing with a right mouse button, click that instead.)
	b.	From the right-click menu that appears, choose Change Desktop Background.
		You see the Desktop & Screen Saver pane, as shown in Figure 5-3. Browse through the various folders of background images that Apple provides, or use an image from your iPhoto library or Pictures folder.
 Display all the peripherals and network connections on your system.
	a.	Choose Finder⇒Preferences.
	b.	Make sure that all four of the top check boxes (Hard Disks; External Disks; CDs, DVDs, and iPods; and Connected Servers) are selected.
		Any external networks, hard drives, or devices to which you're connected show up on your Desktop. You can double-click the Desktop icon to view your external stuff.
 

Figure 5-3: Choose a Desktop background of more interest.

 
Putting the Dock to the Test
If the Dock seems like a nifty contraption to you, you're right again — it's like one of those big control rooms that NASA uses. From the Dock — that icon toolbar at the bottom of Lion's Desktop — you can launch an application, monitor what's running, and even use the pop-up menu commands to control the applications that you launch. (Hey, that NASA analogy is even better than I thought!)
	By default, the Dock hangs out at the bottom of your screen, but you can move it to another edge, change the size of the icons, or even hide it until it's necessary. (You can find more details on customizing the Dock using System Preferences in Chapter 6.)
When you launch an application — either by clicking an icon in the Dock, clicking an icon within Launchpad, or double-clicking an icon in a Finder window or the Desktop — the icon begins to bounce hilariously in the Dock to indicate that the application is loading. (So much for my Mission Control analogy.) After an application is running, the application icon appears in the Dock with a shiny blue dot underneath. Thus, you can easily see what's running at any time just by glancing at the Dock.
	You can hide most applications by pressing +H. Although the application itself is still running, it might not appear in the Dock.
	Some applications run in the background — that is, they don't show up in the Dock. You generally don't even know that these applications are working for you. However, if you need to see in detail what's going on, you can always use the Activity Monitor utility to view everything that's happening on your iMac. (For example, an Apple support technician might ask you to run Activity Monitor to help troubleshoot a problem.) To run the Activity Monitor
	1.	Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Utilities folder to open it.
	3.	Click the Activity Monitor icon.
Adding Dock icons
Ah, but there's more: The Dock can offer more than just a set of default icons! You can add your own MIS (or Most Important Stuff) to the Dock, making it the most convenient method of taking care of business without cluttering up your Desktop. You can add
 Applications: Add any application to your Dock by dragging the application  icon into the area to the left of the separator line (the vertical dotted line in the Dock that appears between applications and folders or documents). The existing Dock icons move aside so that you can place the new  neighbor in a choice location.
		Do not try to add an application anywhere to the right of the separator line. You can't put applications there — and Lion might even think that you want the application dumped in the Trash!
 Folders: Here's where you want to add things to the area to the right of the separator line. A folder or volume icon that you drag to the Dock is called a Stack in Lion, and you can display the contents with a single click. (The contents of the folder "fan out" into a half-circle or grid arrangement, depending on the number of items in the folder. In fact, if you have enough items in the Stack, scroll bars will appear.) To open or launch an item, just click it in the Stack display.
		Lion already includes two Stacks in the Dock by default: your Documents folder and your Downloads folder.
 Web URLs: Sure, you can add your favorite website from Safari! Drag it right from the Safari Address bar into the area to the right of the separator line. When you click the URL icon, Safari opens the page automatically.
Removing Dock icons
You can remove an icon from the Dock at any time (as long as the application isn't running). In fact, I always recommend that every Lion user remove the default icons that never get used to make more room available for your favorite icons. The only two icons you can't remove are the Finder and Trash icons. To remove an icon from the Dock, just click and drag it off the Dock. You're rewarded with a ridiculous puff of smoke straight out of a Warner Brothers  cartoon! (One of the Mac OS X developers was in a fun mood, I guess.)
	When you delete an icon from the Dock, all you delete is the Dock icon: The original application, folder, or volume is not deleted, and you can even add that banished icon back to the Dock in the future.
Using Dock icon menus
From the Dock menu, you can open documents, open the location in a Finder window, set an application as a Login Item, control the features in some applications, and other assorted fun, depending on the item.
To display the right-click Dock menu for an icon
	1.	Move your mouse over the icon.
	2.	Right-click.
		Note that you can also press the Control key and click the icon, or even hold down the left mouse button for a second or two.
	I cover the Dock settings that you can change within System Preferences in Chapter 6. You can also change the same settings from the Apple menu if you hover your mouse over the Dock item, which displays a submenu with the settings.
What's with the Trash?
Another sign of an iMac power user is a well-maintained Trash bin. It's a breeze to empty the discarded items you no longer need, and you can even rescue something that you suddenly discover you still need!
The Lion Trash bin resides in the Dock, and it works just like the Trash has always worked in Mac OS X: Simply drag selected items to the Trash to delete them.
	Note one very important exception: If you drag an external device or removable media drive icon on your Desktop to the Trash (such as an iPod, iPhone, DVD, or an external hard drive), the Trash bin icon automagically turns into a giant Eject icon, and the removable device or media is ejected or shut down —  not erased. Repeat, not erased. (That's why the Trash icon changes to the Eject icon — to remind you that you're not doing anything destructive.)
Here are other methods of chunking items you select to go to the wastebasket:
 Choose File⇒Move to Trash.
 Click the Action button on the Finder toolbar and choose Move to Trash from the list that appears.
 Press +Delete.
 Right-click the item and choose Move to Trash from the right-click menu.
You can always tell when the Trash contains at least one item because the basket icon is full of crumpled paper! However, you don't have to unfold a wad of paper to see what the Trash holds: Just click the Trash icon in the Dock to display the contents of the Trash. To rescue something from the Trash, drag the item(s) from the Trash folder to the Desktop or to any other folder in a Finder window. (If you're doing this for someone else who's not familiar with Lion, remember to act as though it were a lot of work, and you'll earn big-time DRP, or Data Rescue Points.)
When you're sure that you want to permanently delete the contents of the Trash, use one of these methods to empty the Trash:
 Choose Finder⇒Empty Trash.
 Choose Finder⇒Secure Empty Trash.
		If security is an issue around your iMac, and you want to make sure that no one can recover the files you've sent to the Trash, using the Secure Empty Trash command takes a little time but helps to ensure that no third-party hard drive repair or recovery program could resuscitate the items you discard.
 Press +Shift+Delete.
 Right-click the Trash icon in the Dock and then choose Empty Trash from the right-click menu.
Working Magic with Dashboard,  Mission Control, and Spaces
iMac power users tend to wax enthusiastic over the convenience features built into Lion. In fact, we show 'em off to our PC-saddled friends and family. Three of the features that I've demonstrated the most to others are Lion's Dashboard display and the amazing convenience of Mission Control. In this section, I show 'em off to you as well. (Then you can become the Lion evangelist on your block.)
Using Dashboard
The idea behind Dashboard is deceptively simple, yet about as revolutionary as it gets for a mainstream personal computer operating system. Dashboard is an alternative Desktop that you can display at any time by using the keyboard or your pointing device (by swiping upward with three fingers and clicking Dashboard); the Dashboard desktop holds widgets (small applications that each provides a single function). Examples of default widgets that come with Lion include a calculator, a world clock, weather display, and a dictionary/thesaurus. (Think of the apps you can download for an iPhone or iPad and you're in the same territory.)
Oh, did I mention that you're not limited to the widgets that come with Lion? Simply click the plus button at the bottom of the Dashboard display and drag new widgets to your Dashboard from the menu at the bottom of the screen. To remove a widget while you're in this mode, click the X icon that appears next to each widget. When you're done with your widgets — that sounds a bit strange, but I mean no offense — press the Dashboard key again to return to your Desktop.
	Widgets can also be rearranged any way you like by dragging them to a new location.
Simple applications like these are no big whoop. After all, Mac OS X has always had a calculator and a clock. What's revolutionary is how you access your widgets. You can display and use them anywhere in Lion, at any time, by simply pressing the Dashboard key. The default key is F4, although you can change the Dashboard key via the Mission Control pane within System Preferences (or even turn it into a key sequence, like Option+F4).
A WebClip widget can include text, graphics, and links, which Dashboard updates every time you display your widgets. Think about that for a second: Dynamic displays, such as weather maps, cartoons, and even the Free Music Download image from the iTunes Store are all good sources of WebClip widgets! (That last one is a real time saver.)
Follow these steps to create a new WebClip Dashboard widget from your favorite website:
	1.	Run Safari and navigate to the site you want to view as a widget.
	2.	Click the Open in Dashboard button on the Safari toolbar, which bears a pair of scissors and a dotted box.
		You can also click File⇒Open in Dashboard.
	3.	Select the portion of the page you want to include in your widget.
		Most web pages use frames to organize and separate sections of a page, so this step allows you to choose the frame with the desired content.
	4.	Drag the handles at the edges of the selection border to resize your widget frame to the right size and then click Add.
 Bam! Lion displays your new WebClip widget within Dashboard.
When you click a link in a WebClip widget, Dashboard loads the full web page in Safari, so you can even use WebClips for surfing chores with sites you visit often.
Switching between apps  with Mission Control
In Chapter 4, I mention using the +Tab keyboard shortcut to switch between your open applications. If you've moved to the iMac from a PC running Windows, you might think this simple shortcut is all there is to it. Ah, dear reader, you're in Lion territory now!
Mission Control is a rather complex-sounding feature, but (like Dashboard) it's really all about convenience. If you typically run a large number of  applications at the same time, Mission Control can be a real time saver, allowing you to quickly switch among a forest of different application windows (or display your Desktop instantly without those very same windows in the way). The feature works in three ways:
 Press F9 (or F3, depending on your keyboard) to show all open windows using Mission Control, grouped by application; then click the one you want. Figure 5-4 illustrates the tiled All Window display on my iMac after I press F9. Move the cursor on top of the window you want to activate (the window border turns blue when it's selected) and click once to switch to that window. You can specify which keys you want to use within the Mission Control pane in System Preferences.
 Press F10 (or Control+F3, depending on your keyboard) to show all open windows from the application that you're currently using; then click the one that you want to activate. This Mission Control function is great for choosing from all the images that you've opened in Adobe Photoshop or all the Safari web pages littering your Desktop!
 Press F11 (or +F3), and all your open windows scurry to the side of the screen (much like a herd of zebras would if you dropped a lioness in the middle). Now you can work with drives, files, and aliases on your Desktop — and when you're ready to confront those dozen application windows again, just press the keyboard shortcut a second time!
 

Figure 5-4: Mission Control is Lion's new Desktop manager.

 
	Although the Mission Control screen appears automatically when necessary, you can also launch it at any time from your iMac's Launchpad display, from the Dock icon, or by pressing the Mission Control/F9 key on your keyboard. From a Magic Trackpad, display the Mission Control screen by swiping up with three fingers.
Switching between desktops with Spaces
Ah, but what if you want to switch to an entirely different set of applications? For example, suppose that you're slaving away at your pixel-pushing job, designing a magazine cover with Pages. Your page-design desktop also includes Photoshop and Apple's Aperture, which you switch between often, using one of the techniques I just described. Suddenly, however, you realize that you need to schedule a meeting with others in your office using iCal, and you also want to check your e-mail in Apple Mail. What to do?
Well, you could certainly open Launchpad, launch those two applications on top of your graphics applications, and then minimize or close them. With Mission Control's Spaces feature, though, you can press the Control+← or Control+→ sequences to switch to a completely different "communications" desktop, with iCal and Apple Mail windows already open and in your favorite positions! Figure 5-4, shown in the previous section, illustrates two available Spaces desktops, labeled Desktop 1 and Desktop 2.
After you're done setting up your meeting and answering any important e-mail, simply press Control+← or Control+→ to switch back to your "graphics" desktop, where all your work is exactly as you left it! (And yes, Virginia, Spaces does indeed work with full-screen applications.)
Now imagine that you've also created a custom "music" desktop for GarageBand and iTunes . . . or perhaps you joined iWeb, Safari, and iPhoto as a "webmaster" desktop. See why everyone's so excited?
To create a new desktop for use within Spaces, click the Mission Control icon in the Dock. Now you can set up new Spaces desktops. Move your pointer to the top-right corner of the Mission Control screen and click the Add button (with the plus sign) that appears. (If you've relocated your Dock to the right side of the screen, the Add button shows up in the upper-left corner instead.) Spaces creates a new, empty, desktop thumbnail. Switch to the new desktop by clicking the thumbnail at the top of the Mission Control screen and open those applications you want to include. (Alternatively, you can drag the applications from Mission Control onto the desired desktop thumbnail.) That's all there is to it!
To switch an application window between Spaces desktops, drag the window to the edge of the desktop and hold it there. Spaces will automatically move the window to the next desktop. (Applications can also be dragged between desktops within the Mission Control screen.) You can also delete a desktop from the Mission Control screen: Just hover your pointer over the offending Spaces thumbnail and then click the Delete button (with the X) that appears.
	You can jump directly to a specific Spaces desktop by clicking its thumbnail within your Mission Control screen — or you can hold down the Control key and press the number corresponding to that desktop. Additionally, you can always use the Control+← or Control+→ shortcuts to move among desktops and full-screen applications.
	You can even activate Mission Control, Spaces, and Dashboard by using your pointer instead of the keyboard:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Mission Control icon to display the settings.
	3.	Click the Hot Corners button.
	4.	Click the desired Screen Corner pop-up menu to choose what function that screen corner will trigger.
	5.	Press +Q to save your changes and then exit System Preferences.
		When you move your pointer to that corner, the feature you've specified automatically kicks in. Sweet!
Printing within Mac OS X
Lion makes document printing a breeze. Because virtually all Mac printers use a Universal Serial Bus (USB) port, setting up printing couldn't be easier. Just turn on your printer and connect the USB cable between the printer and your iMac; Lion does the rest.
	Printer manufacturers supply you with installation software that might add cool extra software or fonts to your system. Even if Lion recognizes your USB printer immediately, I recommend that you still launch the manufacturer's Mac OS X installation disc. For example, my new Epson printer came with new fonts and a CD/DVD label application, but I wouldn't have 'em if I hadn't installed the Epson software package.
After your printer is connected and installed, you can use the same procedure to print from within just about every Mac OS X application on the planet! To print with the default page layout settings — standard 81⁄2-x-11" paper, portrait mode, no scaling — follow these steps:
	1.	Within the active application, choose File⇒Print or press the +P shortcut.
		Mac OS X displays the Print sheet.
 2.	From this sheet, you can
	•	Print from a different printer connected to your iMac or print over a network connection to a shared printer on another computer.
		Click the Printer pop-up menu. In this pop-up menu, Lion displays all the printers that you can access.
	•	Print multiple copies.
		For more than one copy, click in the Copies field and type the number of copies that you need.
	•	Check what the printed document will look like.
		Use the left and right arrow keys under the Preview display to look at each page of your document as it will appear when printed.
		If you have to make changes to the document or you need to change the default print settings, click Cancel to return to your document. (You have to repeat Step 1 again to display the Print dialog again.)
	If everything looks good at this point and you don't need to change any settings (like choosing a different page size or to print only a portion of the document), click Print — and you're done! Or, to change settings, click the Show Details button at the bottom of the sheet. Now you can proceed with these steps:
	1.	(Optional) To print a range of selected pages, select the From radio button and then enter the starting and ending pages.
		To print the entire document, leave the default Pages option set to All.
	2.	(Optional) Change the orientation or select a different paper size if necessary.
		The Paper Size pop-up menu displays common paper sizes, including envelopes and postcards.
	3.	(Optional) If the application offers its own print settings, such as collating and grayscale printing, make any necessary changes to those settings.
		To display these application-specific settings, click the pop-up menu in the Print dialog and choose the desired settings pane that you need to adjust. (You can blissfully ignore these settings and skip this step entirely if the defaults are fine.)
	4.	When you're set to go, click Print.
	You can also save an electronic version of a document in the popular Adobe Acrobat PDF format from the Print dialog — without spending money on Adobe Acrobat. (Slick.)
	1.	Click the PDF button to display the destination pop-up menu.
	2.	Click Save as PDF.
		Lion prompts you with a Save As dialog, where you can type a name for the PDF document and specify a location on your hard drive where the file should be saved.
Heck, if you like, you can even fax a PDF (with an external USB modem or multifunction printer) or send it as an e-mail attachment! Just choose these options from the destination list rather than Save as PDF.












Chapter 6
A Nerd's Guide to System Preferences
In This Chapter
 Navigating System Preferences
 Searching for specific controls
 Customizing Lion from System Preferences
Remember the old TV series Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea? You always knew you were on the bridge of the submarine Seaview because it had an entire wall made up of randomly blinking lights, crewmen darting about with clipboards, and all sorts of strange and exotic-looking controls on every available surface. You could fix just about anything by looking into the camera with grim determination and barking out an order. After all, you were On The Bridge. That's why virtually all the dialogue and action inside the sub took place on that one (expensive) set: It was the nerve center of the ship and a truly happenin' place to be.
I devote this entire chapter to the System Preferences window and all the settings within it. After all, if you want to change how Lion works or customize the  features within our favorite operating system, this one window is the nerve center of Mac OS X and a truly happenin' place to be. (Sorry, no built-in wall of  randomly blinking lights — but there are exotic controls just about everywhere.)
A Not-So-Confusing Introduction
The System Preferences window (as shown in Figure 6-1) is a self-contained beast, and you can reach it in a number of ways:
 Click the Apple menu () and choose the System Preferences menu item.
 Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
 Click most of the Finder menu status icons and then choose the Open Preferences menu item. (This trick works with the Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, Display, Input Source, Time Machine, Modem, and Clock icons.)
When the System Preferences window is open, you can click any of the group icons to switch to that group's pane; the entire window morphs to display the settings for the selected pane. For example, Figure 6-2 illustrates the Sound pane, which allows you to set a system alert sound, configure your iMac's built-in microphone, and choose from among several output options.
 

Figure 6-1: The power-house of settings and switches: System  Preferences.

 
Many panes also include a number of tabbed buttons at the top — in this case, Sound Effects, Output, and Input. You can click these tabs to switch to another pane within the same pane. Many panes within System Preferences have multiple subpanes. This design allows our friends at Apple to group a large number of related settings in the same pane (without things getting too confusing).
To return to the top-level System Preferences window from any pane, just click the Show All button (top left) or press +L. You can also click the familiar Previous and Next buttons to move backward through the panes you've already visited and then move forward again, in sequence. (Yep, these buttons work just like the browser controls in Safari. Sometimes life is funny that way.)
Hey, I got bonus icons in my window!
Some third-party applications and media plug-ins  can actually install their own groups within your once-pristine System Preferences window — you'll see them at the bottom of the window, in the Other section in Figure 6-1. (A good example is Perian, the great freeware QuickTime plug-in  from Perian.org. It allows QuickTime Player to open all sorts of video formats that would  otherwise be unplayable.) Naturally, I can't document these invited guests in this chapter, but they work the same way as any other group within System Preferences. Click the icon, adjust any settings as necessary, and then close the System Preferences window to save your changes.

 

Figure 6-2: The Sound pane, proudly showing off the Sound Effects panel.

 
	If a System Preference pane is locked, you won't be able to modify any of the settings on that pane unless you unlock the pane. Click the padlock icon (and, if prompted, type your dmin-level account password) to unlock the pane. After you've finished your tweaking, you can protect the settings from inadvertent changes by clicking the padlock icon again to close the pane.
Your changes to the settings in a pane are automatically saved when you click Show All or when you click the Close button on the System Preferences window. You can also press +Q to exit System Preferences and save all your changes automatically . . . a favorite shortcut of mine.
	If you see an Apply button in a pane, you can click it to immediately apply any changes you make, without exiting the pane. This is perfect for some settings that you might want to try first before you accept them, like many of the controls on the Network pane. However, if you're sure about what you changed and how those changes will affect your system, you don't have to click Apply. Just exit the System Preferences window or click Show All as you normally would.
Searching for Settings
Hey, wouldn't it be great if you could search through all the different panes in System Preferences — with all those countless radio buttons, check boxes, and slider controls — from one place? Even when you're not quite sure exactly what it is you're looking for?
Figure 6-3 illustrates exactly that kind of activity taking place. Just click in the System Preferences Spotlight Search box (upper right, with the magnifying glass icon) and type in just about anything. For example, if you know part of the name of a particular setting you need to change, type that. Lion highlights the System Preferences panes that might contain matching settings. And if you're a Switcher from the Windows world, you can even type in what you might have called the same setting in Windows!
The System Preferences window dims and the group icons that might contain what you're looking for stay highlighted. Slick.
If you need to reset the Search box to try again, click the X icon that appears at the right side of the box to clear it.
 

Figure 6-3: Searching for specific settings is  a breeze with the Search box.

 
Popular Preference Panes Explained
Time to get down to brass tacks. Open the most-often-used panes in System Preferences to see what magic you can perform! I don't discuss all the panes because I cover many of them in other chapters. (In fact, you might never need to open some System Preferences panes at all, like the Language & Text pane.) However, this chapter covers just about all the settings that you're likely to use on a regular basis.
The Displays pane
If you're a heavy-duty game player or you work with applications like video editing and 3-D modeling, you probably find yourself switching the characteristics of your monitor on a regular basis. To easily accomplish switching, visit the Displays pane (see Figure 6-4), which includes two panes:
 Display: Click a screen resolution to choose it from the Resolutions list on the left. (Typically, it's a good idea to use the highest resolution.) If you have an external monitor connected to your iMac, click the Detect Displays button to scan for that monitor. Drag the Brightness slider to change the brightness level of your display.
		When you select (mark) the Show Displays in Menu Bar check box, you can switch resolutions and color levels right from the Finder menu!
 Color: Your iMac can use a color profile file that controls the colors on your display. This setting comes in handy for graphic artists and illustrators who need color output from their printers that closely matches the colors displayed by the iMac. Click the Calibrate button to launch the Display Calibrator, which can create a custom ColorSync profile and calibrate the colors that you see on your monitor.
 

Figure 6-4:  The Displays pane also comes in  a handy  Finder menu- bar size!

 
The Desktop & Screen Saver pane
Hey, who doesn't want to choose their own background? And what about that nifty screen saver you just downloaded from the Apple website? You can change both your background and screen saver by using these options on the Desktop & Screen Saver pane.
The settings on the Desktop panel (as shown in Figure 6-5) include
 Current Desktop picture: To change your Desktop background, click a thumbnail. You can also drag a picture from a Finder window or the desktop and drop it into the well (the fancy Apple word for the square box with the sunken look). Lion automatically updates your Desktop so that you can see the results. To open another collection of images from Apple, click the desired collection folder in the list on the left of the pane. If you want to open a different folder with your own images, click the Add button (which bears a plus sign) at the lower left of the pane and then navigate to that folder.
 

Figure 6-5:  Show The  Man who's boss and  pick your own Desktop background.

 
 Arrangement: You can automatically fit an image to your screen, tile your background image (repeat it across the Desktop), center it, and stretch it to fill the screen. Because the images from Apple are all sized correctly already, the Arrangement pop-up menu appears only when you're using your own pictures.
 Change Picture: If you like a bit of automatic variety on your Desktop, select the Change Picture check box. You can click the pop-up menu to set the delay period. The images in the current collection or folder are then displayed in the sequence in which they appear in the thumbnail list.
 Translucent Menu Bar: When enabled, this feature turns your Finder and application menu bars semiopaque, allowing them to blend in  somewhat with your Desktop background. If you'd rather have a solid-color menu bar, deselect this check box.
 Random Order: Select this check box to throw caution utterly to the wind and display random screens from the current collection or folder!
The settings on the Screen Saver pane include
 Screen Savers: Click the screen saver that you want to display from  the Screen Savers list. Lion displays an animated preview of the selected saver on the right. You can also click the Test button to try out the screen saver in full-screen mode. (Move your mouse a bit to end the test.)
		If the selected screen saver has any settings you can change, the Options button displays them.
 Start Screen Saver: Drag this slider to choose the period of inactivity that triggers the screen saver. Choose Never if you want to disable the screen saver entirely.
 Use Random Screen Saver: Another chance to rebel against conformity! Select this check box, and Lion picks a different screen saver each time.
 Show With Clock: Select this check box, and Lion adds a smart clock display to your screen saver (a great help for those of us who spend many minutes on the phone).
 Hot Corners: Click this button to display a drop-down sheet and then click any of the four pop-up menus at the four corners of the screen to select that corner as an activating hot corner. (Moving your mouse pointer to a hot corner immediately activates the screen saver.) You can also specify a corner as a disabling hot corner; as long as the mouse pointer stays in that corner, the screen saver is disabled. Note that you can also set the Dashboard and Mission Control activation corners from here. (Read on for the entire lowdown.)
		For additional security, check out the Security & Privacy pane in System Preferences — on the General pane, you'll find the Require Password After Sleep or Screen Saver Begins check box. Select the check box.
The Mission Control pane
Figure 6-6 illustrates the Mission Control, Spaces, and Dashboard settings that you can configure in this group. You can use Mission Control to view all the application windows that you're using at one time so that you can select a new active window. Or you can move all windows aside so that you can see your Desktop. Dashboard presents a number of mini-applications (or widgets), which you can summon and hide with a single key.
 

Figure 6-6: Tweak the operation of Mission Control from this pane.

 
Here's what you can control about Mission Control (horrible pun not intended but accepted nonetheless):
 Hot Corners: Click this button to set Hot Corners within Lion. These four pop-up menus are the same as those in the Hot Corners configuration sheet in the Desktop & Screen Savers pane. Click one to specify that corner as one of the following: an All Windows corner (which displays all windows on your Desktop); an Application Windows corner (which displays only the windows from the active application); a Desktop corner (which moves all windows to the outside of the screen to uncover your Desktop); or a Dashboard corner (which displays your Dashboard widgets). Choose Launchpad to activate the Launchpad screen. Note that you can also set the Screen Saver Start and Disable corners from here, as well as put your display to sleep.
 Keyboard and Mouse Shortcuts: Click each pop-up menu to set the key sequences (and mouse button settings) for Mission Control, Application windows, Show Desktop, and the Dashboard.
		You're not limited to just the keyboard and mouse shortcuts on the pop-up menus. Press the Shift, Control, Option, and  keys while a pop-up menu is open, and you see these modifiers appear as menu choices! (Heck, you can even combine modifiers, such as +Shift+F9 instead of just F9.)
		By default, Lion displays your Dashboard as a Space within the Mission Control screen. If you prefer your Dashboard widgets to appear as an overlay (as they did in previous versions of Mac OS X), deselect the Show Dashboard As a Space check box.
 Automatically Rearrange Spaces Based on Most Recent Use: If this check box is selected, Mission Control presents your most recently used Spaces first within the thumbnails at the top of the screen.
 When Switching to an Application: When selected, this check box allows you to switch applications between Spaces desktops using the +Tab shortcut. Lion jumps to the desktop that has an open window for the application you choose, even if that desktop is not currently active.
The General pane
The talented General pane (shown in Figure 6-7) determines the look and operation of the controls that appear in application windows and Finder windows. It looks complex, but I cover each option here.
The settings include
 Appearance: Click this pop-up menu to specify the color Lion uses for buttons, menus, and windows.
 Highlight Color: Click this pop-up menu to choose the color that highlights selected text in fields, pop-up menus, and drop-down list boxes.
 Show Scroll Bars: Use these radio buttons to specify when Lion should display scroll bars within a window. By default, they're placed automatically when necessary, but you can choose to display scroll bars always, or only when you're actually scrolling through a document. (If you've used Mac OS X before, note that the familiar scroll arrows from past versions of the operating system no longer appear within Lion.)
 Click in the Scroll Bar To: By default, Mac OS X jumps to the next or previous page when you click in an empty portion of the scroll bar. Select the Jump to the Spot That's Clicked radio button to scroll the document to the approximate position in relation to where you click. (You can also choose smooth scrolling, which looks cool, but many folks think that it's too slow compared with the default scrolling speed.) If you select the Double-Click a Window's Title Bar to Minimize check box, you can minimize a Finder or application window by simply double-clicking the window's title bar. You can also set the size for the icons in the Finder window toolbar.
 Number of Recent Items: By default, Lion displays ten recent applications, documents, and servers within Recent Items in the Apple menu. Need more? Just click the corresponding pop-up menu and specify up  to 50 items.
 Restore Windows When Quitting and Re-Opening Apps: If this check box is selected, Lion's Resume feature automatically saves the state of an application when you quit. When you launch the application again, Lion restores all the application windows and opens the documents you were working on when you quit. In effect, you can continue using the application just as if you had never quit. If you deselect the check box, Lion will not restore your work, and you'll have to load your document again; this is the same action taken by earlier versions of Mac OS X.
 Use LCD Font Smoothing: By default, this check box is selected, making the text on your iMac's LED display appear more like the printed page.
 Turn Off Text Smoothing for Font Sizes: Below a certain point size, text smoothing doesn't help fonts look any smoother onscreen. By default, any font displayed at 8 point or smaller isn't smoothed, which is a good choice for an iMac with a flat-panel LED screen.
 

Figure 6-7: Appearances might not be everything, but they're easy to find on the  General pane.

 
The Energy Saver pane
I'm an environmentalist (it's surprising how many techno-types are colored green) so this pane (as shown in Figure 6-8) is pretty doggone important. When you use them correctly, you not only save electricity but also even invoke the Power of Lion to automatically start and shut down your iMac whenever you like!
To save electricity, drag the Computer Sleep slider to a delay period that triggers sleep mode when you're away from the keyboard for a significant period of time. (I prefer 30 minutes.) If your iMac must always remain alert and you want to disable sleep mode entirely, choose Never. You can set the delay period for blanking your monitor separately from the sleep setting with the Display Sleep slider.
To conserve the maximum juice and cut down on wear, select the Put the Hard Disk(s) to Sleep When Possible check box to power-down your hard drives when they're not needed. (This might cause a delay of a second or two while loading or saving files because the drives must spin back up — if you're sharing files with others on your network, sleeping hard drives can also significantly slow file transfers.)
	You can set Lion to start or shut down your iMac at a scheduled time. Click the Schedule button and then select the desired schedules (the Start Up or Wake check box and the Shut Down/Sleep pop-up menu) to enable them. Set the trigger time by clicking the up and down arrows next to the time display for each schedule. Click OK to return to the Energy Saver pane.
Select the Wake for Ethernet Network Access check box to wake your iMac from sleep mode whenever your computer is accessed remotely across your network. If you prefer to send your iMac to sleep by pressing the Power button, enable the Allow Power Button to Put the Computer to Sleep check box. Lion can restart your iMac automatically after a power failure — a good feature for those running the Apache web server, because your website  will automatically come back online after power is restored. Lion can also restart automatically if your iMac freezes (that's techno-talk for a computer that's not responding to keyboard or mouse commands) if you select the Restart Automatically If the Computer Freezes check box.
 

Figure 6-8: Reduce your iMac's power  consumption  from the Energy Saver pane.

 
The Dock pane
You can use the settings shown in Figure 6-9 to configure the Dock's behavior until it fits your personality like a glove:
 Size: Pretty self-explanatory. Just drag the slider to change the scale of the Dock.
 Magnification: When you select this check box, each icon in your Dock swells like a puffer fish when you move your mouse cursor over it. (Just how much it magnifies is determined by the Magnification slider.) I really like this feature because I resize my Dock smaller, and I have a large number of Dock icons.
 Position on Screen: Select a radio button here to position the Dock on the left, bottom, or right edge of your iMac's Desktop.
 Minimize Using: Lion includes two cool animations that you can choose from when shrinking a window to the Dock (and expanding it back to the Desktop). Click the Minimize Using pop-up menu to specify the genie-in-a-bottle effect or a scale-up-or-down-incrementally effect.
 Minimize Windows into Application Icon: If this check box is not selected, minimized application windows appear as thumbnail icons in the Dock. To minimize application windows into the application icon in the Dock — which can save space on your Dock — click this check box to select it.
 Animate Opening Applications: Are you into aerobics? How about punk rock and slam dancing? Active souls who like animation likely get a kick out of the bouncing application icons in the Dock. They indicate that you've launched an application and that it's loading. You can turn off this bouncing behavior by deselecting this check box.
 Automatically Hide and Show the Dock: Select this check box, and the Dock disappears until you need it. (Depending on the size of your Dock, the Desktop real estate that you gain can be significant.) To display a hidden Dock, move your mouse pointer over the corresponding edge of the Desktop.
 Show Indicator Lights for Open Applications: Mac OS X indicates which applications are running in the Dock with a small blue dot in front of the icon. To disable these indicators, deselect this check box.
 

Figure 6-9: Customize your Dock by using these  controls.

 
The Sharing pane
So you're in a neighborly mood and want to share your toys with others on your local wired or wireless network. Perhaps you'd like to start your own website or protect yourself against the Bad Guys on the Internet. All these fun diversions are available from the Sharing pane in System Preferences, as shown in Figure 6-10.
Click the Edit button to change the default network name assigned to your iMac during the installation process. Your current network name is listed in the Computer Name text field.
Each entry in the services list controls a specific type of sharing. To turn on any of these services, select the On check box for that service. To turn off a service, click the corresponding On check box to deselect it.
From a security standpoint, I highly recommend that you enable only those services that you actually use, because each service that you enable automatically makes your Lion firewall open to allow that service. A Mark's Maxim to remember:
 Poking too many holes in your firewall is not A Good Thing.
	When you click one of the services in the list, the right side of the Sharing pane changes to display the settings you can specify for that particular service. To display all the details on these options, click the Help button at the lower-right corner of the System Preferences dialog.
 

Figure 6-10: Share your toys with others by using the controls on the Sharing pane.

 
The Time Machine pane
Mac users are justifiably proud about Lion's Time Machine automatic backup feature. You can easily configure how Time Machine handles your backups from the pane shown in Figure 6-11. Of course, you'll need an external hard drive (or a Time Capsule wireless backup station) for the best backup security. Note that Time Machine won't work with your iMac's DVD drive . . . it's got to be a hard drive. (Note, however, that if your Wi-Fi network uses an AirPort Extreme base station, you can connect an external hard drive to the base station's USB port for use with Time Machine. Your iMac will back up wirelessly to the base station's drive, just like Apple's Time Capsule device!)
To enable Time Machine, click the On switch and then click the Select Disk button to choose a disk to hold your Time Machine backup data. Time Machine backs up all the hard drives on your system; however, to save time and hard drive space, Time Machine allows you to exclude specific drives and folders from the backup process. Click the Options button; then click the Add button (with the plus sign) to select the drives or folders you want to exclude, and they appear in the Exclude list.
 

Figure 6-11: Put Time Machine to work, and your data is always backed up.

 
	To remove an item you would like to exclude, select it in the list and click the Delete button (with the minus sign). Note that the Estimated Size figure increases, and Time Machine adds the item you deleted from the list to the next backup.
	By default, Lion warns you when deleting older backup files, but you can turn this warning off from the Options sheet as well.
After you make your changes, you can elect to back up your Mac immediately by clicking the Time Machine icon in the Finder menu and choosing the Back Up Now item.













Chapter 7
Searching amidst iMac Chaos
In This Chapter
 Mastering basic Spotlight searching skills
 Selecting text and keywords for best results
 Displaying results in the Spotlight window
 Customizing Spotlight settings in System Preferences
What would you say if I told you that you could search your entire system for virtually every piece of data connected with a person — and in only the short time it takes to type that person's name? And I'm not just talking about files and folders that might include that person's name. I mean every e-mail message and every iCal calendar or event that references that person — and even that person's Address Book card, to boot? Heck, how about if that search could dig up every occurrence of the person's name inside PDF documents? What if it could even search folders shared on other Macs across your network?
You'd probably say, "That makes for good future tech — I'll bet I can do that in five or ten years. It'll take Apple at least that long to do it . . . and just in time for me to buy a new iMac! (Harrumph.)"
Don't be so hasty: You can do all this right now. The technology is the Mac OS X feature named Spotlight, built right into Lion. In this chapter, I show you how to use it like an iMac power guru.
Basic Searching 101
Figure 7-1 illustrates the Spotlight search field, which is always available  from the Finder menu bar. Click the magnifying glass icon once (or press +spacebar), and the Spotlight search box appears.
To run a search, simply click in the Spotlight box and begin typing. You see matching items appear as soon as you type, and the search results are continually refined while you type the rest of your search criteria. As with the Search box in earlier Finder window toolbars, you don't need to press Return to begin the search.
 

Figure 7-1:  A lot of power is behind this single Spotlight search box.

 
The results of your Spotlight search are presented in the Spotlight menu, which is updated automatically in real time while you continue to type. The top 20 most relevant items are grouped into categories right on the Spotlight menu. Categories include Messages, Definitions, Documents, Folders, Images, and Contacts. Spotlight takes a guess at the item that's the most likely match (based on your Search Results list in System Preferences, which I cover later in the chapter) and presents it in the special Top Hit category that always appears first.
	Hover your cursor over an item in the Spotlight menu, and — shazam — Spotlight uses the Quick Look technology built into Lion to display information on the item! If the item is a song, you can even move your cursor on top of the thumbnail in the Quick Look display and click to play it (without leaving the Spotlight menu).
	To open the Top Hit item like a true Lion power user, just press Return. (My brothers and sisters, it just doesn't get any easier than that.)
Literally any text string is acceptable as a Spotlight search. However, here's a short list of the common search criteria I use every day:
 Names and addresses: Because Spotlight has access to Lion's Address Book, you can immediately display contact information using any portion of a name or address.
 E-mail message text: Need to open a specific e-mail message, but you'd rather not launch Mail and spend time digging through the message list? Enter the person's e-mail address or any text string contained in the message you're looking for.
 File and folder names: This is the classic search favorite. Spotlight searches your system for that one file or folder in the blink of an eye.
 Events & To Do items: Yep, Spotlight gives you access to your iCal calendars and those all-important To Do lists you've created.
 System Preferences: Now things start to get really interesting! Try typing the word background in the Spotlight field. Some of the results will actually be System Preference panes! That's right, every setting in System Preferences is referenced in Spotlight. (For example, the Desktop background setting is on the Desktop & Screen Saver pane in System Preferences.)
 Web pages: Whoa. Stand back, Google. You can use Spotlight to search the web pages you've recently displayed in Safari! (Note, however, that this feature doesn't let you search through all the Internet as Google does . . . only the pages stored in your Safari web cache and any HTML files you've saved to your iMac's hard drive.)
 Metadata: That's a pretty broad category, but it fits. If you're not familiar with the term metadata, think of the information stored by your digital camera each time you take a photo — things like the exposure setting, time and date, and even the location where the photo was taken, which are also transferred to iPhoto when you import. Here's another example: I like to locate Microsoft Word documents on my system using the same metadata that's stored in the file, such as the contents of the Comments field in a Word document. Other supported applications include Adobe Photoshop images, Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, Keynote presentations, iTunes media, and other third-party applications that offer a Spotlight plug-in.
To reset the Spotlight search and try another text string, click the X icon that appears on the right side of the Spotlight box. (Of course, you can also backspace to the beginning of the field, but that's a little less elegant. Instead, press +A to select the entire contents; then press Delete.)
After you find the item that you're looking for, you can click it once to launch it (if the item is an application), open it in System Preferences (if it's a setting or description on a Preferences pane), open it within the associated application (if the item is a document or a data item), or display it within a Finder window (if the item is a folder).
	Here's another favorite time saver: You can display all the files of a particular type on your system by using the file type as the keyword. For example, to provide a list of all images on your system, just use images as your keyword. The same goes for movies and audio, too. You can use common extensions like JPG and DOC to search for certain types of files as well.
Is Spotlight Really That Cool?
Don't get fooled into simply using Spotlight as another file-'n-folder-name search tool. Sure, it can do that, but Spotlight can also search inside PDF, Word, Pages, and HTML files, finding matching text that doesn't appear in the name of the file! To wit: A search for Lion on my system pulls up all sorts of items with Lion in their filenames, but also files with Lion in the files themselves, such as a Microsoft PowerPoint presentation with slides containing the text Lion or an iCal event pointing to a conference call with my editor about upcoming Lion book projects. Notice that not one of these three examples actually has the words Lion occurring anywhere in the title or filename, yet Spotlight found them because they all contain the text Lion therein.
Is Spotlight secure?
So how about all those files, folders, contacts, and events that you don't want to appear in Spotlight? What if you're sharing your iMac as a multiuser computer, or accessing other Macs remotely? Can others search for and access your personal information through Spotlight?
Definitely not! The results displayed by Spotlight are controlled by file and folder permissions as well as your account login, just as the applications that create and display your personal data are. For example, you can't access other users' calendars using iCal, and they can't see your Mail messages. Only you have access to your data, and only after you've logged in with your username and password. Spotlight works the same way. If a user doesn't normally have access to an item, the item simply doesn't appear when that user performs a Spotlight search. (In other words, only you get to see your stuff.)
However, you can even hide certain folders and disks from your own Spotlight searches if necessary. Check out the final section of this chapter for details on setting private locations on your system.

Heck, suppose that all you remember about a file is that you received it in your mail last week or last month. To find it, you can actually type in time periods, such as yesterday, last week, or last month, to see every item that you saved or received within that period. (Boy, howdy, I love writing about TGIs — that's short for Truly Good Ideas.)
Be careful, however, when you're considering a search string. Don't forget that (by default) Spotlight matches only those items that have all the words you enter in the Spotlight box. To return the highest number of possible matches, use the fewest number of words to identify the item; for example, use horse rather than horse image, and you're certain to be rewarded with more hits. (On the other hand, if you're looking specifically for a picture of a knight on horseback, a series of keywords, such as horse knight image, shortens your search considerably. It all depends on what you're looking for and how widely you want to cast your Spotlight net.)
To allow greater flexibility in searches, Apple also includes those helpful Boolean friends that you may already be familiar with: AND, OR, and NOT. For example, you can perform Spotlight searches such as
 Horse AND cow (which collects all references to both those barnyard  animals)
 Batman OR Robin (which returns all references to either Batman or Robin)
 Apple NOT PC (which displays all references to Apple that don't include any information on dastardly PCs)
	Because Spotlight functions are a core technology of Mac OS X Lion — in other words, all sorts of applications can make use of Spotlight throughout the operating system, including the Finder — the Finder window's Search box now shares many of the capabilities of Spotlight. In fact, you can use the time-period trick that I mention earlier (entering yesterday as a keyword) in the Finder window Search box.
	Okay, parents, listen closely: Here's a (somewhat sneaky) tip that might help you monitor your kids' computer time as well as what your kids are typing/reading in iChat:
	1.	Enable the iChat transcript feature.
	a.	From within iChat, choose iChat⇒Preferences.
	b.	Click Messages.
	c.	Select the Save Chat Transcripts To check box and choose a destination folder in a location you can access.
	2.	Click the Close button to return to iChat.
		Now you can use Spotlight to search for questionable words, phrases, and names within those iChat transcripts.
Expanding Your Search Horizons
I can just hear the announcer's voice now: "But wait, there's more! If you click the Show in Finder menu item at the beginning of your search results, we'll expand your Spotlight menu into the Spotlight window!" (Fortunately, you don't have to buy some ridiculous household doodad.)
	Keyboard mavens will appreciate the Spotlight window shortcut key (by default, +Option+spacebar), and I show you where to specify this shortcut in the final section of this chapter.
Figure 7-2 illustrates the Spotlight window (which is actually a Finder window with extras). To further filter the search, click one of the buttons on the Spotlight window toolbar or create your own custom filter. Click the button with the plus sign to display the search criteria bar and then click the pop-up menus to choose from criteria, such as the type of file, the text content, or the location on your system (for example, your hard drive, your Home folder, or a network server). You can also filter your results listing by the date the items were created or last saved. To add or delete criteria, click the plus and minus buttons at the right side of the search criteria bar. To save a custom filter that you've created, click the Save button.
 

Figure 7-2:  The spacious borders of the Spotlight window.

 
Images appear as thumbnail icons, so you can use that most sophisticated search tool — the human eye — to find the picture you're looking for. (If you don't see thumbnail images, click the Icon view button on the toolbar.) Don't forget that you can increase or decrease the size of the icons by dragging the slider at the bottom right of the window.
	To display the contents of an item in the list (without leaving the comfortable confines of the Spotlight window), click the icon to select it and click the Quick Look icon in the toolbar (or press the spacebar) for a better view.
Again, when you're ready to open an item, just double-click it in the Spotlight window.
As I mention earlier, Spotlight can look for matching items on other Macs on your network — but only if those remote Macs are configured correctly. To allow another Mac running Mac OS X Tiger, Leopard, Snow Leopard, or Lion to be visible to Spotlight on your system, enable File Sharing on the other Mac. (Oh, and remember that you need an admin-level account on that Mac — or access to a good friend who has an admin-level account on that Mac.)
Follow these steps to enable File Sharing on the other Mac:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Sharing pane.
	3.	Select the On check box next to the File Sharing item in the service list to enable it.
	4.	Click the Close button on the System Preferences window.
Remember, you can search only items that you have rights and permissions to view on the remote Mac (such as the contents of the Public folders on that computer). I discuss more about these limitations earlier in this chapter, in the "Is Spotlight secure?" sidebar.
Customizing Spotlight to Your Taste
You might wonder whether such an awesome Mac OS X feature has its own pane within System Preferences — and you'd be right again. Figure 7-3 shows off the Spotlight pane within System Preferences: Click the System Preferences icon (look for the gears) in the Dock and then click the Spotlight icon (under Personal) to display these settings.
 

Figure 7-3: Fine-tune your  Spotlight menu and Results window from within System  Preferences.

 
Click the Search Results tab to
 Determine which categories appear in the Spotlight menu and Results window. For example, if you don't use any presentation software on your iMac, you can clear the check box next to Presentations to disable this category (thereby making more room for other categories that you will use).
 Determine the order that categories appear in the Spotlight menu and Results window. Drag the categories to the order in which you want them to appear in the Spotlight menu and window. For example, I like the Documents and System Preferences categories to appear higher in the list because I use them most often.
 Specify the Spotlight menu and Spotlight Results window keyboard shortcuts. You can enable or disable either keyboard shortcut and choose the key combination from the pop-up menu.
Click the Privacy tab (as shown in Figure 7-4) to specify disks and folders that should never be listed as results in a Spotlight search. I know, I know, I said earlier that Spotlight respects your security, and it does. However, the disks and folders that you add on this list won't appear even if you are the one performing the search. (This is a great idea for folders and removable hard drives that you use to store sensitive information, such as medical records.)
To add locations that you want to keep private, click the Add button (bearing a plus sign) and navigate to the desired location. Click the location to select it and then click Choose. (Alternatively, you can drag folders or disks directly from a Finder window and drop them into the pane.)
 

Figure 7-4: When certain folders and disks must remain private (even from you!), add them to this list.

 











Part III
Connecting and Communicating





In this part . . .
You want to do the Internet thing, don't you? Sure you do — and in this part, I describe and demonstrate your Safari web browser. You also get to know all about Apple's iCloud Internet service, and how you can synchronize your data automatically between all your Apple devices. Finally, this part fills you in on connecting important stuff like printers and scanners.











Chapter 8
Let's Go on Safari!
In This Chapter
 Introducing the Safari window and controls
 Visiting websites with Safari
 Creating and using bookmarks
 Receiving files with Safari
 Surfing with your tabs showing
 Saving web pages and protecting your privacy
 Blocking those irritating pop-ups
I proudly surf the web via a lean, mean — and fast — browser application. That's Safari, of course, and it just keeps getting better with each new version of Mac OS X. Safari delivers the web the right way, without the wait. You'll find that new features have been added to Safari that no other browser can offer.
If you need a guide to Safari, this is your chapter. Sure, you can start using it immediately, but wouldn't you rather read a few pages so that you can surf like a power user?
Within these pages, I show you how to use those other controls and toolbar buttons in Safari — you know, the ones in addition to the Forward and Back buttons — and you discover how to keep track of where you've been and where you'd like to go.
Pretend You've Never Used This Thing
Figure 8-1 illustrates the Safari window. You can launch Safari directly from the Dock or you can click the Safari icon within Launchpad. Major sections of the Safari window include
 The toolbar: You'll find the most often used commands on this toolbar — for tasks such as navigating, adding bookmarks, and searching Google (or Yahoo!, or Bing). Plus, here you can type or paste the address for websites that you'd like to visit. You can hide the toolbar to provide you with more real estate in your browser window for web content. To toggle hidden mode on and off, press +| (the vertical bar right above the backslash) or choose View⇒Hide/Show Toolbar.
 The Bookmarks bar: Consider this a toolbar that allows you to jump directly to your favorite websites with a single click or two. I show you later, in the section "Adding and Using Bookmarks," how to add and remove sites from your Bookmarks bar. For now, remember that you can toggle the display of the Bookmarks bar by choosing View⇒Hide/Show Bookmarks Bar or by pressing +Shift+B.
 

Figure 8-1: Safari at a glance.

 
 The Content pane: Congratulations! At last, you've waded through all the pregame show and you've reached the area where web pages are actually displayed. The Content pane can be scrolled; when you minimize Safari to the Dock, you get a thumbnail (minimized) image of the Content pane.
		The Content pane often contains underlined text and graphical icons that transport you to other pages when you click them. These underlined words and icons are links, and they make it easy to move from one area of a site to another or to a completely different site. You can tell when your cursor is resting on a link because the cursor changes to that reassuring gloved hand.
 The status bar: The status bar displays information about what the cursor is currently resting upon, such as the address for a link or the name of an image; it also updates you on what's happening while a page is loading. To hide or display the status bar, press +/ (forward slash) or choose View⇒Hide/Show Status Bar.
Visiting Websites
Here's the stuff that virtually everyone over the age of five knows how to do . . .  but I get paid by the word, and some folks might not be aware of the myriad ways of visiting a site. You can load a web page using any of the following methods:
 Type (or paste) a website address into the Address box on the toolbar and then press Return.
		If you're typing in an address and Safari recognizes the site as one that you've visited in the past, it helps by completing the address for you. Press Return if you want to accept the suggested site. If this is a new site, just keep typing.
		Safari also includes a Smart Address field that displays a drop-down menu of sites that match the text you've entered. Safari does this by using sites taken from your History file and your bookmarks. If the site you want to visit appears in the list, click it to jump there immediately.
 Click a Bookmarks entry within Safari.
 If the Home button appears on your toolbar, click it to return to the home page that you specify.
		More on this in the section "Setting Up Your Home Page," later in this chapter.
 Click the Show Top Sites button on the toolbar.
		Safari displays a wall of preview thumbnail pages from your most frequently visited sites, and you can jump to a site just by clicking the preview. Click the Edit button on the Top Sites screen to delete a preview thumbnail — click the X — or you can "anchor" a thumbnail to keep it on the screen permanently by clicking the pin icon next to the desired thumbnail. You can also choose the size of the preview thumbnails in Edit mode.
		Because each thumbnail is updated with the most current content, the Top Sites wall makes a great time saver — you can quickly make a visual check of all your favorite haunts from one screen!
 Click an item you saved earlier in the Reading List.
 Click a page link in Apple Mail or another Internet-savvy application. Some Mac applications require you to hold down  while clicking to open a web page. (Note that if the link is in plain text, you can often select the text, right-click, and choose Open URL from the menu that appears.)
 Click a page link within another web page.
 Use the Search box in the toolbar. By default, Safari uses Google as a search engine, but you can also use Yahoo! or Bing if you prefer. To set the search engine, click Safari⇒Preferences, click the General tab, and click the Default Search Engine pop-up menu.
		Click in the Search box, type the contents that you want to find, and then press Return. Safari presents you with the search results page on Google for the text that you entered. (In case you've been living under the Internet equivalent of a rock for the last several years, Google.com is the preeminent search site on the web — people use Google to find everything from used auto parts to ex-spouses. You can also choose the Bing or Yahoo! search engines from the drop-down menu that appears while you're typing in the Search box.)
 Click a Safari page icon in the Dock or a Finder window. Drag a site from your Bookmarks bar and drop it on the right side of the Dock. Clicking the icon that you add launches Safari and automatically loads that site.
		This trick works only on the side of the Dock to the right of the vertical line.
If you minimize Safari to the Dock, you'll see a thumbnail of the page with the Safari logo superimposed on it. Click this thumbnail in the Dock to restore the page to its full glory.
	Speaking of full glory, Safari now supports the same full-screen mode that other Lion applications do! Click the Full Screen icon at the top-right corner of the Safari window to switch to full-screen mode, or press the Control++F shortcut (a good shortcut to memorize because it works with virtually all Lion-compatible applications). To make things convenient for you, the Address and Search boxes remain, as do the Home, Back, and Forward icons. To exit full-screen mode, press Esc or the Control++F shortcut again.
Navigating the Web
A typical web surfing session is a linear experience — you bop from one page to the next, absorbing the information that you want and discarding the rest. However, after you visit a few sites, you might find that you need to return to where you've been or head to the familiar ground of your home page. Safari offers these default navigational controls on the toolbar:
 Back: Click the Back button (the left-facing arrow) on the toolbar to return to the last page you visited. Additional clicks take you to previous pages, in reverse order. The Back button is disabled if you haven't visited at least two sites.
 Forward: If you've clicked the Back button at least once, clicking the Forward button (the right-facing arrow) takes you to the next page (or through the pages) where you originally were, in forward order. The Forward button is disabled if you haven't used the Back button.
		Safari supports a number of trackpad gestures. For example, you can swipe in either direction with two fingers to move backward and forward, just as you would move with the Forward and Back buttons. To zoom in and out on the Content pane, you can either double-tap on the trackpad or pinch with two fingers — yes, just like an iPhone. (Ever get the notion that someday we'll just have a single box called The Device that does it all?)
 Home: Click this button (look for the little house) to return to your home page.
		Not all these buttons and controls must appear on your toolbar. To display or hide toolbar controls, choose View⇒Customize Toolbar. The sheet that appears works just like the Customize Toolbar sheet within a Finder window: Drag the control you want from the sheet to your Safari toolbar or drag a control that you don't want from the toolbar to the sheet.
 New Tab: Click this button (it looks like a little tab with a plus sign) to open a new tab in the Content pane. I get knee-deep into tabbed browsing later in the chapter.
 AutoFill: If you fill out a lot of forms online — when you're shopping at websites, for example — you can click the AutoFill button (which looks like a little text box and a pen) to complete these forms for you. You can set what information is used for AutoFill by choosing Safari⇒Preferences and clicking the AutoFill toolbar button.
		To be honest, I'm not a big fan of releasing any of my personal information to any website, so I don't use AutoFill often. If you do decide to use this feature, make sure that the connection is secure (look for the padlock icon in the Address box) and read the site's Privacy Agreement page first to see how your identity data will be treated.
 Top Sites: Click this button to display the Top Sites screen I discuss earlier. (In case you're having trouble finding it, the button bears a tiny, fashionable grid of squares.)
 Reading List: Click this icon to display or hide the Reading List pane, where you can save links (and entire pages) for later perusal in the Content pane. (From the keyboard, press +Shift+L.) When the Reading List pane is visible, click the Add Page button to add the current page to the list —  you can quickly add a link to the list by holding down the Shift key and  clicking the link. Click the Reading List button again to banish the Reading List pane.
 Ah, but when you click one of those entries in the Reading List and then click the Reader icon that appears in the Address box, the real magic begins! The Reader panel appears to display text articles free of advertisements and silly pop-ups — and if an article is continued over multiple web pages, the Reader panel automatically "stitches" them together to form a continuous block of text. (Think of an e-book shown on your iPad or iPhone and you get the idea.) You can also print or e-mail the article from within the Reader panel.
		If the Reader icon appears in Safari's Address box — and you're not using the Reading List — don't panic! Because the page you're reading contains text articles, Safari is offering to display it in the Reader panel. To display the page in the Reader panel, click that same icon in the Address box. To return to your mundane browsing experience, click the Reader icon again.
 Zoom: You use this button to shrink or expand the size of text on the page, offering smaller, space-saving characters (for the shrinking crowd) or larger, easier-to-read text (for the expanding crowd). Hence the button, which is labeled with a small and large letter A.
 Bookmarks Bar: Click this button (which carries the Bookmarks symbol sandwiched between two horizontal lines) to display or hide the Bookmarks bar.
 Stop/Reload: Click Reload at the right side of the Address box (look for the circular arrow) to refresh (reload) the contents of the current page. Many pages change their content at regular intervals. Reload allows you to see what's changed on these pages. (I use Reload every hour or so with CNN.com, for example.) While a page is loading, the Reload button turns into the Stop button — with a little X mark — and you can click it to stop the loading of the content from the current page. This is a real boon when a download takes foorrevverr.
 Bookmark: Click this Toolbar button (which carries an open book icon) to hide or display the Bookmark pane. You can find the complete description of the Bookmark pane in an upcoming section.
 History: Click this button (which bears a clock symbol) to display or hide the History list, which I discuss later in the chapter.
 Downloads: Click this toolbar button to display the files you've downloaded recently. Click the Clear button to clear the contents of the Download list. Note that clearing the list does not delete the files you've downloaded; it simply cleans things up. (More on downloading in a page or two.) You can also double-click a completed download in the list to open it immediately.
		When you're downloading a file, a tiny progress bar appears in the Downloads button on the toolbar to show you how much you've received. Now that, good reader, is progress! (Let's see if my editor allows such a horrible pun to remain.)
 Open in Dashboard: Click this button to create a Dashboard widget using the contents of the currently displayed web page. Safari prompts you to choose which clickable section of the page to include within the widget's borders (such as the local radar map on your favorite weather website). Click Add, and Dashboard loads automatically with your new widget. (More on widgets in Chapter 5.)
 Mail: Click this button (bearing an envelope icon) to send an e-mail message with a link to the current page, just as if you had selected File⇒Mail Link to This Page. Safari automatically opens Apple Mail and creates a new message with the link already in the body. Shazam!
 Add Bookmark: Click this toolbar button (which carries a plus sign) to add a page to your Bookmarks bar or Bookmarks menu. (More on this in a tad.)
 Search: As I mention earlier, you can click in this box and type text that you want to find on the web via the Google (or Yahoo!, or Bing) search engine; press Return to display the results. To repeat a recent search, click the down arrow in the Search box and select it from the pop-up menu.
 Print: Click this convenient button to print the contents of the Safari window. (Dig that crazy printer icon!)
 Report Bug: When you click the Bug button, you'll see a sheet with the settings shown in Figure 8-2; take time to enter a short description of the problem. Click More Options to enable the Send Screen Shot of Current Page and the Send Source of Current Page check boxes, giving the Apple folks more to work with. Click the Submit button.
 

Figure 8-2:  Have at thee, troublesome buggy page!

 
Setting Up Your Home Page
Choosing a home page is one of the easiest methods of speeding up your web surfing, especially if you're using a dialup modem. However, a large percentage of the Mac owners whom I've talked with have never set their own home page; instead, they simply use the default home page provided by their browser! With Safari running, take a moment to follow these steps to declare your freedom to choose your own home page:
	1.	If you want to use a specific web page as your new home page, display it in Safari.
		I recommend selecting a page with few graphics or a fast-loading  popular site.
	2.	Choose Safari⇒Preferences or press +, (comma).
	3.	Click the General button.
		You see the settings shown in Figure 8-3.
Lean, fast, and mean — that's RSS
Well, maybe not mean — after all, I don't want you to be afraid of RSS (RDF Site Summary) pages! RSS websites display updated information using a shortened list format, rather like a newspaper headline, without unnecessary graphics or silly advertisements. You can tell when a website has RSS pages available because Safari displays an RSS icon at the right side of the Address box on the toolbar. (When you click the RSS icon, the web address switches to a feed:// prefix —  another indication that you're not in Kansas reading HTML pages anymore.)
To display more information about a news item on an RSS page, click the item headline. Safari opens the corresponding web page — yep, once again you're back in the world of HTML — and you can read the full story. To return to the RSS feed, click the Back button on the toolbar. Naturally, RSS feed pages can be bookmarked. In fact, Apple gives you a number of RSS sites that you can explore immediately.
To customize your RSS display, choose Safari⇒Preferences and then click the RSS tab. By default, Safari checks for updated RSS headlines every 30 minutes, but you can change this setting to an hourly or daily check. (Of course, you can also check for updates manually by reloading the RSS page, just as you would any other web page.) New articles can be assigned a highlighted color, and you can specify the amount of time an item should remain on the RSS page after it's published.

 

Figure 8-3: Adding your own home page is an easy change you can make.

 
	4.	Click the Set to Current Page button.
	5.	Alternatively, click the New Windows Open With pop-up menu and choose Empty Page if you want Safari to open a new window with a blank page.
		This is the fastest choice of all for a home page.
 Choose Top Sites from the New Windows Open With pop-up menu to display the Top Sites screen I described earlier each time you open a new window.
	6.	Click the Close button to exit the Preferences dialog.
	Visit your home page at any time by clicking the Home button on the toolbar.
Adding and Using Bookmarks
No doubt about it: Bookmarks make the web a friendly place. As you collect bookmarks in Safari, you can immediately jump from one site to another with a single click of the Bookmarks menu or the buttons on the Bookmarks bar.
To add a bookmark, first navigate to the desired page and then do any of the following:
 Choose Bookmarks⇒Add Bookmark.
 Press the +D keyboard shortcut.
		Safari displays a sheet where you can enter the name for the bookmark as well as select where it appears (on the Bookmarks bar, Reading List, Top Sites display, or the Bookmarks menu).
 Drag the icon next to the web address from the Address field to the Bookmarks bar.
		This trick also works with other applications besides Safari, including within a Mail message or iChat conversation. Drag the icon from the Safari Address field to the other application window, and the web-page link is added to your document!
	You can also drag a link on the current page to the Bookmarks bar, but note that doing this adds a bookmark only for the page corresponding to the link — not the current page.
To jump to a bookmark:
 Choose it from the Bookmarks menu. If the bookmark is contained in a folder, which I discuss later in this section, move your pointer over the folder name to show its contents and then click the bookmark.
  Click the bookmark on the Bookmarks bar.
		If you've added a large number of items to the Bookmarks bar, click the More icon on the edge of the Bookmarks bar to display the rest of the buttons.
 Click the Show All Bookmarks button (which looks like a small, opened book) on the Bookmarks bar and then click the desired bookmark. The Bookmarks pane that you see in Figure 8-4 appears — complete with swank Cover Flow display — where you can review each collection of bookmarks at leisure. As you might expect, Safari's Cover Flow works just as the Cover Flow view does in a Finder window.
		The more bookmarks you add, the more unwieldy the Bookmarks menu and the Bookmarks pane become. To keep things organized, choose Bookmarks⇒Add Bookmark Folder and then type a name for the new folder. With folders, you can organize your bookmarks into collections, which appear in the column at the left of the Bookmarks pane and as menus on the Bookmarks bar (collections also appear within the Bookmarks menu on the Safari menu bar). You can drag bookmarks into the new folder to help reduce the clutter. To delete a bookmark or a folder from the Bookmarks pane, click it and then press Delete.
 

Figure 8-4:  The Bookmarks pane puts all your bookmarks within  easy reach.

 
Downloading Files
A huge chunk of the fun that you'll find on the web is the ability to download images and other files. If you've visited a site that offers files for downloading, typically you just click the Download button or the download file link, and Safari takes care of the rest. While the file is downloading, feel free to continue browsing or even download additional files; the Downloads status list helps you keep track of what's going on and when everything will be finished transferring. To display the Download status list from the keyboard, press +Option+L. You can also click the Download button at the upper-right corner of the window to display the Download list.
By default, Safari saves any downloaded files to the Downloads folder that appears in your Dock, which I like and use. To change the specified location where downloaded files are stored — for example, if you'd like to save them directly to the Desktop — follow these steps:
	1.	Choose Safari⇒Preferences or press +, (comma).
	2.	Click the General tab and then click the Save Downloaded Files To pop-up menu.
	3.	Choose Other.
	4.	Navigate to the location where you want the files stored.
	5.	Click the Select button.
	6.	Click the Close button to exit Preferences.
To download a specific image that appears on a web page, move your pointer over the image and right-click. Then choose Save Image As from the pop-up menu that appears. Safari prompts you for the location where you want to store the file.
You can choose to automatically open files that Safari considers safe — things like movies, text files, and PDF files that are very unlikely to store a virus or a damaging macro. By default, the Open "Safe" Files after Downloading check box is selected on the General pane. However, if you're interested in preventing anything you download from running until you've manually checked it with your antivirus application, you can deselect the check box and breathe easy.
	Luckily, Safari has matured to the point that it can seamlessly handle virtually any multimedia file type that it encounters. However, if you've downloaded a multimedia file and Safari doesn't seem to be able to play or display it, try loading the file within QuickTime Player. QuickTime Player is the Swiss Army knife of multimedia players, and it can recognize a huge number of audio, video, and image formats.
Using Subscriptions and History
To keep track of where you've been, you can display the History list by clicking the History menu. To return to a page in the list, just choose it from the History menu. Note that Safari also arranges older history items by the date you visited the site, so you can easily jump back a couple of days to that page you forgot to bookmark!
In fact, Safari also searches the History list automatically, when it fills in an address that you're typing — that's the feature I mention in the earlier section "Visiting Websites."
To view your Top Sites thumbnail screen, press +Shift+1 or choose Show Top Sites from the History menu. You can also click the Top Sites button on the toolbar.
If you're worried about security and would rather not keep track of where you've been online, I show you how to clear the contents of the History file in the "Handling ancient history" section, later in this chapter.
Tabs Are Your Browsing Friends
Safari also offers tabbed browsing, which many folks use to display (and organize) multiple web pages at the same time. For example, if you're doing a bit of comparison shopping for a new piece of hardware among different online stores, tabs are ideal.
When you hold down the  key and click a link or bookmark using tabs, a tab representing the new page appears at the top of the Safari window. Just click the tab to switch to that page. (If you don't hold down , things revert to business as usual, and Safari replaces the contents of the window with the new page.) If you hold down both Shift and  while you click, Safari opens a new tab and automatically switches to the new tab. Figure 8-5 illustrates a number of pages that I've opened in Safari using tabs.
	You can also open a new tab by clicking the plus sign that appears at the upper-right corner of the Safari window, or by pressing +T. Done with a page? You can remove a tabbed page by clicking the X button next to the tab's title.
 

Figure 8-5: Hang on, Martha; we've struck tabs!

 
To fine-tune your tabbed browsing experience, choose Safari⇒Preferences to display the Preferences dialog; then click Tabs. From here, you can specify whether a new tab or window automatically becomes the active window within Safari.
Saving Web Pages
If you've encountered a page that you'd like to load later, you can save it to disk in its entirety. (Just the text, mind you, not the images.) Follow these steps:
	1.	Display the desired page.
	2.	Choose File⇒Save As or press +S.
	3.	In the Save As text field, type a name for the saved page.
	4.	From the Where pop-up menu, navigate to the location where you want to store the file on your system.
		To expand the sheet to allow navigation to any location on your system, click the button with the downward arrow.
	5.	Click the Format pop-up menu to choose the format for the saved page.
		Usually, you'll want to choose a Web Archive, which saves the entire page and can be displayed just as you see it. However, if you want to save just the HTML source code, choose Page Source.
	6.	Click Save to begin the download process.
		After the Save file has been created, double-click it to load it in Safari.
	A quick word about printing a page within Safari: Some combinations of background and text colors might conspire together to render your printed copy practically worthless. In a case like that, use your printer's grayscale setting (if it has one) or deselect the Print Backgrounds check box in the Print dialog (which can save you quite a bit of ink or toner). Alternatively, you can simply click and drag to select the text on the page, press +C to copy it, and then paste the text into TextEdit, Word, or Pages, where you can print the page on a less offensive background (while still keeping the text formatting largely untouched). You can also save the contents of a page as plain text, as I just demonstrated.
	If you'd rather mail the contents of a web page to a friend — or just send the friend a link to the page, which is faster — choose either File⇒Mail Contents of This Page or File⇒Mail Link to This Page. (From the keyboard, press +I to send the contents in an e-mail message or press +Shift+I to send a link in e-mail. Alternatively, if you've added the Mail button to your toolbar, one click does the job.) Mail loads automatically, complete with a prepared e-mail message. Just address it to the recipients and then click Send!
Protecting Your Privacy
No chapter on Safari would be complete without a discussion of security, against both outside intrusion from the Internet and prying eyes around your iMac. Hence this last section, which covers protecting your privacy.
	Although diminutive, the padlock icon that appears at the right side of the Address box when you're connected to a secure website means a great deal! A secure site encrypts the information that you send and receive, making it much harder for those of unscrupulous ideals to obtain things such as credit card numbers and personal information. You can click the padlock icon (next to the site name) to display the security certificate in use on that particular site.
Yes, there are such things as bad cookies
First, a definition of this ridiculous term: A cookie, a small file that a website automatically saves on your hard drive, contains information that the site will use on your future visits. For example, a site might save a cookie to preserve your site preferences for the next time or — in the case of a site such as Amazon.com — to identify you automatically and help customize the offerings that you see.
In and of themselves, cookies aren't bad things. Unlike a virus, a cookie file isn't going to replicate itself or wreak havoc on your system, and only the original site can read the cookie that it creates. However, many folks don't appreciate acting as a gracious host for a slew of little snippets of personal information. (Not to mention that some cookies have highly suggestive names, which could lead to all sorts of conclusions. End of story.)
You can choose to accept all cookies, or you can opt to disable cookies altogether. You can also set Safari to accept cookies only from the sites you choose to visit. To change your Cookie Acceptance Plan (or CAP, for those who absolutely crave acronyms), follow these steps:
	1.	Choose Safari⇒Preferences.
	2.	Click the Privacy toolbar button.
		Safari displays the preference settings shown in Figure 8-6.
	3.	Choose how to block cookies via these radio button choices:
 a. Never: Accept all cookies.
 b. Always: Block cookies entirely.
 c. From Third Parties and Advertisers: Personally, I use this option, which allows sites like Amazon.com to work correctly without allowing a barrage of superfluous cookies.
	4.	To view the cookies currently on your system, click the Details button.
		If a site's cookies are blocked, you might have to take care of things manually, such as by providing a password on the site that used to be read automatically from the cookie.
 

Figure 8-6: Specifying who's welcome in my cookie jar.

 
	5.	Click the Close button to save your changes.
		Feeling nervous about the data stored by the websites you visit? You can always delete all of that stored information with a single click. From the Privacy pane in the Safari Preferences window, click the Remove All Website Data button. You'll be asked to confirm your draconian decision.
Cleaning your cache
Safari speeds up the loading of websites by storing often-used images and multimedia files in a temporary storage, or cache, folder. Naturally, the files in your cache folder can be displayed (hint), which could lead to assumptions (hint, hint) about the sites you've been visiting (hint, hint, hint). (Tactful, ain't I?)
Luckily, Safari makes it easy to dump the contents of your cache file. Just choose Safari⇒Empty Cache; then click Empty to confirm that you want to clean up your cache.
Handling ancient history
As you might imagine, your History file leaves a very clear set of footprints indicating where you've been on the web. To delete the contents of the History menu, choose History⇒Clear History (at the very bottom of the History menu).
Safari also allows you to specify an amount of time to retain entries in your History file. Open the Safari Preferences dialog, click the General tab, and then click the Remove History Items pop-up menu to specify the desired amount of time. Items can be rolled off daily, weekly, biweekly, monthly, or yearly.
Avoiding those @*!^%$ pop-up ads
I hate pop-up ads, and I'm sure you do, too. To block most of those pop-up windows with advertisements for everything from low-rate mortgages to "sure-thing" Internet casinos, click the Safari menu and verify that Block Pop-Up Windows is selected. (If it's not selected, click the menu item to toggle the menu item on.)
	If you need to temporarily deactivate pop-up blocking, press +Shift+K to toggle it off. Then press +Shift+K again to turn pop-up blocking back on after you've finished with the site.













Chapter 9
Expanding Your Horizons  with iCloud
In This Chapter
 Introducing iCloud
 Setting iCloud preferences
 Managing iCloud storage
If you ask the average iMac owner about what's available on the Internet, you likely hear benefits such as e-mail, Dropbox storage, Web surfing, RSS feeds, and Google searches. What you may not hear is "instant syncing among all my Apple iOS devices."
If you have an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, you may have experienced what I like to call the Synchronizing Blues in the past: When you took a photo with your iPhone or created a new document with your iPad, your new additions just sat there (in their original location) until you had a chance to sync your device with your iMac. Ah, but with Apple's new iCloud functionality, your stuff gets automatically synchronized across the Internet, and you can even keep your iTunes music library stored online!
In this chapter, I show you what's really exciting about your iMac and that fancy Internet connection. With iCloud, you can automatically synchronize your stuff and manage online backups of all your contacts, calendars, mail, bookmarks, and documents!
So How Does iCloud Work, Anyway?
As I mentioned earlier, today's Apple iOS devices can all display or play the same media: photos, music, books, and TV shows and such. Heck, some iOS devices can even share applications that you install, such as your iPhone and iPod touch. Therefore, it makes sense to effortlessly share all your digital media across these devices, and that's what iCloud is all about. Apple calls this synchronization pushing.
Here's a look at how the pushing process works. Imagine that you've just completed a Pages document on your iMac (an invitation for your son's birthday party), but you're at the office, and you need to get the document to your family so that they can edit and print it using your son's iPad.
Before iCloud, you had to attach the document to an e-mail message, or upload it to some type of online storage like Dropbox, and then a family member had to download and save the document to the iPad before working with it. With iCloud, you simply save the document, and your iMac automatically pushes the document to the iPad! Your document appears on the iPad, ready to be opened, edited, and printed. (It appears on any other iOS 5 devices as well.) Figure 9-1 gives you an idea of what's happening in the background when one of your devices pushes data using iCloud.
 

Figure 9-1:  iCloud works by pushing data between all your iOS devices.

 
iCloud isn't limited to just digital media, though. Your MacBook can also automatically synchronize your e-mail, iCal calendars, and Address Book contacts with other iOS 5 devices across the Internet, so staying in touch is much easier (no matter which device you happen to be using at the moment).
Apple also throws in 5GB of free online storage that you can use for all sorts of things: not only digital media files but also documents and anything else that you'd like to place online for safekeeping. In fact, items you buy through the iTunes Store — music, video, and applications — do not count against your 5GB limit. (More on how you can expand that 5GB limit later in the chapter.)
	To join the iCloud revolution, you need an Apple ID.
Configuring iCloud
You control all the settings for iCloud from Lion's new iCloud pane in System Preferences (shown in Figure 9-2). Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock and click the iCloud icon. At the sign-in prompt, enter your Apple ID and your password. System Preferences will then guide you through basic iCloud configuration with a number of questions.
 

Figure 9-2:  The iCloud pane appears within  System  Preferences.

 
Most of the check boxes on the iCloud Preferences pane control whether a particular type of data is pushed among all your iOS devices — data like Address Book contacts, Mail messages, and iCal calendars. However, you can enable three other unique features from this pane as well:
 Photo Stream: Turning on Photo Stream allows your iMac to automatically receive photos from your iOS devices. Take a photo with your iPhone, for example, and that image is immediately pushed to your iMac, iPad, and iPod touch. On the iMac, however, Photo Stream goes one step further: The photos appear automatically within iPhoto or Aperture within a special album titled Photo Stream.
  To turn Photo Stream on within iPhoto, click iPhoto⇒Preferences and click the Photo Stream button; then click all three check boxes to enable them. (Remember, Photo Stream must also be turned on within the iCloud Preferences pane.)
 Back to My Mac: If you enable Back to My Mac, you'll be able to remotely control your iMac from another Mac computer (or vice versa) using Lion's Screen Sharing feature. You can also transfer files between the two computers. Back to My Mac works over both a broadband Internet connection and a local network. Available Mac computers show up in the Shared section of the Finder window Sidebar. Note that you must manually turn on Screen Sharing within the System Preferences Sharing pane before you can remotely control another Mac.
 Find My Mac: Talk about Buck Rogers. . . Imagine locating a lost or stolen Mac from your iPhone or iPad. Now think about this: With Find My Mac, you can even lock or completely wipe your iMac's hard drive remotely, preventing unauthorized use and erasing your private data! After you access your iMac from another iOS device, you can play a sound, send a message to be displayed onscreen, remotely lock the machine, or remotely wipe the drive. Note that after you have locked or wiped the drive, you can't locate your iMac again.
Managing Your iCloud Storage
Naturally, Apple knows that you're curious about how much space you've taken up within your own personal iCloud. To monitor your iCloud storage, click the Manage button at the bottom-right corner of the iCloud Preferences pane. From the sheet that appears — as shown in Figure 9-3 — you can see how much space you're using for document and data storage.
Click the data type in the left column, and iCloud displays the amount of storage space that's being used for that data. For instance, in Figure 9-3, I'm checking the amount taken by my iPad and iPhone backups. (I've set both my iPad and iPhone to back up wirelessly to my iCloud storage.) Other items that might appear in this sheet include Mail and selected iPad and iPhone apps that support iCloud.
	If you find yourself running out of iCloud storage space, you can delete any stored item by selecting it in the list at the right side of the sheet and clicking the Delete button.
	Need more elbow room than 5GB? Apple is happy to provide 10, 20, or even 50GB of additional storage for an annual subscription fee of $20, $40, or $100, respectively. Click the Manage button on the iCloud pane in System Preferences; then click Buy More Storage.
 

Figure 9-3: Checking on your iCloud storage.

 











Chapter 10
Hooking Up with Handy Helpers
In This Chapter
 Adding a printer or a scanner to your system
 Using Photo Booth
 Connecting with friends and family using FaceTime
 Watching digital TV on your iMac
This chapter is all about getting interesting things into — and out of — your iMac. Some of the devices I mention are common (almost mundane these days) and pretty easy to take care of, such as scanners and printers. Then I might surprise you with something new to you, like your iMac's built-in FaceTime HD video camera.
I also show you how to turn your iMac into a photo booth. Heck, I even describe how you can pull that fancy satellite or cable TV signal into your iMac.
It's perfectly okay to tell everyone else that you're watching the financial channel. But watching a little football never hurt anyone. . . .
Connecting Printers
All hail the USB port! It's the primary connection point for all sorts of goodies. In this section, I concentrate on adding a local USB printer and the basics of  adding a network printer to your system. (Find more on connecting a wireless  Bluetooth printer in the Bonus Chapter at www.dummies.com/go/imacfd7e.)
USB printers
Connecting a USB printer to your iMac is duck soup. Don't you wish all things in life were this easy? You might very well be able to skip most of the steps in this section entirely, depending on whether your printer came with an installation disc. (Virtually all do, of course, but you might have bought yours used, say, from eBay.)
	Your printer needs to be fully supported within Mac OS X:
 If the software is designed for earlier versions of Mac OS X (say, 10.6), it probably works with Lion.
 I always recommend visiting the manufacturer's website to download the latest printer driver and support software before you install your printer. That way, you know that you're up-to-date. (Don't forget to check the Read Me file that accompanies your new software to make sure that no new system requirements have come about!)
	Save and close open files and applications before installing your printer. You might have to restart your iMac to complete the installation.
The physical connections for your printer are pretty simple:
 Make sure that your printer's USB cable is plugged in to both your iMac and the printer itself. (Naturally, you'll use one of the iMac's USB ports on the back of the computer.)
 After the USB connection is made, plug the printer into an AC wall socket and turn it on.
	Don't forget to add the paper, check the ink cartridge(s), and remove all the packing material from your printer!
Additional printer installation steps depend on whether you have a manufacturer's installation disc for your printer.
Sure, I've got the install disc
If your printer comes with its manufacturer's installation disc, follow these steps when everything is connected and powered on:
	1.	Insert the installation disc in the iMac.
		The disc contents usually appear in a Finder window. If they don't,  double-click the installation disc icon on the Desktop to open the window.
	2.	Double-click the installation application to start the ball rolling.
	3.	Follow the onscreen instructions.
		Files get copied to your hard drive.
		You might have to restart your iMac.
You're ready to print!
Don't forget to visit your printer manufacturer's website to check whether any driver updates are available for your particular model.
Whoops, I've got diddly-squat (Software-wise)
Didn't get an installation CD? Try installing the printer without software, or download the software from the manufacturer's website.
Installing without software
If you didn't get an installation CD with your printer, you might be lucky enough that your printer's driver was included in your installation of Mac OS X. First, press +P within an application to display the Print dialog, where you can check to see whether the printer you connected is already recognized.
If it's not displayed, here's how to check for that pesky driver after you connect the printer and switch it on:
	1.	Open the System Preferences window.
	2.	Click the Print & Scan icon.
	3.	Click the Add button (which sports a plus sign).
	4.	Check the Printer list in the Add Printer window to see whether your printer has already been added automatically within Lion.
		If your printer appears here, dance a celebratory jig. You can close System Preferences and choose that printer from the Print dialog in your applications. (You can even set it as the default from the System Preferences Print & Scan pane. Just click the Default Printer pop-up menu to select your new printer.)
Downloading software
If you don't have installation software and your iMac doesn't automatically match your USB printer with a driver, it's time to check the Internet to locate a Lion-compatible driver for your printer.
Check the manufacturer's website for your printer's software and any additional information for operating your printer under Mac OS X Lion. Look for
  Special software drivers that the printer might need: Install any drivers you find before you run an installation application. Otherwise, the installation app might not be able to recognize or configure the printer if the driver hasn't been installed first.
 Technical documents or FAQs covering your printer under Lion
 Installation application: If the manufacturer offers an installation application for your printer, download the application and run it.
Network printers
Your wired or wireless Ethernet network provides a quick-and-easy way to share any printer that's already connected to your iMac. Follow these steps to share your printers across the network with others:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Sharing icon.
	3.	Select the On check box next to the Printer Sharing service entry.
	4.	Click Close to exit System Preferences.
In most cases, a printer that you share appears automatically in the Print dialog on other computers connected to your network. Therefore, if you want to access a printer being shared by another Mac across your network, open the Print dialog within your application and click the Printer pop-up menu to select it.
If the remote printer isn't listed automatically, you can dig a little further. To add a printer that another Mac on your network is sharing to your list of printers, follow these steps:
	1.	Click System Preferences in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Print & Scan icon.
	3.	Click the Add button (which carries a plus sign).
	4.	Click the Default button on the toolbar.
		Lion displays all the available local shared printers. 
	5.	Click the desired printer and then click Add.
		Depending on the built-in support within Lion for the printer you're accessing or sharing, you may have to install the driver on your Mac or the other Macs on your network as well.
Connecting Scanners
USB and FireWire scanners practically install themselves. As long as the model is listed as Mac OS X-compatible and supports the TWAIN device standard (as just about all scanners do), things really are plug-and-play. (Not sure whether a scanner is Mac OS X-compatible? Check the system requirements on the scanner's box or on the manufacturer's website.)
If you have the scanner manufacturer's installation disc, go ahead and use it. However, most scanners don't require specialized drivers, so even that orphan model that you picked up from Uncle Milton last year should work (if it's recognized by Mac OS X). It doesn't hurt to check the manufacturer's website to see whether any of the software has been updated since the disc was produced.
	If Mac OS X doesn't support your older scanner, a third-party application might be able to help. Get thee hence to Hamrick Software at www.hamrick.com and download a copy of the latest version of VueScan. This great scanning application supports more than 1,850 scanner models, including a number that don't work with Lion otherwise. At $40, it's a world-class bargain, to boot.
Ready to go? Make sure that your scanner is powered on and connected to your iMac (and that you load a page or photograph to scan). If your scanner's installation disc provided you with a proprietary scanning application, I recommend that you use that application to test your scanner. In fact, it's Mark's Maxim time!
 If your printer or scanner includes bundled applications, try them!
Sure, Mac OS X has the Print & Scan pane within System Preferences for printers and the Image Capture application for scanners and digital cameras, but these are bare-bones tools compared with the print manager and image acquisition software that comes bundled with your hardware. I turn to Lion's built-in hardware handling stuff only when I don't have anything better.
Hey, I'm not saying that anything's wrong with Image Capture, which is in your Applications folder, in case you need to use it. However, don't expect Image Capture to support any specialized features offered by your scanner (like one-button e-mail or web publishing). You have to use the application especially designed for your manufacturer and model to take advantage of any extras that it offers. For alternatives, many image-editing applications (like Adobe Photoshop or Photoshop Elements) might offer more scanning features than Image Capture.
Using Photo Booth
Many Apple switchers and first-time owners quickly notice the tiny square lens and LED light at the top of the iMac's svelte frame. What gives?
Mystery solved, good reader: That's the lens of your iMac's built-in FaceTime HD camera, which allows you to capture video or snap a quick, fun series of photos via Lion's Photo Booth application.
What's that you say? You've never used a computer video camera? Well then, good reader, you've come to the right place!
The FaceTime HD camera's indicator light glows green whenever you're taking a snapshot or recording video . . . which, when you think about it, is A Good Thing (especially if you prefer chatting at home in Leisure Mode).
	If you need a quick picture of yourself for use on your web page, or perhaps your iChat icon needs an update to show off your new haircut, use Photo Booth to capture images at 720p resolution and 32-bit color. Although today's digital cameras can produce a much higher-quality photo, you can't beat the built-in convenience of Photo Booth for that quick snapshot!
To snap an image in Photo Booth, follow these steps:
	1.	Launch Photo Booth from the Dock or from Launchpad.
		Photo Booth features a very different appearance in full-screen mode, complete with a fancy wooden stage and curtain! To try things out in full-screen mode, click View⇒Enter Full Screen.
 2.	(Optional) Choose to take one image, four quick photos as a group, or digital video.
		The three buttons at the lower-left side of the Photo Booth window allow you to switch among taking one photo, four photos in a row (arranged as a group, like an arcade photo booth), or a movie clip.
 3. (Optional) Click the Effects button to choose an effect you'd like to apply to your image.
		Photo Booth displays a screen of thumbnail preview images so that you can see how each effect changes the photo (see Figure 10-1). To move through the thumbnail screens, click the Previous and Next arrow buttons that appear around the Effects button.
		You can produce some of the simple effects you might be familiar with from Photoshop, such as a black-and-white image or a fancy colored-pencil filter . . . but it can also deliver some mind-blowing distortion effects and even an Andy Warhol-style pop-art image!
		Of course, you can always launch your favorite image editor afterward to use a filter or effect on a photo — for example, the effects available in iPhoto — but Photo Booth can apply these effects automatically as soon as you take the picture.
 4.	(Optional) Click a thumbnail to select the desired effect.
		When you choose an effect, Photo Booth automatically closes the Effects display.
		To return the display to normal, click the Normal thumbnail, which appears in the center. (Um, that would be Paul Lynde's spot, for those of you old enough to remember Hollywood Squares.)
	5.	Click the Camera button.
The image (or video clip) appears in the film strip at the bottom of the window. Photo Booth keeps a copy of all the images and clips you take in the film strip so that you can use them later. After you click a photo or film clip in the filmstrip, a series of buttons appears, inviting you take any one of a series of actions, including
 Sending the photo in an e-mail message
 Saving the photo directly to iPhoto
 Using the image as your Lion user account icon
 Using the image as your iChat Buddy icon
	To delete an image from the Photo Booth filmstrip, click the offending photo and then click the X button that appears in the upper-left corner.
 

Figure 10-1:  Photo Booth does one thing particularly well —  candid  photography.

 
Conversing with FaceTime
With Apple's FaceTime technology, you can video chat with owners of iOS devices and Macs without the constraints of instant messaging accounts —  and if they can run FaceTime, they're guaranteed to have the right video hardware!
Who needs a fancy green screen?
Ever admired the animated background behind your favorite TV weather prognosticator? Believe it or not, you don't need an expensive "green screen" backdrop (and time in a video editing application) to create the same effect. Instead, use Photo Booth to create those outrageous images and video clips! Both iChat and Photo Booth provide a surprising array of visual effects you can use.
Within Photo Booth, click the Effects button to start the ball rolling and then click the right arrow next to the Effects button until you reach the series of thumbnails with names like Clouds, Earthrise, Fish, and Rollercoaster. These are the animated backgrounds. Click a background, and Photo Booth asks you to step outside the frame for a second so that your iMac can detect the patterns behind you. When the background animation begins, step back into the frame and capture your image or video clip. (Just as you do with a real green-screen backdrop, you get the best results if you shoot your images and video in front of a blank white wall.)
You're not limited to the Apple animated backgrounds, either: Use your own image or video clip by choosing one of the eight predefined User Backdrop thumbnails.

As of the time of this writing, FaceTime-compatible devices include
 Macs running Lion. (Mac owners running Snow Leopard 10.6.6 or later can also buy the FaceTime application from the App Store.)
 An iPhone 4 or 4S running iOS 4.1 or higher.
 A second- or third-generation iPad.
 A fourth-generation (or later) iPod touch running iOS 4.1 or higher.
	You need a Wi-Fi connection to use FaceTime with a mobile device — a 3G or 4G cellular connection will not work — and your iMac requires either a wired or Wi-Fi connection.
To launch FaceTime, click the jaunty-looking video camera icon in the Dock. The first time you use the application, you have to enter your Apple ID and your e-mail address. The folks you chat with on the other end use that same e-mail address to call you via FaceTime. (iPhone 4/4S owners can be called using their telephone numbers.)
	To change the e-mail address that other FaceTime users use to call you, click FaceTime⇒Preferences and click the E-mail link under the heading You Can Be Reached For Calls At.
After you've signed in, FaceTime displays your Address Book Contacts list by default. To initiate a call with any contact, click the name in the list. FaceTime displays the e-mail and telephone numbers for the contact (once again, taken from your Address Book). Click the e-mail or telephone number that FaceTime should use, and the connection process begins. To return to the Contacts list and choose another person, click the All Contacts button at the top of the window.
Apple isn't satisfied with providing a mere contacts list, however! You can use a number of other methods for selecting someone to call:
 Recent Calls: Click the Recents button to choose a contact that you've called, attempted to call, or has called you within the recent past. Click the All or Missed buttons at the top of the window to further filter the Recents list.
 Groups: If you've set up one or more groups within your Address Book, you can display them by clicking the Groups button. For example, if you've created an Address Book group containing all your fellow employees within your company, you can easily locate and call a specific person without wading through all your friends and family as well.
 FaceTime Search: Click within the familiar Search box and begin typing the contact's first or last name, and FaceTime displays the matching entries.
 Favorites: Sure, you have folks you like to chat with all the time, and it's easy to add them to the Favorites list. (Those who don't make the Favorites list don't have to know, right?) Click the desired contact and then click the Add to Favorites button. To display your favorite contacts at any time, click the Favorites button in the FaceTime window.
When the call is accepted, you see a large video window with a smaller "picture-in-picture" display. The video from the other person fills the large window, and the video that you're sending to that person appears in the small display, as shown in Figure 10-2. Click the End icon to end the FaceTime call.
	You can switch FaceTime into Landscape mode and take advantage of your iMac's widescreen display. To do so, click Video⇒Use Landscape or press +R. (Why let the iPhone 4/4S, iPod touch, and iPad owners have all the landscape fun?)
 

Figure 10-2:  The FaceTime window in action.

 
Turning Your iMac into  a TV — And More
Your iMac's beautiful LED screen would seem to be the perfect artist's canvas for watching cable or satellite TV broadcasts, but there's no coaxial (cable or satellite) input on the back of your computer (and no TV tuner nestled within). Therefore, unless you invest in some additional hardware, you're restricted to watching DVD movies.
Such an obvious need is going to be filled quickly, and a number of different hardware manufacturers have produced external devices that can merge your iMac and your TV signal. Most are USB or FireWire peripherals, and many have all the features of today's TiVo and digital video recorders.
My favorite example is the EyeTV Hybrid, from Elgato (www.elgato.com), which uses a USB connection. Check out what this superstar includes for your investment of $150:
 Built-in NTSC (analog) and ATSC (digital TV) tuners, basic cable-ready with a coaxial connector
 The ability to pause, fast-forward, record, or even edit the video you stored on your iMac's hard drive
 Capability to schedule recordings with an onscreen program guide
 Full-screen TV display or in a window anywhere on your Desktop
 No external power supply required
I really love the ability to fast-forward through commercials, and I can take anything that I record on my iMac and use it in iDVD and iMovie. The addition of TV under your control sorta finalizes the whole digital hub thing, now doesn't it?












Part IV
Living the iLife





In this part . . .
Here they are, the applications that everyone craves. This part covers iTunes, iPhoto, iMovie, iDVD, iWeb, and GarageBand like Grandma's best quilt. You find out how to share your images, music, and video clips between the major iLife '11 applications on your iMac, and how to create everything from your own DVDs to a truly awesome hardcover photo album!











Chapter 11
The Multimedia Joy of iTunes
In This Chapter
 Playing music with your iMac
 Arranging and organizing your music collection
 Tuning into the world with Internet radio
 Sharing your songs across a network
 Creating eye candy with the Visualizer
 Buying the good stuff from the iTunes Store
Sometimes, words just aren't enough. iTunes is that kind of perfection. 
To envision how iTunes changes your iMac, you have to paint the picture with music — music that's easy to play, easy to search, and easy to transfer from device to device. Whether it be classical, alternative, jazz, rock, hip-hop, or folk, I can guarantee you that you won't find a better application than iTunes to fill your life with your music. And podcasts. And video. And TV shows. And online education. And Internet radio. (See how hard it is to pin down this wonderful application? Along with your iMac, iTunes really does form the hub of your digital lifestyle.)
In this chapter, I lead you through all the features of my absolute favorite member of the iLife suite . . . and it's going to be pretty doggone obvious how much I appreciate this one piece of software.
What Can I Play on iTunes?
Simply put, iTunes is a media player; it plays audio and video files. These files can be in any of many different formats. Some of the more common audio formats that iTunes supports are
 MP3: The small size of MP3 files has made them popular for file trading on the Internet. A typical CD-quality, three-minute pop song in MP3 format has a size of 3-5MB.
 AAC: AAC (short for Advanced Audio Coding) is an audio format that's very similar to MP3; in fact, AAC files offer better recording quality at the same file sizes. However, this format is less compatible with non-Apple MP3 players and software. (Luckily, you can still burn AAC tracks to an audio CD, just as you can MP3 tracks.) The tracks that you download from the iTunes Store are in AAC format.
		The iTunes Store's iTunes Plus tracks are also in AAC format, and these tracks are also not copy-protected, and they're encoded at a higher-quality 256 Kbps rate — hence their higher price.
 Apple Lossless: Another format direct from Apple, Apple Lossless format provides the best compromise between file size and sound quality: These tracks are encoded without loss of quality. However, Apple Lossless tracks are somewhat larger than AAC, so it's generally the favorite of the most discerning audiophile for his or her entire music library.
 AIFF: The standard Macintosh audio format produces sound of the absolute highest quality. This high quality, however, also means that the files are pretty doggone huge. A typical pop song in AIFF format has a size of 30-50MB (about 10MB per minute of audio).
 WAV: Not to be outdone, Microsoft created its own audio file format (WAV) that works much like AIFF. It can reproduce sound at higher quality than MP3, but the file sizes are very large, virtually identical in size to AIFF files. (Think 10MB of hard drive space per minute of audio.)
 CD audio: iTunes can play audio CDs. Because you don't usually store CD audio anywhere but on an audio CD, file size is no big whoop (but once again, 10MB of hard drive space per minute of music is a good approximation).
 Movies and video: You can buy and download full-length movies, TV shows, music videos, and movie trailers from the iTunes Store . . . and, with an Apple TV unit connected to your home theater system, you can watch those movies and videos from the comfort of your sofa on the other side of your living room.
 Podcasts: These audio downloads are like public-access radio and TV programs for your iPod — but iTunes can play and organize them, too. Some podcasts also include video and photos to boot.
 iTunes U: iTunes offers educational materials (like slideshows, presentations, and class recordings) from a wide variety of colleges and technical institutions — and virtually all of them are free for the download!
 Ringtones: iPhone owners, rejoice! iTunes automatically offers to create ringtones for your iPhone (and iPad and iPod touch) from the tracks you've bought on the iTunes Store. (You can also create ringtones with GarageBand, using songs you've added to your iTunes library — or those tunes you've composed yourself.)
 Audiobooks: No longer do you need cassettes or audio CDs to enjoy your spoken books — iTunes can play them for you, or you can send them to your iPod for listening on the go.
 Streaming Internet radio: You can listen to a continuous broadcast of songs from one of tens of thousands of Internet radio stations, with quality levels ranging from what you'd expect from FM radio to the full quality of an audio CD. You can't save the music in iTunes, but it's still great fun. (In fact, I run my own station . . . . More on MLC Radio later in the chapter.)
Playing an Audio CD
To play an audio CD in iTunes, insert the CD in your iMac's disc slot, start iTunes by clicking its icon in the Dock, and click the Play button. (Note that your Mac might be set to automatically launch iTunes when you insert an audio CD.) The iTunes interface resembles that of a traditional cassette or CD player. The main playback controls of the iTunes are Play, Previous Song, Next Song, and the volume slider, as shown in Figure 11-1.
Click the Play button to begin listening to a song. While a song is playing, the Play button toggles to a Pause button. Clicking that button again pauses the music. If you don't feel like messing around with the mouse or trackpad, you can always use the keyboard. The spacebar acts as the Play and Pause buttons. Press the spacebar to begin playback; press it again to stop.
Click the Next Song button to advance to the next song on the CD. The Previous Song button works like the Next Song button but with a slight twist: If a song is currently playing and you click the Previous Song button, iTunes first returns to the beginning of the current song (just like a CD player). To advance to the previous song, double-click the Previous Song button. To change the volume of your music, click and drag the volume slider.
As with other Macintosh applications, you can control much of iTunes with the keyboard. Table 11-1 lists some of the more common iTunes keyboard shortcuts.
 

Figure 11-1: The main playback controls:  Play, Previous, and Next.

 
Table 11-1	Common iTunes Keyboard Shortcuts




Press This Key Combination


To Do This




Spacebar


Play the currently selected song if iTunes is idle.




Spacebar


Pause the music if a song is playing.




Right-arrow key


Advance to the next song.




Left-arrow key


Go back to the beginning of a song. Press a second time to return to the previous song.




+Up-arrow key


Increase the volume of the music.




+Down-arrow key


Decrease the volume of the music.




+Option+Down-arrow key


Mute the audio if any is playing. Press again to play the audio.




Playing Digital Audio and Video
In addition to playing audio CDs, iTunes can play the digital audio files that you download from the Internet or obtain from other sources in the WAV, AAC, Apple Lossless, AIFF, MP2, and MP3 file formats. Enjoying a digital audio file is just slightly more complicated than playing a CD. After downloading or saving your audio files to your iMac, open the Finder and navigate to the stored files. Then simply drag the music files (or an entire folder of music) from the Finder into the Music entry in the iTunes Source list. The added files appear in the Music section of your iTunes Library. Think of the Library as a master list of your digital media. To view the Music Library, select the Music entry in the left-hand column of the iTunes player, as shown in Figure 11-2. Heck, you can also drag a song file from a Finder window and drop it on the iTunes icon in the Dock, which adds it to your Music Library as well.
	If you drop the file on top of a playlist name in the Source list, iTunes adds it to that particular playlist as well as the main Library. (More about playlists in a bit.) If you drop a folder of songs on top of the Playlists header, iTunes creates a new playlist using the name of the folder and adds all the songs in the folder to the new playlist.
 

Figure 11-2: The Music Library keeps track of all your audio files.

 
To play a song, just double-click it in the Music list. Alternatively, you can use the playback controls (Play, Previous Song, and Next Song) that I discuss earlier in this chapter (refer to Figure 11-1).
	The Source list of iTunes can list up to eight possible sources for music:
 Library: This section includes Music, Movies, TV Shows, Podcasts, Books, iTunes U, Apps (for iPhone, iPod touch, and iPad), Ringtones (for iPhone, iPod touch, and iPad), iPod Games, and Radio. (Think Internet radio, which I discuss further in the section "iTunes Radio.")
 Devices: If an iPod is connected, it appears in the list. (And yes, Virginia, other models of MP3 players from other companies will also appear in the list if they support iTunes.)
 Genius: Click the Genus heading and click the Turn On Genius button to allow iTunes to automatically create playlists from songs in your iTunes music library. You can also allow Genius to recommend music, movies, and TV shows based on the titles you already have in your iTunes Library. (More on this feature later in the chapter.)
 Audio CD: Load a standard audio CD, and it appears under the Devices heading . . . anything from the Bee Gees to Fall Out Boy.
 Store: I discuss the iTunes Store in the section "Buying Digital Media the Apple Way."
 Shared: If another Mac or PC on your local network is running iTunes and is set to share part or all of its library, you can connect to the other computer for your music. (Shared music on another Mac appears as a separate named folder in the Source list.)
 Home Sharing: You can turn on Home Sharing to share your iMac's media library across your wireless network with up to five other computers (PCs and Macs), as well as devices like iPhones, iPads, and the iPod touch. (More on Home Sharing later in the chapter.)
 Playlists: Think of playlists as folders you use to organize your music. (More on playlists later in this chapter.)
Notice also that the Library lists information for each song that you add to it, such as
 Song Name: The title of the song
 Time: The length of the song
 Artist: The artist who performs the song
 Album: The album on which the song appears
If some of the songs that you're adding don't display anything for the title, album, or artist information, don't panic; most MP3 files have embedded data that iTunes can read. If a song doesn't include any data, you can always add the information to these fields manually. I show you how later, in the section "Setting or changing the song information manually."
	Clicking any of the column headings in the Library list causes iTunes to reorder the Library according to that category. For example, clicking the Song Name column heading alphabetizes your Library by song title. I click the Time heading often to sort my Library according to the length of the songs. Oh, and you can drag column titles to reorder them any way you like (as long as the Name column remains at the far left of the named columns).
	iTunes can display your Music Library in four ways: By default, the application uses the Song List view you see in Figure 11-1, where each song is one entry. A click of the second view button sorts your library into tracks by Album List. Click the third view button (at the top of the iTunes window) to group tracks together by album artwork in Grid view. Click the fourth view button, and you're browsing by album cover in Cover Flow view, complete with reflective surface!
Browsing the Library
After you add a few dozen songs to iTunes, viewing the Library can become a task. Although a master list is nice for some purposes, it becomes as cumbersome as an elephant in a subway tunnel if the list is very long. To help out, iTunes can display your Library in another format, too: namely, browsing mode. To display the Library in browsing mode, click the View menu and click the Show Browser item, or press the +B keyboard shortcut.
The Browse mode of iTunes displays your library in a compact fashion, organizing your tunes into four sections:
 Genre
 Artist
 Album
 Song Name
Selecting an artist from the Artist list causes iTunes to display that artist's albums in the Album list. Select an album from the Album list, and iTunes displays that album's songs in the bottom section of the Browse window. (Those Apple software designers . . . always thinking of you and me.) You can also switch between sort fields for the Browse window from the View⇒Column Browser menu item.
Will I trash my Count Basie?
Novice iTunes users, take note: iTunes watches your back when you trash tracks.
To illustrate: Suppose you delete a song from the Library that's located only in the iTunes music folder (which you didn't copy into iTunes from another location on your hard drive). That means you're about to delete the song entirely, and there'll be no copy remaining on your iMac at all. Rest assured, though, that iTunes prompts you to make sure that you really want to  move the file to the Trash. (I get fearful e-mail messages all the time from readers who are loath to delete anything from iTunes because they're afraid they'll trash their digital music files completely.)
Remember: If you delete a song from the Library that also exists elsewhere on your hard drive (outside the reach of the iTunes music folder), it isn't deleted from your hard drive. In fact, if you mistakenly remove a song that you meant to keep, just drag it back into iTunes from the Finder, or even from the Trash. 'Nuff said.

Finding songs in your Music Library
After your collection of audio files grows large, you might have trouble locating that Swedish remix version of "I'm Your Boogie Man." To help you out, iTunes has a built-in Search function. To find a song, type some text into the search field of the main iTunes window. While you type, iTunes tries to find a selection that matches your search text. The search is quite thorough, showing any matching text from the artist, album, song title, and genre fields in the results. For example, if you type electronic into the field, iTunes might return results for the band named Electronic or other tunes that you classified as electronic in the Genre field. (The section "Know Your Songs," later in this chapter, tells you how to classify your songs by genre, among other options.) Click the magnifying glass at the left side of the Search field to restrict the search by Artists, Albums, Composers, and Songs.
Removing old music from the Library
After you spend some time playing songs with iTunes, you might decide that you didn't really want to add 40 different versions of "Louie Louie" to your Library. (Personally, I prefer either the original or the cast from the movie Animal House.) To remove a song from the Library, click the song to select it and then press the Delete key on your keyboard.
	You can also remove a song from the Library by dragging it to the Trash in your Dock.
Watching video
Watching video in iTunes is similar to listening to music. To view your video collection, click one of these entries in the Source list:
 Movies
 TV Shows
If you select Movies or TV Shows, iTunes displays your videos as thumbnails or in Cover Flow view. Music videos appear as a smart playlist.
From your collection, you can
 Double-click a video thumbnail or an entry in the list.
 Drag a QuickTime video clip from the Finder window to the iTunes window. Video files that can be viewed using QuickTime typically have the file extensions .mov or .mp4.
iTunes plays video in the box below the Source list, within the iTunes window, in a separate window, or in full-screen mode, depending on the setting you choose from the View⇒Video Playback menu item. In full-screen mode, move your pointer to display a control strip at the bottom of the screen. The control strip sports a slider bar that you can drag to move through the video, a volume control, Play/Pause, and Fast Forward/Reverse buttons.
Keeping Slim Whitman and Slim Shady Apart: Organizing with Playlists
Your iTunes Music Library can contain thousands upon thousands of songs: If your Library grows anywhere near that large, finding all the songs in your lifelong collection of Paul Simon albums is not a fun task. Furthermore, with the Library, you're stuck playing songs in the order that iTunes lists them.
To help you organize your music into groups, use the iTunes playlist feature. A playlist is a collection of some of your favorite songs from the Library. You can create as many playlists as you want, and each playlist can contain any number of songs. Whereas the Library lists all available songs, a playlist displays only the songs that you add to it. Further, any changes that you make to a playlist affect only that playlist, leaving the Library untouched.
To create a playlist, you can do any of the following:
 Choose File⇒New Playlist.
 Press +N.
 Choose File⇒New Playlist from Selection. This creates a new playlist and automatically adds any tracks that are currently selected.
 Click a song to select it; then click the Genius button at the lower-right corner of the window. (The Genius button bears a striking "atom" symbol.) iTunes builds a playlist of songs that are similar in some way (typically by matching the genre of the selection or the beats per minute, but also based on recommendations from other iTunes members). Your iMac needs an Internet connection to create a Genius playlist, and the larger your music library, the longer it will take iTunes to build the playlist.
 Click the iTunes DJ entry in the Playlist section on the left side of the window. iTunes delivers a random selection of songs taken from your iTunes Music Library — perfect for your next spontaneous party! You can change the order of the songs in the iTunes DJ playlist (known as Party Shuffle in older versions of iTunes), add songs from your Library, or delete songs that don't fit the scintillating ambience of your gathering. Enjoy!
 Drag a folder containing audio files onto the Playlists heading.
 Click the New Playlist button in the iTunes window (the plus sign button in the lower-left corner). You get a newly created empty playlist (the toe-tappin' untitled playlist).
All playlists appear in the Source list. To help organize your playlists, it's a good idea to . . . well, name them. (Aren't you glad now that you have this book?) For example, suppose that you want to plan a party for your polka-loving friends. Instead of running to your computer after each song to change the music, you could create a polka-only playlist. Select and start the playlist at the beginning of the party, and you won't have to worry about changing the music the whole night. (You can concentrate on the accordion.) To load a playlist, select it in the Source list; iTunes displays the songs for that playlist.
The same song can appear in any number of playlists because the songs in a playlist are simply pointers to songs in your Music Library — not the songs themselves. Add and remove them at will to or from any playlist, secure in the knowledge that the songs remain safe in the Library. Removing a playlist is simple: Select the playlist in the Source list and then press Delete.
	Removing a playlist doesn't actually delete any songs from your Library.
Some playlists are smarter than others
Click the File menu and you'll see the New Smart Playlist menu command. The contents of a smart playlist are automatically created from a specific condition or set of conditions that you set via the Smart Playlist dialog: You can limit the track selection by mundane things, such as album, genre, or artist; or you can get funky and specify songs that were played last, or by the date you added tracks, or even by the sampling rate or total length of the song. For example, iTunes can create a playlist packed with songs that are shorter than three minutes, so you can fill your iPod Shuffle with more stuff! Ah, but wait, you're not limited to a single criterion. If you want to add another criterion, click the plus sign at the right side of the dialog and you get another condition field to refine your selection even further. You can also create a new smart playlist by holding down the Option key while you click the Add button at the bottom of the Source list (which carries a plus sign).
You can choose the maximum songs to add to the smart playlist, or limit the size of the playlist by the minutes or hours of play or the number of megabytes or gigabytes the playlist will occupy. (Again, great for automatically gathering as much from your KISS collection as will fit into a specific amount of space on a CD or your iPod.) Mark the Live Updating check box for the ultimate in convenience. iTunes automatically maintains the contents of the smart playlist to keep it current with your conditions at all times in the future. (If you remove tracks manually from a smart playlist, iTunes adds other tracks that match your conditions.)
Now think about what all these settings mean when combined . . . whoa. Here's an example yanked directly from my own iTunes Library. I created a smart playlist that selects only those songs in the Rock genre. It's limited to 25 songs, selected by least often played, and live updating is turned on. The playlist is named Tracks I've Gotta Hear because it finds the 25 rock songs (from my collection of 6,782 songs) that I've heard least often! After I listen to a song from this smart playlist, iTunes automatically "freshens" it with another song, allowing me to catch up on the tracks I've been ignoring. Completely, unbelievably sweet — and another reason that iTunes is the best music player on Planet Earth!

Know Your Songs
Besides organizing your music into Elvis and non-Elvis playlists, iTunes gives you the option to track your music at the song level. Each song that you add to the Music Library has a complete set of information associated with it. iTunes displays this information in the Info dialog, including
 Name: The name of the song
 Artist: The name of the artist who performed the song
 Composer: The name of the astute individual who actually wrote  the song
 Album Artist: The name of the artist responsible for a compilation or tribute album
 Album: The album where the song appears
 Grouping: A group type that you assign
 Year: The year the artist recorded the song
 BPM: The beats per minute (which indicates the song's tempo)
 Track Number: The position of the song on the original album
 Disc Number: The original disc number in a multi-CD set
 Comments: A text field that can contain any comments on the song
 Genre: The classification of the song (such as rock, jazz, or pop)
You can display this information by clicking a song name and pressing +I; the fields appear on the Info tab.
Setting the song information  automatically
Each song that you add to the iTunes Music Library might have song information included with it. If you add music from a commercial audio CD, iTunes connects to a server on the Internet and attempts to find the information for each song on the CD. If you download a song from the Internet, it often comes with some information embedded in the file already; the amount of included information depends on what the creator supplied. (And believe me, it's often misspelled as well — think Leenard Skeenard.) If you don't have an Internet connection, iTunes can't access the information and displays generic titles instead.
Setting or changing the song  information manually
If iTunes can't find your CD in the online database or someone gives you an MP3 with incomplete or inaccurate information, you can change the information yourself — believe me, you want at least the artist and song name, as well as the genre! To view and change the information for a song, perform the following steps:
	1.	Select the song in either the Music Library list or a playlist.
	2.	Press +I or choose File⇒Get Info.
	3.	Edit the song's information under the Info tab, as shown in  Figure 11-3.
Keep in mind that the more work you put into setting the information of the songs in your Music Library, the easier it is to browse and use iTunes. Incomplete song information can make it more difficult to find your songs in a hurry. If you prefer, you don't have to change all information about a song (it just makes life easier later if you do). Normally, you can get away with setting only a song's title, artist, and genre. The more information you put in, however, the faster you can locate songs and the easier they are to arrange. iTunes tries to help by automatically retrieving known song information, but sometimes you have to roll up your sleeves and do a little work. (Sorry, but the Data Elves are out to lunch, so sometimes things aren't automatic.)
 

Figure 11-3: View and edit song information here.

 
"What about cover art, Mark?" Well, I'm overjoyed that you asked! iTunes can try to locate artwork automatically for the tracks you select. (Note that embedding large images can significantly increase the size of the song file.) Follow these steps:
	1.	Select the desired songs from the track list.
	2.	Click Advanced⇒Get Album Artwork.
	You can set iTunes to automatically attempt the addition of album artwork every time you rip tracks from an audio CD, or when you add songs without artwork to your Music Library. Click iTunes and choose Preferences; then click the Store button and click the Automatically Download Missing Album Artwork check box to enable it.
	Want to manually add album covers to your song info? Select one (or all) of the songs from a single album in the track list, display the Info dialog, and click the Artwork tab. Now launch Safari, visit Amazon.com, and do a search on the same album (or search an online artwork library like AllCDCovers.com). Drag the cover image from the web page right into the Info dialog and drop it on top of the "sunken square" image well. When you click OK, the image appears in the Summary pane, and you can display it while your music is playing by pressing +G or clicking the Show or Hide Song Artwork button at the lower left of the iTunes window!
	By the way, if you buy tracks or an album from the iTunes Store, Apple always includes album covers automatically. Thanks, Cupertino crowd!
Ripping Audio Files
You don't have to rely on Internet downloads to get audio files: You can create your own MP3, AAC, Apple Lossless, AIFF, and WAV files from your audio CDs with iTunes. The process of converting audio files to different formats is called ripping. (Audiophiles with technical teeth also call this process digital extraction, but they're usually ignored at parties by the popular crowd.) Depending on what hardware or software you use, each has its own unique format preferences. For example, most iPod owners prefer MP3 or AAC files, but your audio CDs aren't in that format. Being able to convert files from one format to another is like having a personal translator in the digital world. You don't need to worry if you have the wrong format: You can simply convert it to the format that you need.
The most common type of ripping is to convert CD audio to AAC or MP3 format. To rip MP3s from an audio CD, follow these simple steps:
	1.	Launch iTunes by clicking its icon in the Dock.
		Alternatively, you can locate it in your Applications folder.
	2.	Load an audio CD into your iMac.
		The CD title shows up in the iTunes Source list (under the Devices heading), which is on the left side of the iTunes window. The CD track listing appears on the right side of the window.
		If iTunes asks you whether you want to import the contents of the CD into your Music Library, you can click Yes and skip the rest of the steps; however, if you've disabled this prompt, just continue with the remaining two steps.
	3.	Click the CD entry under the Devices listing.
	4.	Click the Import Settings button that appears at the bottom of the iTunes window.
	5.	Choose MP3 Encoder from the Import Using pop-up menu.
	6.	Choose High Quality (160 Kbps) from the Setting pop-up menu and then click OK.
		This bit rate setting provides the best compromise between quality and file size (tracks you rip will be significantly smaller than "audiophile" bit rates such as 192 Kbps or higher).
	7.	Clear the check box of any song that you don't want to import from the CD.
		All songs on the CD have a check box next to their title by default. Unmarked songs aren't imported.
	8.	After you select the songs that you want added to the Library, click the Import CD button.
	Here's an additional form of ripping: If you have a USB turntable or cassette deck connected to your iMac, you can digitize your old analog recordings on albums and cassettes into shiny digital audio files. You might find just buying the same music from the iTunes Store simpler, but if your treasured music isn't available on the Store or on audio CD, it's the next best thing!
Tweaking the Audio for Your Ears
Besides the standard volume controls that I mention earlier in this chapter, iTunes offers a full equalizer. An equalizer permits you to alter the volume of various frequencies in your music, allowing you to boost low sounds, lower high sounds, or anything in between. Now you can customize the way your music sounds and adjust it to your liking.
To open the Equalizer (as shown in Figure 11-4), do one of the following:
 Choose Window⇒Equalizer.
 Press +Option+2.
The Equalizer window has an impressive array of 11 sliders. Use the leftmost slider (Preamp) to set the overall level of the Equalizer. The remaining sliders represent various frequencies that the human ear can perceive. Setting a slider to a position in the middle of its travel causes that frequency to play back with no change. Move the slider above the midpoint to boost that frequency; conversely, move the slider below the midpoint to reduce the volume of that frequency.
Continue adjusting the Equalizer sliders until your music sounds the way you like it. When you close the Equalizer window, iTunes remembers your settings until you change them again. In case you prefer to leave frequencies to the experts, the iTunes Equalizer has several predefined settings to match most musical styles. Click the pop-up menu at the top of the Equalizer window to select a genre.
After you adjust the sound to your satisfaction, close the Equalizer window to return to the iTunes interface and relax with those funky custom notes from James Brown.
 

Figure 11-4: Use the Equalizer sliders to tweak the sound of your music.

 
What's with the numbers next  to the station names?
When choosing an Internet radio station, keep your Internet connection speed in mind. If you're using a broadband DSL or cable connection — or if you're listening at work over your company's high-speed network — you can listen to stations broadcasting at 128 Kbps (or even higher). The higher the bit rate, the better the music sounds. At 128 Kbps, for example, you're listening to sound that's almost as good as an audio CD.
However, if you're listening over a dialup modem connection, iTunes can't keep up with audio streaming at higher bit rates, so you're limited to stations broadcasting at 56 Kbps or lower.

A New Kind of Radio Station
Besides playing back your favorite audio files, iTunes can tune in Internet radio stations from around the globe. You can listen to any of a large number of preset stations, seek out lesser-known stations not recognized by iTunes, or even add your favorite stations to your playlists. This section shows you how to do it all.
iTunes Radio
Although it's not a radio tuner in the strictest sense, iTunes Radio can locate virtual radio stations all over the world that send audio over the Internet —  a process usually dubbed streaming. iTunes can track down hundreds of Internet radio stations in a variety of styles with only a few clicks.
To begin listening to Internet radio with iTunes, click the Radio icon located beneath the Library icon in the Source list. The result is a list of more than 20 types of radio stations, organized by genre.
When you expand a Radio category by clicking its disclosure triangle, iTunes queries a tuning server and locates the name and address of dozens of radio stations for that category. Whether you like Elvis or not-Elvis (those passing fads, like New Wave, classical, or alternative), something's here for everyone. The Radio also offers news, sports, and talk radio.
After iTunes fetches the names and descriptions of radio stations, double-click one that you want to hear. iTunes immediately jumps into action, loads the station, and begins to play it.
"I have an itch to hear 'Kung Fu Fighting'!"
This particular technology author has a preference for a certain hot jam spot: MLC Radio, the Internet radio station I've been running for several years now. I call my station a '70s Time Machine because it includes hundreds of classic hits from 1970-1979, inclusive. You hear everything from "Rock and Roll Hoochie Koo" by Rick Derringer to "Moonlight Feels Right" by Starbuck. (Hey, I'm summing up a decade here, so be prepared for both Rush and the Captain and Tennille.) The station broadcasts at 128 Kbps (near audio CD quality), so you need a broadband connection to listen. For the radio's Internet address or help connecting to MLC Radio, visit my website at www.mlcbooks.com — and then follow the steps in the next section to add MLC Radio to your playlists!

Tuning in your own stations
Although iTunes offers you a large list of popular radio stations on the web, it's by no means comprehensive. Eventually, you might run across a radio station that you'd like to hear but don't find listed in iTunes. Luckily, iTunes permits you to listen to other stations, too. To listen to a radio station that iTunes doesn't list, you need the station's web address.
In iTunes, choose Advanced⇒Open Audio Stream (or press +U). In the Open Stream dialog that appears (as shown in Figure 11-5), enter the URL of your desired radio station and then click OK. Within seconds, iTunes tunes in your station.
Radio stations in your playlists
If you find yourself visiting an online radio station more than once, you'll be glad to know that iTunes supports radio stations in its playlists. To add a radio station to a playlist from the Radio list, do the following:
	1.	Open the category that contains the station you want to add to your playlist.
	2.	Locate the station that you want to add to your playlist and drag it from the Radio list to the desired playlist on the left.
		If you haven't created any playlists yet, see the section "Keeping Slim Whitman and Slim Shady Apart: Organizing with Playlists," earlier in this chapter, to find out how.
 

Figure 11-5: Tuning into MLC Radio, my Internet radio  station.

 
Adding a radio station that doesn't appear in the Radio list is a bit trickier but possible nonetheless. Even though iTunes allows you to load a radio station URL manually by using the Open Stream command in the Advanced menu, it doesn't give you an easy way to add it to the playlist. Follow these steps to add a specific radio station to a playlist:
	1.	Add any radio station from the Radio list to your desired playlist.
		Any station in the list will do, as you'll immediately change both the station's URL and name to create your new station entry in the playlist.
	2.	Press +I or choose File⇒Get Info to bring up the information dialog for that station.
	3.	Click the Summary section and change the URL by clicking the Edit URL button.
	4.	Enter the desired URL and click OK.
	5.	Click the Info tab, type the new station name, and then click OK.
iSending iStuff to iPod
If you're cool enough to own an iPod, you'll be happy to know that iTunes has features for your personal audio and video jukebox as well. iPods, Apple's multimedia players, comprise an entire family of portable devices (ranging from $49 to about $249) that can hold anywhere from about several hundred to literally thousands of songs, as well as podcasts, photos, and video. This great gadget and those like it have become known worldwide as the preferred portable digital media player.
	If you own an iPod touch, iPhone, or iPad, you probably already know that these devices can act as your music player as well. You can buy all sorts of applications for these devices on the iTunes Store, and iTunes even keeps track of these applications as part of your iTunes Library.
You connect your iPod to any Macintosh or Windows PC with USB 2.0 ports with the included cable. After the iPod's connected, you can synchronize the iPod with iTunes. By default, this process is automatic: The iPod and the iTunes software communicate with each other and figure out what items are in your iTunes Library (as compared with the iPod Library). If they discover songs, podcasts, and video in your iTunes Library that are missing from your iPod, the items automatically transfer to the iPod. Conversely, if the iPod contains stuff that's no longer in iTunes, the iPod automatically removes those files from its drive.
	Go back and reread that last sentence above about the iPod automatically removing files from its drive. (I'll wait here.) Apple added this feature in an effort to be attentive to copyright concerns. The reasoning is that if you connect your iPod to your friend's computer, you can't transfer songs from the iPod to that computer. Of course, you could always look at it from the marketing perspective as a feature that makes sure your iMac and iPod are always in total sync. Whatever the case, pay close attention and read all warning dialogs when connecting to a computer other than your own, or you might wipe out your iPod's library.
You can change your settings so that iTunes auto-syncs only selected playlists. Or if you're really nervous, you can manually manage the contents of your iPod with iTunes.
	This chapter — even as long as it is — just can't explain all the ins and outs of the iTunes/iPod relationship! For a complete look at both iTunes and the iPod, I can heartily recommend a fellow For Dummies book, iPod & iTunes For Dummies, 9th Edition, by Tony Bove (John Wiley & Sons, Inc.).
Sharing Media across a Network
Ready to share music, podcasts, and video — legally, mind you — with other folks on your local network? You can offer your digital media to other iTunes users across your home or office. Follow these steps:
	1.	Choose iTunes⇒Preferences to open the Preferences dialog.
	2.	Click Sharing.
	3.	Select the Share My Library on My Local Network check box.
	4.	Specify whether you want to share your entire library or only selected playlists and files.
		Sharing selected playlists is a good idea for those Meatmen and Sex Pistols fans who work at a cubicle farm in a big corporation.
	5.	If you want to restrict access to just a few people, select the Require Password check box; then type a password in the text box.
	6.	Click OK.
Your shared folder appears within the Source list for all iTunes users who enabled the Look for Shared Libraries check box on the same pane of their iTunes Preferences dialog. Note that the music you share with others can't be imported or copied, so everything stays legal.
	Want to change that frumpy default name for your shared media library to something more exotic, like "Dan's Techno Beat Palace"? No problem — display the Preferences dialog again, but this time click the General button and click in the Library Name text box. Edit your network entertainment persona to your heart's content.
You can also share your media library using Home Sharing, which allows multiple devices to join in the fun. That includes both Mac computers and iOS devices (your iPad, iPhone, and iPod touch, running iOS 4.3 or later). Home Sharing requires a wireless network connection for all your devices, and you'll have to enter the same Apple ID information on each device. To turn on Home Sharing within iTunes, click Advanced on the iTunes menu and choose Turn On Home Sharing. (Don't forget to repeat this setup on each computer.) After Home Sharing is enabled, shared libraries will appear in the Source list under the Shared heading.
Joining the Ping People
Sure, it's a silly name, but don't let that fool you — the addition of Apple's new Ping social networking feature to iTunes has quickly built a formidable online community! When you enable Ping within iTunes, you can interact with both artists and other music lovers in a number of different ways:
 Follow your favorite artists. Are you a fan of Katy Perry? How about Rascal Flatts? With Ping, you can follow your favorite artists and bands online (without all that tiresome traveling from concert to concert and the repeated arguments with their bodyguards). When performers you follow add a new photo or video, or recommend songs or post concert information to Ping, you'll receive those updates immediately!
 Follow your friends. You can also choose other Ping music fans to follow, creating your own miniature "music appreciation society"! As with Facebook, you can send messages — but Ping also makes it easy to share your music reviews (and comment on the reviews that others post), and you can recommend your favorite artists to others.
 Share your playlists. Of course, you've already created the perfect party-mix playlist, so why not share that playlist with the world? When you publish a playlist through the iTunes Store, it's easily shared on Ping as well, and your followers can comment on your choice of The Perfect Opening Song.
To turn Ping on within iTunes, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the Ping item under the Store heading in the Source list.
	2.	Click the large, friendly Turn On Ping button.
		iTunes displays the Apple ID login dialog; if you've already purchased items through the iTunes Store, you're familiar with this dialog and you've already created an Apple ID. (If you need to create an Apple ID account, click the Create Account button and enter the required  information.)
	3.	Type your Apple ID and password and then click Sign In.
		Before you can enter the fray, you need to create your Ping profile, which includes information that will be visible to other Ping users.
	4.	Enter your profile information and click Continue.
		You can add a photo of yourself from your hard drive (or take a quick snapshot using iPhoto) by clicking the Add Photo button.
		Whatever you type in the About Me box is visible to the general public, so don't include your e-mail address, telephone number, or other personal data in your comments!
	5.	Choose how iTunes will display your favorite music and click Continue.
		By default, any music you like or buy is displayed within Ping, as well as any music you rate or review. However, you can also choose to manually pick the music Ping displays or even turn off your music display entirely.
	6.	Choose your privacy settings.
		If you're familiar with my views on security, you've already guessed what I recommend here: If you do allow others to follow you on Ping, make sure you click the Require My Approval to Follow Me check box to enable it. (This way, you can choose who can follow you on Ping. I'm all about weeding out undesirables.) If you'd rather not be followed at all, click the Don't Allow People to Follow Me radio button.
	7.	Click Done.
The Ping pane within iTunes is similar to the display of recent activity within Facebook, but you can use the links at the right side of the pane to jump directly to your reviews, your favorite artists, or the folks who follow you. Naturally, Apple also allows you to purchase music, movies, and video at every turn, offering direct links from reviews and comments to corresponding items in the iTunes Store.
It's easy to search for a specific artist or personal profile. Click the People link at the right side of the pane and then click in the Find People search box and type the desired name.
	To invite specific people to join you within Ping, click the Invite Friends by Mail link.
Now here's where things get truly nifty: Choose a track from your iTunes music library that's offered on the iTunes Store and click the track name in the list. See the Ping menu button that appears? Click it and choose Like or Post, and iTunes automatically updates your Ping profile with your recommendation or comment! Your followers can listen to a portion of the track and then buy it if they like what they hear. It's this close integration between iTunes, the iTunes Store, and Ping that excites music fans. Stay tuned as Apple continues to add functionality and new features to Ping.
Burning Music to Shiny Plastic Circles
Besides being a great audio player, iTunes is adept at creating CDs. iTunes makes the process of recording songs to a CD as simple as a few clicks. Making the modern version of a compilation (or mix) tape is easier than getting a kid to eat ice cream. iTunes lets you burn CDs in one of three formats:
 Audio CD: This is the typical kind of commercial music CD that you buy at a store. Most typical music audio CDs store up to 800MB of data, which translates into about 80 minutes of music.
 Data CD or DVD: A standard CD-ROM or DVD-ROM is recorded with the audio files. This disc can't be played in any standard audio CD player (even if it supports MP3 CDs, which I discuss next). Therefore, you can listen to these songs only by using iTunes (or another media player) on an iMac or a PC.
 MP3 CD: As does the ordinary computer CD-ROM that I describe, an MP3 CD holds MP3 files in data format. However, the files are arranged in such a way that they can be recognized by audio CD players that support the MP3 CD format (especially boom boxes, DVD players, personal CD players, and car stereos). Because MP3 files are so much smaller than the digital audio tracks found on traditional audio CDs, you can fit as many as 160 typical 4-minute songs on one disc. These discs can also be played on your iMac via iTunes.
	Keep in mind that MP3 CDs aren't the same as the standard audio CDs that you buy at the store, and you can't play them in older audio CD players that don't support the MP3 CD format. Rather, this is the kind of archival disc that you burn at home for your own collection.
To begin the process, build a playlist (or select an existing playlist that you want to record). If necessary, create a new playlist and add to it whatever songs you would like to have on the CD. (See the earlier section "Keeping Slim Whitman and Slim Shady Apart: Organizing with Playlists," if you need a refresher.) With the songs in the correct order, right-click the playlist and choose Burn Playlist to Disc to commence the disc burning process. Click the desired recording format (again, usually Audio CD) in the Burn Settings dialog that appears.
Sending music elsewhere with AirPlay
If you're using an AirPort Express portable wireless Base Station or an Apple TV, you can ship your songs right to your Base Station from within iTunes, and from there to your home stereo or boom box! Pick up an AirPlay-enabled sound system, and you can eliminate the stereo or boom box entirely.
After your AirPort Express Base Station is plugged in and you connect your home stereo (or a boom box, or a pair of powered stereo speakers) to the stereo minijack on the Base Station, you see a Speakers pop-up list button appear at the bottom of the iTunes window. (If the Speakers button doesn't appear, choose iTunes⇒Preferences to open the Preferences dialog and click the Devices button on the toolbar. Make sure that the Allow iTunes Audio Control from Remote Speakers check box is enabled.)
Click the Speakers button, and you can choose to broadcast the music you're playing in iTunes across your wireless network. Ain't technology truly grand?

	To save yourself from sonic shock, I always recommend that you enable the Sound Check check box before you burn. iTunes will adjust the volume on all the songs on your audio CD so that they'll play at the same volume level.
Ready to go? Click Burn and load the blank disc, and iTunes lets you know when the recording is complete.
Feasting on iTunes Visuals
By now, you know that iTunes is a feast for the ears, but did you know that it can provide you with eye candy as well? With just a click or two, you can view mind-bending graphics that stretch, move, and pulse with your music, as shown in Figure 11-6.
 

Figure 11-6: iTunes can display some awesome patterns!

 
To begin viewing iTunes visuals, choose View⇒Show Visualizer (or press +T). Immediately, most of your iTunes interface disappears and begins displaying groovy lava lamp-style animations (like, sassy, man). To stop the visuals, choose View⇒Hide Visualizer (or press +T again). The usual sunny aluminum face of iTunes returns.
Backing up within iTunes
iTunes offers a built-in backup feature for your media library. I told you this was the best media player ever designed!
Choose File⇒Library⇒Back Up to Disc to start the process. You can choose to back up your entire iTunes Library and all your playlists (which I recommend) or just the content you've purchased from the iTunes Store. Personally, if I lost everything in my collection except for what I've bought from the iTunes Store, I'd  be just as crushed. Back it all up, and you  won't be sorry. (Note that if you're already backing up your Mac's hard drive using Time Machine, there's no reason to back up your library separately to disc unless you crave the heightened peace of mind.)
Click Back Up, and iTunes will prompt you for blank CDs or DVDs. If you need to restore from your completed backup, just launch iTunes and load the first backup disc into your drive.
How often is often enough when it comes to backing up your content? That depends completely on how often your media library changes. The idea is to back up often enough so that you always have a recent copy of your media files close by.

You can also change the viewing size of the iTunes visuals in the View menu. From the View menu item, choose Full Screen (or press +F). To escape from Full Screen mode, move the mouse or press Esc.
	You can still control iTunes with the keyboard while the visuals are zooming around your screen. See Table 11-1 earlier in this chapter for a rundown on common keyboard shortcuts.
The iTunes Visualizer has many hidden features. While viewing the Visualizer, press ? to see a list of hidden Visualizer settings.
But wait, more Easter eggs are to be found! Again, while viewing the Visualizer, press one of following keys:
 M: Changes the Visualizer pattern
 P: Changes the Visualizer color scheme
Press either of these keys repeatedly to cycle through the various patterns and color schemes lurking deep within the Visualizer. (Personally, I'm a random Visualizer guy . . . there are so many patterns and schemes, I just let my iMac do all the work.)
Additionally, you'll find third-party Visualizer plug-ins available for downloading on Apple's website and other Mac-related download sites — heck, some even display lyrics, karaoke-style! Choose a different Visualizer plug-in from the View⇒Visualizer menu item. (Call me old-fashioned, but I like the default, iTunes Visualizer.)
Exercising Parental Authority
Do young children use your Mac? I'll be honest here: A large amount of content within the iTunes Store, including audio, movies, and even apps, is stuff that I don't consider suitable for kids. And what about the media that others in the family may decide to share? Such is the world we live in today — and the good folks at Apple recognize that you may not want to inadvertently allow your kids to have access to explicit content.
Luckily, you can use the Parental settings within iTunes to build a secure fence around content that's for "grown-ups only" — heck, you can even banish items from the Source list entirely. Figure 11-7 illustrates the Parental pane within the iTunes Preferences dialog.
	You must log in with an Administrator account to change these settings, just as you do for the Parental Controls within Lion's System Preferences dialog. If the settings are locked — the padlock icon at the bottom of the dialog is closed — click it and supply your administrator password to unlock them.
 

Figure 11-7: You can protect your kids from explicit  content using the Parental settings.

 
To enable parental control, follow these steps:
	1.	Choose iTunes⇒Preferences.
	2.	Click the Parental tab.
	3.	Click any of the Disable check boxes to prevent access to those  features.
		It's important to note that disabling features inside iTunes applies to all user accounts — no matter who is logged in! You'll notice that any features you disable disappear completely from the Source list at the left side of the iTunes window after you click OK at the end of these steps.
	4.	Click the Ratings For pop-up menu and choose your country.
		Because Apple maintains separate iTunes Stores for different nations, you can choose which country's iTunes Store to monitor. If you like, you can disable the display of content ratings within your iTunes Library by deselecting the Show Content Ratings in Library check box.
	5.	To restrict specific content within the iTunes Store, click the check box next to the source; then click the corresponding pop-up menu to choose the restriction level.
		Note that these restrictions apply only to content on the iTunes Store and media shared with your Mac. Content within your iTunes Library is never restricted.
	6.	Click the padlock icon at the bottom of the dialog to close it and prevent any changes.
	7.	Click OK.
Buying Digital Media the Apple Way
Before we wave goodbye to the happy residents of iTunes iSland, I won't forget to mention the hottest spot on the Internet for buying music and video: the iTunes Store, which you can reach from the cozy confines of iTunes. (That is, as long as you have an Internet connection. If you don't, it's time to turn the page to a different chapter.)
Click the iTunes Store item in the Source list, and after a few moments you're presented with the latest offerings. Click a link in the store list to browse according to media type, or click the Power Search link to search by song title, artist, album, or composer. The Back/Forward buttons at the top of the iTunes Store window operate much the same as those in Safari, moving you backward or forward in sequence through pages you've already seen. Clicking the Home button (which, through no great coincidence, looks like a miniature house) takes you back to the Store's main page.
To display the details on a specific album, track, video, podcast, or audiobook (whew), just click it. If you're interested in buying just certain tracks (for that perfect road warrior mix), you get to listen to 90 seconds of any track — for free, no less, and at full sound quality. To add an item to your iTunes Store shopping cart, click the Add Song/Movie/Album/Video/Podcast/Audiobook button (sheesh!). When you're ready to buy, click the Shopping Cart item in the Source list and then click the Buy Now button. (At the time of this writing, tracks are usually 99 cents a pop, and an entire album is typically $9.99 . . . what a bargain!
The iTunes Store creates an account for you based on your e-mail address, and it keeps secure track of your credit card information for future purchases. After you use the iTunes Store once, you rarely have to log in or retype your credit card information again (as long as you're logged in using your account).
The tracks and files that you download are saved to a separate playlist called Purchased. After the download is finished, you can play them, copy them to other playlists, burn them to CD or DVD, share 'em over your network, or ship them to your iOS devices using iCloud, just as you can any other item in your iTunes Library.
You can also put the Genius button to work for you, in league with the iTunes Store. Click the Show Genius Sidebar button at the lower-right corner of the iTunes window — it looks like an arrow inside a square — and iTunes displays the Genius Sidebar, where iTunes recommends music that you can buy on the iTunes Store that's similar to the albums in your Music Library. Click the button again to banish the sidebar.
	With the arrival of Apple's iCloud sync feature, iTunes can automatically download the media you purchase on another iCloud device (including another Mac, a PC running Vista or Windows 7, and your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch). To set up automatic downloading, click iTunes⇒Preferences to open the Preferences dialog; then click the Store tab. After you've signed in to the iTunes Store, you can choose to download music, app, or book purchases, and you have the option to check for new downloads automatically. Click OK to save your changes.
Remember all those skeptics who claimed that buying digital audio and video could never work over the Internet because of piracy issues and high costs? Well, bunkie, hats off to Apple: Once again, our favorite technology leader has done something the right way!











Chapter 12
The Masterpiece That Is iPhoto
In This Chapter
 Importing pictures from your hard drive or digital camera
 Organizing images with iPhoto
 Tweaking the appearance of photographs
 Sharing photos with your friends
Virtually every iMac owner is likely to have a digital camera, a cellphone equipped with a camera, or a scanner. Digital video (DV) camcorders have certainly grown more plentiful over the past three or four years, and the iPod is the hottest piece of music hardware on the planet at the time of this writing. The digital camera, however, has reached what those funny (strange) marketing people refer to as saturation, and iPhoto was written to address the needs of every person with a digital camera and an iMac!
With iPhoto, you organize, edit, and even publish your photographs. (It sports more features than a handful of Swiss Army knives.) After you shoot your photos with a digital camera (or even scan images from original film prints or negatives), you can import them into iPhoto, edit them, and publish them. You're not limited to photos that you take yourself, either; you can edit, publish, and organize all kinds of digital image files. You can even create a photo album and use the iPhoto interface to order a handsome hardbound copy shipped to you, or create a slideshow that you can burn to a DVD.
To sum it all up, I'm willing to bet that iPhoto is either the first or the second iLife '11 application that you fall in love with (running neck and neck with iTunes). In this chapter, I show you how you can work digital image magic with true Apple panache!
Delving into iPhoto
In Figure 12-1, you can see most of the major controls offered in iPhoto '11. (Other controls automatically appear when you enter different modes; I cover them in upcoming sections of this chapter.)
 

Figure 12-1: iPhoto greets you with an attractive window.

 
Although these controls and sections of the window are covered in more detail in the following sections, here's a quick rundown of what you're looking at when you first launch iPhoto:
 Source list: This list of image locations determines which photos iPhoto displays.
	•	You can choose to display either your entire image library or just the last set of digital images that you downloaded from your camera.
	•	You can create new albums of your own that appear in the Source list; albums make it much easier to organize your photos.
	•	Photos can be grouped by Event (when they were taken), Faces (who appears in the photos), Places (where photos were taken), and Albums (the traditional method you may be familiar with from older versions of iPhoto).
	•	You can view the photos you've shared online using Facebook and Flickr (and those from your other iOS devices via Photo Stream, if you're using Apple's iCloud feature).
	•	You can create books, calendars, cards, and slideshows.
 Viewer: This pane displays the images from the currently selected photo source.
		You can drag or click to select photos in the Viewer for further tricks, such as assigning keywords and image editing.
 Full Screen button: Click this button in the upper-right corner of the window to switch to a full-screen display of your photos. In full-screen mode, the Source list disappears, and both images and events appear as thumbnails. You can double-click a thumbnail to view the image (or the contents, if it's an event) using your Mac's entire screen real estate. You can also use the same controls that I discuss later in this chapter for chores such as sharing and editing images; the toolbar is still available at the bottom of the screen.
 Search button: Click the button next to the Search text box to locate photos by specific criteria, or just click in the box and start typing to search by description and title.
 Zoom slider: Drag this slider to the left to reduce the size of the thumbnails in the Viewer. This allows you to see more thumbnails at one time, which is a great boon for quick, visual searches. Drag the slider to the right to expand the size of the thumbnails, thereby making it easier to differentiate details between similar photos in the Viewer.
 Play Slideshow: Select an event, album, book, or slideshow in the Source list (or multiple images you've selected in the Viewer) and click this button to start a full-screen slideshow using those images.
 Info button: Click this button to display information on the currently selected photos (or the item selected in the Source list).
 Edit button: Click this button to edit the currently selected photos. (I cover editing in depth later in the chapter.)
 Create button: Click this button to add a new blank album, book, calendar, card, or slideshow to your Source list.
 Add To button: Click this button to add the currently selected photos to an existing album, slideshow, book, card, or calendar.
 Share button: Click this button to share the currently selected photos on Flickr or Facebook. Choose Photo Stream to send the selected photos to your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch using iCloud. You can also order prints or e-mail the photos.
	The toolbar buttons you see depend on which operation you're performing; for example, you see different toolbar buttons when you're editing a photo.
Working with Images in iPhoto
Even a superbly designed image display and editing application such as iPhoto would look overwhelming if everything were jammed into one window. Thus, Apple's developers provide different operational modes (such as editing and book creation) that you can use in the one iPhoto window. Each mode allows you to perform different tasks, and you can switch modes at just about any time by clicking the corresponding toolbar button.
In this section, I discuss three of these modes — import, organize, and edit — and what you can do when you're in them. Then I conclude the chapter with sections on publishing and sharing your images.
Import Images 101
In import mode, you're ready to download images directly from your digital camera — as long as your specific camera model is supported in iPhoto. The Apple iPhoto support page at www.apple.com/macosx/upgrade/cameras.html lists many of the cameras that are supported in iPhoto. And you're not limited to cameras, of course: You can also import photos from a memory card reader (such as the SDXC card slot sported by your iMac) or even a Kodak PhotoCD.
Follow these steps to import images:
	1.	Connect your digital camera to your iMac.
		Plug one end of a USB cable into your camera and the other end into your iMac's USB port, and prepare your camera to download images.
	2.	Launch iPhoto.
		Your iMac will probably launch iPhoto automatically when your camera is detected, but you can always launch iPhoto manually by clicking its icon in the Dock (or double-clicking it in your Applications folder).
	3.	Type an event name for the imported photos, such as Birthday Party or Godzilla Ravages Tokyo (depending on your birthday parties, this could be the same event).
	4.	To allow iPhoto to automatically separate images into separate events based on the date they were taken, click to select the Split Events check box.
	5.	Click the Import All button to import your photographs from the camera.
		The images are added to your Photo Library, where you can organize them as you want.
		To select specific images to import, hold down the  key and click each desired photo; click Import Selected instead of Import All.
		Depending on the camera, iPhoto may also import video clips.
	6.	Specify whether the images you're importing should be deleted from the camera afterward.
		If you don't expect to download these images again to another computer or another device, you can choose to delete the photos from your camera automatically. This saves you a step, frees space for new photos, and helps eliminate the guilt that can crop up when you nix your pix. (Sorry, I couldn't resist.)
"What's that about an Event, Mark?" After you download the contents of your digital camera, those contents count as a virtual Event in iPhoto — based on either the date that you imported them or the date they were taken. For example, you can always display the last images you imported by clicking Last Import. If you want to see photos from your son's graduation, they appear as a separate Event. (Events and Last Import will both appear in the Source list.) Think about that . . . It's pretty tough to arrange old-fashioned film prints by the moment in time that they document, but iPhoto makes it easy for you to see just which photos are part of the same group! I explain more about Events in the next section.
Importing images from your hard drive
If you have a folder of images that you've collected already on your hard drive, a CD, a DVD, an external drive, or a USB flash drive, adding them to your library is easy. Just drag the folder from a Finder window and drop it into the Albums header (within the Source list in the iPhoto window). iPhoto automatically creates a new album using the folder name, and you can sit back while the images are imported into that new album. iPhoto recognizes images in  several formats: JPEG, GIF, RAW, PNG, PICT, PSD, PDF, and TIFF.
If you have individual images, you can drag them as well. Select the images in a Finder window and drag them into the desired album in the Source list. To add them to the album currently displayed in the Viewer, drag the selected photos and drop them in the Viewer instead. (If you don't want to add them to any specific album at this time, drag the images to the Photos entry in the Source list instead.)
If you'd rather import images by using a standard Mac Open dialog, choose File⇒Import to Library. Simplicity strikes again!

Organize mode: Organizing  and sorting your images
In the days of film prints, you could always stuff another shoebox with your latest photos or buy another sticky album to expand your library. Your digital camera, though, stores images as files instead, and many folks don't print their digital photographs. Instead, you can keep your entire collection of digital photographs and scanned images well ordered and easily retrieved by using iPhoto's organize mode. Then you can display them in a slideshow, e-mail them, print them, use them as Desktop backgrounds, or burn them to an archive disc.
A new kind of photo album
The most familiar method of organizing images in iPhoto is the album. Each album can represent any designation you like, be it a year, a vacation, your daughter, or your daughter's ex-boyfriends. Follow these steps:
	1.	Create a new album.
		You can either choose File⇒New Album or press +N, as shown in Figure 12-2.
	2.	Type the name for your new photo album.
	3.	Press Return.
 

Figure 12-2: Add a new album in iPhoto.

 
iPhoto also offers a special type of album called a Smart Album, which you can create from the File menu. (For even faster action, press Option++N.) If you're familiar with the Smart Folders you can use within the Finder and the Smart Playlists within iTunes, you've figured this one out already: A Smart Album contains only photos that match certain criteria that you choose, including the keywords and rating that you assign your images. Other criteria include text in the photo filenames, dates the images were added to iPhoto, and any comments you might have added (as well as camera-specific data such as ISO and shutter speed). Now here's the really nifty angle: iPhoto automatically builds and maintains Smart Albums for you, adding new photos that match the criteria (and deleting those that you remove from your Photo Library)! Smart Albums icons carry a gear symbol in the Source list.
You can display information about the currently selected item in the information pane at the far right of the window. Just click the Info button at the bottom of the iPhoto window, which sports the familiar "i-in-a-circle" logo. You can also type a short note or description in the Description box that appears in the Info pane, or add keywords to help you organize your photos.
	You can also change information on an image by selecting it in the Viewer and clicking the Info button. Click any of the headings in the pane (Title, Date, Time, and so on) to display a text edit box, and you can simply type a new value.
You can drag images from the Viewer into any album you choose. For example, you can copy an image to another album by dragging it from the Viewer to the desired album in the Source list.
To remove a photo that has fallen out of favor, follow these steps:
	1.	In the Source list, select the desired album.
	2.	In the Viewer, select the photo (click it) that you want to remove.
	3.	Press Delete.
	When you remove a photo from an album, you don't remove the photo from your collection (which is represented by the Photos entry under the Library heading in the Source list). That's because an album is just a group of links to the images in your collection. If you want to completely remove an offending photo from iPhoto, click the Photos entry under the Library heading to display your entire collection of images and delete the picture there. The photo disappears from all albums with which it is associated.
To remove an entire album from the Source list, just click it in the Source list to select it — in the Viewer, you can see the images that it contains — and then press Delete. (Alternatively, right-click or Control-click the offending album and choose Delete Album.)
To rename an album, click the entry under the Albums heading in the Source list to select it and then click again to display a text box. Type the new album name and press Return.
	Change your mind? iPhoto comes complete with a handy-dandy Undo feature. Just press +Z, and it's as though your last action never happened. (A great trick for those moments when you realize you just deleted your only image of your first car from your Library.) For an extra level of backup protection, you can invest in an external hard drive and use Lion's Time Machine feature.
Arranging stuff by Events
As I mention earlier, an Event is a group of images that you shot or downloaded at the same time. iPhoto assumes that those images belong together (which is usually a pretty safe assumption). Figure 12-3 illustrates some of the Events I've created in my iPhoto collection.
	An Event can be renamed, just as an album can — you just use a different procedure. Click the Events entry under the Library heading in the Source list to display your Events in the Viewer; then click the existing Event name in the caption underneath the thumbnail. A text box appears in which you can type a new name; click Return to update the Event.
	Although a photo can appear in multiple albums, it can appear in only one Event.
Try moving your cursor over an Event thumbnail in the Viewer and you'll see that iPhoto displays the date range when the images were taken, as well as the total number of images in the Event. Ah, but things get really cool when you move your cursor back and forth over an Event with many images: The thumbnail animates and displays all the images in the Event! (Why can't I think of this stuff? This is the future, dear readers.)
To display the contents of an Event in the Viewer, just double-click the Event thumbnail. To return to the Events thumbnails, click the All Events button at the top of the Viewer.
	Decided to merge those Prom Event pictures with your daughter's Graduation Event? No problem! You could drag one Event thumbnail on top of another, but that's the easy way. Alternatively, click the Events entry under the Library heading in the Source list to display your Events and then hold down  while you click the Events that you want to merge. Heck, if the Events you want to merge are selected, right-click one of them and choose Merge Events from the menu that appears. Click Merge in the confirmation dialog that appears.
	Whilst organizing, you can create a brand-new empty Event by clicking Events⇒Create Event. Feel free to drag photos from albums, other Events,  or your Photo library into your new Event.
 

Figure 12-3: Events help you organize by what happened, not just when it  happened!

 
Working with Faces and Places
iPhoto includes two organizational tools called Faces and Places. These two categories appear in the Library section of the Source list.
First, let's tackle Faces. (Ouch. Don't literally tackle anyone's face, dear reader.) Faces is a sophisticated recognition system that automatically recognizes human faces within the photos that you add to your Library. (I don't know whether it works well with pets — but you can try, anyway.) Naturally, you have to identify faces first before iPhoto can recognize them, which it does through a process called tagging.
To tag a face, follow these steps:
	1.	In the Source list, click the Photos item to display your image library.
	2.	In the Viewer, click the photo with a person you want to tag.
		The photo is selected, as indicated by the yellow border.
	3.	Click the Info button in the iPhoto toolbar at the bottom of the window.
		iPhoto displays the Info pane you see in Figure 12-4.
	4.	Click the Add a Face link in the Faces section of the Info pane.
		Note that iPhoto has indicated each person's face in the photo with a label. If a face has already been tagged, the label will match the person's face.
 

Figure 12-4: Adding another mug to my collection of Faces. (That still doesn't sound right.)

 
	5.	If the face is unrecognized (labeled as Click to Name), click the label to open a text box and type the person's name.
		If iPhoto recognizes the face correctly and the name matches the person, click the check mark to confirm the tag. If the face is incorrectly identified, click the X at the right side of the text box and you can enter a new name.
		If the name appears on an Address Book contact card — or is recognized as one of your Facebook friends — you can click the matching entry that appears to confirm the identity. Wowzers!
		To delete a face recognition box that isn't necessary, hover your mouse cursor over the box and click the X button that appears at the top-left corner of the box.
		If iPhoto doesn't recognize the face at all in the photo (which can happen if the person's face is turned at an angle to the camera, or is in a darker area of the photo), click the box border and drag the box over the person's face. If necessary, you can resize the box using the four handles at the corners of the box. Now you can click the label and type the person's name.
	6.	Click the Info button to hide the Info pane after you've identified all the faces in the photo.
After you've tagged an image, it appears in your Faces collection, which you can view by clicking the Faces entry in the Source list. You can double-click a portrait in your Faces collection to see all the images that contain that person. As you might expect, the more tags you add for a specific person, the better iPhoto gets at recognizing that person!
	Notice the Confirm Additional Faces button that appears next to the person's name? Click it, and iPhoto displays other photos that it thinks might contain this person's face, allowing you to tag them there as well. If a face is a match, click the thumbnail to confirm it.
Places makes it easy to track the location where photos were taken, but it requires a digital camera that includes GPS tracking information in the image metadata for iPhoto to do so without your help. (This is a relatively new feature for digital cameras, so older models aren't likely to support GPS tracking.  Naturally, both the iPhone and iPad support this feature.) Places also requires an Internet connection, because it uses Google Maps.
Click the Places entry in the Source list to display a global map, with pushpins indicating where your photos were taken. You can switch the Places map between terrain and satellite modes, or choose a hybrid display. If you're familiar with Google Maps, these settings are old friends of yours.
Alternatively, click the text Location buttons at the top of the map to display a character-based browser, where you can click country, state, city, and place names.
No matter which view mode you choose, clicking a pushpin or location displays the images taken in that area.
Organizing with keywords
"Okay, Mark, albums, Events, Faces, and Places are great ideas, but there has to be a way to search my collection by category!" Never fear, good iMac owner. You can also assign descriptive keywords to images to help you organize your collection and locate certain pictures fast. iPhoto comes with a number of standard keywords, and you can create your own as well.
To illustrate, suppose you'd like to identify your images according to special events in your family. Birthday photos should have their own keyword, and anniversaries deserve another. By assigning keywords, you can search for Elsie's sixth birthday or your silver wedding anniversary (no matter what Event or album they're in), and all related photos with those keywords appear like magic! (Well, almost like magic. You need to choose View⇒Keywords, which toggles the Keyword display on and off in the Viewer.)
iPhoto includes a number of keywords that are already available:
 Favorite
 Family
 Kids
 Vacation
 Birthday
 RAW
 Photo Booth
 Movie
 Checkmark
	What's the Checkmark all about, you ask? It's a special case: Adding this keyword displays a tiny check mark icon in the bottom-right corner of the image. The checkmark keyword comes in handy for temporarily identifying specific images because you can search for just your checkmarked photos.
To assign keywords to images (or remove keywords that have already been assigned), select one or more photos in the Viewer. Choose Window⇒Manage My Keywords or press +K to display the Keywords window, as shown in Figure 12-5.
	Drag the keyword buttons that you use the most to the Quick Group section of the Keywords window, and iPhoto automatically creates a keyboard shortcut for each keyword in the Quick Group. Now you don't even need to display the Keywords window to get business done!
You're gonna need your own keywords
I'll bet you take photos of things other than just kids and vacations — and that's why iPhoto allows you to create your own keywords. Display the iPhoto Keywords window by pressing  +K, click the Edit Keywords button, and then click Add (the button with the plus sign). iPhoto adds a new unnamed keyword to the list as an edit box, ready for you to type its name.
You can rename an existing keyword from this same window, too. Click a keyword to select it and then click Rename. Remember, however, that renaming a keyword affects all the images that were tagged with that keyword. That might be confusing when, for example, photos originally tagged as Family suddenly appear with the keyword Foodstuffs. (I recommend applying a new keyword and deleting the old one if this problem crops up.)
To change the keyboard shortcut assigned to a keyword, click the Shortcut button. To remove an existing keyword from the list, click the keyword to select it and then click the Delete button, which bears a minus sign.

 

Figure 12-5: Time to add keywords to these selected images.

 
Click the buttons for the keywords that you want to attach to the selected images to mark them. Or click the highlighted keyword buttons that you want to remove from the selected images to disable them.
Digging through your library with keywords
Behold the power of keywords! To sift through your entire collection of images by using keywords, click the Search button in the toolbar, then click the magnifying glass button next to the Search box and choose Keyword from the pop-up menu. iPhoto displays a pop-up Keywords panel, and you can click one or more keyword buttons to display just the photos that carry those keywords.
	The images that remain in the Viewer after a search must have all the keywords that you specified. If an image is identified, for example, by only three of four keywords you chose, it isn't a match and it doesn't appear in the Viewer. (You can create a Smart Album with specific keywords to get around this limitation.)
	To search for a photo by words in its description, just click in the Search box and start typing. You can click that same magnifying glass by the Search box to search through your images by date and rating as well.
Speaking of ratings . . .
Playing favorites by assigning ratings
Be your own critic! iPhoto allows you to assign any photo a rating of anywhere from zero to five stars. I use this system to help me keep track of the images that I feel are the best in my library. Select one (or more) image and then assign a rating using one of the following methods:
 Choose Photos⇒My Rating and then choose the desired rating from the pop-up submenu.
 Hover your cursor over the photo and click the More button in the lower-right corner of the thumbnail; then click the desired star rating in the menu that appears.
 Use the +0 through +5 shortcuts.
Sorting your images just so
The View menu provides an easy way to arrange your images in the Viewer by a number of different criteria. Choose View⇒Sort Photos and then click the desired sort criteria from the pop-up submenu. You can arrange the display by date, keyword, title, or rating. If you select an album in the Source list, you can also choose to arrange photos manually, which means that you can drag and drop thumbnails in the Viewer to place them in the precise order you want them.
	Naturally, iPhoto allows you to print selected images, but you can also send photos via e-mail or by using Facebook, Flickr, or Photo Stream. Click Share and then choose the desired destination from the submenu.
Edit mode: Removing and  fixing stuff the right way
Not every digital image is perfect — just look at my collection if you need proof. For those shots that need a pixel massage, iPhoto includes a number of editing tools that you can use to correct common problems.
The first step in any editing job is to select the image you want to fix in the Viewer. Then click the Edit button on the iPhoto toolbar to display the Edit mode controls at the right side of the window, as shown in Figure 12-6. Now you're ready to fix problems, using the tools that I discuss in the rest of this section. (If you're editing a photo that's part of an Event, album, Faces, or Places, note the spiffy scrolling photo strip at the bottom, which allows you to switch to another image to edit from the same grouping.)
	If you'd prefer to edit images while using more of your screen real estate, click the Full Screen button at the far left of the iPhoto toolbar. To switch back to the standard window arrangement, click the Full Screen button again or simply press the Esc key.
	Need more features than iPhoto provides when editing a prized photograph? iPhoto even allows you to specify another image editing application like Photoshop Elements (instead of the built-in editing controls I cover in this section). First, click iPhoto and choose Preferences and then click the Advanced tab. Click the Edit Photos pop-up menu and click Choose App; then navigate to the image editor you want to use, select it, and click Open. Now close the Preferences dialog, and iPhoto will automatically open the application you selected when you click the Edit button! If you decide to return to iPhoto's built-in editing controls, just open the Advanced pane again, click the Edit Photos pop-up menu again, and choose In iPhoto.
When you're done with Edit mode, click the . . . (wait for it) . . . Edit button again to return to the Viewer!
Rotating tipped-over shots
If an image is in the wrong orientation and needs to be turned to display correctly, click the Rotate button to turn it once in a counterclockwise direction. Hold down the Option key while you click the Rotate button to rotate in a clockwise direction.
 

Figure 12-6: iPhoto is now in edit mode. Watch out, image  problems!

 
	Find yourself using that Option key often when rotating? Consider reversing the default direction! Click iPhoto⇒Preferences and click the General tab; then click the Rotate radio button to change the default direction (a great idea if your camera's shots typically need rotating in the opposite direction).
Crop 'til you drop
Does that photo have an intruder hovering around the edges of the subject? You can remove some of the border by cropping an image, just as folks once did with film prints and a pair of scissors. (We've come a long way.) With iPhoto, you can remove unwanted portions from the edges of an image; it's a great way to get Uncle Milton's stray head (complete with toupee) out of an otherwise perfect holiday snapshot.
Follow these steps to crop an image:
	1.	Click the Crop button in the Edit toolbar.
	2.	Select the portion of the image that you want to keep.
		In the Viewer, click and drag the handles on the rectangle to outline the part of the image that you want. Remember, whatever's outside this rectangle disappears after the crop is completed.
		When you drag a corner or edge of the outline, a semi-opaque grid (familiar to amateur and professional photographers as the nine rectangles from the Rule of Thirds) appears to help you visualize what you're claiming. (Check it out in Figure 12-7.)
		You can expand the outline to the full dimensions of the image at any time — just click the Reset button.
 3.	(Optional) Choose a preset aspect ratio.
		If you want to force your cropped selection to a specific aspect ratio — such as 4 x 3 or 16 x 9 for an iDVD project, or 5 x 7 to match the dimensions of photo paper — click the Constrain check box and select that ratio from the Constrain pop-up menu.
	4.	Click the Done button.
 Oh, and don't forget that you can use iPhoto's Undo feature if you mess up and need to try again. Just press +Z.
	iPhoto features multiple Undo levels, so you can press +Z several times to travel back through your last several changes. Alternatively, you can always return the image to its original form (before you did any editing at all) by clicking the Revert to Original button.
Straightening what's crooked
Was your camera slightly tilted when you took the perfect shot? Never fear! Click the Straighten button and then drag the Angle slider to tilt the image in the desired direction. Click the Done button to return to Edit mode.
 

Figure 12-7: Select the stuff that you want to keep in your photo.

 
Enhancing images to add pizzazz
If a photo looks washed out, click the Enhance button to increase (or decrease) the color saturation and improve the contrast. Enhance is automatic, so you don't have to set anything — but be prepared to use Undo if you're not satisfied with the changes.
Removing rampant red-eye
Unfortunately, today's digital cameras can still produce the same "zombies with red eyeballs" as traditional film cameras. Red-eye is caused by a camera's flash reflecting off the retinas of a subject's eyes, and it can occur with both humans and animals. (I'm told pets get green-eye or blue-eye, but iPhoto can handle them, too!)
iPhoto can remove that red- and green-eye and turn frightening zombies back into your family and friends! Click the Red-Eye button and then select a demonized eyeball by clicking in the center of it. (If the Red-Eye circular cursor is too small or too large, drag the Size slider to adjust the dimensions.) To complete the process, click the Done button.
Retouching like the stars
The iPhoto Retouch feature is perfect for removing minor flecks or lines in an image (especially those you've scanned from prints). Click Retouch and you'll notice that the cursor turns into a circle; as with the Red-Eye tool, you can drag the Size slider to change the size of the Retouch cursor. Just drag the cursor across the imperfection and click Done when you're finished touching things up. Don't forget to take a moment and marvel at your editing skill!
	When you first enter Editing mode, the Quick Fixes tab is selected, providing you with the tools I've already covered. (These are the changes you'll make most often, so having Quick Fixes as the default selection makes sense.) However, you can also choose to apply an effect from the Effects tab, or make specific changes to the appearance of an image from the Adjust tab.
Switching to black-and-white or sepia
Ever wonder whether a particular photo in your library would look better as a black-and-white (or grayscale) print? Or perhaps an old-fashioned sepia tone in shades of copper and brown? Just click the Effects tab, which offers nine different effects that you can apply to the photo. You can also make "one-click" changes to your photo from the Effects tab, including lightening and darkening an image or enhancing the contrast.
Adjusting photo properties manually
Click the Adjust tab to perform manual adjustments to brightness and contrast (the light levels in your image), as well as attributes such as sharpness, shadow, and highlight levels. To adjust a value, make sure that nothing's selected in the image and then drag the corresponding slider until the image looks the way you want. Click the Close button to return to Edit mode.
	While you're editing, you can use the Next and Previous buttons at the left of the tab button to move to the next image in the current group (or back to the previous image).
Producing Your Own Coffee-Table Masterpiece
Book mode unleashes what I think is probably the coolest feature of iPhoto: the chance to design and print a high-quality bound photo book! After you complete an album — all the images have been edited just the way you want, and the album contains all the photos you want to include in your book — iPhoto can send your images as data over the Internet to a company that prints and binds your finished book for you. (No, they don't publish For Dummies titles, but then again, I don't get high-resolution color plates in most of my books, either.)
I really need a slideshow
You can use iPhoto to create slideshows! Click the album or Event you want to display in the Source list; then click the Create button and choose Slideshow. Notice that iPhoto adds a Slideshows item in the Source list. A scrolling thumbnail strip appears at the top of the Viewer, displaying the images in the album or Event. Click and drag the thumbnails so that they appear in the desired order.
Click the Themes button on the Slideshow toolbar to choose the theme for your slideshow. The theme you choose controls the animation, transition type, and screen layout that iPhoto will use — everything from the classic Ken Burns "moving photo" animation to a really nifty Sliding Panels layout.
To choose background music for your slideshow, click the Music button in the Slideshow toolbar to display Apple's theme music as well as the tracks from your iTunes Library. To choose a standard theme, click the Source pop-up menu and choose Theme Music; select that perfect song and click Choose. To choose an iTunes song or playlist, click the Source pop-up menu and choose a playlist — or throw caution completely to the wind and choose one of your GarageBand compositions. (I cover GarageBand in Chapter 15.) You can also create a custom playlist by selecting the Custom Playlist for Slideshow check box. Then drag the individual songs you want to the song list at the bottom of the sheet. (You can drag them to rearrange their order in the list as well.) Click Choose to accept your song list.
To configure your slideshow, click the Settings button in the Slideshow toolbar and click the All Slides tab. In the dialog that appears, you can specify the amount of time that each slide remains on the screen, as well as an optional title slide. Widescreen Mac owners appreciate the Aspect Ratio pop-up menu, which allows you to choose a 16:9 widescreen display for your slideshow.
Click the This Slide tab to set the selected photo to display in black and white, sepia, or antique coloring.
To display a quick preview of your slideshow without leaving the iPhoto window, click Preview; this is a handy way of determining whether the theme and music you've selected are really what you want. When you're ready to play your slideshow, click the Play button, and iPhoto switches to full-screen mode. To create a movie file from your completed slideshow, click Export on the Slideshow toolbar.

At the time of this writing, you can order many different sizes and bindings, including an 8.5-by-11-inch soft-cover book with 20 double-sided pages for about $20 and a hardbound 8.5-by-11-inch keepsake album with 10 double-sided pages for about $30 (shipping included for both). At the top of the chart, the 13-by-10-inch XL size photo book has 20 double-sided pages for about $50, with shipping also included. Extra pages can be added for about $0.70, $1.00, and $1.50 a pop, respectively.
iPhoto can also produce and automatically order calendars and cards (both the postal and greeting varieties), using a process similar to the one I describe in this section for producing a book. Who needs that stationery store in the mall anymore? (You can even order old-fashioned prints from the Share toolbar menu.)
	If you're going to create a photo book, make sure that the images have the highest quality and highest resolution. The higher the resolution, the better the photos look in the finished book. I personally always try to use images of more than 1,000 pixels in the shortest dimension.
To create a photo book, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the desired album in the Source list to select it.
		Make sure that no individual photos are selected in the Viewer. This way, iPhoto uses all the images in the chosen album.
	2.	Click the Create toolbar button and click Book from the pop-up menu.
	3.	Select the type of book using the Binding buttons (Hardcover, Softcover, and Wire-bound) at the top of the window; for book size, use the Size buttons (Large and Extra-Large) at the left side of the window.
		Your choices determine the number of pages and the size of the book. iPhoto displays the approximate cost of your book as you browse the options.
	4.	Choose a theme.
		Use the left and right arrow keys to cycle through the theme selections. The theme you choose determines both the layout scheme and the background graphics for each page. To change the color scheme for a theme, click one of the color swatches at the right side of the window.
	5.	Click Create.
		iPhoto adds your new book project under the Project heading in the Source list, and you see the controls shown in Figure 12-8.
		In Book mode, the Viewer displays a collection of thumbnail images, each of which represents a portion of your book — either the front cover, internal pages, or the back cover. To display the photos you selected, click the Photos button in the toolbar. You can drag any image thumbnail into one of the photo placeholders to add it to the page.
		It's easy to switch to another theme at any time by clicking the Change Theme button at the top of the window.
	6.	Rearrange the page order to suit you by dragging the thumbnail of any page from one location to another.
		If you'd prefer a book without page numbers, right-click any page and choose Show Page Numbers to toggle it off. (The check mark next to the menu item disappears.)
	7.	Need to change the look of a single page? Click either cover or a page to select it; then click the Design button in the toolbar to change the color and design layout for that element.
		Clicking a design thumbnail automatically updates the page display.
 

Figure 12-8: Preparing to publish my own coffee-table masterpiece.

 
	8.	Double-click a page to edit captions and short descriptions.
		Click any one of the text boxes in the page display and begin typing to add text to that page. Some themes do not have caption or description text boxes, but you can add them. To do so, display the Design pane and click the desired photo placeholder; then click one of the Border thumbnails that includes a text box.
		After you're done editing, click the All Pages button at the top of the window to return to your full spread.
	9.	To add pages to your book, click the Add Page button in the toolbar.
		As I mention earlier, the price for additional pages varies according to the size and type of binding you choose.
	10.	To view the book at any time, right-click any page and choose  Preview Book.
		After a short wait, Lion's Preview application opens, and you can scroll through the contents of your book (or even print a quick copy). To close the Preview window, choose Preview⇒Quit Preview.
		Why limit yourself to just paper copies of your publishing success? You can also right-click any page and choose Save Book as PDF to create a snazzy electronic version of your book.
	11.	When you're ready to publish your book, click the Buy Book button.
 12.	In a series of dialogs that appears, iPhoto guides you through the final steps to order a bound book.
		Note that you'll be asked for credit card information, so have that  plastic ready.
Putting Photo Stream to Work
iPhoto includes a feature called Photo Stream that automatically shares the photos you take between your iMac, your PC and any Apple device running iOS 5.0 or later (which includes your iPhone 4/4S, your second or third-generation iPad and your iPod touch). Click Share and choose Photo Stream, and iPhoto automatically sends the selected images to all compatible devices over your Wi-Fi connection. (Note that all devices using Photo Stream must be configured using the same Apple ID.)
To turn on Photo Stream, just click iPhoto⇒Preferences and click the Photo Stream toolbar button. Click the Enable Photo Stream check box to enable it.
Optionally, you can also specify whether iPhoto should automatically import Photo Stream photos to you library, and whether iPhoto should automatically upload the most recent 1,000 photos to Photo Stream for sharing with your other devices.
Is that Facebook and Flickr I spy?
Indeed it is! iPhoto includes a direct connection to both your Facebook social networking account (at www.facebook.com) and your Flickr online gallery account (at  www.flickr.com), allowing you to simply select one or more photos and send them automatically to either service! Click the Share button on the toolbar to select either type of account.
The first time you select photos in the Viewer (or an album or Event in the Source list) and choose either option, iPhoto prompts you for permission to set up your connection. (Of course, this will require you to enter your Facebook and Flickr account information — hence the confirmation request.) Click Set Up and provide the data that each site requires.
After you've set up your accounts, simply select your photos, albums, or Events and click the Share toolbar button; then choose the menu item for the desired service. Apple, you  absolutely rock!

E-Mailing Photos to Aunt Mildred
iPhoto can help you send your images through e-mail by automating the  process. The application can prepare your image and embed it automatically in a new message.
To send an image through e-mail, select it and click the Share button in the toolbar; then click the Email menu item. The layout shown in Figure 12-9 appears, allowing you to choose a theme for your message that is compatible  with many e-mail applications (complete with a background image and matching font selection). You can also specify the size of the images from the Photo Size pop-up menu, which can save considerable downloading time for those recipients who are still using a dialup connection. To add the images as attachments to the message, click the Attach Photos to Message check box to enable it.
 

Figure 12-9: Preparing to send an image through Apple Mail.

 
	Keep in mind that most ISP (Internet service provider) e-mail servers don't accept an e-mail message that's more than 4MB or 5MB, so watch that Size display at the bottom of the window. (In fact, the encoding necessary to send images as attachments can double the size of each image!). If you're trying to send a number of images and the size goes over 4MB, you might have to click the Photo Size pop-up menu and choose a smaller size (reducing the image resolution) to get them all in a single message.
When you're satisfied with the total file size and you're ready to create your message, click the Compose button. iPhoto automatically creates a new  message containing the images, ready for you to click Send!












Chapter 13
Making Film History with iMovie
In This Chapter
 Taking stock of the iMovie window
 Importing and adding media content
 Using transitions in your movie
 Putting text titles to work
 Adding animated maps
 Creating a movie trailer
 Sharing your movie with others
Remember those home movies that you used to make in high school? They were entertaining and fun to create, and your friends were impressed. In fact, some kids are so downright inspired that you're not surprised when you discover at your high school reunion that they turned out to be graphic artists, or got involved in video or TV production.
iMovie, part of the iLife '11 suite, makes moviemaking as easy as those homemade movies. Apple simplified all the technical stuff, such as importing video and adding audio, leaving you free to concentrate on your creative ideas. In fact, you won't find techy terms such as codecs or keyframes in this chapter at all. I guarantee that you'll understand what's going on at all times. (How often do you get a promise like that with video-editing software?)
With iMovie, your digital video (DV) camcorder, and the other parts of the iLife suite, you can soon produce and share professional-looking movies, with some of the same creative transitions and titles used by Those Hollywood Types every single day. All on your iMac, all by yourself.
If you turn out to be a world-famous Hollywood Type Director in a decade or so, don't forget the little people along the way!
Shaking Hands with the iMovie Window
If you've ever tried a professional-level video-editing application, you probably felt as though you were suddenly dropped into the cockpit of a jumbo jet. In iMovie, though, all the controls you need are easy to use and logically placed.
To launch iMovie, click the iMovie icon in the Dock or within Launchpad. (It looks like a star from the Hollywood Walk of Fame.) You can also click the Application folder in any Finder window Sidebar and then double-click the iMovie icon.
To follow the examples I show you here, follow these strenuous steps and create a new movie project:
	1.	Click the File menu and choose New Project (or press +N).
		iMovie displays the sheet you see in Figure 13-1.
	2.	Type a name for your project.
 

Figure 13-1: Creating a new movie project within iMovie.

 
	3.	Select the aspect ratio (or screen dimensions) for your movie.
		You can select a widescreen display (16:9) or a standard display (4:3). If compatibility with the familiar SDTV format is important, I always recommend that you choose standard (4:3) ratio; if you're shooting in 16:9 format, choosing 16:9 for an SDTV set will result in those familiar black "letterbox" bars at the top and bottom of the screen (however, you won't lose any content from the sides of the frame if you use 16:9). On the flip side, choosing 4:3 results in pillarboxing (black bars on the left and right) when shown on an HD set.
	4.	Choose the frame rate.
		The default frame rate is 30 frames per second (or fps for short), which is normal for the North American NTSC video standard. However, you can choose a slower frame rate if necessary — like the 25 frames per second setting for the European PAL video standard.
	5.	Click a Project Theme thumbnail to select a theme to apply to your  finished movie.
		If you choose a theme, iMovie automatically adds the transitions and titles that correspond to that theme. (Normally, this is what you want to do. However, if you want to add transitions and titles manually, click the Automatically Add Transitions and Titles check box to deselect it.)
		If you decide not to use a theme (by selecting the No Theme thumbnail), iMovie can still add an automatic effect between clips. Click the Automatically Add check box and click the pop-up menu to choose the desired effect.
		You can also create movie trailers within iMovie, as I demonstrate later in this chapter. Generally, however, it's a good idea to create your trailer project after your movie project is completed (unless, of course, you're specifically creating just a trailer project). Why? For the same reason that studios create trailers after the filming is finished: After you've completed your movie, you'll have all the clips imported already, and you'll have a better idea of what you want to include while "teasing" your audience!
	6.	Click Create.
		iMovie adds the new project to the list in the Project Library pane, and you're on your way! Check out Figure 13-2: This is the whole enchilada, in one window.
The controls and displays that you'll use most often are
 Monitor: Think of this as being just like your TV or computer monitor. Your video clips, still images, and finished movie play here. You'll also crop and rotate your video within the monitor.
 Media Browser toolbar: This row of buttons allows you to add media content (video clips, photos, and audio). The selected items fill the right side of the browser pane below the monitor.
 Event Library: This list displays all the video clips you can add to your project, including video clips you've collected within iPhoto.
 Event pane: If you select a video clip in the Event Library list, iMovie displays a thumbnail of the content in the Event pane. If you decide you want to include it, you can add it to your project. I show you what each of the panes in the iMovie workspace looks like when you tackle different tasks in this chapter.
 Project Library/Project/Trailer pane: iMovie displays the movie projects that you've created in the Project Library pane. Note that when you double-click a project in the Project Library pane, it turns into the Project pane, which displays the elements you've added to that specific project (such as video clips, still photos, and audio clips). If you drag an element into the Project Library pane, it turns into the Project pane for the selected project, and if you're working on a movie trailer, the Project Library pane turns into the Trailer pane. (Whew!)
 

Figure 13-2: iMovie  is a lean, mean, video-  producing machine.

 
		The Project Library pane displays different content depending on the action you've taken.
 Playhead: The red vertical line that you see in the Event and Project Library panes is the playhead, which indicates the current editing point while you're browsing your clips or creating your movie. When you're playing your movie, the playhead moves to follow your progress through the movie.
 Editing toolbar: This strip of buttons allows you to control editing functions such as cropping, audio, and video adjustments, voiceovers, and selecting items.
 Camera Import window: Click this switch to import DV clips from your DV camcorder or iSight camera.
Those are the major highlights of the iMovie window. A director's chair and megaphone are optional, of course, but they do add to the mood.
A Bird's-Eye View of Moviemaking
I don't want to box in your creative skills here — after all, you can attack the moviemaking process from a number of angles. (Pun, unfortunately, intended.) However, I've found that my movies turn out the best when I follow a linear process, so before I dive into specifics, allow me to provide you with an overview of moviemaking with iMovie.
Here's my take on the process, reduced to seven steps:
	1.	Import your video clips either directly from your DV camcorder, iSight camera, iPhoto, or your hard drive.
	2.	Drag your new selection of clips from the Event pane to the Project pane and arrange them in the desired order.
	3.	Import or record audio clips (from iTunes, GarageBand, or external sources, such as audio CDs or audio files that you've recorded yourself) and add them to your movie.
	4.	Import your photos (directly from iPhoto or from your hard drive) and place them where needed in your movie.
	5.	Add professional niceties, such as voiceovers, transitions, effects, and text to the project.
	6.	Preview your film and edit it further if necessary.
	7.	Share your finished film with others through the web, e-mail, your Apple TV, an iOS device (an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch) or a DVD that you create and burn with iDVD.
	As you might imagine, this chapter simply can't hold a description of all the settings and procedures within iMovie '11 — but luckily, Tony Bove has done exactly that in his book iLife '11 For Dummies (John Wiley & Sons, Inc.). Tony takes you from the basics to all the in-depth features of each of the iLife  applications!
Importing the Building Blocks
Sure, you need video clips to create a movie of your own, but don't panic if you have but a short supply. You can certainly turn to the other iLife applications for additional raw material. (See, I told you that that integration thing would come in handy.)
Along with video clips you import from your DV camcorder, built-in iSight camera, and hard drive, you can call on iPhoto for still images (think credits) and iTunes for background audio and effects. In this section, I show you how.
Pulling in video clips
Your iMac is equipped already with the extras that come in handy for video editing — namely, a large hard drive and both FireWire and USB ports. Because most mini-DV camcorders today use a FireWire connection to transfer clips —  and mass-storage camcorders use a USB connection — you're all set. (Note that if your snazzy new DV camcorder uses a USB 2.0 connection, you'll need to modify the steps I provide in this section for your particular device. Only a couple of steps are different, and I cover them shortly.) Oh, and since your iMac has a FaceTime HD camera on board, you're a self-contained movie studio!
Here's the drill if your clips are on your FireWire mini-DV camcorder or mass-storage USB camcorder:
	1.	Plug the proper cable into your iMac.
	2.	Set the camcorder to VTR (or VCR) mode.
		Some camcorders call this Play mode.
	3.	Click the Camera Import button (labeled in Figure 13-2).
		iMovie opens a new window.
	4.	Click the Camera pop-up menu (at the bottom of the Import window) and select your DV camcorder or FaceTime HD camera.
		If you're using a tape-based camcorder, playback controls appear under the Camera Import window, mirroring the controls on your FireWire DV camcorder. This allows you to control the unit from iMovie. Keen! If you're using a mass-storage camcorder connected by USB, you instead get Import All and Import Checked buttons beneath thumbnails of available clips.
		To capture video from your FaceTime HD camera, click the Video Size pop-up menu to choose the dimensions of the clip; then click Capture. On the sheet that appears, choose the location where the video will be saved, and choose whether to add this video to an existing event or create a new event. Click Capture to start recording, and click Stop when your video is complete. (You can skip the rest of the steps in this section, which deal only with USB and FireWire camcorders.)
		iMovie can analyze your incoming video for one of three different post-recording procedures. Click the After Import Analyze For check box to select it; then choose Stabilization (which helps smooth shaky camera work), People (which marks a clip as including people, making it easier to locate), or Stabilization and People (which, predictably, does both). The Stabilization option is especially good if your camcorder doesn't have a built-in stabilization function (and you weren't shooting with a tripod), but beware: Any of these settings will add significant time to the import process!
	5.	To import selected clips from your FireWire DV camcorder, set the Automatic/Manual switch to Manual and advance the video to a couple of seconds before the point where you want to start your capture; then click Import.
		To import all clips, set the Automatic/Manual switch to Automatic; then click Import.
	6.	(Optional) If you're using a USB camcorder, click the check boxes next to the clips that you don't want to import to deselect them; then click the Import Checked button.
	7.	Click the Save To pop-up menu and choose the drive that should store your clips.
		You can choose to add the new clips to an existing Event or create a new Event. Heck, if the event spanned more than one day, you can create a new Event for each day. (How do they think up these things?)
	8.	Click OK and admire your handiwork.
		iMovie begins transferring the footage to your iMac and automatically adds the imported clips to your Event Library.
	If your clips are already on your hard drive, rest assured that iMovie can import them, including those in high-definition video (HDV) format. iMovie also recognizes a number of other video formats, as shown in Table 13-1.
Table 13-1	Video Formats Supported by iMovie




File Type


Description




DV


Standard 4:3 digital video




DV Widescreen


Widescreen 16:9 digital video




MOV


QuickTime movies




HDV and AVCHD


High-definition (popularly called widescreen) digital video, in 720p and 1080i




MPEG-2


Digital video format used for DVD movies




MPEG-4


A popular format for streaming Internet and wireless digital video, as well as handheld iOS devices like the iPad, iPhone, and iPod touch




	It's easy to get lost in the morass of video formats and assorted standards in use today. although I can't cover all of them in a single chapter, I can recommend the wonderful website at www.videohelp.com, which offers comprehensive information on video recording, optical hardware, and format conversion software.
To import a movie file, follow this bouncing ball:
	1.	Choose File⇒Import and choose Movies from the submenu.
	2.	If you're importing 1080i video clips, click the Optimize Video pop-up menu and choose the Full quality setting.
		The Large setting will save you a significant amount of hard drive space, but the Full setting preserves the original resolution and detail. (If you're not importing 1080i video, use the default Large setting and click OK. The Full setting demands a significant chunk of your iMac's CPU and RAM resources, so expect slower multitasking while importing.)
	3.	Click the drive that should store your clips in the sidebar and then navigate to the desired location.
	4.	Specify whether you want to add the imported video to an existing Event or create a new Event.
		If you choose to add the video to an existing Event, click the pop-up menu and select an Event.
	5.	Specify whether you want to copy the video (leaving the original movie intact) or have the movie moved (the original deleted after a successful import).
	6.	Click Import.
		Alternatively, you can also drag a video clip from a Finder window and drop it in the Project pane.
Making use of still images
Still images come in handy as impressive-looking titles or as ending credits to your movie. (Make sure you list a gaffer and a best boy to be truly professional.) However, you can use still images also to introduce scenes, close scenes, or separate clips according to your whim. For example, I use stills when delineating the days of a vacation within a movie or different Christmas celebrations over time.
Here are two methods of adding stills to your movie:
 Adding images and video clips from iPhoto: Click the Photo Browser button on the Browser toolbar (or press +2) and you'll experience the  thrill that is your iPhoto Library, right from iMovie (as shown in Figure 13-3).  You can elect to display your entire iPhoto Library or more selective picks such as specific albums or Events. When you find the image you want to add, just drag it to the right spot in the Project pane. Videos from your iPhoto Library are automatically added to your iMovie Event Library. It doesn't get much easier than that.
 Importing images from your hard drive: If you're a member of the International Drag-and-Drop Society, you can drag TIFF, JPEG, GIF, PICT, PNG, and PSD images directly from a Finder window and drop them into the Project pane as well.
 

Figure 13-3: Pulling still images from iPhoto is child's play.

 
Importing and adding audio  from all sorts of places
You can pull in everything from Wagner to Weezer as both background music and sound effects for your movie. In this section, I focus on how to get those notes into iMovie and then how to add them to your movie by dragging them to the Project pane.
You can add audio from a number of sources:
 Adding songs from iTunes: Click the Show Music and Sound Effects button on the Browser toolbar (or press +1) to display the contents of your iTunes Library. Click the desired playlist in the scrolling list box, such as the dynamite ABBA playlist I selected in Figure 13-4. (If you've exported any original music you've composed in GarageBand to your iTunes Library, you can use those songs in your own movie!) You can add a track to your movie by dragging the song entry from the Music and Sound Effects list to the desired spot in the Project pane.
 

Figure 13-4: Calling on my iTunes Library to add ABBA to my iMovie.

 
 Adding sound effects: If you need the sound of a horse galloping for your Rocky Mountain vacation clips, click either iMovie Sound Effects or iLife Sound Effects in the scrolling list box. iMovie includes a number of top-shelf audio effects that you can use in the second audio track on the timeline viewer. This way, you can add sound effects even when you've already added a background song. Again, to add a sound effect, drag it to the perfect spot in the Project pane.
		If you have several gigabytes of music in your iTunes Library, it might be more of a challenge to locate Janis Joplin's rendition of "Me and Bobby McGee," especially if she's included in a compilation. Let your iMac do the digging for you! Click in the Search box below the track list and begin typing a song name. iMovie narrows down the song titles displayed to those that match the characters you type. To reset the search box and display all your songs in the Library or selected playlist, click the X icon that appears to the right of the box.
 Ripping songs from an audio CD: Load an audio CD and then choose Audio CD from the scrolling list box. iMovie displays the tracks from the CD, and you can add them at the current playhead position the same way as iTunes songs.
 Recording directly from a microphone: Yep, if you're thinking voiceover narration, you've hit the nail on the head. Check out the sidebar "Narration the easy way" for the scoop.
	You can fine-tune both the audio within a video clip or the audio clips that you add to your project. With the desired clip selected, click the Inspector button in the Editing toolbar (it bears a proud letter i) and click the Audio tab. The Audio Adjustments window that appears includes an array of audio controls that allow you to change the volume of the selected clip, or to give that audio priority — or ducking — over other audio playing simultaneously (such as a sound effect that needs to be clearly heard over background music and the video clip). If your clips dramatically vary in volume, click the Normalize Clip Volume button and then select each clip that you want to set to the same volume; click Normalize Clip Volume again for each clip. You can also set an automatic or manual Fade-in/Fade-out for the audio. When you're done tweaking, click Done. (Oh, and don't forget that you can always return the clip to its original volume; just open this window again and click Revert to Original.)
In the Video Inspector, you can vary the exposure, brightness, contrast, and saturation of your clip. Click the Auto button, and iMovie will perform what it considers the best job of improving your video.
Narration the easy way
Ready to create that award-winning nature documentary? You can add voiceover narration to your iMovie project that would make Jacques Cousteau proud. In fact, you can record your voice while you watch your movie playing, allowing perfect synchronization with the action! To add narration, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the Voiceover button in the Editing toolbar — it sports a microphone icon — to open the Voiceover window.
	2.	Click the Record From pop-up menu and select the input device.
		iMacs sport a decent internal microphone, but you can always add a USB or digital TOSlink microphone to your system.
	3.	Drag the input volume slider to a comfortable level.
		You can monitor the volume level of your voice with the left and right input meters. Try to keep the meters at 50 percent or so for the proper volume level.
	4.	To block out ambient noise levels, drag the Noise Reduction slider to the right if  necessary.
		If you'd like iMovie to enhance your voice electronically for a more professional sound, click the Voice Enhancement check box to select it. If you need to hear the audio from your movie project while you speak, click the Play Project Audio While Recording check box to select it. Note, however, that you'll need to listen to the audio while using a set of headphones (plugged in to your Mac's headphone jack) to avoid feedback problems.
	5.	Click in the desired spot within a clip in the Project pane where the narration should begin.
	6.	Begin speaking when prompted by iMovie.
	7.	Watch the video while you narrate so that you can coordinate your narration track with the action.
	8.	Click anywhere in the iMovie window to stop recording (or wait until the clip ends).
		iMovie adds an icon to the Project pane underneath the video with the voiceover.
	9.	Click the Close button in the Voiceover window.

Building the Cinematic Basics
Time to dive in and add the building blocks to create your movie. Along with video clips, audio tracks, and still images, you can add Hollywood-quality transitions, optical effects, and animated text titles. In this section, I demonstrate how to elevate your collection of video clips into a real-life, honest-to-goodness movie.
Adding clips to your movie
You can add clips to your movie by using the Project pane and the Event pane. The Dynamic Duo works like this:
 Project pane: This displays the media you've added to your project so far, allowing you to rearrange the clips, titles, transitions and still images in your movie. (If the pane is titled Project Library, remember that you have to double-click the desired project to select it. After you've selected a project, the Project Library pane turns into the Project pane.)
 Event pane: This displays your video clips arranged by Event (the date they were shot or the date they were imported), acting as the source repository for all your clips. Movies pulled into iMovie, imported into iPhoto, or added manually from the Finder appear here.
To add a clip to your movie, follow these steps:
	1.	Move your cursor across clips in the Event pane to watch a preview of the video.
	2.	When you've decided what to add to your project, you can either add the entire clip or a selection.
	•	To select an entire clip, right-click the clip's thumbnail and choose Select Entire Clip from the menu that appears.
	•	To select a portion of a clip, drag your cursor across the thumbnail. A yellow frame appears around your selection. To change the length of the selected video, drag the handles that appear on either side. If you make a mistake while selecting video, just click any empty space within the Event pane to remove the selection frame and try again.
	3.	Drag the selection from the Event pane to the spot where it belongs in the Project pane.
		Alternatively, you can press the E key or click the Add to Project button (the first button in the Editing toolbar).
 Preview your work — and do it often.
iMovie offers two Play Full Screen buttons: one under the Event Library and one under the Project Library. Select the project or Event you want to play and then click the corresponding button (or press +G). You can also choose View⇒Play Full Screen to watch the selection. Press the spacebar to pause, and press Esc to return to iMovie. You can also move your cursor to display a filmstrip that you can click to skip forward or backward in the project or Event.
To play a selection from the beginning, press \ (the slash that leans to the left). (If you've ever watched directors at work on today's movie sets, you may have noticed that they're constantly watching a monitor to see what things will look like for the audience. You have the same option in iMovie!)
	While you're watching video in the Event pane, you may decide that a certain clip has a favorite scene or that another clip has material you don't want, such as Uncle Ed's shadow puppets. (Shudder.) iMovie features Favorite and Rejected frames, allowing you to view and use your best camera work (and ignore the worst stuff). To mark video, select a range of frames or an entire clip and then click the Mark as Favorite button on the Editing toolbar. Click the Reject button to hide the selected video or frames from view. (You can always unmark a Favorite or Rejected scene using the Unmark button on the Editing toolbar — click the Show pop-up menu at the bottom of the window if the scenes aren't visible.)
Removing clips from your movie
Don't like a clip? Bah. To banish a clip from your movie, follow these steps
	1.	Click the offending clip in the Project pane to select it.
	2.	Press Delete.
		Alternatively, you can right-click the clip (or a selection you've made by dragging) and choose either Delete Entire Clip or Delete Selection from the menu that appears. (Note that this deletes the clip from the Project pane, but the clip still remains in the Event Library.)
If you remove the wrong clip, don't panic. Instead, use iMovie's Undo feature (press +Z) to restore it.
Reordering clips in your movie
If Day One of your vacation appears after Day Two, you can easily reorder your clips and stills by dragging them to the proper space in the Project pane. When you take your finger off the mouse (or trackpad), iMovie automatically moves the rest of your movie aside with a minimum of fuss and bother.
	iMovie allows you to switch to the familiar timeline view, which many users of previous versions of the application will recognize (and many prefer, including this particular moviemaker). To switch, click the Swap Events and Projects button — it's next to the Camera Import button, and it bears two arrows — to move the Project pane to the bottom of the window and the Event Library to the top. Now you can click the Single-Row View button, which appears below the media Browser toolbar. (Look for a button with three squares in a horizontal line.)
Editing clips in iMovie
If a clip has extra seconds of footage at the beginning or end (as it should to ensure you get all the action), you don't want that superfluous stuff in your masterpiece. Our favorite video editor gives you the following functions:
 Crop: Removes unwanted material from a video clip or still image
 Rotate: Rotates a clip or image on its center axis
 Trim: Trims frames from a video clip
Before you can edit, however, you have to select a section of a clip:
	1.	Click a clip or image in either the Project pane (where changes you make are specific to this project) or the Event pane (where edits you make are reflected in any project using that footage).
		iMovie displays the clip or image in the monitor.
	2.	To select the entire clip or image, simply click it.
	3.	Drag your cursor across the thumbnail to select the section of the media you want to edit.
		(Note that some editing functions, such as Crop and Rotate, will automatically apply to the entire clip.)
		The selected region is surrounded by a yellow frame. You're ready to edit that selected part of the clip.
	Note the handles that appear at the beginning or ending of the selection. You can make fine changes to the selected section by dragging them.
 To crop: Click the Crop button in the Edit toolbar to display the frame in the Monitor pane and then click Crop at the top of the Monitor pane. Drag the edges of the frame and the handles to select the section you want to keep. To preview your selection, click the Play button at the top-right corner of the monitor. When you're ready, click Done, and everything but the selected region is removed.
 To rotate: Click the Crop button in the Edit toolbar and then click one of the two rotation buttons (which carry a curved arrow icon). Each click rotates the media 90 degrees in that direction. Click Done when the clip or image is properly oriented.
 To trim: Right-click the selection and choose Trim to Selection from the contextual menu. iMovie removes the frames from around the selected video.
	Edits that you make to one clip or still image can actually be copied to multiple items! Select the edited clip and click Edit⇒Copy from the iMovie menu. Now you can select one or more clips and choose Edit⇒Paste Adjustments to apply Video, Audio, or Crop edits. (To apply all three types of edits, just choose All.)
Transitions for the masses
Many iMovie owners approach transitions as visual bookends: They merely act as placeholders that appear between video clips. Nothing could be farther from the truth, because judicious use of transitions can make or break a scene. For example, which would you prefer after a wedding ceremony — an abrupt, jarring cut to the reception or a gradual fadeout to the reception?
	Today's audiences are sensitive to transitions between scenes. Try not to overuse the same transition — pick two or three that match the mood of your film. Also weigh the visual impact of a transition carefully — you might even decide that having no transition is the most effective (directors call this deliberate lack of a transition a jump cut)!
iMovie includes a surprising array of transitions, including old favorites (such as Fade In and Dissolve) and some nifty stuff that you might not be familiar with (such as Cube and Page Curl). To display your transition collection (see Figure 13-5), click the Show Transitions button on the Browser toolbar (or press +4).
To see what a particular transition looks like, move your cursor over the thumbnail to display the transition in miniature.
Adding a transition couldn't be easier: Drag the transition from the list in the Transitions Browser pane and drop it between clips or between a clip and a still image in the Project pane. In iMovie '11, transitions are applied in real time.
Even Gone with the Wind had titles
The next stop on our iMovie Hollywood Features Tour is the Titles Browser, shown in Figure 13-6. You'll find it by clicking the Title button on the Browser toolbar (which bears a big capital T) or by pressing +3. You can add a title with a still image, but iMovie also includes everything you need to add basic animated text to your movie.
 

Figure 13-5:  Add transitions for flow between clips in iMovie.

 
 

Figure 13-6: Add titles for your next silent film.

 
Most of the controls you can adjust are the same for each animation style. You can change the font, the size of the text, and the color of the text. To add a title manually, follow these steps:
	1.	Select an animation thumbnail from the Title Browser pane and drag it to the desired spot in the Project pane.
	2.	Click a background thumbnail to select a background for your title.
		Note that these are the same backgrounds you'll see in the Map, Background, and Animatic Browser, which I discuss in the next section.
	3.	Press +T (or choose Text⇒Show Fonts) to make any changes to the fonts or text attributes.
	4.	Click in a text box to type your own line of text.
	5.	Click the Play button to preview your title.
		iMovie displays a preview of the effect in the monitor with the settings that you choose.
	6.	Click Done.
		The title appears in the Project pane.
Adding Maps and Backgrounds
iMovie '11 includes easy-to-use animated maps — think Indiana Jones traveling by airplane from place to place — and static backgrounds that can be used with your titles. To display them, click the Map, Background, and Animatic Browser button on the Browser toolbar, or press +5.
To use an animated map, drag one of the globe or map thumbnails to the Project pane. After the globe or map is created, click it to display the Inspector. Now you can click the Start Location button (and, optionally, the End Location button) to enter the start and stop points for the animation. Type a city or place name to see your choices. (Heck, you can even type in an airport code or decimal coordinates to specify the spot.) After you're done, click OK and then click Done within the Inspector window. Now play the clip and watch as iMovie animates your location (or your trip) in seconds!
To add a static background from the browser, drag it to the desired spot within the Project pane.
Creating an Honest-to-Goodness  Movie Trailer
Yes, friends, you read that correctly! As I mention at the beginning of the chapter, iMovie '11 includes a new Movie Trailer feature that can actually turn your film clips into a Hollywood-class preview, complete with genre transitions and background music.
To create a trailer project, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the File menu and choose New Project (or press +N).
	2.	Type a name for your project.
	3.	Select the aspect ratio for your movie.
		See the section "Shaking Hands with the iMovie Window," earlier in this chapter, for a discussion of standard (4:3) and widescreen (16:9) aspect ratios.
	4.	Choose the frame rate.
	5.	Click a Movie Trailer thumbnail to select it.
		iMovie displays a nifty preview of the trailer style that you've selected. You can click different thumbnails to preview their look before you make your decision. Naturally, you'll want to choose a trailer style that most closely matches the mood you want to project with your movie.
		Note that each trailer has a suggested number of cast members. This number reflects the number of people that will appear in the clip "placeholders" during the editing process. (More on this in a page or two.)
	6.	Click Create.
iMovie replaces the Project Library pane with the Trailer pane, as shown in Figure 13-7. On the Outline tab, you can edit the titles used in the trailer, as well as pop-up lists for information such as the gender of the star(s) and the logo style you want for your "studio" at the beginning of the trailer. To change a text field, click in it and type the new text. You'll see the changes you make in the Trailer display appear in the monitor in real time.
After you've completed your edits to the titles, click the Storyboard tab. Now you can edit the text for each transition: Simply click the text to display the edit box and type. You can also drag clips from your Event Library (or from a Finder window) to fill the storyboard's placeholders for video clips. To delete a clip from the storyboard, click it to select it and then press Delete.
 

Figure 13-7: Build your movie trailer from the Trailer pane.

 
	To preserve the "look and feel" of the trailer storyboard, try to match your clips with the description and suggested activity indicated by the placeholder. (In other words, don't stick a wide-angle video clip of the family dog cavorting in the yard in a placeholder marked "Closeup" — you get the idea.)
	The Storyboard tab might not look like an editing timeline, but you can move the cursor anywhere within the storyboard to preview your trailer! You'll see that the playhead indicator appears wherever the cursor appears, allowing you to watch the clip or transition that it's resting upon. You'll soon be sweeping your mouse to the left or right to move through each section of your trailer.
For an overall listing of each clip required for the full trailer, click the Shot List tab. On this tab, clips are organized by type. For example, all the action clips appear in one section, and all the landscape and closeup clips are grouped together as well. If necessary, you can also add, delete, or swap video clips from the Shot List.
To preview your trailer in its entirety, click the Play Full-Screen button at the top-right corner of the Trailer pane. (Naturally, any storyboard placeholder that you haven't filled with a clip will display just the placeholder.)
After you're satisfied with your finished trailer — or if you'd like to work on another project — click the Project Library button at the top of the Trailer pane, and you'll see that iMovie has added your trailer as a new project in the Library list.
I bet all those hard-working Hollywood video editors are fuming at how easy it is to create a trailer in iMovie!
Sharing Your Finished  Classic with Others
Your movie is complete, you've saved it to your hard drive, and now you're wondering where to go from here. Click Share on the application menu bar, and you'll see that iMovie can unleash your movie upon your unsuspecting family and friends (and even the entire world) in a number of ways:
 iTunes: Send your movie to your iTunes Library as a movie.
 iDVD: Create a new iDVD project automatically, using your movie.
 Media Browser: Make your iMovie project available within other iLife applications, in five different sizes suited to different display devices. Note that the Media Browser is also available for other Apple applications, like Final Cut Pro X, and to third-party applications like Toast Titanium.
 Podcast Producer: You can send your movie to Apple's Podcast Producer application for incorporation into your newest podcasting epic.
 YouTube/Facebook/Vimeo/CNN iReport: Why, certainly you can send your iMovie directly to any of these websites! Can it get more convenient than that? (I think not.)
 Export Movie: Create a copy of your movie on your hard drive in one of five different sizes.
 Export using QuickTime: Create a QuickTime movie with your project using the QuickTime encoding engine (allowing greater control over the export process and the attributes of the finished movie file).
		If you use this option, any computer with an installed copy of QuickTime can display your movies, and you can use QuickTime movies in Keynote presentations as well.
 Export to Final Cut XML: If you'd like to transfer your iMovie project to Final Cut Pro X, use this option to create a compatible XML file.
When you choose a sharing option, iMovie displays the video quality for the option and makes automatic changes to the movie attributes. (For example, choosing Tiny reduces the finished movie as far as possible in file size, and the audio is reduced to mono instead of stereo.)
	If you're worried about permanently reducing the quality of your project by sharing it in a smaller size, fear not! When you choose a sharing option to export your movie, your original project remains on your hard drive, unchanged, so you can share a better-quality version at any time in the future!
	Need to take a movie offline or stop sharing it? You can remove a project from iTunes, your iLife Media Browser, or the YouTube website from the Sharing menu as well. Just click the corresponding Remove From menu item. (Of course, you can share the project again at any time.)












Chapter 14
iDVD — Your DVD Movie Factory
In This Chapter
 Traversing the iDVD window
 Starting a new iDVD project
 Tweaking and adjusting your DVD Menu
 Previewing your (nearly) finished DVD
 Doing things automatically with OneStep DVD and Magic iDVD
 Burning a DVD for your friends and family
How does the old adage go? Oh, yes, it's like this: 
Any DVD movie must be a pain to create. You'll need a ton of money for software, too. And you'll have to take hours of training that will cause your brain to explode.
Funny thing is, DVD authoring — designing and creating a DVD movie — really was like that for many years. Only video professionals could afford the software and tackle the training needed to master all the intricacies of DVD Menu design.
Take one guess as to the company that changed all that. (No, it wasn't Coca-Cola.) Apple's introduction of iDVD was (quite literally) a revolution in DVD authoring. Suddenly you, your kids, and Aunt Harriet could all design and burn DVD movies and picture slideshows. Dear reader, this iDVD thing is huge.
Plus, you'll quickly find out that iDVD is connected to all the other slices of your digital hub. In plain English, you can pull content from iTunes, iPhoto, and iMovie as easily as a politician makes promises. And that, friends and neighbors, is the quintessential definition of cool.
Although iDVD is no longer sold in the Apple App Store, it's still available in the boxed version of the iLife '11 suite. Also, if you upgraded to Lion from Snow Leopard and you already had iDVD installed, you can use the application under Lion with aplomb!
In this chapter, I show you how your iMac can take on Hollywood as well as how you can produce a DVD movie with content that's as good as any you'd rent at the video store!
Hey, Where's the Complex Window?
Figure 14-1 shows iDVD in all its glory. You have to supply your own digital video clips, background audio, and digital photographs, of course.
 

Figure 14-1: iDVD is  a jewel — easy to use and powerful, to boot.

 
Take a moment to appreciate iDVD — no secondary windows to fiddle with or silly palettes strung out everywhere. (Can you tell that I've had my fill of old-style DVD authoring applications?) Allow me to list the highlights of the iDVD window:
 Menu display: This section takes up the largest part of the iDVD window, with good reason. You create your project here. In this case, Menu refers to your DVD Menu, not the menu at the top of your iMac's display. iDVD can also show other information within the Menu display, so it sometimes works a double shift (depending on what you're doing).
 Media pane: You add video, still images, and audio to your project from here, as well as tweak and fine-tune things. The Media pane actually comprises three separate panes. To choose a new pane, click one of these buttons at the bottom of the screen:
	•	Themes: You apply themes (such as Travel Cards, Wedding White, and Baby Mobile) to your DVD Menu to give it a certain look and feel.
	•	Buttons: These options apply to the item currently selected, such as drop shadows on your text titles or the appearance of your Menu buttons.
	•	Media: From here, you can add media items, such as video clips and photos, to your Menu.
 Add button: From this pop-up menu (which sports a dapper plus sign), you can choose one of three types of buttons to add to a project. The choices are
	•	Add Submenu: Choose this item to add a new submenu button to your DVD Menu. The person using your DVD Menu can click a button to display a new submenu that can include additional movies or slideshows. (If that sounds like ancient Greek, hang on. All becomes clearer later in the chapter, in the section "Adding movies.")
		A Menu can hold only a maximum of 12 buttons (depending on the theme you choose), so submenus let you pack more content on your DVD. (Older versions of the application allowed only six buttons, so don't feel too cheated.) Anyway, each submenu you create can hold another 12 buttons, including navigation between menus and submenus.
	•	Add Movie: Yep, this is the most popular button in the whole shooting match. Click this menu item to add a new movie clip to your Menu.
 •	Add Slideshow: If you want to add a slideshow to your DVD — say, using photos from your hard drive or pictures from your iPhoto library — click this menu item.
 Inspector button: Click this button to display the Inspector window for the current Menu or a highlighted object. From this window, you can change the look of an individual submenu button or an entire Menu.
 DVD Map: Click the Map button to display the organizational chart for your DVD Menu. Each button and submenu that you add to your top-level DVD Menu is displayed here, and you can jump directly to a particular item by double-clicking it. Use this road map to help design the layout of your DVD Menu system or to get to a particular item quickly. To return to the Menu display, click the Map button again.
 Motion: Click this button to start or stop the animation cycle used with the current iDVD theme. The animation repeats (just as it will on your finished DVD) until you click the Motion button again.
		Need a visual indicator of the length of your Menu's animation cycle? Click View⇒Show Motion Playhead to display the animation playhead, which moves below the Menu display to indicate where you are in the animation cycle. As you can with other playheads in the iLife suite, you can click and drag the diamond-shaped playhead button to move anywhere in the animation cycle.
 Edit Drop Zones: This button allows you to edit the look and contents of a drop zone on your Menu. (Don't worry, I explain more about drop zones in the sidebar titled "Taking advantage of drop zones," later in this chapter.)
 Preview: To see how your DVD Menu project looks when burned to a DVD, click Preview. You get a truly nifty onscreen remote control that you can use to navigate your DVD Menu, just as if you were watching your DVD on a standard DVD player. To exit Preview mode, click the Stop button on the remote control.
 Burn: Oh, yeah, you know what this one is for — recording your completed DVD movie to a blank disc.
That's the lot! Time to get down to the step-by-step business of making movies.
Starting a New DVD Project
When you launch iDVD for the first time (or if you close all iDVD windows), you get the sporty dialog box shown in Figure 14-2. Take a moment to discover more about these four choices.
Creating a new project
If you choose Create a New Project, iDVD prompts you to type a name for your new DVD project and to set a location where the project files should be saved. By default, the very reasonable choice is your Documents folder. You also get to choose whether your project will display in a Standard (full-screen) aspect ratio of 4:3 or a Widescreen aspect ratio of 16:9. If you've been watching DVD movies for some time, you probably recognize these two terms.
	You'll probably crave Widescreen format if you have a widescreen TV — go figure — but both formats will display on both types of televisions, complete with those black bars we all know and love at the top and bottom (or left and right sides) of the screen.
Click Create, and the iDVD window appears in all its glory.
Opening an existing project
If you've used iDVD and had a DVD project open the last time you quit the application, iDVD automatically loads the DVD project you were working on. However, you can open any DVD you've created or edited by clicking Open an Existing Project. (To choose a different existing project from the iDVD window, press +O or choose File⇒Open Recent.)
 

Figure 14-2: Will that be create or edit, manual or automatic?

 
Automating the whole darn process
If you're a fan of click-it-and-forget-it (or you're in a hurry), you can throw caution to the wind and allow iDVD to create your latest epic for you! iDVD offers two automated methods of creating a DVD movie disc.
Using OneStep DVD
With OneStep, iDVD does almost all the work automatically by using the media clips and photos that you specify. To allow iDVD to help you create a movie, click the OneStep DVD button on the top-level menu (refer to Figure 14-2). If you've already opened a project, choose File⇒OneStep DVD from the application's menu bar (to import clips directly from your FireWire mini-DV camera) or choose File⇒OneStep DVD from Movie (to select a clip to import from your hard drive). OneStep DVD does not work with camcorders that use a USB connection to your iMac. I tell you more about the OneStep DVD feature later, in the section "A Word about Automation."
Using Magic iDVD
Magic iDVD is the newcomer on the block, and it falls neatly between total automation (with OneStep DVD) and total manual control. Click the Magic iDVD button on the top-level menu (refer to Figure 14-2). If you've already opened a project, you can choose File⇒Magic iDVD from the menu bar to choose a theme, drop specific movies and specific photos into filmstrips, and choose an audio track.
In contrast to OneStep DVD, you get to preview the finished product. If it's to your liking, you can choose to either burn the disc directly or create a full-blown iDVD project with the results. Sweet.
You find out more about the new Magic iDVD feature later, in the section "A Word about Automation."
Creating a DVD from Scratch
Doing things the old-fashioned, creative, and manual way (following the examples in this section) involves four basic steps:
 1.	Design the DVD Menu.
 Choose a theme and any necessary buttons or links.
 2.	Add media.
		You can drag movie files from iMovie, still images from iPhoto, and music from iTunes.
 3.	Tweak.
		Adjust and fine-tune your DVD Menu settings.
	4.	Finish things up.
		Preview and burn your DVD or save it to your hard drive.
Choosing just the right theme
The first step to take when manually designing a new DVD Menu system is to add a theme. In the iDVD world, a theme is a preset package that helps determine the appearance and visual appeal of your DVD Menu, including a background image, Menu animation, an audio track, and a group of settings for text fonts and button styles.
iDVD helps those of us who are graphically challenged by including a wide range of professionally designed themes for all sorts of occasions, ranging from old standbys such as weddings, birthdays, and vacations to more generic themes with the accent on action, friendship, and technology. To view the included themes, click the Themes button in the lower-right corner of the iDVD window (see Figure 14-3).
Taking advantage of drop zones
Most of Apple's animated themes include special bordered areas marked as drop zones. These locations have nothing to do with skydiving; rather, a drop zone is a placeholder in the Menu that can hold a single video clip or photograph. When you drag a video clip or an image to a drop zone, that clip or picture is added to the animation in Apple's theme! Think about that for a moment; I know I did. You can actually personalize a Hollywood-quality animated DVD Menu with your own photos  and video!
Most of the themes included with iDVD include at least one drop zone, and some are practically jam-packed with drop zones. For example, the amazing Forever theme has a whopping six drop zones! If you think a Menu looks just fine without anything in a drop zone, however, you don't have to put anything there. The words Drop Zone disappear when you preview or burn your DVD. (Empty frames do tend to look a bit silly in some themes, though.)
To add a video clip or image to a drop zone, simply drag the clip or photo from a Finder window and drop it on the desired drop zone. You can also drag clips or photos from other sources, including the Movies and Photos panes in iDVD's Media pane, the iMovie window, or the iPhoto window (Apple is anything but strict on these matters).Remember, drop zones don't act as links or buttons to other content; the stuff you add to a Menu's drop zones appears only as part of the theme's animation cycle. You can even drag an iPhoto event or album to a drop zone, and it will continuously cycle through the images. Wowzers!
To see all the drop zones at one time (without cycling through the animation), click the Edit Drop Zones button at the bottom center of the iDVD window; when you do, you see a thumbnail display of each zone. You can drag items to these thumbnails or jump right to one in the animation by clicking the thumbnail. To delete the contents of a drop zone, click the thumbnail in the editor and press Delete.
If you're adding something to a dynamic drop zone (which disappears and reappears during the menu animation cycle), click the Motion button to activate the animation and then click it again to stop the animation cycle. Now click and drag the scrubber bar until the desired drop zone is in view. To delete the contents of a drop zone, Control-click (or right-click) the drop zone and choose Clear.

 

Figure 14-3: Select a new theme from the Themes pane.

 
To choose a theme for your project — or to see what a theme looks like on your Menu — click any thumbnail and watch iDVD update the Menu display.
	If you decide while creating your DVD Menu that you need a different theme, you can change themes at any time. iDVD won't lose a single button or video clip that you add to your DVD Menu. You'll be amazed at how the look and sound of your DVD Menu completely changes with just the click of a theme thumbnail.
Adding movies
Drop zones and themes are cool, but most folks want to add video to their DVDs. To accomplish this, iDVD uses buttons as links to your video clips. In fact, some iDVD Movie buttons display a preview of the video they'll display! To play the video on a DVD player, select the Movie button with the remote control, just as you do for a commercial DVD.
To add a Movie button, drag a QuickTime movie file from the Finder and drop it onto your DVD Menu display. (Only MPEG-4 QuickTime movies and DV streams are supported — MPEG-1 and MPEG-2 movie clips may be rejected or automatically converted, or they may even be added without audio. The freeware HandBrake application, available from http://handbrake.fr, can also convert many of these unsupported formats into clips that iDVD can accept.) Alternatively, click the Add button and choose Add Movie from the pop-up menu.
	iDVD and iMovie are soul mates, so you can also display the iDVD Media pane and then click Movies from the pop-up menu. Now you can drag clips from your Movies folder.
No matter the source of the clip, when you drop it onto your DVD Menu, iDVD adds a Movie button, as you can see in Figure 14-4. Note that some buttons appear as text links rather than actual buttons. The appearance of a Movie button in your DVD Menu is determined by the theme you choose.
	A Movie button doesn't have to stay where iDVD places it! By default, iDVD aligns buttons and text objects using an invisible grid, but if you don't want such order imposed on your creativity, just drag the object where you'd like it to be to turn on Free Positioning. (You can also right-click the object and select the Free Positioning item from the menu that appears.) iDVD provides cool new automatic guides that help you align objects when you're using Free Positioning! You'll see them as yellow lines that appear when objects are aligned along a vertical or horizontal plane.
 

Figure 14-4:  A new Movie button appears on your pristine DVD Menu.

 
You can have up to 12 buttons on your iDVD Menu. (The theme you choose determines the maximum number of buttons you can add.) To add more content than 12 buttons allow, add a submenu by clicking the Add button and choosing Add Submenu from the pop-up menu. Now you can click the submenu button to jump to that screen and drag up to another 12 movie files into it.
	Keep your target audience in mind while you create your DVD. Standard TV sets have a different aspect ratio (height to width) and resolution (number of scan lines on the screen) than a digital video clip, and a standard TV isn't as precise in focusing that image on the tube. If you selected the Standard aspect ratio when you created the project, you can make sure that your DVD content looks great on a standard TV screen by following these steps:
	1.	Click View on the old-fashioned iDVD menu (the one at the top of the screen).
	2.	Choose the Show TV Safe Area command.
		You can also press the convenient +T shortcut. iDVD adds a smaller rectangle within the iDVD window to mark the screen dimensions of a standard TV.
If you take care that your Menu buttons and (most of) your background image fit within this smaller rectangle, you're assured that folks with a standard television can enjoy your work. To turn off the TV Safe Area rectangle, press +T again.
A word on image dimensions
For best playback results on a standard TV, make sure that your background image has the same dimensions as standard digital video —  640 x 480 pixels. If the dimensions of your image don't match the dimensions of digital video, iDVD will stretch or shrink the image to fit, which is likely to have undesirable effects. When your image is stretched and skewed to fit the DVD Menu, Aunt Harriet might end up looking  like Shrek.
You can use QuickTime player or iPhoto to change the dimensions of your background image for import into iDVD. For example, you can use the iPhoto crop feature to alter the overall shape of the image and then resize it within iPhoto. Use the Size setting when you export the image from iPhoto and then save the file in the Pictures folder located in your Home folder so that you can find it easily later. (For more on working in iPhoto, see Chapter 12.)
If you enjoy a cutting-edge widescreen (16:9) or HD (high-definition) TV display, you won't have the standard TV dimension restriction of 640 x 480 pixels. And because iDVD supports HD video and 16:9 video with a number of widescreen themes, be prepared to kiss the phrases pan-and-scan and full-screen goodbye and forget about the Show TV Safe Area feature. If your completed DVD projects are purely for your own enjoyment, that's a great idea. However, don't forget that if you distribute your discs to others with old-fashioned TVs dating back to the archaic '80s and '90s, they might not be pleased with what they see!

If your entire family is blessed with a fleet of HD TVs (or you chose the Widescreen aspect ratio for this project), leave the Show TV Safe Area option off. Today's widescreen displays can handle just about any orientation.
Great, now my audience  demands a slideshow
Many Mac owners don't realize that you don't have to use iDVD just for video clips. In fact, you can use the Slideshow buttons to add a group of digital images to your DVD Menu. The Slideshow buttons allow the viewer to play back a series of digital photographs — set to music if you like. iDVD handles everything for you, so there's no tricky timing to figure out or weird scripts to write. Just click the Add button at the bottom of the iDVD window and choose Add Slideshow. iDVD places a Slideshow button on your DVD Menu.
After the Slideshow button is on tap, add the content — in this case, by choosing the images that iDVD adds to your DVD Menu. Follow these steps to select your slideshow images:
	1.	Double-click the Slideshow Menu button — the one you just added to the Menu — to open the Slideshow display (see Figure 14-5).
 

Figure 14-5: Who needs a projector anymore? iDVD can create a great slideshow!

 
	2.	Click the Media button (bottom right of the screen).
	3.	Click the Photos tab (top right of the screen) to display your iPhoto library and photo albums.
	4.	Drag your favorite image thumbnails from the Photos list and drop them into the My Slideshow window.
		You can also drag images straight from a Finder window or the iPhoto window itself. (Those Apple folks are sooooo predictable.)
	5.	Drag around the photos in the My Slideshow window to set their order of appearance in your slideshow.
		Note that you can click the Slide Duration pop-up menu to change the length of time that images are displayed.
	6.	To add audio to these pictures, drag your favorite audio file from the Finder and drop it in the Audio well in the My Slideshow window.
		The Audio well is the box bearing the speaker icon, next to the volume control below the My Slideshow window.
		Alternatively, click the Audio tab to select an audio track from your iTunes Library, iTunes playlists, or GarageBand creations.
	7.	Click the Return button to return to your DVD Menu.
	If you're using a Menu with animated buttons that display an image (rather than text buttons), you can choose which image you want to appear on the Slideshow button. Click the Slideshow button that you added and see the slider that appears above the Slideshow button. Drag this slider to scroll through the images you added. When you find the image that you want to use for the Slideshow button in the DVD Menu, click the Slideshow button again to save your changes.
Now for the music . . .
Most of the Apple-supplied themes already have their own background music, so you might not even need to add music to your DVD Menu. However, if you want to change the existing background music (or if your DVD Menu currently doesn't have any music), adding your own audio to the current Menu is child's play!
	1.	Click the Media button.
	2.	Click the Audio tab to reveal the musical Shangri-La, as shown in Figure 14-6.

 

Figure 14-6: You do a lot of fine-tuning from the Audio pane.

 
	3.	Drag an audio file from the iTunes playlist or GarageBand folder  display and drop it on the Menu background.
		iDVD accepts every sound format that you can use for importing and encoding in iTunes: AIFF, MP3, AAC, Apple Lossless, and WAV audio files.
	4.	Click the Motion button (labeled in Figure 14-1) to watch your DVD Menu animation cycle set to the new background audio.
	5.	Click the Motion button again to stop the animation and return to  serious work.
Giving Your DVD the Personal Touch
You can easily make changes to the default settings provided with the theme you chose. iDVD offers all sorts of controls that allow you to change the appearance and behavior of buttons, text, and the presentation of your content. In this section, I show you how to cast out iDVD's (perfectly good) defaults and then tweak things to perfection.
Using Uncle Morty for your  DVD Menu background
Hey, Uncle Morty might not be a supermodel, but he has birthdays and anniversaries, and iDVD is more than happy to accommodate you in documenting those milestones! Follow these steps to change the background of your DVD Menu:
	1.	Click the Inspector button.
	2.	Get an image using one of the following methods:
	•	Drag an image from the Finder and drop it into the Background well.
	•	Drag the image directly into the Menu display.
 •	To use an image from your iPhoto library, click the Media button and click the Photos tab, and then drag the desired image into the Menu display.
		iDVD updates the DVD Menu to reflect your new background choice.
Adding your own titles
The one tweak you'll probably have to perform in every iDVD project is changing titles. Unfortunately, the default labels provided by iDVD are pretty lame, and they appear in two important places:
 Menu title: Your large main title usually appears at the top of the  DVD Menu.
 Button captions: Each Submenu, Movie, and Slideshow button that you add to your Menu has its own title.
To change the text in your Menu title or the titles below your buttons, follow these steps:
	1.	Select the text by clicking it.
	2.	Click it again to edit it.
		A rectangle with a cursor appears to indicate that you can now edit  the text.
	3.	Type the new text and press Return to save the change.
Changing buttons like a  highly paid professional
Customizing Movie buttons? You can do it with aplomb! Follow these steps:
	1.	Click Buttons.
	2.	Click any Movie button from the DVD Menu to select it.
		A slider appears above the button, which you can drag to set the thumbnail picture for that button in your DVD Menu. (Naturally, this feature is only for animated buttons, not text buttons.)
		Enable the Movie check box to animate the button.
	3.	To create a Movie button with a still image, drag a picture from a Finder window or the Media pane and drop it on top of the button.
	4.	To adjust the properties for the button, click the Inspector button.
Table 14-1 describes the button properties. Note that some properties won't appear for text buttons.
Table 14-1	Button Settings You Can Customize




Movie Button Property


What It Does




Label Font


Changes the label font, text size, color, and attributes.




Label Attributes


Specifies the position of the label and whether it has a shadow.




Custom Thumbnail


Drag an image to the Custom Thumbnail well. For Slideshow buttons, drag the Thumbnail slider to select the image that will appear on the button.




Transition


Determines the transition that occurs when the button is clicked (before the action occurs).




Size


Adjusts the size of the button. Move the slider to the right to increase the button size.




Giving motion to your creation
Earlier in this chapter, you find out how to use a different image for your background (in the section titled "Using Uncle Morty for your DVD Menu background"), but what about using an animated background? You can use any QuickTime movie from your iMovie library (including those you've taken with your iMac's iSight camera) to animate your DVD Menu background! Didn't I tell you that this iDVD thing was huge?
	Keep in mind that your background movie should be a short clip; 20-30 seconds is optimal. A clip with a fade-in at the beginning and a fade-out at the end is the best choice because iDVD loops your background clip continuously, and your animated background flows seamlessly behind your Menu.
	I'm not talking drop zones here. (See the sidebar "Taking advantage of drop zones," earlier in this chapter, for an explanation of drop zones.) You can add a movie to a drop zone, of course, but by using a movie clip as a background, you're replacing the entire animation sequence rather than just a single area of the background. Drop zones also don't provide audio, whereas a clip background does include the clip audio.
Follow these steps to add a new animated background:
	1.	Click your old friend, the Inspector button.
		Make sure that no individual objects are highlighted so that the Inspector window displays the Menu properties instead.
	2.	Drag a movie from the Finder and drop it into the Background well.
		You can click the Movies tab in the Media pane to instantly display your iMovie collection.
	3.	Click the Motion button in the iDVD window to try out your new  background.
	4.	Click the Motion button again to stop the animation cycle.
Previewing Your Masterpiece
Figure 14-7 captures the elusive Preview remote control — truly an awesome sight. When you click Preview, the Media pane disappears, and your DVD Menu appears exactly as it will on the finished DVD.
Ah, but appearances aren't everything: You can also use your DVD Menu! Click the buttons on the remote control to simulate the remote on your DVD player or think outside the box and click a Menu button directly with your mouse pointer. iDVD presents the video clip, runs the slideshow, or jumps to a submenu, just as it will with the completed disc.
This is a great time to test-drive a project before you burn it to disc. To make sure you don't waste a blank DVD, make certain that everything you expect to happen actually happens. Nothing is worse than discovering that Aunt Edna's slideshow from her Hong Kong trip actually displays your family's summer trip to the zoo (whoops). If you made a mistake or something needs tweaking, click the Preview button again, and you're back to the iDVD window proper, where you can edit or fine-tune your project.
 

Figure 14-7: Preview mode — an incredible simulation, indeed.

 
	iDVD allows you to save your project as a standard Mac OS X disc image rather than as a simple project file (or a physical DVD) — you can use Apple's Disk Utility to open and mount the disc image as if it were a burned disc. If you move the disc image to another Mac with a SuperDrive, you can use Disk Utility to burn it to disc using that machine. To save an iDVD project as a disc image, choose File⇒Save as Disc Image (or press +Shift+R). To save your project as a standard VIDEO_TS folder (suitable for burning with another video-editing or DVD recording application), choose File⇒Save as VIDEO_TS Folder.
	Interested in tweaking settings across your entire project? Perhaps you'd like to reduce the time it takes to create and edit your DVD or switch video modes from NTSC to PAL for a DVD that's to be sent overseas. If you'd like to view or change the overall settings for your entire DVD, click Project⇒Project Info to display the Project Info dialog. Heck, you can even switch aspect ratios or change the project name. Thanks, Apple!
A Word about Automation
At the beginning of the chapter, I mention the easy way to produce an iDVD disc or project, using either OneStep DVD (for complete automation) or Magic iDVD (for partial automation). In this section, I provide you with the details.
One-click paradise with OneStep DVD
If you're in a hurry to create a DVD from clips on your DV camcorder and you don't mind losing your creative input, OneStep DVD is just the ticket. In short, iDVD allows you to plug in your FireWire-equipped mini-DV camcorder, answer a question or two, and then sit back while the application does all the work. iDVD imports the DV clips, creates a basic Menu design, and burns the disc automatically! (Again, note that OneStep DVD doesn't support USB  camcorders.)
Using OneStep DVD will appeal to any iMac owner. Why not produce a DVD right after a wedding or birthday that you can give as a gift? Photographers who cover those same special events might consider selling a DVD made with OneStep DVD. If you happen to capture something incredibly unique — such as a UFO landing or an honest politician — you can use OneStep DVD to create an instant backup of the clips on your DV camcorder. You could even keep your friends and family up-to-date with the progress of your vacation by sending them a daily DVD of your exploits! (You gotta admit, even Grandma would consider that eminently sassy!)
Follow these steps to start the OneStep DVD process:
	1.	Click the OneStep DVD button on the iDVD top-level menu (refer to Figure 14-2).
		Alternatively, choose File⇒OneStep DVD.
		iDVD displays the dialog shown in Figure 14-8.
 

Figure 14-8: Connect your DV camcorder, and OneStep DVD does the rest.

 
		If you want to use OneStep DVD with an existing movie on your iMac's hard drive, choose File⇒OneStep DVD from Movie instead. iDVD prompts you for the video file to use. (You'll rely on this trick often if you have video clips saved to your hard drive from other devices, like the EyeTV Hybrid TV tuner from Elgato at www.elgato.com.)
	2.	Following the prompts, connect the FireWire cable from your DV  camcorder; then turn on the camcorder and set it to VCR mode.
	3.	Click OK.
	4.	Load a blank DVD.
Exercising control with Magic iDVD
Got a little extra time? For those who prefer to make just a few choices and let iDVD do the rest, the new Magic iDVD feature just plain rocks! However, you can't import clips directly from your mini-DV camcorder as you can with OneStep DVD; instead, you select one of the following:
 An iDVD theme
 Video clips you've already created with iMovie or dragged from the Finder (perfect for use with a USB 2.0 DV camcorder)
 Photos from your iPhoto library or dragged from the Finder
 Audio from your iTunes playlist or dragged from the Finder
Follow these steps to start the Magic iDVD process:
	1.	Click the Magic iDVD button on the iDVD top-level dialog (refer to Figure 14-2).
		iDVD displays the window you see in Figure 14-9.
	2.	Click in the DVD Title box and type a name for your disc (or project).
	3.	Click to select a theme from the Theme strip.
	4.	Click the Movies tab and drag the desired clips into the Drop Movies Here strip.
	5.	To add a slideshow, click the Photos tab and drag the desired photos into the Drop Photos Here strip.
	6.	To add audio for your slideshow, click the Audio tab and drag the desired song into the Drop Photos Here strip (a speaker icon appears in the first cell of the strip to indicate that you've added a soundtrack).
	7.	Click Preview to see a preview of the finished project, complete with remote control. To exit Preview mode, click Exit.
	8.	To open the project in its current form in the main iDVD window, click Create Project.
	9.	To record your completed project directly to DVD, load a blank DVD and click Burn.
To return to the iDVD main window at any time, just click the Close button on the Magic iDVD window.
 

Figure 14-9:  With Magic iDVD, you make some basic choices, and iDVD does the work.

 
Recording a Finished Project  to a Shiny Disc
When you're ready to record your next Oscar-winning documentary on family behaviors during vacation, just follow these simple words:
	1.	Click the Burn button at the bottom of the iDVD window.
		I have to admit, the Burn button that appears has to be my favorite single control in all my 30+ years of computing! It looks powerful, it looks sexy . . . it wants to burn. (Sorry about that.)
	2.	After iDVD asks you to insert a blank DVD-R into the SuperDrive, load a single or dual-layer blank DVD-R, DVD-RW, DVD+R, or DVD+RW.
		Your SuperDrive might be able to burn and read a DVD+R, DVD-RW, or  DVD+RW, but what about your DVD player? Keep in mind that only DVD-Rs are likely to work in older DVD players. The latest generation of DVD players is likely DVD+R-compatible as well, but I've seen only a handful of DVD players that can handle rewriteable media at the time of this writing. Therefore, remember the destination for the discs you burn and choose your media accordingly.
		After a short pause, iDVD begins burning the DVD. The application keeps you updated with a progress bar.
When the disc is finished, you're ready to load it into your favorite local DVD player or back into your iMac and enjoy your work using Apple's DVD Player.
Either way, it's all good!












Chapter 15
Recording Your Hits  with GarageBand
In This Chapter
 Navigating the GarageBand window
 Adding tracks and loops to your song
 Repeating loops and extending your song
 Building arrangements
 Adding effects to instruments
 Exporting your work to iTunes and iWeb
 Burning your song to an audio CD
Do you dream of making music? I've always wanted to join a band, but I never devoted the time nor learned to play the guitar. You know the drill: Those rock stars struggled for years to gain the upper hand over an instrument, practicing for untold hours, memorizing chords, and. . . . Wait a second. I almost forgot. You don't need to do any of that now!
Apple's GarageBand lets a musical wanna-be (like yours truly) make music with an iMac — complete with a driving bass line, funky horns, and perfect drums that never miss a beat. In fact, the thousands of prerecorded loops on tap in this awesome application allow you to design your music to match that melody running through your head, from techno to jazz to alternative rock.
Oh, and did I mention that you can also use GarageBand '11 to produce podcasts? That's right! You can record your voice and easily create your own show, and then share it with others from your iWeb site! Heck, add photos if you like. You'll be the talk of your family and friends and maybe even your Mac user group.
This chapter explains everything you need to know to create your first song. I also show you how to import your hit record into iTunes so that you can listen to it on your iPod with a big silly grin on your face (as I do) or add it to your next iMovie or iDVD project.
Don't be too smug when you think of all that practicing and hard work you missed out on. What a shame!
Shaking Hands with Your Band
As you can see in Figure 15-1, the GarageBand window isn't complex at all, and that's good design. In this section, I list the most important controls so that you know your Play button from your Loop Browser button.
 

Figure 15-1:  The GarageBand window —  edged in wood grain, no less.

 
Your music-making machine includes
 Track list: In GarageBand, a track is a discrete instrument that you set up to play one part of your song. For example, a track in a classical piece for string quartet would have four tracks — one each for violin, viola, cello, and bass. The track list contains all the tracks in your song arranged so that you can easily see and modify them, like the rows in a spreadsheet. A track begins in the list, stretching out to the right all the way to the end of the song. As you can see in the upper left of Figure 15-1, I already have one track defined — a Grand Piano.
		If you're creating a podcast, a Podcast artwork track can also appear. Video podcasts can include a movie track as well.
 Timeline: This scrolling area holds the loops (see the following bullet) that you add, compose, or record, allowing you to move and edit them easily. When a song plays, the Timeline scrolls to give you a visual look at your music. (Bear with me; you'll understand that cryptic statement in a page or two.)
 Loop: This is a prerecorded clip of an instrument being played in a specific style and tempo. Loops are the building blocks of your song. You can drag loops from the Loop Browser to a track and literally build a bass line or a guitar solo. (It's a little like adding video clips in iMovie to build a film.)
 Playhead: This vertical line is a moving indicator that shows you the current position in your song while it scrolls by in the Timeline. You can drag the playhead to a new location at any time. The playhead also acts like the insertion cursor in a word processing application: If you insert a section of a song or a loop from the Clipboard, it appears at the current location of the playhead. (More on copying and inserting loops later, so don't panic.)
 Create a New Track button: Click this button to add a new track to  your song.
 Track Info button: If you need to display the instrument used in a track, click the track to select it and then click this button. You can also control settings, such as Echo and Reverb, from the Edit pane of the Track Info display.
 View/Hide Loop Browser button: Click the button with the loop icon to display the Loop Browser at the right side of the window; click it again to close it. You can see more of your tracks' contents at a time without scrolling by closing the Loop Browser.
 View/Hide Media Browser button: Click this button (which bears icons of a filmstrip, slide, and musical note) to display the media browser at the right side of the window; click it again to close it. By closing the media browser, you'll see more of your tracks. If you're already familiar with iDVD, iWeb, or iMovie, you recognize this pane in the GarageBand window; it allows you to add media (in this case, digital song files, still images, or movies) to your GarageBand project for use in a podcast or as iPhone ringtones.
 Go to Beginning button: Clicking this button immediately moves the playhead back to the beginning of the Timeline.
 Move Back/Forward One Measure buttons: To move quickly through your song by jumping to the previous or next measure, click the corresponding button.
 Play button: Hey, old friend! At last, a control that you've probably used countless times before — and it works just like the same control on your audio CD player. Click Play, and GarageBand begins playing your entire song. Notice that the Play button turns blue. To pause the music, click Play again; the button loses that sexy blue sheen and the playhead stops immediately.
 Time/Tempo display: This cool-looking LCD display shows you the  current playhead position in seconds.
		You can click the icon at the left of the display to choose other modes, such as
	•	Measures (to display the current measure and mark the beat)
	•	Chord (to display note and chord names)
	•	Project (to show or change the key, tempo, and signature for the song)
 Volume slider: Here's another familiar face. Just drag the slider to raise or lower the volume.
Of course, more controls are scattered around the GarageBand window, but these are the main controls used to compose a song . . . which is the next stop!
Composing and Podcasting Made Easy
In this section, I cover the basics of composition in GarageBand, working from the very beginning. Follow along with this running example:
	1.	Close all existing GarageBand windows.
		GarageBand displays the top-level New Project dialog, shown in Figure 15-2.
	2.	Click New Project on the list at the left.
	3.	Click the Piano icon and click Choose.
		If I choose the Piano, my new GarageBand project will have one track already in place — a grand piano. If you choose Electric Guitar or Voice, you'll have a project automatically created with an electric guitar track or male and female voice tracks. To create a completely empty project, choose Loops.
 

Figure 15-2: Start  creating  your new song here.

 
		GarageBand displays the New Project From Template dialog.
	4.	Type a name for your new song and then drag the Tempo slider to select the beats per minute (bpm).
		A GarageBand song can have only one tempo (or speed) throughout, expressed as beats per minute.
	5.	If you want to adjust the settings for your song, you can select the
	•	Time signature (the Time box, expressed as beats per minute)
	•	Key (the Key box)
		If you're new to music theory (the rules and syntax by which music is created and written), just use the defaults. Most of the toe-tappin' tunes that you and I are familiar with fit right in with these settings.
	6.	Click the Create button.
		You see the window shown in Figure 15-1. (The Blues Jazz Piano 01 loop in Figure 15-1 — which I show you how to add in the next section — is an example of a typical loop.)
Adding tracks
Although I'm not a musician, I am a music lover, and I know that many classical  composers approached a new work in the same way you approach a new song in GarageBand: by envisioning the instruments that they wanted to hear. (I imagine Mozart and Beethoven would've been thrilled to use GarageBand, but I think they did a decent job with pen and paper, too.)
In fact, GarageBand includes a Songwriting project (also available from the top-level New Project dialog). When you choose the Songwriting project, GarageBand presents you with a full set of four instrument tracks, plus a real instrument track for your voice. (More on software versus real instrument tracks in a page or two.) You're instantly ready to start adding loops and recording your own voice!
	If you've followed along to this point, you've noticed two problems with your GarageBand window:
 There's no keyboard. You can record the contents of a software instrument track by "playing" the keyboard, clicking the keys with your mouse. (As you might imagine, this isn't the best solution.) If you're a musician, the best method of recording your own notes is with a MIDI instrument, which I discuss later in the chapter. For now, you can display the keyboard window by pressing +K. If the keyboard window is on the screen and you don't need it, banish the window by clicking the Close button.
		Even if you're not interested in the "point-and-click" keyboard, GarageBand offers a musical typing keyboard, where you press the keys on your keyboard to simulate the keys on a musical keyboard. (Hey, if you don't have a MIDI instrument, at least it's better than nothing.) To display the musical typing keyboard window, press Shift++K.
 The example song has only one track. If you want to write the next classical masterpiece for Grand Piano, that's fine. Otherwise, on the GarageBand menu bar, choose Track⇒Delete Track to start with a clean slate. (I know, I could have started with a Loops project, but this way you get to see how to delete a track.)
	These are the five kinds of tracks you can use in GarageBand:
 Software instrument tracks: These tracks aren't audio recordings. Rather, they're mathematically precise algorithms that your Mac renders (or builds) to fit your needs. If you have a MIDI instrument connected to your Mac, you can create your own software instrument tracks. (More on MIDI instruments later in this chapter.)
		In this chapter, I focus on software instrument tracks, which are the easiest for a nonmusician to use.
 Real instrument tracks: A real instrument track is an actual audio recording, such as your voice or a physical instrument without a MIDI connection. (Think microphone.)
 Electric Guitar tracks: GarageBand includes a real instrument track especially made for an electric guitar, which allows you to use one of five different amplifiers and a number of stompboxes (those effect pedals that electric guitarists are always poking with their foot to change the sound of their instruments).
 Podcast artwork track: You get only one of these; it holds photos that will appear on a video-capable iPod, iPhone, or iPad (or a window on your iWeb site) when your podcast is playing.
 Video tracks: The video sound track appears if you're scoring (adding music) to an iMovie movie. Along with the video sound track, you get a cool companion video track that shows the clips in your movie. (More on this in the "Look, I'm John Williams!" sidebar, later in this chapter.)
Time to add a software instrument track of your very own. Follow these steps:
	1.	Click the New Track button (which carries a plus sign), labeled in Figure 15-1.
		GarageBand displays the New Track dialog.
	2.	Click the Software Instrument icon and then click Create.
		See all those great instruments in the Track Info pane on the right?
	3.	Choose the general instrument category by clicking it.
		I chose Drum Kits.
	4.	From the right column, choose your specific style of weapon, such as Rock Kit for an arena sound.
		Figure 15-3 illustrates the new track that appears in your list when you follow these steps.
 

Figure 15-3:  The new track appears, ready to rock.

 
If you're creating a podcast and you want to add a series of still images that will appear on a device's screen (or on your iWeb page), follow these steps:
	1.	Click the View Media Browser button (labeled in Figure 15-1).
	2.	Click the Photos button.
		GarageBand displays all the photos in your iPhoto library and Events.
	3.	Drag an image from your iPhoto library in the media browser to the Track list.
		The Podcast track appears at the top of the Track list, and you can add and move images in the list at any time, just like the loops that you add to your instrument tracks. (More on adding and rearranging the contents of a track later in this section.)
Choosing loops
When you have a new, empty track, you can add loops to build your song. You do that by adding loops to your track from the Loop Browser — Apple provides you with thousands of loops to choose among — and photos from your media browser. Click the Loop Browser button (which bears the loop symbol, somewhat like a roller coaster) to display your collection, as shown in Figure 15-4.
	If your Loop Browser looks different from what you see in Figure 15-4, that's because of the view mode you're using (just like the different view modes available for a Finder window). The three-icon button in the upper-left corner of the Loop Browser toggles the browser display between column, musical button, and podcast sounds view. Click the middle of the three buttons to switch to musical button mode.
Looking for just the right loop
The track in this running example uses a Rock drum kit, but you haven't added a loop yet. (Refer to Figure 15-3.) Follow these steps to search through your loop library for just the right rhythm:
	1.	Click the button that corresponds to the instrument you're using.
		I chose the Kits button in the Loop Browser. Click it, and a list of different beats appears in the pane at the bottom of the Loop Browser window. (Check out Figure 15-4 for a sneak peek.)
 

Figure 15-4: The Loop Browser, shown in button view.

 
	2.	Click one of the loops with a green musical-note icon.
		Go ahead; this is where things get fun! GarageBand begins playing the loop nonstop, allowing you to get a feel for how that particular loop sounds.
		The examples I chose for this chapter are software instruments, which are identified by a green musical-note icon. (If you've got a band at home, have at it with live instruments.)
	3.	Click another entry in the list, and the application switches immediately to that loop.
		Now you're beginning to understand why GarageBand is so cool for both musicians and the note-impaired. It's like having your own band, with members who never get tired, never miss a beat, and play whatever you want while you're composing. (Mozart would've loved this.)
		If you want to search for a particular instrument, click in the Search box (labeled in Figure 15-4) and type the text you want to match. GarageBand returns the search results in the list.
 4.	Scroll down the list and continue to sample the different loops until you find one that fits like a glove.
		For this reporter, it's Southern Rock Drums 01.
	5.	Drag the entry to your Rock Kit track and drop it at the very beginning of the Timeline (as indicated by the playhead).
		Your window will look like Figure 15-5.
	If you want that same beat throughout the song, you don't need to add any more loops to that track. (More on extending that beat in the next section.) However, if you want the drum's beat to change later in the song, you add a second loop after the first one in the same track. For now, leave this track as is.
	Whoops! Did you do something that you regret? Don't forget that you can undo most actions in GarageBand by pressing the old standby +Z immediately afterward.
Second verse, same as the first
When you compose, you can add tracks for each instrument that you want in your song:
 Each track can have more than one loop.
 Loops don't have to start at the beginning; you can drop a loop anywhere in the Timeline.
For example, in Figure 15-6, you can see that my drum kit kicks in first, but my bass line doesn't begin until some time later (for a funkier opening).
	You put loops on separate tracks so that they can play simultaneously on different instruments. If all your loops in a song are added on the same track, you hear only one loop at any one time, and all the loops use the same software instrument. By creating multiple tracks, you give yourself the elbow room to bring in the entire band at the same time. It's über-convenient to compose your song when you can see each instrument's loops and where they fall in the song.
	Click the Reset button in the Loop Browser to choose another instrument or genre category.
 

Figure 15-5: A track with a loop added.

 
Look, I'm John Williams!
You, too, can be a famous composer of soundtracks . . . well, perhaps not quite as famous as Mr. Williams, but even he had to start somewhere. To add a GarageBand score to an iMovie, click the Track menu in Garage Band and then click Show Movie Track to display the Movie track. Choose a movie to score from the familiar confines of the Media Browser, and drag it to the Movie Track.
At this point, you add and modify instrument tracks and loops just as you would any other GarageBand project. The existing sound for the iMovie project appears in the Movie Sound track. A Video Preview thumbnail appears within the Movie track. When you click the Play button, the video is shown as well so that you can check your work and tweak settings (as described later in the chapter).
After you've finished composing, you can click Share on the menu bar and choose to export your work to iDVD, as a QuickTime movie directly to your hard drive, or to iTunes or iWeb as a movie. Note that you can't return to iMovie with your project, so scoring should be a final step in the production of your movie.

 

Figure 15-6: My Timeline with a synth and an electric bass onboard. Let's rock!

 
Resizing, repeating, and moving loops
If you haven't already tried listening to your entire song, try it now. You can click Play at any time without wreaking havoc on your carefully created tracks. Sounds pretty good, doesn't it?
But wait: I bet the song stopped after about five seconds, right? (You can watch the passing seconds using either the Time/Tempo display or the second rule that appears at the very top of the Timeline.) I'm sure that you want your song to last more than five seconds! After the playhead moves past the end of the last loop, your song is over. Click Play again to pause the playback; then click the Return to Beginning button (labeled in Figure 15-1) to move the playhead back to the beginning of the song.
The music stops so soon because your loops are only so long. Most are five seconds in length, and others are even shorter. To keep the groove going, you have to do one of three things:
 Resize the loop. Hover your cursor over either the left or right edge of most loops, and an interesting thing happens: Your cursor changes to a vertical line with an arrow pointing away from the loop. That's your cue to click and drag — and as you drag, most loops expand to fill the space you're making, repeating the beats in perfect time. By resizing a loop, you can literally drag the loop's edge as long as you like.
 Repeat the loop. Depending on the loop that you chose, you might find that resizing it doesn't repeat the measure. Instead, the new part of the loop is simply dead air. In fact, the length of many loops is limited to anywhere from one to five seconds. However, if you move your cursor over the side of a loop that you want to extend, it turns into a circular arrow, which tells you that you can click and repeat the loop. GarageBand actually adds multiple copies of the same loop automatically, for as far as you drag the loop. In Figure 15-7, I've repeated the bass loop that you see in Figure 15-6.
 Add a new loop. You can switch to a different loop to change the flow of the music. Naturally, the instrument stays the same, but there's no reason you can't use a horn-riff loop in your violin track (as long as it sounds good played by a violin)! To GarageBand, a software instrument track is compatible with any software instrument loop that you add from the Loop Browser as long as that loop is marked with your old friend the green musical note.
You can also use the familiar cut (+X), copy (+C), and paste (+V) editing keys to cut, copy, and paste loops from place to place — both on the Timeline and from track to track. And you can click a loop and drag it anywhere.
	Each track can be adjusted so that you can listen to the interplay between two or more tracks or hear how your song sounds without a specific track:
 Click the tiny speaker button under the track name in the list, and the button turns blue to indicate that the track is muted. To turn off the mute, click the speaker icon again.
 You can change the volume or balance of each individual track by using the mixer that appears next to the track name. This comes in handy if you want an instrument to sound louder or confine that instrument to the left or right speaker.
A track doesn't have to be filled for every second with one loop or another. Most of my songs have a number of repeating loops with empty space between them as different instruments perform solo.
Using the Arrange track
GarageBand includes another method you can use to monkey with your music: The Arrange track can be used to define specific sections of a song, allowing you to reorganize things by selecting, moving, and copying entire sections. For example, you're probably familiar with the chorus (or refrain) of a song and how often it appears during the course of the tune. With the Arrange track, you can reposition the entire chorus within your song, carrying all the loops and settings within the chorus along with it! If you need another chorus, just copy that arrangement.
 

Figure 15-7: By repeating the bass loop, you can keep the thump flowing.

 
To use the Arrange track, display it by clicking Track⇒Show Arrange Track. The Arrange track then appears as a thin strip at the top of the track list. Click the Add Region button in the Arrange track (which carries a plus sign) and you'll see a new, untitled region appear (as shown in Figure 15-8). You can drag the right side of the Arrangement region to resize it, or drag it to move it anywhere in the song.
	Who wants an arrangement full of regions named "untitled"? To rename an Arrangement region, click the word untitled to select it (the Arrange track turns blue) and then click the title again to display a text box. Type a new name for the region and press Return.
Now, here's where Arrangement regions get cool:
 To move an entire Arrangement region, click the region's title in the Arrange track and then drag it anywhere you like in the song.
 To copy an Arrangement region, hold down the Option key and drag the desired region's title to the spot where you want the copy to appear.
 To delete an Arrangement region, select it and press +Option+Delete.
 To replace the contents of an Arrangement region with those of another Arrangement region, hold down the  key and drag the desired region's title on top of the offending region's title.
 To switch two Arrangement regions in your song — swapping the contents completely — drag one of the Arrangement region titles on top of the other and lift your finger from the mouse.
Tweaking the settings for a track
You don't think that John Mayer or U2 just "play and walk away," do you? No, they spend hours after the recording session is over, tweaking their music in the studio and on the mixing board until every note sounds just as it should. You can adjust the settings for a track, too. The tweaks that you can perform include adding effects (pull a Hendrix and add echo and reverb to your electric guitar track) and kicking in an equalizer (for fine-tuning the sound of your background horns).
 

Figure 15-8: I've just added a new region in my song's Arrange track.

 
To make adjustments to a track, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the desired track in the track list to select it.
	2.	Click the Track Info button (labeled in Figure 15-1).
	3.	Click the Edit tab to show the settings shown in Figure 15-9.
	4.	Click the button next to each effect you want to enable.
		The button glows green when enabled.
		Each of the effects has a modifier setting. For example, you can adjust the amount of echo to add by dragging its slider.
		GarageBand offers a Visual Equalizer window that you can use to create a custom equalizer setting for each track. You can display the Visual EQ window by clicking the animated button next to the Visual EQ control on the Edit pane. To change the Bass, Low Mid, High Mid, or Treble setting for a track, click and drag the equalizer waveform in the desired direction. And yep, you can do this while your song is playing, so you can use both your eyes and ears to define the perfect settings!
 

Figure 15-9: Finesse your tune by tweaking the sound of a specific track.

 

	5.	To save the instrument as a new custom instrument, click the Save Instrument button.
		Now you can use the instrument the next time you add a track.
	6.	Click the Track Info button again to return to GarageBand.
Time for a Mark's Maxim:
 Save your work often in GarageBand, just as you do in the other iLife applications. One power blackout, and you'll never forgive yourself. Press +S and enjoy the peace of mind (and use Time Machine with an external backup drive for good measure).
Join in and jam . . . or talk!
As I mention elsewhere in this chapter, GarageBand is even more fun if you happen to play an instrument! (And yes, I'm envious, no matter how much I enjoy the techno and jazz music that I create. After all, take away my iMac and I'm back to playing the kazoo . . . at least until I absorb all the Learn to Play lessons for the guitar.)
Most musicians use MIDI instruments to play music on the computer. That pleasant-sounding acronym stands for Musical Instrument Digital Interface. A wide variety of MIDI instruments is available these days, from traditional MIDI keyboards to more exotic fun, such as MIDI saxophones. For example, Apple sells a 49-key MIDI keyboard from M-Audio for around $100. Alternatively, the highly recommended Casio CTX-3000 offers 61 keys, and it's available online for about $130. (Both keyboards connect to your iMac using a USB cable.)
If you have an older instrument with traditional MIDI ports — they're round, so you'll never confuse them with USB connectors — you need a USB-to-MIDI converter. You can find this type of converter for around $50 on websites catering to musicians. (If you're recording your voice for a podcast, things are easier because you can use your iMac's built-in microphone; however, most podcasting professionals opt for an external microphone, which offers better fidelity and doesn't force you to sit directly in front of your screen to record.)
After your instrument is connected, you can record tracks using any software instrument. Create a new software instrument track as I demonstrate in this chapter, select it, and then play a few notes. Suddenly you're playing the instrument you chose! (If nothing happens, check the MIDI status light — which appears in the time display — to see whether it blinks with each note you play. If not, check the installation of your MIDI connection and make sure you've loaded any required drivers, as well as your MIDI settings within QuickTime and the input settings in the System Preferences Sound pane.)
Drag the playhead to a beat or two before the spot in the Timeline where you want your recording to start. This gives you time to match the beat. Then click the big red Record button and start jamming or speaking! When you're finished, click the Play button to stop recording.

Automatic Composition with  Magic GarageBand
In a hurry? Too rushed to snag loops and tweak effects? Never fear, GarageBand can even compose a song automatically! The Magic GarageBand feature provides a wide range of nine different genres of music to choose among — everything from blues to reggae to funk and rock.
To create a song automatically, follow these steps:
	1.	Close all GarageBand windows.
		If you're currently working on a song, GarageBand will prompt you to save it before closing the window.
	2.	Click the Magic GarageBand button in the New Project dialog.
	3.	Click the desired genre button and click Choose.
		Hover your cursor over a genre button to get a preview of the song for that genre.
	4.	To hear the entire song with the default instruments, click Entire Song and press the Play button.
		Alternatively, to hear a short sample of the song, click Snippet and press the Play button.
		As shown in Figure 15-10, you see each instrument on stage. To choose a different musical style for an instrument (or a variation of the instrument), click it and then select the desired sound from the menu below the stage.
		Click the My Instrument pop-up menu at the lower-left corner of the window to add your own voice or instrumental using your iMac's keyboard, a microphone, or a MIDI instrument.
	5.	When the song fits like a glove, click Open in GarageBand to open the song as a project in GarageBand.
Now you can edit and tweak the song to your heart's delight as you can any other GarageBand project, adding other software or real instrument tracks as necessary.
 

Figure 15-10:  Creating my own arena-rock classic with Magic GarageBand.

 
Sharing Your Songs and Podcasts
After you finish your song, you can play it whenever you like through GarageBand. But then again, that isn't really what you want, is it? You want to share your music with others with an audio CD or download it to your iPod so that you can enjoy it yourself while walking through the mall!
iTunes to the rescue! As with the other iLife applications that I cover in this book, GarageBand can share the music you make through the digital hub that is your Mac.
Creating MP3 and AAC files and ringtones
You can create an MP3 or AAC file (or even an iPhone ringtone, or a FaceTime ringtone for your iPad and iPod touch) from your song or podcast project in just a few simple steps:
	1.	Open the song that you want to share.
	2.	Choose Share⇒Send Song to iTunes.
		GarageBand displays the settings you see in Figure 15-11.
		To create a ringtone and send it to iTunes, choose Share⇒Send Ringtones to iTunes.
	3.	Click in each of the four text boxes to type the playlist, artist name, composer name, and album name for the tracks you create.
		You can leave the defaults as they are, if you prefer. Each track that you export is named after the song's name in GarageBand.
	4.	Click the Compress Using pop-up menu and choose the encoder GarageBand should use to compress your song file.
		The default is AAC, but you can also choose MP3 encoding for wider device compatibility.
	5.	Click the Audio Settings pop-up menu to select the proper audio quality for the finished file.
		The higher the quality, the larger the file. GarageBand displays the approximate file size and finished file information in the description box.
	6.	Click Share.
After a second or two of hard work, your Mac opens the iTunes window and highlights the new (or existing) playlist that contains your new song.
Sending a podcast to iWeb or iTunes
If you've prepared a new podcast episode in GarageBand, you can send it automatically to iWeb or iTunes by following these steps:
	1.	Open the podcast that you want to export to iWeb.
		Make sure that the Podcast track is displayed. If necessary, click Track⇒Show Podcast Track to display it.
	2.	Choose Share⇒Send Podcast to iWeb (or Share⇒Send Podcast to iTunes).
	3.	Click the Compress Using pop-up menu and choose the encoder that GarageBand should use to compress your podcast file.
		Your choices are AAC and MP3 format.
	4.	Click the Audio Settings pop-up menu to select the proper audio quality for the finished file.
	5.	Click Share.
Hey, GarageBand, teach me how to play!
In the early days of GarageBand, you were limited to creating music — and if you were a nonmusician like yours truly, GarageBand had no practical use as a tool for teaching yourself how to actually play an instrument.
Ah, but Apple's addition of Learn to Play actually turns GarageBand into your private video tutor for basic piano and guitar! From the New Project dialog, click the Learn to Play heading to display your lessons. Right out of the box, you have an Introduction to both instruments, but you can download more free lessons for each instrument from the Lesson Store — and they cover more advanced topics such as fingering and chords. Your onscreen instructor can even record what you play.
In fact, GarageBand '11 introduces the new How Did I Play feature, which can pinpoint the portions of a lesson that you played correctly and which spots in the song you need to work on. (I'm told musicians call such trouble spots flubs. Having no musical talent whatsoever, anything I attempted to play would be one giant flub.) To try How Did I Play, open your favorite lesson and move your pointer to the left side of the window; then click the Play button that appears. Click the Record button (with the red dot in the center) and begin playing. To stop recording, click the Play button. Now you can see the portions of the song that you played correctly (where the notation area is green) and those spots where you flubbed (the notation area turns red). Oh, and make sure that your instrument is in tune, because even correct notes played on an instrument that's out of tune produce errors for How Did I Play!
If you find the free Learn to Play lessons valuable, you can move up to the Artist lessons, which are taught by famous musicians (including favorites of mine such as Alex Lifeson, John Fogerty, and Sting, who actually teaches you how to play "Roxanne")! Each Artist lesson is $4.99 — well worth the price.

 

Figure 15-11: Tweaking settings  for iTunes  song files.

 
Burning an audio CD
Ready to create a demo CD with your latest GarageBand creation? Follow these steps to burn an audio disc from within GarageBand:
	1.	Open the song that you want to record to disc.
	2.	Choose Share⇒Burn Song to CD.
	3.	Load a blank disc into your optical drive.
Note that the CD you create only has one track. To include more songs on  the CD, add the song to your iTunes Library (as described earlier), create a playlist containing the song and burn that playlist within iTunes.












Chapter 16
Creating a Website with iWeb
In This Chapter
 Introducing the iWeb window
 Planning your site
 Adding a new site and pages
 Editing pages
 Setting site and page attributes with the Inspector
 Publishing sites to the Internet
I keep telling everyone who'll listen: The web is simple. Or at least it  should be.
Kids in preschool these days know how to use a browser. Millions of people contribute to Facebook pages, help to create the dynamic reference wonder that is Wikipedia, and correspond effortlessly through web-based e-mail. Yet there's one untamed wilderness that many iMac owners haven't explored —  or even set foot in! That's the jungle of HTML, the language used to create web pages. Today's advanced web page design is complex, and it's not particularly fun, either. Have you thrown up your hands and declared, "I guess I'll never get my own website on the Internet"?
Forget your website envy, fellow Mac enthusiast! With iWeb, Apple has provided a guide through that untamed wilderness . . . and suddenly it's as easy and fun to create a website as it is to make a movie or write a song with your iMac. In this chapter, you discover how to design a site, import your own photos, and add all sorts of different pages.
Soon, you'll proudly hold your head up high and declare to the world, "I am a webmaster!"
Looking around the iWeb Window
All iWeb's major features and controls fit into a single window, naturally, just as they do in iPhoto and iMovie. (I agree with the Apple software designers: Multiple windows equals confusing.) Figure 16-1 illustrates the iWeb window, complete with a website in progress. The items to keep your eye on include
 Toolbar: Located at the bottom of the window, the iWeb toolbar keeps all major controls one or two clicks away.
		The iWeb toolbar contains different buttons, depending on the chore you're handling at the moment. Figure 16-1 shows the set of toolbar buttons that you see when you're editing a page.
 Layout: You need elbow room to build a web page, so the Layout section of the iWeb interface dominates the window. You create and edit your pages in the Layout display and then use it to preview and test drive your finished site.
 Site Organizer: The strip to the left of the layout display is the Site Organizer, which allows you to organize your websites, add new pages to a site, and select an existing page for editing.
 

Figure 16-1: The iWeb window holds everything you need to put your mark on the web.

 
Before we get down to business, it's overview time. You essentially follow three phases to put your new site on the web:
	1.	Decide which pages you need.
	2.	Create a new site and build those pages.
	3.	Publish your site to your web server using FTP.
I go over each of these phases in order. (They taught me that in college . . . along with the history of the Aztecs and the wonders of FIFO accounting.)
Planning Your Pages
Every properly designed website has a purpose: to inform, to entertain, or to sell stuff. For example, if your site is a personal or informational site, it may contain downloads or contact information. The pages you add to your site should all reflect that common purpose.
iWeb focuses on creating personal sites for entertainment. It can produce the following types of pages for your site:
 Welcome: This is the default first page that iWeb adds to a site you create. The Welcome page familiarizes your visitor with the idea behind your site, and perhaps offers a snippet of the latest developments on the site in a "What's New" paragraph.
 About Me: This page provides a biography of you or another person, listing things like your age, favorite songs, and favorite foods. (After all, that's important stuff.) Links are provided to your photo album pages and other websites you want to share.
 Photos: Oh, this is good stuff here. iWeb makes it easy to add one of those cool online photo galleries for your snapshots, complete with a web slideshow! You can add Events and albums from iPhoto, too.
 My Albums: You can organize all your Photos and Movie pages on a single My Albums page. Visitors click a thumbnail to jump to the corresponding Photos page or Movie page — it's a visual index done the  right way.
 Movie: Got a QuickTime movie you've created with iMovie to share with others? This is the page that presents it to your adoring fans.
 Blog: Adding a Blog (or personal web log) page is a somewhat different beast: iWeb keeps track of each addition you make in an entry list so that you can quickly add or delete entries without requiring tons of scrolling, cutting, and pasting. A Blog page also includes an archive so that deleted entries aren't lost forever.
 Podcast: Consider a podcast to be an audio (or audio/visual) blog; it's designed to be downloaded to a visitor's iPod or computer for later enjoyment. As does the Blog page, a Podcast page has an entry list and an archive list attached to it.
 Blank: Yep, this is an old-fashioned blank page, ready for you to fill with whatever you like.
Before you even launch iWeb, jot down on a piece of paper (or put in a Sticky) these important points:
 What message do I want to communicate to visitors?
 What tone will I use — funny, informal, or businesslike?
 What stuff do I want to offer: photos, movies, or podcasts?
Now you have the starting point for your site and you know what you want to include . . . so let's get down with the web!
Adding a New Site
When you open iWeb for the first time, the application creates a new site for you, and you can rename and modify this default site to your heart's content. In fact, for many of us, one site is all we ever create — but iWeb can easily handle multiple websites, keeping them separate in the Site Organizer.
If there's at least one existing site in your Site Organizer, iWeb automatically displays the last site you were working on. Therefore, if you want to create an entirely new site, you have to perform a little manual labor. Here are a number of different ways to add a site:
 Choose File⇒New Site.
 Press +Shift+N.
 Control-click (or right-click) in the Site Organizer and click New Site.
iWeb leaps into action and displays the template sheet you see in Figure 16-2. Scroll through the template themes in the list at the left of the sheet until you find one that matches the tone you decided on in the previous section. (iWeb has templates — informal, formal, and silly — that match every mood!) Click a template on the left, and the application automatically updates the page type thumbnails on the right.
 

Figure 16-2: Choosing a template for a new site.

 
When you choose a template, iWeb automatically provides your pages with a common background, color scheme, and fonts so that your finished website has a common theme throughout.
After you find the right look and feel, click the desired template in the scrolling list at the left, click the Welcome page thumbnail, and then click the Choose button. iWeb creates a new site heading in the Site Organizer, complete with the default Welcome page. Figure 16-1, shown previously, illustrates the Welcome page from a new site I created with the Main Event template.
Adding a New Page
Time to add the pages you plan for your site! For example, I've decided to add Photos and About Me pages to the new site I've created. In the following section, I discuss how to edit these pages to personalize them . . . but for now, I just want you to add the pages.
If you have multiple sites in your Site Organizer list, click the top-level heading for the desired site to select it. You can add pages by
 Clicking the Add Page button on the toolbar at the bottom of the iWeb window
 Choosing File⇒New Page
 Pressing +N
 Control-clicking or right-clicking the site header in the Site Organizer and clicking New Page
	Want to start with an existing page as a basis for a new page? Right-click that page entry in the Site Organizer and choose Duplicate. iWeb creates a new page with exactly the same contents and adds it to the site.
Pages are listed under the main site heading in outline format, making it easy to expand or collapse a site by clicking the familiar rotating triangle icon next to the site heading. (Apple calls these disclosure triangles. Wowzers!)
Deleting a page — or a whole site, for that matter — is easy in iWeb. Right-click the offending page or site heading in the Site Organizer and choose Delete Page/Delete Site. Note that iWeb doesn't prompt you for confirmation here, so these aren't commands to toy with.
Editing a Page
If you have your site framework complete, you can actually put your site on the Internet as is! Of course, the photos would all be of good-looking strangers, and most of the text would read like Pig Latin nonsense. (Come to think of it, I've been on some real sites that aren't much better. Go figure.)
I think we both agree, however, that you want to personalize your pages with your own information. To begin editing a page, click it in the Site Organizer.
Modifying text
First, update the text with your own information by following these steps:
	1.	Click the text you want to replace.
		As do most desktop publishing applications, iWeb uses boxes to enclose text. When you click the text, the box appears, with handles that you can drag to resize the box.
	2.	Begin typing your text.
		iWeb replaces the existing template text with the text you type, using the text formatting taken from the template. Don't forget that you can paste text from the Clipboard by pressing +V. To match the text style of the template, though, press Option+Shift++V.
		Mistakes are passé in iWeb. To undo your last action, you can always press the familiar +Z keyboard shortcut or choose Edit⇒Undo.
	3.	Highlight and format your new text as necessary.
		To make changes easier, click the Inspector button in the iWeb toolbar. The window you see in Figure 16-3 appears, allowing you to change text color, alignment, and spacing with aplomb. (You find out more about the Inspector later.) You can click the Colors or Fonts buttons on the iWeb toolbar to display a Color Picker or Font Panel for the selected text.
	4.	Click outside the text box after you're satisfied with the text.
Because you're likely modifying everything on the template pages from the title to the last box on the page, repeat Steps 1-4 for each section of text you want to change.
 

Figure 16-3: Using the Inspector palette to format text.

 
Replacing images
If your page includes photographs that you want to change, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the image you want to replace.
		As it does with a block of text, iWeb displays a box around the image, complete with resizing handles.
	2.	Drag an image to the image box from a Finder window.
		Alternatively, you can click the Show Media button on the toolbar, which displays the Media Browser you see in Figure 16-4. From this window, you can click the Photos tab to choose an image from your iPhoto library.
		You can hide the Media Browser to make more room for your page layout. Just click the Hide Media button on the toolbar.
	3.	Adjust your new image if necessary.
		Click the Adjust button, and iWeb displays a cool, semi-opaque dialog that allows you to tweak image settings, such as tint, brightness, and sharpness (see Figure 16-5). Click Enhance to allow iWeb to choose the settings it considers best for the image or click Reset Image to restore the photo to its original appearance. When you're satisfied with the image, click the Close button on the dialog to return to the image box.
 

Figure 16-4: Browsing my iPhoto library for the right image.

 
 

Figure 16-5: Adjusting an image in iWeb.

 
	4.	Click outside the image box (usually the page background) after you're satisfied with the photo.
Again, lather/rinse/repeat for each image you want to change on your page.
Adding new elements
iWeb also makes it easy to add new items to a page. The list of extras includes
 Audio: You can add a song (complete with volume control, Play/Pause button, and progress slider) to your page! Either drag an audio file from a Finder window to your page, or click the Audio tab in the Media Browser to select a song from your iTunes or GarageBand collections. You can drag any image to the player that appears. (How about a photo of your daughter instead of album art?)
 Photos: To add a new image box to your page, drag a photo from a Finder window to the iWeb layout section. Or click the Photos tab in the Media Browser to choose an image from your iPhoto library, or throw caution to the wind and drag an entire Event or an album to your new page! iWeb takes care of all the details.
 Movies: Yep, you guessed it: You can drag a movie clip from a Finder window to your page, or click the Movies tab in the Media Browser to choose a movie from iMovie or your Movies folder.
 Text: Choose Insert⇒Text or click the Text button in the toolbar.
 Shapes: Click the Shape button in the toolbar to display the pop-up menu and then click the desired shape. (Don't forget to resize it as you desire with the box handles.)
 Widgets: Click this tab in the Media Browser to insert a widget (a web applet) to your page. For example, HTML Snippet allows you to type HTML code directly into place on the page, or paste HTML code that you've copied from another website. You can also insert interactive Google AdSense advertisements or a Google Map. Other widgets include a countdown timer and YouTube videos.
		You can move a widget anywhere on a page by dragging it, and it can be resized just as a text box can.
 Links: If you're editing text and you want to insert a web link, choose Insert⇒Hyperlink and choose from the menu that appears. You can choose to link to another web page or insert a link that automatically sends an e-mail message to the mail address you provide. You can also offer a file for downloading.
		iWeb can automatically detect e-mail and web addresses that you type in a text box, so you don't have to use the Links menu. To enable this feature, choose iWeb⇒Preferences and click the Automatically Detect Email and Web Addresses check box to select it.
 Button: Your web page can include buttons that allow your visitors to e-mail you or display the number of hits (visits) your page has received. Choose Insert⇒Button and click an option to add or remove a specific button. (If the menu option is selected, the button appears on your page.) Blog and Podcast pages can also offer RSS feeds (for automated retrieval of new entries within a web browser), subscriptions to your podcasts, and slideshows.
	With these tools, you can use the Blank page template to create your own new pages. Personally, I prefer to use the professionally designed templates offered by Apple as starting points, removing whatever I don't need and adding new content.
Most web designers would strongly recommend that you use a common theme for all the pages within a site (to lend continuity). Of course, you can also stick your tongue out at those very same web designers and select a different theme for every page! To select a different theme for a page, open the page in iWeb and click the Theme button in the toolbar; then click the desired thumbnail from the pop-up menu. Nothing's lost but the old look of the page, so feel free to experiment to your heart's content.
	Ready to offer a slideshow on your web site? Add a Photo page to your site and notice that the Start Slideshow button is already in place at the top of the page. Simply add the photos to the page using the Media Browser or by dragging them from a Finder window. When your visitors click the Start Slideshow button, all the photos on the page are displayed in a pop-up window. (Other Mac and PC owners using Safari can enjoy the show, but older versions of Internet Explorer and Firefox can't handle it.)
Tweaking with the Inspector
Earlier, you used the Inspector to change text formatting attributes — but this star performer can do much more than just that! To modify page characteristics, click the page in the Site Organizer, display the Inspector, and click the Page Inspector button, which carries a document icon. These settings allow you to change the name of a page; you can also elect to include or exclude this page from the site menu, or to drop the site menu from this page.
If your site contains a Blog or Podcast page, you can click the RSS button to provide an automated RSS (RDF Site Summary) feed to your visitors. (For more information on RSS and how it works in Safari, see Chapter 8.)
Publishing Your Website
After you finish with a new site — or you're satisfied with the edits you make to existing pages — it's time to get your masterpiece on the web! Even the best website design is worth next to nil if it isn't available on the Internet, and in this last section, I demonstrate how to publish your website to a separate server maintained by a third party (perhaps your ISP, your company, or Dave down the street).
You specify where your iWeb site will be published from the Site Publishing Settings screen.
	To make global changes to a site, click the site name in the Site Organizer. iWeb switches to the Site Publishing Settings screen, where you can change the name of the site, your contact e-mail, and where the site is published.
Click the site name in the Site Organizer to display the Publish To pop-up menu. iWeb offers two publishing options:
 Publish to FTP Server: This publishing option provides you with a completely different collection of settings on the Site Publishing Settings screen. You'll need to furnish iWeb with your web server's FTP settings (which should be furnished to you by the host) and your site's address (or URL).
 Publish to a Local Folder: The final publishing option creates a folder on your hard drive that contains all the files to display your website. This is the option to choose if you don't use a third-party hosting service. You can add these files directly to your home or business web server. Once again, you must supply the site URL as it will appear on the Internet after you copy or upload the site files to the server.
After you've set the type of publishing the site will use, it's time to take care of business! Click the site to select it in the Site Organizer and then click the Publish Site button on the toolbar. The application takes care of everything else, automatically uploading all pages and media (if you choose FTP publishing) or saving them on your hard drive (if you chose the Local Folder option).
	In a hurry? You can elect to publish just the changes necessary to update your site: Instead of clicking the Publish Site button on the toolbar, click the File menu and choose Publish Site Changes.












Part V
Getting Productive with iWork and Other Tools





In this part . . .
Who needs that other office productivity suite? If you've invested in Apple's iWork '09, these chapters will provide all the basics you need to use Pages, Numbers, and Keynote to produce eye-popping printed documents, spreadsheets, and professional-grade presentations! And if you're ready to share your iMac among all the members of your family, you can build a wireless home network. I show you how to provide others with access to your documents and data — securely, mind you, and with the least amount of hassle.











Chapter 17
Desktop Publishing with Pages
In This Chapter
 Creating a Pages document
 Entering, editing, and formatting text
 Inserting tables and graphics
 Resizing objects
 Checking your spelling
 Printing Pages documents
 Sharing your work
What's the difference between word processing and desktop publishing? In a nutshell, it's in how you design your document. Most folks use a word processor like an old-fashioned typewriter. (Yawn.)
A desktop publishing application allows far more creativity in choosing where to place text, how to align graphics, and how to edit formats. In this chapter, I show you how to set your inner designer free from the tedious constraints of word processing! Whether you need a simple letter, a stunning brochure, or a multipage newsletter, Pages can handle the job with ease — and you'll be surprised at how simple it is to use.
Creating a New Pages Document
To create a new Pages document from scratch, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Pages icon.
		Pages displays the Template Chooser window that you see in Figure 17-1.
	3.	Click the type of document you want to create in the list to the left.
		The thumbnails on the right are updated with templates that match  your choice.
 

Figure 17-1: Selecting a template from the Template Chooser window.

 
	4.	Click the template that most closely matches your needs.
	5.	Click Choose to create a new document using the template you selected.
Open an Existing Pages Document
Of course, you can always open a Pages document from a Finder window —  just double-click the document icon. (Lion's All My Files location in the Finder window Sidebar makes it easy to track down a document.) However, you can also open a Pages document from within the program. Follow these steps:
	1.	Launch Pages as I describe in the previous section.
	2.	Press +O to display the Open dialog.
 The Open dialog operates much the same as a Finder window in icon, list, or column view mode.
	3.	Click the desired drive in the Devices list at the left of the dialog and then click folders and subfolders until you've located the Pages document.
		(You can also click in the Search box at the top of the Open dialog and type in a portion of the document name or its contents.)
	4.	Double-click the filename to load it.
	If you want to open a Pages document that you've edited in the recent past, things get even easier! Just click File⇒Open Recent, and you can open the  document with a single click from the submenu that appears.
Saving Your Work
Although Pages fully supports Lion's new Auto Save feature, you may feel the need to manually save your work after you finish a significant edit (or if you need to take a break while designing). Follow these steps to save a document:
	1.	Press +S.
		If you're saving a document that hasn't yet been saved, the familiar Save As sheet appears.
	2.	Type a filename for your new document.
	3.	Click the Where pop-up menu and choose a location to save the  document.
		Alternatively, click the button sporting the down arrow to expand the Save As sheet. This allows you to navigate to a different location, or to create a new folder to store this Pages project.
	4.	Click Save.
	You can create a version of a Pages document by clicking File⇒Save a Version. To revert the current document to an older version, click File⇒Revert to Saved. Pages gives you the option of reverting to the last saved version, or you can click Older Version to choose from multiple versions of the document.
Touring the Pages Window
Before you dive into any real work, let me show you around the Pages window! You'll find the following major components and controls, as shown in Figure 17-2:
 Pages list: This thumbnail list displays all the pages you've created within your document. (For a single-page document, of course, the Page list will contain only a single thumbnail.) You can switch instantly between different pages in your document by clicking the desired thumbnail in the list.
 Layout pane: This section takes up most of the Pages window — it's where you design and edit each page in your document.
 Toolbar: Yep, Pages has its own toolbar. The toolbar keeps all the most common application controls within easy, one-click reach.
 Styles Drawer: This window extension allows you to quickly switch the appearance of selected paragraphs, characters, and lists. You can hide and display the Styles Drawer from the View menu or from the View drop-down menu on the toolbar.
 Format Bar: This button strip runs under the Pages toolbar. Use it to format selected text, paragraphs, and lists on the fly.
 

Figure 17-2: The major points of interest in the Pages window.

 
Entering and Editing Text
If you've used a modern word processing program, you'll feel right at home typing within Pages. To enter text, simply begin typing. To edit existing text in your Pages document, select and highlight the text. You can delete text by pressing Delete.
Using Text and Graphics Boxes
Within Pages, text and graphics appear in boxes, which can be resized by clicking  and dragging one of the handles that appear around the edges of the box. (Hover your cursor over one of the square handles and you'll see that it changes to a double-sided arrow, indicating that Pages is ready to resize the box.)
You can also move a box, including all the stuff it contains, to another location within the Layout pane. Click in the center of the box and drag the box to the desired spot. Note that Pages displays blue alignment lines to help you align the box with other elements around it (or with regular divisions of the page, such as the vertical center of a poster or flyer). Figure 17-3 illustrates a box containing text that I'm moving; note the vertical alignment line that automatically appears.
 

Figure 17-3: Moving a text box within the Layout pane.

 
	To select text or graphics within a box, you must first click the box to select it and then click again on the line of text or the graphic that you want to change.
The Three Amigos: Cut, Copy, and Paste
"Hang on, Mark, you've covered moving stuff, but what if you want to copy a block of text or a photo to a second location? Or how about cutting something from a document open in another application?" Good questions, dear reader! That's when you can call on the power of the cut, copy, and paste features within Pages. The next few sections explain how you do these actions.
Cutting stuff
Cutting selected text or graphics removes it from your Pages document and places that material within your Clipboard. (Think of the Clipboard as a holding area for snippets of text and graphics that you want to manipulate.) To cut text or graphics, select some material and Choose Edit⇒Cut or press +X.
Copying text and images
When you copy text or graphics, the original selection remains untouched, but a copy of the selection is placed in the Clipboard. Select some text or graphics and choose Edit⇒Copy or press +C.
To copy selected items by dragging, hold down the Option key while you drag the items to their destination.
	If you cut or copy a new selection into the Clipboard, it erases what was there. In other words, the Clipboard holds only the latest material you cut or copied.
Pasting from the Clipboard
Are you wondering what you can do with the stuff that's stored in your Clipboard? Pasting the contents of the Clipboard places the material at the current location of the insertion cursor. You must paste the contents before you cut or copy again to avoid losing what's in the Clipboard.
To paste the Clipboard contents, click the insertion cursor at the location you want and choose Edit⇒Paste or press +V.
Formatting Text the Easy Way
If you feel that some (or all) of the text in your Pages document needs a facelift, you can format that text any way you like. Formatting lets you change the color, font family, character size, and attributes as necessary.
After the text is selected, you can apply basic formatting in two ways:
 Use the Format Bar. The Format Bar appears directly underneath the Pages toolbar, as shown in Figure 17-2. Click to select a font control to display a pop-up menu and then click your choice. For example, click the Font Family button and you can change the font family from Arial to a more daring font. You can also select characteristics such as the font's background color (perfect for highlighting key information) or choose italicizing or bolding. The Format Bar also provides buttons for text alignment (Align Left, Center, Align Right, and Justify).
 Use the Format menu. Most controls on the Format Bar are also available from the Format menu. Click Format and hover the mouse cursor over the Font menu item, and you can then apply bolding, italicizing, and underlining to the selected text. You can also make the text bigger or smaller. To change the alignment from the Format menu, click Format and hover the mouse cursor over the Text menu item.
Adding a Spiffy Table
In the world of word processing, a table is a grid that holds text or graphics for easy comparison. You can create a custom table layout within Pages with a few simple mouse clicks.
Follow these steps:
	1.	Click the insertion cursor at the location where you want the table to appear.
	2.	Click the Table button on the Pages toolbar.
		Pages inserts a simple table and displays the Table Inspector. (Both are visible in Figure 17-4.)
		By default, Pages creates a table with three rows and three columns, with an extra row for headings at the top. You can change this layout from the Table Inspector — just click in the Body Rows or Body Columns box and type a number.
	3.	Click within a cell in the table to enter text.
		The table cell automatically resizes and "wraps" the text you enter to fit.
		You can paste material from the Clipboard into a table. See the earlier section "Pasting from the Clipboard" for details on pasting.
	4.	To change the borders on a cell, click the cell to select it and then click one of the Cell Border buttons to change the border.
		Select a range of multiple cells in a table by holding down Shift as you click. Hold down  and click to select multiple cells that aren't contiguous.
	5.	To add a background color (or even fill cells with an image for a background), click the Cell Background pop-up menu and choose a type of background.
 

Figure 17-4: Preparing to tweak a table in  my Pages  document.

 
Adding Alluring Photos
You can choose between two methods of adding a picture within your Pages document: as a floating object, meaning that you can place the image in a particular spot and it doesn't move, even if you make changes to the text; and as an inline object, which flows with the surrounding text as you make layout changes.
 Add a floating object. Drag an image file from a Finder window and place it at the spot you want within your document. Alternatively, you can click the Media button on the toolbar and click Photos, navigate to the location where the file is saved, and drag the image thumbnail to the spot you want in the document. Figure 17-5 illustrates the Media Browser in action.
		Note that a floating object (such as a shape or image) can be sent to the background, where text will not wrap around it. To bring a background object back as a regular floating object, click the object to select it and click Arrange⇒Bring Background Objects to Front. (More about background objects later in this chapter.)
 

Figure 17-5:  Hey, isn't that the Pages Media Browser?

 
		To resize an image object, click the image to select it and then drag one of the selection handles that appear along the border of the image. (They look like tiny squares.) The side-selection handles drag only that edge of the frame. The corner-selection handles resize both adjoining edges of the selection frame. Hold down the Shift key so that the vertical and horizontal proportions remain fixed.
 Add an inline object. Hold down the  key as you drag an image file from a Finder window and place it where you want within your document. You can also click the Media toolbar button and click Photos to display the Media Browser. Navigate to the location where the file is saved, hold down the  key, and drag the image thumbnail to the spot where you want it in the document.
Adding a Background Shape
To add a shape (such as a rectangle or circle) as a background for your text, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the insertion cursor in the location you want.
	2.	Click the Shapes button on the Pages toolbar and choose a shape.
		The shape appears in your document.
	3.	Click the center of the shape and drag it to a new spot.
		Shapes can be resized or moved in the same manner as image boxes.
	4.	Before you can type over a shape, remember to select it and choose Arrange⇒Send Object to Background.
Are You Sure about That Spelling?
Pages can check spelling as you type (the default setting) or check it after you complete your document. If you find automatic spell-checking distracting, you should definitely pick the latter method.
	As my technical editor reminds us, spell checking confirms only that a word is correctly spelled, not that it's the right word for the job! If you've ever "red" a document that someone else "rote," you know what he means.
To check spelling as you type, follow these steps:
	1.	Click Edit and hover the cursor over the Spelling menu item.
	2.	Click Check Spelling As You Type in the submenu that appears.
		If a possible misspelling is found, Pages underlines the word with a red, dashed line.
	3.	Right-click the word to choose a possible correct spelling from the list, or you can choose Ignore if it's spelled correctly.
To turn off automatic spell checking, click the Check Spelling As You Type menu item again to deselect it.
To check spelling manually, follow these steps:
	1.	Click within the document to place the text insertion cursor where the spell check should begin.
	2.	Click Edit and hover the mouse cursor over the Spelling menu item; then choose Check Spelling from the submenu that appears.
	3.	Right-click any possible misspellings and choose the correct spelling, or choose Ignore if the word is spelled correctly.
Printing Your Pages Documents
Ready to start the presses? You can print your Pages document on real paper, of course, but don't forget that you can also save a tree by creating an electronic, PDF-format document instead of a printout. You'll find the PDF button within the standard Lion Print dialog.
To print your Pages document on old-fashioned paper, follow these steps:
	1.	Within Pages, click File and choose Print.
		Pages displays the Print sheet.
	2.	Click in the Copies field and enter the number of copies you need.
	3.	Select the pages to print.
 •	To print the entire document, select All.
	•	To print a range of selected pages, select the From radio button and enter the starting and ending pages.
	4.	Click the Print button to send the document to your printer.
Sharing That Poster with Others
Besides printing — which is, after all, so passé — you can choose to share your Pages document electronically in a number of ways:
 Sharing on iWork.com: Apple provides a website, www.iwork.com, where you can invite others to view and comment on your Pages document, complete with e-mail notifications when a new comment is added. (If you like, you can require a password before visitors to iWork.com can see anything you've shared.) Click the Share button on the Pages toolbar to get started, and the site will walk you through the rest of the process.
		You'll need an Internet connection to use iWork.com (naturally), as well as an Apple ID and a working Apple Mail account. If you didn't create an Apple ID when setting up your iMac or installing Lion, you can save the day by clicking the Create New Account button.
 Sharing through e-mail: Click Share⇒Send via Mail, and you can choose to add your Pages document to a Mail message in three different formats: as a native Pages document file, as a Microsoft Word document, or as a PDF file. After you've selected a format, Pages obligingly launches Apple Mail for you automatically and creates a new message, ready for you to address and send! (Remember, most Internet service providers have a maximum message size, so if your document is too large, it will likely be rejected by your mail server.)
 Sharing through iWeb: Again, click the Share menu, but this time choose Send to iWeb. Pages automatically opens the iWeb site you last edited and provides your Pages document as a native Pages document file or as a PDF file. (If your visitors may be using PCs or Linux, choose the PDF option.)
 Exporting: Don't forget that Pages can export your work in one of four different formats: a PDF document, a Word document, an RTF (Rich Text Format) file, or even plain text. Click Share⇒Export, pick your format, click Next, and then select the location where Pages should save the file. Click Export and sit back while your favorite desktop publishing application does all the work.
		To keep your document as close to how it appears in Pages as possible, I recommend either PDF or Word. Your document will retain far more of your original formatting than an RTF or plain-text document would.












Chapter 18
Creating Spreadsheets  with Numbers
In This Chapter
 Opening, saving, and creating spreadsheets
 Selecting cells, entering data, and editing data
 Formatting cells
 Adding and removing rows and columns
 Creating simple calculations
 Adding charts to your spreadsheets
 Printing a Numbers spreadsheet
Are you downright afraid of spreadsheets? Does the idea of building a budget with charts and all sorts of fancy graphics send you running for the safety of the hall closet? Well, good iMac owner, Apple has once again taken something that everyone else considers super-complex and turned it into something that normal human beings can use! (Much as Apple did with video editing, songwriting, and website creation — heck, is there any type of software that Apple designers can't make intuitive and easy to use?)
In this chapter, I get to demonstrate how Numbers can help you organize data, analyze important financial decisions, and yes, even maintain a household budget! You'll soon see why the Numbers spreadsheet program is specifically designed with the home Mac owner in mind.
Before You Launch Numbers . . .
Just in case you're not familiar with applications like Numbers and Microsoft Excel — and the documents they create — let me provide you with a little background information.
A spreadsheet organizes and calculates numbers by using a grid system of rows and columns. The intersection of each row and column is a cell, and cells can hold either text or numeric values (along with calculations that are usually linked to the contents of surrounding cells).
Spreadsheets are wonderful tools for making decisions and comparisons because they let you "plug in" different numbers — such as interest rates or your monthly insurance premium — and instantly see the results. Some of my favorite spreadsheets that I use regularly include
 Car and mortgage loan comparisons
 A college planner
 My household budget (not that we pay any attention to it)
Creating a New Numbers Document
As does Pages, Apple's desktop publishing application, Numbers ships with a selection of templates that you can modify quickly to create a new spreadsheet. (For example, after a few modifications, you can easily use the Budget, Loan Comparison, and Mortgage templates to create your own spreadsheets.)
To create a spreadsheet project file, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Numbers icon.
		Numbers displays the Template Chooser window you see in Figure 18-1.
	3.	Click the type of document you want to create in the list to the left.
		The document thumbnails on the right are updated with templates that match your choice.
	4.	Click the template that most closely matches your needs.
	5.	Click Choose to open a new document using the template you selected.
 

Figure 18-1: Hey, these templates aren't frightening at all!

 
Opening an Existing Spreadsheet File
If a Numbers document appears in a Finder window (or you locate it using Spotlight or All My Files), you can just double-click the Document icon to open it; Numbers automatically loads and displays the spreadsheet. However, it's equally easy to open a Numbers document from within the program. Follow these steps:
	1.	Double-click the Numbers icon to run the program.
	2.	Press +O to display the Open dialog.
	3.	Click the desired drive in the Devices list at the left of the dialog and then click folders and subfolders until you've located the desired Numbers document.
		If you're unsure of where the document is, click in the Search box at the top of the Open dialog and type in a portion of the document name, or even a word or two of text it contains.
	4.	Double-click the spreadsheet to load it.
	If you want to open a spreadsheet you've been working on over the last few days, click File ⇒Open Recent to display Numbers documents that you've worked with recently.
Save Those Spreadsheets!
Thanks to Lion's Auto Save feature, you no longer have to fear losing a significant chunk of work because of a power failure or a coworker's mistake. However, if you're not a huge fan of retyping data, period, you can always save your spreadsheets manually after making a major change . Follow these steps to save your spreadsheet to your hard drive:
	1.	Press +S.
		If you're saving a document that hasn't yet been saved, the Save As sheet appears.
	2.	Type a filename for your new spreadsheet.
	3.	Click the Where pop-up menu and choose a location to save the file.
		This allows you to select common locations, such as your Desktop, Documents folder, or Home folder.
		If the location you want isn't listed in the Where pop-up menu, you can also click the down-arrow button next to the Save As text box to display the full Save As dialog. Click the desired drive in the Devices list at the left of the dialog and then click folders and subfolders until you reach the desired location. Alternatively, type the folder name in the Spotlight search box at the top right and double-click the desired folder in the list of matching names. (As an extra bonus, you can also create a new folder in the full Save As dialog.)
	4.	Click Save.
After you've saved the file the first time, you can use the Save a Version and Revert to Saved items on the File menu to save a "snapshot" of your Numbers document, or revert the document to a past version.
Exploring the Numbers Window
Apple has done a great job of minimizing the complexity of the Numbers window. Figure 18-2 illustrates these major points of interest:
 Sheets list: Because a Numbers project can contain multiple spreadsheets, they're displayed in the Sheets list at the left of the window. To switch among spreadsheets in a project, click the top-level headings (each of which has a spreadsheet icon).
 Sheet canvas: Numbers displays the rows and columns of your spreadsheet in this section of the window; you enter and edit cell values within the sheet canvas.
 Toolbar: The Numbers toolbar keeps the most common commands you'll use within easy reach.
 Formula Box: You'll use the Formula Box to enter formulas into a cell, allowing Numbers to automatically perform calculations based on the contents of other cells.
 Format Bar: Located directly under the toolbar, the Format Bar displays editing controls for the object that's currently selected. (If you enter an equal sign into the Formula Box, the Format Bar changes into the Formula Bar. No, I'm not making this up.) My goodness, this is starting to sound like that classic movie about the chocolate tycoon and those kids!
 

Figure 18-2:  The Numbers window struts its stuff.

 
Navigating and Selecting  Cells in a Spreadsheet
You can use the scroll bars to move around in your spreadsheet, but when you enter data into cells, moving your fingers from the keyboard is a hassle. For this reason, Numbers has various movement shortcut keys that you can use to navigate, and I list them in Table 18-1. After you commit these keys to memory, your productivity level shoots straight to the top.
Table 18-1	Movement Shortcut Keys in Numbers




Key or Key Combination


Where the Cursor Moves




Left arrow (←)


One cell to the left




Right arrow (→)


One cell to the right




Up arrow ()


One cell up




Down arrow ()


One cell down




Home


To the beginning of the active worksheet




End


To the end of the active worksheet




Page Down


Down one screen




Page Up


Up one screen




Return


One cell down (also works within a selection)




Tab


One cell to the right (also works within a selection)




Shift+Enter


One cell up (also works within a selection)




Shift+Tab


One cell to the left (also works within a selection)




You can use the mouse to select cells in a spreadsheet:
 To select a single cell, click it.
 To select a range of multiple adjacent cells, click a cell at any corner of the range you want and then drag the mouse in the direction you want.
 To select a column of cells, click the alphabetic heading button at the top of the column.
 To select a row of cells, click the numeric heading button on the far left side of the row.
Entering and Editing Data  in a Spreadsheet
After you navigate to the cell in which you want to enter data, you're ready to type your data. Follow these steps to enter That Important Stuff:
	1.	Either click the cell or press the spacebar.
		A cursor appears, indicating that the cell is ready to hold any data you type.
	2.	Type in your data.
		Spreadsheets can use both numbers and text within a cell; either type of information is considered data in the Spreadsheet World.
	3.	To edit data, click within the cell that contains the data to select it and then click the cell again to display the insertion cursor. Drag the insertion cursor across the characters to highlight them and then type the replacement data.
	4.	To simply delete characters, highlight the characters and press Delete.
	5.	When you're ready to move on, press Return (to save the data and move one cell down) or press Tab (to save the data and move one cell to the right).
Selecting the Correct Number Format
After your data has been entered into a cell, row, or column, you still might need to format it before it appears correctly. Numbers gives you a healthy selection of formatting possibilities. Number formatting determines how a cell displays a number, such as a dollar amount, a percentage, or a date.
	Characters and formatting rules, such as decimal places, commas, and dollar and percentage notation, are included in number formatting. So if your spreadsheet contains units of currency, such as dollars, format it as such. Then all you need to do is type the numbers, and the currency formatting is applied automatically.
To specify a number format, follow these steps:
	1.	Select the cells, rows, or columns you want to format.
	2.	Click the Inspector toolbar button.
	3.	Click the Cells Inspector button in the Inspector toolbar to display the settings you see in Figure 18-3.
	4.	Click the Cell Format pop-up menu and click the type of formatting you want to apply.
 

Figure 18-3: From the Inspector, you can format the data you've entered.

 
Aligning Cell Text Just So
You can also change the alignment of text in the selected cells. (The default alignment for text is flush left and for numeric data, flush right.) Follow these steps:
	1.	Select the cells, rows, or columns you want to format.
		See "Navigating and Selecting Cells in a Spreadsheet," earlier in this chapter, for tips on selecting stuff.
	2.	Click the Inspector toolbar button.
	3.	Click the Text Inspector button in the Inspector toolbar to display the settings you see in Figure 18-4.
	4.	Click the corresponding alignment button to choose the type of  formatting you want to apply.
		You can choose left, right, center, justified, and text left and numbers right. Text can also be aligned at the top, center, or bottom of a cell.
	You can also select the cells you want to align and click the appropriate alignment button in the Format Bar.
 

Figure 18-4: Using the Inspector to change text alignment within a cell.

 
	Do you need to set apart the contents of some cells? For example, you might need to create text headings for some columns and rows or to highlight the totals in a spreadsheet. To change the formatting of the data displayed within selected cells, select the cells, rows, or columns you want to format and then click the Font Family, Font Size, or Font Color buttons on the Format Bar.
Formatting with Shading
Shading the contents of a cell, row, or column is helpful when your spreadsheet contains subtotals or logical divisions. Follow these steps to shade cells, rows, or columns:
	1.	Select the cells, rows, or columns you want to format.
	2.	Click the Inspector toolbar button.
	3.	Click the Graphic Inspector button in the Inspector toolbar.
		Numbers displays the settings you see in Figure 18-5.
	4.	Click the Fill pop-up menu to select a shading option.
	5.	Click the color box to select a color for your shading.
		Numbers displays a color picker (also shown in Figure 18-5).
 

Figure 18-5: Adding shading and colors to cells, rows, and columns is easy in Numbers.

 
	6.	Click to select a color.
	7.	After you achieve the effect you want, click the Close button in the color picker.
	8.	Click the Inspector's Close button to return to your spreadsheet.
	The Fill function is also available on the Format Bar.
Inserting and Deleting  Rows and Columns
What's that? You forgot to add a row and now you're three pages into your data entry? No problem. You can easily add or delete rows and columns. First, select the row or column that you want to delete or that you want to insert a row or column next to, and do one of the following:
 For a row: Right-click and choose Add Row Above, Add Row Below, or Delete Row from the shortcut menu that appears.
 For a column: Right-click and choose Add Columns Before, Add Columns After, or Delete Column from the shortcut menu that appears.
If you select multiple rows or columns and choose Add, Numbers inserts the same number of new rows or columns as what you originally selected.
	You can also insert rows and columns using the Table menu.
The Formula Is Your Friend
Sorry, but it's time to talk about formulas. These equations calculate values based on the contents of cells you specify in your spreadsheet. For example, if you designate cell A1 (the cell in column A at row 1) to hold your yearly salary and cell B1 to hold the number 12, you can divide the contents of cell A1 by cell B1 (to calculate your monthly salary) by typing this formula into any other cell:
=A1/B1
By the way, formulas in Numbers always start with an equal sign (=).
"So what's the big deal, Mark? Why not use a calculator?" Sure, but maybe you want to calculate your weekly salary. Rather than grab a pencil and paper, you can simply change the contents of cell B1 to 52, and — boom! — the spreadsheet is updated to display your weekly salary.
That's a simple example, of course, but it demonstrates the basis of using formulas (and the reason that spreadsheets are often used to predict trends and forecast budgets). It's the "what if?" tool of choice for everyone who works with numeric data.
To add a simple formula within your spreadsheet, follow these steps:
	1.	Select the cell that will hold the result of your calculation.
	2.	Click inside the Formula Box and type = (the equal sign).
		The Formula Box appears to the right of the Sheets heading, directly under the Button bar. Note that the Format Bar changes to show a set of formula controls (a.k.a. the Formula Bar).
	3.	Click the Function Browser button, which bears the fx label.
		(It appears next to the red Cancel button on the Formula Bar.)
	4.	In the window that appears, as shown in Figure 18-6, click the desired formula and click Insert to add it to the Formula Box.
 

Figure 18-6:  If you have to use formulas, at least Numbers can enter them for you.

 
	5.	Click an argument button in the formula and click the cell that contains the corresponding data.
		Numbers automatically adds the cell you indicated to the formula. Repeat this for each argument in the formula. (In case you're not familiar with the term argument, it refers to a value specified in a cell that's used by a formula. For example, the SUM formula adds the contents of each cell you specify together to produce a total; each of those cell values is an argument.)
	6.	After you finish, click the Accept button to add the formula to the cell.
That's it! Your formula is now ready to work behind the scenes, doing math for you so that the correct numbers appear in the cell you specified.
	To display all the formulas that you've added to a sheet, click the Formula List button in the toolbar.
Adding Visual Punch with a Chart
Sometimes you just have to see something to believe it — hence the ability to use the data you add to a spreadsheet to generate a professional-looking chart! Follow these steps to create a chart:
	1.	Select the adjacent cells you want to chart by dragging the mouse.
		To choose individual cells that aren't adjacent, you can hold down the  key as you click.
	2.	Click the Charts button on the Numbers toolbar.
		The Charts button bears the symbol of a bar graph.
		Numbers displays the thumbnail menu you see in Figure 18-7.
	3.	Click the thumbnail for the chart type you want.
		Numbers inserts the chart as an object within your spreadsheet so that you can move the chart. You can drag using the handles that appear on the outside of the object box to resize your chart. Figure 18-8 illustrates the 3-D chart I generated with just a couple of mouse clicks.
		Click the Inspector toolbar button and you can switch to the Chart Inspector dialog, where you can change the colors and add (or remove) the chart title and legend.
	4.	To change the default title, click the title box once to select it; click it again to edit the text.
After you've added your chart to the sheet, you'll note that it appears in the Sheets list, as also shown in Figure 18-8. To edit the chart at any time, just click the corresponding entry in the Sheets list.
 

Figure 18-7: Numbers displays the range of chart styles you can use.

 
 

Figure 18-8: My finished chart looks like someone with talent drew it for me!

 












Chapter 19
Building Presentations  with Keynote
In This Chapter
 Creating a new presentation
 Adding slides
 Using selection boxes
 Entering and editing text
 Formatting text
 Adding presenter's notes
 Inserting media and shapes
 Running a slideshow
 Printing slides and notes
It seems like only yesterday that I was giving business presentations with a clunky overhead projector and black-and-white acetate transparencies. Fancy color gradients and animation were unheard of, and the only sound my presentations made was the droning of the projector's fan. I might as well have been using tree bark and chalk.
Thank goodness those days are gone forever, because cutting-edge presentation software like Keynote makes slide creation easy and — believe it or not — fun! This is the application that Steve Jobs once used for his Macworld keynotes every year, and there's so much visual candy available that you'll never need to shout to wake your audience again.
In this chapter, I demonstrate how simple it is to build a stunning Keynote presentation, and how to start and control your slide display from your keyboard (or even your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch). Heck, we'll even print your slides and notes so that your audience can keep a copy of your brilliant work!
Creating a New Keynote Project
As do the other applications in the iWork '09 suite, Keynote begins the document creation process with a Theme Chooser window. To create a new presentation project, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Keynote icon.
		The Theme Chooser window that you see in Figure 19-1 appears. (I have to say that these are probably the most stunning visual building blocks I've ever seen in a presentation application.)
	3.	Click the Slide Size pop-up menu at the bottom of the screen to select the resolution for your completed slides.
		Although you don't necessarily need to select an exact match for the screen resolution of your iMac, it's a good idea to select the closest value to the maximum resolution of your projector. (If someone else is providing the projector, the default value of 1024 x 768 is a good standard to use.)
 

Figure 19-1: Selecting a template from the Theme Chooser window.

 
	4.	Click the theme thumbnail that most closely matches your needs.
	5.	Click Choose to open a new document that uses the theme you selected.
Opening a Keynote Presentation
If an existing Keynote presentation file is visible in a Finder window, you can double-click the document icon to open the project. If Keynote is already running, however, follow these steps to load a project:
	1.	Press +O to display the Open dialog.
	2.	Click the desired drive in the Devices list at the left of the dialog; then click folders and subfolders until you've located the Keynote project.
		(You can also use the Search box at the top of the Open dialog to locate the document by name or by some of the text it contains.)
	3.	Double-click the filename to load it.
	If you want to open a Keynote document that you've edited in the recent past, things get even easier! Just click File⇒Open Recent and you can open the document with a single click from the submenu that appears. (Note that the Theme Chooser window has both Open Recent and Open Existing File buttons as well.)
Saving Your Presentation
Because Keynote provides full support for Lion's new Auto Save feature, saving your work often is not as critical as it used to be — but if you'd simply like to safeguard your work in a world of power failures, follow these steps:
	1.	Press +S.
		If you're saving a document that hasn't yet been saved, the familiar Save As sheet appears.
	2.	Type a filename for your new document.
	3.	Click the Where pop-up menu and choose a location to save the document.
		To select a location not on the Where pop-up menu, click the button with the down-arrow symbol to expand the sheet. You can also create a new folder from the expanded sheet.
	4.	Click Save.
	You can create a version of a Keynote presentation by clicking File⇒Save a Version. To revert the current presentation to an older version, click File⇒Revert to Saved. Keynote gives you the option of reverting to the last saved version, or you can click Older Version to browse multiple versions of the presentation and revert to any saved version.
Putting Keynote to Work
Ready for the 5-cent tour of the Keynote window? Launch the application  and create or load a project, and you'll see the tourist attractions shown in Figure 19-2:
 Slides list: Use this thumbnail list of all the slides in your project to help you navigate quickly. Click a thumbnail to switch instantly to that slide.
		The Slides list can also display your project in outline format, allowing you to check all your discussion points. (This is a great way to ferret out any "holes" in your presentation's flow.) While in outline mode, you can still jump directly to any slide by clicking the slide's title in the outline. To display the outline, click View⇒Outline. You can switch back to the default Navigator Slides list by clicking View⇒Navigator.
 Layout pane: Your slide appears in its entirety in this pane. You can add elements and edit the content of the slide from the Layout pane.
 Toolbar: As does the toolbar in Pages and Numbers, Keynote's toolbar makes it easy to find the most common controls you'll use while designing and editing your slides. Clicking an icon on the toolbar performs an action, just as selecting a menu item does.
 Notes pane: If you decide to add notes to one or more slides (either for your own use or to print as additional information for your audience), click View⇒Show Presenter Notes to open the Notes pane. This text box appears under the Layout pane.
 Format Bar: Keynote displays this button strip underneath the Keynote toolbar, allowing you to format selected text, paragraphs, and lists on the fly.
 

Figure 19-2: The Keynote window is dominated by the Layout pane.

 
Adding Slides
Sure, Keynote creates a single Title slide when you first create a project, but not many presentations are complete with just a single slide! To add more slides to your project, use one of these methods:
 Click the New button on the Keynote toolbar.
 Choose New Slide from the Slide menu.
 Press +Shift+N.
 Right-click (or Control-click) in the Slides list and choose New Slide from the menu.
Keynote adds the new slide to your Slides list and automatically switches to the new slide in the Layout pane.
	Need a slide that's very similar to an existing slide you've already designed? Right-click the existing slide and choose Duplicate to create a new slide just like it. (Consider it cloning without the science.)
To move slides to different positions in the Slides list (and therefore a different order in your Keynote slideshow), drag each slide thumbnail to the desired spot in the list.
Working with Text and Graphics Boxes
You've probably noticed that all the text within your first Title slide appears within boxes. Keynote uses boxes to manipulate text and graphics. You can resize a box (and its contents) by clicking and dragging one of the handles that appear around the edges of the box. (Your mouse cursor will change into a double-sided arrow when you're "in the zone.") A side-selection handles drags only its edge of the frame, whereas the corner selection handles resize both adjoining edges of the selection frame.
	To keep the proportions of the box constrained, hold down Shift while dragging the corner handles.
Boxes make it easy to move text and graphics together (as a single unit) to another location within the Layout pane. Click in the center of the box and drag the box to the desired spot; Keynote displays alignment lines to help you align the box with other elements around it (or with regular divisions of the slide, like horizontal center). As you can see in Figure 19-3, I'm moving a box on the slide to a new location, and Keynote has supplied alignment lines to help me place it correctly.
	To select text or graphics within a box, you should double-click the box.
If you're resizing a photo in a box, don't forget to hold down the Shift key as you drag the frame. Doing so specifies that Keynote should preserve the aspect ratio of the image so that the vertical and horizontal proportions remain fixed. You can also flip images horizontally or vertically from the Arrange menu.
 

Figure 19-3: Alignment lines are provided by Keynote as you move boxes.

 
Adding and Editing Slide Text
As with Pages and Numbers, which also use boxes for text layout, Keynote allows you to add or edit text with ease. For example, double-click in a box with the text Double-click to edit, and the placeholder text disappears, leaving the field ready to accept new text. Any new text you type appears at the blinking cursor within the box.
To edit existing text in your Keynote document, click using the bar-shaped cursor to select just the right spot in the text, and drag the insertion cursor across the characters to highlight them. Type the replacement text, and Keynote obligingly replaces the text that was there with the text you type.
If you want to delete existing text, click and drag across the characters to highlight them; then press Delete. You can also delete an entire box and all its contents: Right-click (or Control-click) the offending box and choose Delete from the menu that appears.
When the contents of a box are just right and you're finished entering or editing text, click anywhere outside the box to hide it from view. You can always click the text again to display the box later.
Formatting Slide Text  for the Perfect Look
Keynote doesn't restrict you to the default fonts for the theme you chose. It's easy to format the text in your slides — you can choose a different font family, font color, text alignment, and text attributes such as bolding and italicizing on the fly, whenever you like.
Select the desired text by double-clicking a box and then dragging the text cursor to highlight the characters. Now apply your formatting using one of these two methods:
 The Format Bar: The font controls on the Format Bar work just as the controls on the toolbar do: Either click a font control to display a pop-up menu or click a button to immediately perform an action. Clicking the Font Size pop-up menu, for example, displays a range of sizes for the selected text. With a single click of the B (bold) button, you'll add the bold attribute to the highlighted characters.
 The Format menu: The controls on the Format menu generally mirror those on the Format Bar. To change the alignment from the Format menu, click Format and hover the mouse cursor over the Text menu item. To change text attributes, click Format and hover your mouse over the Font menu.
Using Presenter's Notes in Your Project
As I mention earlier, you can type text notes in the Notes pane (I use them for displaying related topic points while presenting my slideshow). However, you can also print the notes for a project along with the slides, so presenter's notes are also great for including reminders and To Do points for your audience in handouts.
To type your notes, just click within the Notes pane; if that pane is hidden, click View⇒Show Presenter Notes. When you're done adding notes, click in the Slides list or the Layout pane to return to editing mode.
	To display your notes while practicing, use Keynote's Rehearsal feature. Click Play and choose Rehearse Slideshow, and you can scroll through the notes while the slideshow runs. (More on slideshows in a second.)
Every Good Presentation Needs Media
Adding audio, photos, and movies to a slide is drag-and-drop easy in Keynote! Simply drag an image, audio, or movie file from a Finder window and place it at the spot you want within your document.
You can also use the Media Browser. To do so, click the Media button on the toolbar and click the Audio, Photos, or Movies button to select the desired type. Keynote displays the contents of your various media collections — such as your iPhoto and iTunes libraries — or you can also navigate to the file's location on your hard drive, or type in a filename in the Search box at the bottom of the browser. When you've found the file you want to add, drag it to the spot you want in the document. Figure 19-4 illustrates the Media Browser in action.
 

Figure 19-4: It's not just photos — you can add audio and movie clips to a slide, too!

 
Adding a Background Shape
Text often stands out on a slide when it sits on top of a background shape. To add a shape (such as a rectangle or circle) as a background for your text, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the insertion cursor in the location you want.
	2.	Click the Shapes button on the Keynote toolbar and choose a shape.
		The shape appears in your document.
	3.	Click the center of the shape and drag it to a new spot.
		As with image boxes, you can resize or move shapes.
	4.	When the shape is properly positioned and sized, select it and choose Arrange⇒Send to Back.
	Of course, you're not limited to creating shapes and graphics within Keynote; consider using applications like Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator to create graphics that you can import into your slides! As I mention above, you can easily drag-and-drop your new graphic into a slide from a Finder window.
Creating Your Keynote Slideshow
The heart of a Keynote presentation is the slideshow that you build from the slides you've created. A Keynote slideshow is typically presented as a full-screen presentation, with slides appearing in linear order as they are sorted in the Slides list.
You can run a Keynote slideshow simply by clicking the Play button in the toolbar, or by choosing Play⇒Play Slideshow from the menu. You can advance to the next slide by clicking your mouse, or by pressing the right bracket key, which looks like this: ].
Of course, other controls are available besides just the ones that advance to the next slide! Table 19-1 illustrates the key shortcuts you'll use most often during a slideshow.
	Keynote offers a number of settings that you can tweak to fine-tune your slideshow. To display these settings, choose Keynote⇒Preferences and click the Slideshow button in the Preferences window.
Table 19-1	Keynote Slideshow Shortcut Keys




Key


Action




] (right bracket)


Next slide




P


Previous slide




Home


Jump to first slide




End


Jump to last slide




C


Show or hide the pointer




(number)


Jump to the corresponding slide in the Slides list




U


Scroll notes up




D


Scroll notes down




N


Show current slide number




H


Hide slideshow and display last application used (the presentation appears as a minimized icon in the Dock)




B


Pause slideshow and display a black screen (press any key to resume the slideshow)




Esc


Quit




	If you have an iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch handy and you've installed the Apple Keynote Remote application on your device, display the Preferences window and click the Remote button to link your device to your iMac and Keynote. Now you can use your handheld device as a remote and use it during your slideshow!
Printing Your Slides and Notes
Okay, I'll be honest: I don't always print handouts for every presentation I give, just because some of the slideshows I run are short introductions to hands-on demonstrations. However, if you're presenting a lengthy slideshow with plenty of information that you'd like your audience to remember, nothing beats handouts that include scaled-down images of your slides (and, optionally, your presenter's notes).
You're not limited to just paper, though! You can also use Keynote to create an electronic PDF-format document instead of a printed handout, which your audience members can download from your website. Or, if you're an educator with access to an interactive whiteboard (such as the SMARTBoard), you can use this new technology with Keynote.
To print your slides and notes, follow these steps:
	1.	Within Keynote, choose File⇒Print or press +P.
		Keynote displays the Print sheet that you see in Figure 19-5. (Note that some printer-specific features may be different on your screen.)
	2.	Click the desired format.
 •	To print each slide on a separate page at full size, click Individual Slides.
	•	To print each slide on a separate page with the presenter's notes for that slide, click Slides with Notes.
	•	To print the contents of your Slides list in Outline view, click Outline.
	•	To print a handout with multiple slides per page (and, optionally, with presenter's notes), click Handout. Click the Slides per Page pop-up menu to specify the number of slides that Keynote should print on each page.
	3.	Select the pages to print.
 •	To print the entire document, select All.
	•	To print a range of selected slides, select the From radio button and enter the starting and ending pages.
	4.	Select or deselect specific options from the Options column.
		You can include elements such as the date, borders around each slide, and the slide number as part of each page of the hard copy.
	5.	Click the Print button to send the job to your printer.
 

Figure 19-5: Keynote offers a wide range of printing options for your slides and notes.

 











Chapter 20
Creating a Multiuser iMac
In This Chapter
 Enjoying the advantages of a multiuser iMac
 Understanding access levels
 Adding, editing, and deleting user accounts
 Restricting access for managed accounts
 Configuring your login window
 Sharing files with other users
 Securing your stuff with FileVault
Everybody wants a piece. (Of your iMac, that is.) 
Perhaps you live in a busy household with kids, significant others, grandparents, and a wide selection of friends — all of them clamoring for a chance to spend time on the Internet, take care of homework, or enjoy a good game.
On the other hand, your iMac might occupy a classroom or a break room at your office — someplace public, yet everyone wants his own Private iDaho on the iMac, complete with a reserved spot on the hard drive and his own hand-picked attractive Desktop background.
Before you throw your hands up in the air in defeat, read this chapter and take heart! Here you find all the step-by-step procedures, explanations, and tips to help you build a safe multiuser iMac that's accessible to all.
(Oh, and you still get to use it, too. That's not being selfish.)
Once Upon a Time (An  Access Fairy Tale)
Okay, so you don't have Cinderella, Snow White, or that porridge-loving kid with the trespassing problem. Instead, you have your brother Bob.
Every time Bob visits your place, it seems he needs to do "something" on the Internet, or he needs a moment with your iMac to bang out a quick message, using his web-based e-mail application. Unfortunately, Bob's forays onto your iMac always result in stuff getting changed, like your Desktop settings, Address Book/Contacts list, and Safari bookmarks.
What you need, good reader, is a visit from the Account Fairy. Your problem is that you have but a single user account on your system, and Lion thinks that Bob is you. By turning your iMac into a multiuser system and giving Bob his own account, Lion can tell the difference between the two of you, keeping your druthers separate!
With a unique user account, Lion can track all sorts of things for Bob, leaving your computing environment blissfully pristine. A user account keeps track of stuff such as
 Address Book contacts
 Safari bookmarks and settings
 Desktop settings (including background images, screen resolutions, and Finder tweaks)
 iTunes libraries, just in case Bob brings his own music (sigh)
 Websites that Bob might ask you to host on your computer (resigned sigh)
Plus, Bob gets his own reserved Home folder on your iMac's hard drive, so he'll quit complaining about how he can't find his files. Oh, and did I mention how user accounts keep others from accessing your stuff? And how you can lock Bob out of where-he-should-not-be, such as certain applications, iChat, Mail, and websites (including that offshore Internet-casino site that he's hooked on)?
Naturally, this is only the tip of the iceberg. User accounts affect just about everything you can do in Lion and on your iMac. The moral of my little tale? A Mark's Maxim to the rescue:
 Assign others their own user accounts, and let Lion keep track of everything. Then you can share your iMac with others and still live happily  ever after!
Big-Shot Administrator Stuff
Get one thing straight right off the bat: You are the administrator of your iMac. In network-speak, an administrator (or admin for short) is the one with the power to Do Unto Others — creating new accounts, deciding who gets access to what, and generally running the multiuser show. In other words, think of yourself as the Monarch of Mac OS X (the ruler, not the butterfly).
	I always recommend that you have only one (or perhaps two) accounts with administrator-level access on any computer. This makes good sense because you can be assured that no one can monkey with your iMac while you're away from the keyboard. So why might you want a second admin account? Well, if you're often away on business, you might need to assign a second administrator account to a trusted individual who knows as much about your iMac as  you do. (Tell 'em to buy a copy of this book.) That way, if something breaks or an account needs to be tweaked in some way, the other person can take care of it whilst you're gone (but without giving that person access to your personal data).
In this section, I explain the typical duties of a first-class iMac administrator.
Deciding who needs what access
The three most common levels of individual user accounts offered by Lion are
 Admin (administrator): See the beginning of this section.
 Standard level: Perfect for most users, these accounts allow access to just about everything but don't let the user make drastic changes to Lion or create new accounts.
 Managed with Parental Controls level: These are standard accounts with specific limits that are assigned either by you or by another admin account.
Another Mark's Maxim is in order:
 Assign other folks standard-level accounts and then decide whether each new account needs to be modified to restrict access as a managed account. Never assign an account admin-level access unless you deem it truly  necessary.
Standard accounts are quick and easy to set up, and I think they provide the perfect compromise between access and security. You'll find that standard access allows your users to do just about anything they need to do, with a minimum of hassle.
Managed accounts (with Parental Controls) are highly configurable, so you can make sure that your kids don't end up trashing the hard drive, sending junk mail, or engaging in unmonitored chatting. (Note: Parents, teachers, and those folks designing a single public access account for a library or organization — this means you.)
	Lion also provides Group and Sharing Only accounts, but shy away from these advanced levels. Stick with the Big Three levels to ensure that everyone has the proper access to your iMac.
Working with the Guest account
The Guest account is a convenient method of granting someone temporary access to your Mac — in fact, your guest doesn't even need a password to log in! Your Guest account has all the attributes of a standard account, so the visitor has little chance of accidentally (or purposefully) damaging your system. However, after the guest user logs out, the Guest account is "flushed," and the data and files that person created using the account are deleted automatically. This feature allows the next guest to start with a clean slate. (Note that files saved to an external drive and files saved to the Shared folder by the Guest account will remain after the user logs out.)
By default, the Guest account is disabled. To turn on this feature, open System Preferences, click Users & Groups, and then click the Guest User entry in the list. (You may have to click the Lock icon in the lower-left corner of the Users & Groups pane and provide your admin password before you can continue.) Click the Allow Guests to Log In to This Computer check box to enable it.
Oh, and don't forget that you can enable specific Parental Controls for the Guest account, just as you can for any other account. That should come in handy if your daughter has a slumber party coming up this weekend . . .

Adding users
All right, Mark, enough pregame jabbering — show this good reader how to set up new accounts! Your iMac already has one admin-level account set up for you (created during the initial Lion setup process), and you need to be logged in with that account to add a user. To add a new account, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock and then click the Users & Groups icon to display the pane that you see in Figure 20-1.
 

Figure 20-1:  Add new user accounts here.

 
	2.	Click the New User button — the one with the plus sign at the bottom of the accounts list, under the Login Options button — to display the New User sheet shown in Figure 20-2.
 

Figure 20-2: Fill out those fields, and you have a new user.

 
		If your New User button is grayed out, your Users & Groups pane is locked. Remember that you can toggle the padlock icon at the lower-left corner of most of the panes in System Preferences to lock or allow changes. To gain access, do the following:
	a.	Click the padlock icon to make changes to the Users & Groups pane.
	b.	When Lion prompts you for your admin account password (the account you're currently using), enter it.
	c.	Click OK.
		Now you can click the New User button.
	3.	Click the New Account pop-up menu and specify the account level status.
		Choose Administrator, Standard, or Managed with Parental Controls.
		You should have only one or two administrator-level users, and your account is already an admin account.
	4.	Type the name that you want to display for this account in the Full Name text box and Then press Tab to move to the next field.
		Lion displays this name on the Login screen, so behave! (For example, "Bob" has only one "o" the last time I checked.)
	5.	(Optional) Although Lion automatically generates the user's account name (for use in iChat, and for naming the user's Home folder), you can type a new one. (No spaces, please.) Press Tab again.
	6.	In the Password text box, type the password for the new account and then press Tab to move to the next field.
		Generally, I recommend a password of at least six characters, using a mixture of alphabetic and numeric characters.
		Run out of password ideas? No problem! Click the key button (to the right of the Password text box) to display the Password Assistant, from which Lion can automatically generate password suggestions of the length you specify. Click the Suggestion pop-up menu or type directly into the field, and Lion automatically adds the password you've generated into the Password field.
	7.	In the Verify text box, retype the password you chose and press Tab again to continue your quest.
	8.	(Optional) Lion can provide a password hint after three unsuccessful login attempts. To offer a hint, type a short question in the Password Hint text box.
		From a security standpoint, password hints are taboo. (Personally, I never use 'em. If someone is having a problem logging in to a computer I administer, you better believe I want to know why.) Therefore, despite the recommendation Lion shows here, I strongly recommend that you skip this field — and if you do offer a hint, keep it vague! Avoid hints like "Your password is the name of the Wookie in Star Wars." Geez.
	9.	Click the Create User button.
		The new account shows up in the list at the left of the Users &  Groups pane.
Each user's Home folder has the same default subfolders, including Movies, Music, Pictures, Sites, and such. A user can create new subfolders within his or her Home folder at any time.
Here's one more neat fact about a user's Home folder: No matter what the account level, most of the contents of a Home folder can't be viewed by other users. (Yes, that includes admin-level users. This way, everyone using your iMac gets her own little area of privacy.) Within the Home folder, only the Sites and Public folders can be accessed by other users from within a Finder window — and only in a limited fashion. More on the Sites and Public folders later in this chapter.
Modifying user accounts
Next, consider the basic modifications that you can make to a user account, such as changing existing information or selecting a new picture to represent that user's unique personality.
To edit an existing account, log in with your admin account, display the System Preferences window, and click Users & Groups to display the account list. Then follow these steps:
	1.	Click the account that you want to change.
		Don't forget to unlock the Users & Groups pane if necessary. See the earlier section "Adding users" to read how.
	2.	Edit the settings that you need to change.
		For example, you can reset the user's password, or (if absolutely necessary) upgrade the account to admin level.
	3.	Click the Picture well and then click a thumbnail image to represent this user (as shown in Figure 20-3).
 

Figure 20-3:  Pick the image that best  represents  a user.

 
		An easy way to get an image is to use one from your hard drive. Click Edit Picture and then drag a new image from a Finder window into the Picture well. (Alternatively, you can click Edit Picture and then click the Snapshot button — which bears a tiny camera — to grab a picture from your iMac's FaceTime HD video camera. After you capture the essence of your subject as a photo, click Set to return to the Users & Groups pane.)
		Using the default login settings, Lion displays this image in the Login list next to the account name.
	4.	When everything is correct, press +Q to close the System Preferences dialog.
		You don't need to save your changes (as a separate step) within System Preferences. Lion does that automatically when you close the System Preferences window.
	Standard-level users have some control over their accounts — they're not helpless, ya know. Standard users can log in, open System Preferences, and click Users & Groups to change the account password or picture, as well as the My Card assigned to them in Lion Address Book. All standard users can also set up Login Items, which I cover later in this chapter. Note, however, that managed users might not have access to System Preferences at all, so they can't make changes. (Read about this in the upcoming section "Managing access settings for an account."
I banish thee, Mischievous User!
Not all user accounts last forever. Students graduate, co-workers quit, kids move out of the house (at last!), and Bob might even find a significant other who has a faster cable modem. We can only hope.
Anyway, no matter what the reason, you can delete a user account at any time. Log in with your admin account, display the Users & Groups pane in System Preferences, and then follow these steps to eradicate an account:
	1.	Click the account that you want to delete.
	2.	Click the Delete User button (which bears the Minus Sign of Doom, below the Login Options button; refer to Figure 20-1).
		Lion displays a confirmation sheet, as shown in Figure 20-4. By default, the contents of the user's Home folder are saved in a disk image file — which you can restore with Disk Utility — in the Deleted Users folder. (This safety option is a good idea if the user might return in the future, allowing you to retrieve her old stuff. However, this option is available only if you have enough space on your hard drive to create the Home folder image file.)
	3.	To clean up completely, select the Delete the Home Folder radio button and then click OK.
		Lion wipes everything connected with the user account off your hard drive.
	4.	Press +Q to close the System Preferences dialog.
Time once again for a Mark's Maxim:
 Always delete unnecessary user accounts. Otherwise, you're leaving holes in your iMac's security — and eating up disk space.
 

Figure 20-4: This is your last chance to save the stuff from a deleted user account.

 
Setting up Login Items  and Parental Controls
Every account on your iMac can be customized. Understandably, some settings are accessible only to admin-level accounts, and others can be adjusted by standard-level accounts. In this section, I introduce you to the things that can be enabled (or disabled) within a user account.
Automating with Login Items
Login Items are applications or documents that can be set to launch or load automatically as soon as a specific user logs in — for example, Apple Mail or Address Book. In fact, a user must be logged in to add or remove Login Items. Even an admin-level account can't change the Login Items for another user.
	A user must have access to the Users & Groups pane within the System Preferences window in order to use Login Items. As you can read in the following section, a user can be locked out of System Preferences, which makes it more difficult for Login Items to be added or deleted for that account. (Go figure.)
If an application appears in your Dock, you don't need to follow the upcoming steps to add that application to your Login Items list; instead simply right-click the application icon and click the Options submenu and then choose Open at Login.
To set Login Items for applications that don't appear in your Dock, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock and then click the Users & Groups icon.
	2.	Click the Login Items tab to display the settings that you see in  Figure 20-5.
		It bears repeating: You can change the Login Items for only the account that's currently logged in.
 

Figure 20-5: Add apps to your Login Items list.

 
	3.	Click the Add button (with the plus sign) to display a file selection sheet.
	4.	Navigate to the application you want to launch each time you log in, click it to select it, and then click Add.
		If you're in the mood to drag and drop, just drag the applications you want to add from a Finder window and drop them directly into the list.
	5.	Press +Q to quit System Preferences and save your changes.
	Login Items are launched in the order that they appear in the list, so feel free to drag the items into any order you like.
Managing access settings for an account
A standard-level account with restrictions is a managed account. (You can read about these accounts earlier in this chapter.) With these accounts, you can restrict access to many different places within Lion and your iMac's applications via Parental Controls. (Naturally, admin-level accounts don't need Parental Controls because an admin account has no restrictions.)
	In short, Parental Controls come in handy in preventing users — family members, students, co-workers, friends, or the public at large — from damaging your computer, your software, or Lion itself and from accessing inappropriate material on the Internet (or even just using your iMac after bedtime). If an account has been restricted with Parental Controls, the account description changes from Standard to Managed in the Accounts list.
To display the Parental Controls for a standard account, start here:
	1.	Log in with an admin-level account.
	2.	Open System Preferences and then click Users & Groups.
	3.	Click the Standard account in the list and then select the Enable Parental Controls check box.
Now click the Open Parental Controls button to display the specific category tabs that you see in Figure 20-6:
 Apps: These settings (which I discuss in more detail in a second) affect what the user can do within Lion as well as what the Finder itself looks like to that user.
		Lion keeps a number of different types of text log files (which track where the user goes on the Internet, which applications are launched by the account, and the contents of any iChat conversations in which the user was a participant). To view these logs from the Apps, Web, or People tab, click the Logs button at the bottom of the pane. From this single sheet, you can monitor all the logs for a particular account and track Internet activity for any managed user.
 Web: These settings control the Safari application. Lion offers three levels of control for websites:
	•	Allow Unrestricted Access to Websites: Select this radio button to allow unfettered access for this user.
	•	Try to Limit Access to Adult Websites Automatically: You can allow Safari to automatically block websites that it deems "adult." To specify particular sites that Safari should allow or deny, click the Customize button.
	•	Allow Access to Only These Websites: Select this radio button to specify which websites the user can view. To add a website, click the Add button (which bears a plus sign); Lion then prompts you for a title and the website address.
 People: Select the Limit Mail and the Limit iChat check boxes to specify the e-mail and instant-messaging addresses that this user can communicate with. To add an address that the user can e-mail or chat with, click the Add button.
		If you want a notification if the user is attempting to send an e-mail to someone not in the list, select the Send Permission Requests To check box to enable it and then type your e-mail address in the text box.
 Time Limits: Parents, click the Time Limits button, and you'll shout with pure joy! You can limit an account to a certain number of hours of usage per weekday (Weekday Time Limits), limit to a specified number of hours of usage per weekend day (Weekend Time Limits), and set a bedtime computer curfew time for both school nights (Sunday through Thursday) and weekend days.
 

Figure 20-6: You don't have to be a parent to assign Parental Controls!

 
 Other: As you might expect from the name, this tab offers a number of important restrictions that don't fall into one of the other four categories.
	•	Hide Profanity in Dictionary: If you prefer that profane terms be hidden within the Dictionary for this user, select the Hide Profanity in Dictionary check box to enable it.
	•	Limit Printer Administration: With this check box enabled, the user can modify the printer settings within the Print & Scan pane in System Preferences. If this check box is disabled, the user can still print to the default printer and switch to other assigned printers, but can't change printer settings, add a printer, or delete a printer.
	•	Limit CD and DVD Burning: Disable this check box to prevent the user from recording CDs or DVDs via the built-in disc recording features in Mac OS X. (Note, however, that if you load a third-party recording program, such as Roxio Toast, the user can still record discs with it, so you probably want to disallow Toast access for the user in question from the App category.)
	•	Disable Changing the Password: Enable this check box to allow the user to change the account password.
		If you're creating a single standard-level account for an entire group of people to use — for example, if you want to leave the machine in kiosk mode in one corner of the office or if everyone in a classroom will use the same account on the machine — I recommend disabling the ability to change the account password. (Oh, and please do me a favor . . . don't create a system with just one admin-level account that everyone is supposed to use! Instead, keep your one admin-level account close to your bosom and create a standard-level account for the Unwashed Horde.)
	You can always tell whether an account has been assigned Parental Controls because the account description changes from Standard to Managed in the Accounts list.
Of particular importance are the Apps controls. Click the Apps tab to modify these settings:
 Use Simple Finder: The Simple Finder is a great idea for families and classrooms with smaller children. For the ultimate in restrictive Lion environments — think public access or kiosk mode — you can assign the Simple Finder to an account. Even the Dock itself is restricted, sporting only the Finder icon, Trash, the Dashboard, and those folders that allow users to access their documents and applications.
 Limit Applications: When this option is enabled, you can select the specific applications that appear to the user. These restrictions are in effect whether the user has access to the full Finder or just the Simple Finder.
	•	To allow access to all the applications of a specific type: Select the check box next to the desired group heading to enable it. This includes App Store applications, Other Apps, Widgets, and Utilities.
	•	To restrict access to all applications within a group: If a group heading check box is enabled and you want to deny access to all the applications in that group, click the check box next to the heading to disable it.
	•	To toggle restriction on and off for specific applications within these groups: Click the triangle icon next to each group heading to expand its list and then either select or deselect the check box next to the desired applications. Lion denotes partial access within a group — a mixture of full and restricted applications — with a dash mark in the group heading check box.
		To locate a specific application, click in the Search box and type the application name.
	•	To add a new application to the Allowed Apps list: Drag its icon from the Finder and drop it in the list within the Other Apps group. After you add an application, it appears in the Other Apps group, and you can toggle access to it on and off as you can with the applications in the named groups.
 Allow User to Modify the Dock: If you select this check box, the user can add or remove applications, documents, and folders from the Dock in the full Finder.
Multiuser Rules for Everyone
After you're hip on user accounts and the changes you can make to them, turn to a number of topics that affect all users of your iMac — things like how they log in, how a user can share information with everyone else on the computer, and how each user account can be protected from unscrupulous outsiders with state-of-the-art encryption. (Suddenly you're James Bond! I told you Lion would open new doors for you.)
Logging on and off in Lion For Dummies
Hey, how about the login screen itself? How do your users identify themselves? Time for another of my "Shortest books in the For Dummies series" special editions. (The title's practically longer than the entire book.)
Lion offers four methods of logging folks in to your multiuser iMac:
 The username and password login: This is the most secure type of login screen you'll see in Lion because you have to actually type your account username and your password. (A typical hacker isn't going to know all the usernames on your iMac.) Press Return or click the Log In button to compete the process.
		When you enter your username and password, you see Bullet1s instead of your password because Lion displays Bullet1 characters to ensure security. Otherwise, someone could simply look over your shoulder as you type and see your password.
 The list login: This login screen offers a good midpoint between security and convenience. Click your account username in the list and type your password when the login screen displays the password prompt. Press Return or click the Log In button to continue.
 Fast User Switching: This feature, as shown in Figure 20-7, allows another user to sit down and log in while the previous user's applications are still running in the background. This is perfect for a fast e-mail check or a scan of your eBay bids without forcing someone else completely off the iMac. By default, when you turn on Fast User Switching, Lion displays the currently active user's name at the right side of the Finder menu bar.
		To switch to another account, follow these steps:
	a.	Click the current user's name in the Finder menu (refer to Figure 20-7) to display the Fast User Switching menu.
	b.	Click the name of the user who wants to log in.
		Lion displays the login window, just as if the iMac had been rebooted.
		The previous user's stuff is still running, so you definitely shouldn't reboot or shut down the iMac!
 

Figure 20-7:  The Fast User Switching menu, unfurled for all to see.

 
		To switch back to the previous user, follow these steps:
	a.	Click the username again in the Finder menu.
	b.	Click the previous user's name from the Fast User Switching menu.
		For security, Lion prompts you for that account's login password.
 Auto login: This is the most convenient method of logging in but offers no security whatsoever. Lion automatically logs in the specified account when you start or reboot your iMac.
		I strongly recommend that you use auto login only if
	•	Your iMac is in a secure location.
	•	You are the only one using your iMac.
	•	You're setting up a public-access iMac, in which case you want your iMac to immediately log in with the public account.
		Working in a public environment? Never set an admin-level account as the auto login account. This is the very definition of ASDI, or A Supremely Dumb Idea.
To set up a username/password or list login, open System Preferences, click the Users & Groups icon, and then display the Login Options settings (see Figure 20-8). Select the List of Users radio button for a list login screen, or select the Name and Password radio button to require your users to type their full username and password.
To enable Fast User Switching, mark the Show Fast User Switching Menu As check box (as shown in Figure 20-8). You can specify whether the menu displays a user's full name (the default), their short name, or their account icon in the Finder menu bar.
To set Auto Login, choose the account that Lion should use from the Automatic Login pop-up menu (as shown by the now-legendary Figure 20-8).
 

Figure 20-8: Configure your login settings from the Login Options pane.

 
Logging out of Lion all the way (without Fast User Switching) is a cinch. Just click the Apple menu () and then choose Log Out. (From the keyboard, press +Shift+Q.) A confirmation dialog appears that will automatically log you off in one minute — but don't forget that if someone walks up and clicks Cancel, he'll be using your iMac with your account! Your iMac returns to the login screen, ready for its next victim. Heed this Mark's Maxim:
 Always click the Log Out button on the logout confirmation dialog before you leave your iMac (or hold down the Option key while choosing Log Out from the menu or pressing the Logout keyboard shortcut).
Interesting stuff about sharing stuff
You might wonder where shared documents and files reside on your iMac. That's a good question. Like just about everything in Lion, there's a simple answer. The Users folder on your iMac has a Shared folder within it. To share a file or folder, you should place it in the Shared folder.
	You don't have to turn on File Sharing in the Sharing pane of System Preferences to use Shared folders on your iMac. Personal File Sharing affects only network access to your machine by users of other computers.
Each user account on your iMac also has a Public folder within that user's Home folder. This is a read-only folder that other users on your iMac (and across the network) can access: They can only open and copy the files that it contains. (Sorry, no changes to existing documents from other users, or new documents from other users.) Every user's Public folder contains a Drop Box folder, where other users can copy or save files but can't view the contents. Think of the Drop Box as a mailbox where you drop off stuff for the other user.
Encrypting your hard drive can be fun
Storing sensitive information and documents on your iMac always incurs a risk. Although your login password should ensure that your data is off limits to everyone else, consider an extra level of security to prevent even a dedicated hacker from accessing your stuff — especially if you're sharing your iMac computer in a multiuser environment. (In other words, consider a little more protection than just user permissions for those all-important Fantasy Football formations that you'll unleash next season.)
To offer that extra level of security, Lion includes FileVault, which provides disk encryption that prevents just about anyone except the NSA or FBI from gaining access to the files on your hard drive. (You'll notice that things slow down just a bit when you're logging in and out or working with files that are several gigabytes in size, but for those of us who need the peace of mind, this minimal performance hit is worth it.) You can enable the FileVault feature from the Security & Privacy pane in System Preferences.
Two passwords control access to your hard drive when FileVault is active, and without them, the data contained on your hard drive is impossible for just about anyone to read:
 Your login password: The nice thing about FileVault is that it's completely invisible to you and your users. In other words, when you log in, Lion automatically takes care of decrypting and encrypting the stuff on your drive for you. You literally won't know that FileVault is working  for you — which is how computers are supposed to work.
 The Recovery Key: This code can be used by an admin-level user to unlock your drive if you forget your login password. Lion provides you with this key when you turn on the FileVault feature. I highly recommend that you write down this key and store your copy in a safe place, away from your Mac.
	You need to be logged in with an admin-level account to turn on FileVault.
To turn on FileVault protection within Lion, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock and then click the Security & Privacy icon.
	2.	Click the FileVault button.
	3.	Click the Turn On FileVault button.
		Lion displays a sheet that lists all the user accounts on your iMac — naturally, since you're logged in, Lion has already confirmed your account. However, in order for other users to access your hard drive after FileVault is running, each user account must be separately enabled. (If an account is not enabled, that person can no longer access anything on the hard drive.)
	4.	Click the Enable User button for each account on your system and enter that user's account password.
		Lion displays a sheet prompting you to type the user's account password. After a user is enabled, she gets a cheery green check mark in  the list.
	5.	When all users have been enabled, click Continue.
	6.	Write down the Recovery Key and store the copy in a safe location; then click Continue.
		You can also take a snapshot of your screen while the Recovery Key is displayed and then print that image separately. Doing so is A Good Idea because it helps prevent errors while copying that excruciatingly long Recovery Key by hand. To take a snapshot image of the screen, press +Shift+3. (The image file appears on your Desktop.)
	7.	After Lion encrypts your hard drive and logs you out, log in again  normally.
		You're done — and far more secure!
 Again, do not forget your account login password, and make doggone sure that your admin user never forgets the Recovery Key! If you forget these passwords, you can't read anything on your hard drive, and even the smartest Apple support technician will tell you that nothing can be done.











Chapter 21
Building (Or Joining) a Network
In This Chapter
 Considering the benefits of a network
 Choosing between wired and wireless networks
 Sharing an Internet connection
 Gathering the stuff you need to network
 Making the network connection
 Using your network
 Protecting your iMac with a firewall
In my book, network access ranks right up there with air conditioning and the microwave oven. As with other "I can't imagine life without them" kinds of technologies, it's hard to imagine sharing data from your iMac with others around you without a network. Sure, I've used a sneakernet (the old-fashioned term for running back and forth between computers with a floppy disk), but these days, Apple computers don't even have floppy drives.
Whether you use your network to share an Internet connection, challenge your friends to a nice relaxing game of World War II battlefield action, or stream your MP3 collection to other computers that use iTunes, you'll wonder how you ever got along without one. In this chapter, I fill you in on all the details you need to know to get your iMac hooked up to a new (or an existing) network.
What, Exactly, Is the  Network Advantage?
If you have other family members with computers or if your iMac is in an office with other computers (including those rascally PCs), here's just a sample of what you can do with a network connection:
 Share an Internet connection. This is the major reason that many families and most small businesses install a network. Everyone can simultaneously use the same digital subscriber line (DSL) or cable Internet connection on every computer on the network, while easily communicating and sharing files with each other at the same time.
 Share a printer. You say your fellow employee — or even worse, your big sister — has a great printer connected to her computer? Luckily, that printer can be shared with anyone across your network.
 Copy and move files of all sizes. Need to get a large iDVD project from one Mac to another? With a network connection, you can accomplish this task in just seconds. Otherwise you'd have to burn that file to a DVD-R or use a flash drive. A network connection makes copying as simple as dragging the project folder from one Finder window to another.
 Share documents across your network. Talk about a wonderful collaboration tool. For example, you can drop a Microsoft Word document or Keynote presentation file into your Public folder and ask for comments and edits from others in your office.
 Stream music and video. With iTunes, you can share your audio and video media collection on your iMac with other Macs and PCs on your network. Your eyes and ears can't tell the difference!
 Play multiplayer games. Invite your friends over and tell 'em that you're hosting a LAN party (the techno-nerd term for a large gathering of game players, connected through the same network, all playing the same multiplayer game. (Suddenly you'll see firsthand just how devious a human opponent can be.) Each participant needs to buy a copy of the same game, naturally, but the fun you'll have is worth every cent you spend. Don't forget the chips!
If your iMac isn't within shouting distance of an existing network or you don't plan on buying any additional computers, stop right here — a lone iMac hanging out in your home with no other computers around won't need a network.
	If you have just your iMac and an Internet connection and you have no plans to add another computer or a network printer, a network isn't necessary.
The Great Debate: Wired versus Wireless
After you decide that you indeed need a network for your home or office, you have another decision to make: Should you install a wired network (running cables between your computers) or a wireless network? Heck, should you throw caution completely to the wind and build a combination network with both wireless and wired hardware?
Your first instinct is probably to choose a wireless network for convenience. After all, this option allows you to eliminate running cables behind furniture (or in the ceiling of your office building). Ah, but I must show you the advantages to a wired network as well. Table 21-1 shows the lowdown to help you make up your mind.
Table 21-1	Network Decision Making




Factor


Wireless Networks


Wired Networks




Speed


Moderate


Much faster




Security


Moderate


Better




Convenience


Better


Worse




Compatibility


Confusing standards


Easier to understand




Cables


Few (or none)


Required




As I call it, here are the advantages of choosing a wired or a wireless network setup:
 Wired: Using a wired network offers two significant perks over a wireless network:
 •	Faster speeds: In general, wired networks that are compatible with your iMac are many times faster than the fastest 802.11n wireless connections.
		The performance of a wireless connection can be compromised by interference (from impeding structures, such as concrete walls, and from household appliances, such as some wireless phones and microwave ovens) and by distance.
 •	Better security: A wired network doesn't broadcast a signal that can be picked up outside your home or office, so it's more secure.
		Hackers can attack through your Internet connection. Always use a firewall. I subtly emphasize this point in the section "USE YOUR FIREWALL!" later in this chapter.
 Wireless: A wireless connection really has only one advantage, but it's a big one: convenience (which, in this case, is another word for mobility for all your networked devices).
		Accessing your network anywhere within your home or office — without cables — is so easy. You can also easily connect a wireless printer. And when you're using an AirPort Express mobile Base Station, even your home stereo can get connected to your MP3 collection on your iMac. Read more about Base Stations later on.
Sharing Internet Access
It's time to see what's necessary to share an Internet connection. In this section, I cover two methods of connecting your network to the Internet. (And before you open your wallet, keep in mind that you might be able to use your iMac to share your broadband connection across your network!)
Using your iMac as a sharing device
Figure 21-1 illustrates how you can use your iMac to provide a shared Internet connection across a simple wireless network, using either
 A broadband DSL or cable connection
 A Lion-compatible external USB dialup modem
		I recommend sharing a dialup modem Internet connection only if you have no other option. A dialup modem connection really can't handle the data transfer speeds for more than one computer to access the Internet comfortably at one time. (In plain English, an external USB modem that you add to your iMac isn't fast enough for both you and your significant other to surf the web at the same time.) Sharing a dialup connection just isn't practical — and for many folks, even a single  computer accessing the Internet over a dialup modem connection is far too slow.
In either configuration, your iMac uses the Mac OS X Lion built-in Internet connection sharing feature to get the job done, but your iMac must remain turned on to allow Internet sharing. I show you how to do this in "Network Internet connections," later in this chapter.
Using a dedicated Internet sharing device
Figure 21-2 illustrates how a broadband connection works if you use a dedicated Internet sharing device (often called an Internet router) to connect to your cable or DSL modem. You have to buy this additional hardware, but your iMac doesn't have to remain turned on just so that everyone can get on the Internet.
Internet routers usually include either wired or wireless network connections —  and many include both.
 

Figure 21-1: Share an Internet connection wirelessly via your iMac.

 
Setting up an Internet router is usually a pretty simple matter, but the configuration depends on the device manufacturer and usually involves a number of different settings in System Preferences that vary according to the model of router you're installing. Grab a diet cola, sit down with the router's manual, and follow the installation instructions you'll find there. (In some cases, you may need to set up your cable or DSL modem as a bridge between your ISP and your router, which should be covered in your modem and router manuals as well.)
 

Figure 21-2: Share an Internet connection by using an Internet router.

 
	Most Internet routers offer a DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) server, which automatically assigns Internet protocol (IP) addresses, and I strongly recommend that you turn on this feature!
What Do You Need to Connect?
Most normal folks — whom I define as those who have never met a network system administrator, and couldn't care less — think that connecting to a network probably involves all sorts of arcane chants and a mystical symbol or two. In this section, I provide you with the shopping list that you need to set up a network — or connect to a network that's already running.
Wireless connections
Today's iMacs come complete with built-in AirPort Extreme wireless hardware, so if you already have an AirPort Extreme or Express Base Station, you're set to go. Otherwise, hold on tight while I lead you through the hardware requirements for wireless networking. (Kinda ironic, don't you think?)
	The maximum signal range — and effectiveness — of any wireless network can be impeded by intervening walls or by electrical devices, such as microwave ovens and some wireless phones, all of which can generate interference.
Connecting an iMac to an existing wireless network
Connecting an Intel iMac to an existing wireless network requires no extra hardware because your hardware is already built in. (Whew. That was easy!)
Using a base station to go wireless
If you decide that you want to build your own wireless network, you eschew cables, or you want to add wireless support to your existing wired network, you need a base station. The base station can act as a bridge between computers using wireless and your existing wired network. Such a wireless base station will have either
 A port that can connect to your existing wired network's switch
 A full built-in switch for wired connectivity (which means you can sell your old wired Ethernet switch to your sister in Tucson)
And, of course, a base station can simply act as a central switch for your wireless network (with no support for a wired network at all).
You can use either a cool Apple Base Station or a boring 802.11n generic wireless base station; however, the Apple hardware requires less configuration and tweaking. (Sounds like a Mark's Maxim!)
 If you don't want the hassle of tweaking PC hardware to accommodate your aluminum iMac, buy Apple hardware and software.
Apple Base Station models
As listed in Table 21-2, your iMac can work with three different Apple Base Station models for wireless networking:
 AirPort Extreme
		I recommend using AirPort Extreme if your network needs an enhanced antenna, which provides greater range. You can read about connectivity ranges in the upcoming Table 21-2. The Extreme is also a good pick if you need wired connectivity on your network.
 AirPort Express (as shown in Figure 21-3)
		I recommend using AirPort Express if you want to
	•	Carry your wireless base station with you. Express is much smaller than the other Apple Base Station models. (Think "party on the patio" or a LAN gaming get-together at a friend's house.)
	•	Connect your home stereo for wireless music streaming. You can use the AirPlay sharing feature in iTunes.
 

Figure 21-3: The AirPort Express portable Base Station.

 
 Time Capsule
		Apple's Time Capsule unit isn't just a wireless remote hard drive for use with Lion's Time Machine backup feature: It can also act as a full AirPort Extreme Base Station. In fact, the wireless specifications for a Time Capsule unit and an AirPort Extreme Base Station are almost identical.
		The 802.11n standard used by the AirPort Extreme, Time Capsule, and AirPort Express Base Stations delivers a connection that's several times faster than the old AirPort Base Station's 802.11b/802.11g standards. 802.11n is also compatible with all the older standards — 802.11b/a/g — so I highly recommend that you stick with 802.11n in the future. It plays well with others, and at warp speed, to boot!
Table 21-2	Apple Wireless Network Base Stations




Feature


AirPort Extreme/Time Capsule


AirPort Express




Price


$179/$299


$99




Users (maximum)


50


10




802.11n support


Yes


Yes




802.11g support


Yes


Yes




802.11b support


Yes


Yes




LAN Ethernet jack (high-speed Internet connection)


Yes


Yes




WAN Ethernet jack (wired computer network)


Yes


No




Stereo mini-jack


No


Yes




USB printer port


Yes


Yes




Maximum signal range (approximate)


150 feet (standard)
250 feet (with add-on antenna)


150 feet




AC adapter


Separate on AirPort Extreme/built-in on Time Capsule


Built in




	The names of the Apple Base Stations are irritatingly similar; Apple usually does a better job differentiating their product names. Jot down the name of your model on a sticky note and stick it on your iMac's Desktop just so that you don't get confused.
Installing an Apple Base Station is simple:
	1.	If you have a DSL or cable modem, connect it to the Ethernet LAN port on the Base Station with an Ethernet cable.
	2.	If you have an existing wired Ethernet computer network using a switch or router, connect it to the WAN (wide area network) port on the Base Station with an Ethernet cable.
		Only the AirPort Extreme and Time Capsule stations have a WAN port.
	3.	If you have a USB printer, connect it to the USB port on the Base Station.
		I cover the steps to share a printer in the upcoming section "Sharing a network printer."
	4.	Connect the power cable from the AC power adapter.
		The AirPort Express and Time Capsule units have a built-in AC adapter, so if you're using one of these models, just plug the device itself into  the wall.
	5.	Switch on your Base Station.
	6.	Run the installation software provided by Apple on your iMac.
Using non-Apple base stations
If any company other than Apple manufactured your wireless base station, the installation procedure is almost certainly the same. (Naturally, you should take a gander at the manufacturer's installation guide just to make sure, but I added many different brands of these devices and used the same steps for each one.)
However, I should note that Apple wireless hardware uses a slightly different security encryption standard than most PC wireless hardware, which results in an extra hurdle when connecting to a non-Apple base station with your iMac. (More on this in the next section. For now, just remember that I recommend using Apple wireless hardware with your iMac whenever possible. It's just a little easier!)
Joining a wireless network
As far as I'm concerned, the only two types of base stations on the planet are Apple and non-Apple (which includes all 802.11n and 802.11g Base Stations and access points). In these two sections, I relate what you need to know to get onboard, using either type of hardware.
Apple AirPort Base Stations
To join a wireless network that's served by any flavor of Apple Base Station, follow these steps on each Mac with wireless support:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Network icon.
	3.	From the Connection list on the left, click Wi-Fi.
	4.	Mark the Show Wi-Fi Status in Menu Bar check box.
	5.	Click the Apply button.
	6.	Press +Q to quit System Preferences and save your settings.
	7.	Click the Wi-Fi status icon (which looks like a fan) on the Finder  menu bar.
	8.	From the Wi-Fi menu, choose an existing network connection that you'd like to join.
		The network name is the same as the network name you chose when you set up your AirPort Base Station.
	9.	If you set up a secure network, enter the password you assigned to the network during setup.
By the way, security is always A Good Thing, and I strongly recommend that you enable the password encryption features of your Apple Base Station while installing it! (Luckily, the Apple Base Station setup application leads you through this very process.) In the words of an important Mark's Maxim:
 Keep uninvited guests out of your network! Use your base station's security features and encrypt your data!
Some wireless networks might not appear in your Wi-Fi menu list. These are closed networks, which can be specified when you set up your AirPort Base Station. You can't join a closed network unless you know the exact network name (which is far more secure than simply broadcasting the network name). To join a closed network, follow these steps:
	1.	Select Join Other Network from the Wi-Fi menu.
		To open the menu, click the AirPort status icon (which looks like a fan) on the Finder menu bar.
	2.	Type the name of the network.
	3.	If the network is secured with WEP or WPA2 encryption — the two most popular security standards for protecting your data through encryption — click the Security pop-up menu and select which type of encryption is being used.
		(WPA2 is a far superior standard, so choose it over WEP whenever  possible.)
	4.	Enter the network password, if required.
To disconnect from a Wi-Fi network, click the Wi-Fi menu and either
 Choose Turn Wi-Fi Off.
 Connect to another Wi-Fi network.
		In other words, if you choose another available Wi-Fi network from the Wi-Fi menu, your iMac will automatically drop the previous connection. (You can be connected to only one wireless network at a time, which makes Good Sense.)
Using non-Apple Base Stations
If you're using your iMac to connect to a non-Apple base station, you might need to follow a specific procedure that takes care of the slightly different password functionality used by standard 802.11b/g/n hardware.
Lion can take care of many potential wireless "language barriers" caused by security encryption (the two most common forms are WEP and WPA2), so whether you need to massage your password to connect to your non-Apple base station depends on the specific hardware and encryption system that  it uses.
	To read or print the latest version of this procedure, fire up Safari and visit http://kbase.info.apple.com/index.html, searching on the number HT1126. (This is the Apple Knowledge Base article number, which you can type in the first search field.) This article provides the details on how to convert a standard wireless encrypted password to a format that your AirPort Extreme hardware can understand.
Sending files the easy AirDrop way
AirDrop is the local Mac-to-Mac file transfer feature built in to Mac OS X Lion — and it couldn't be much easier to use, because literally no setup and no passwords are involved! However, I have three caveats (don't I always?):
 AirDrop works only with Macs running Lion, and only with specific models. On the desktop side, it works with iMac (early 2009 or newer), Mac mini (mid 2010 or newer), and Mac Pro (early 2009 or newer). On the laptop side, AirDrop works with MacBook Pro (late 2008 or newer), MacBook Air (late 2010 or newer), and MacBook (late 2010 and newer).
 AirDrop uses the Wi-Fi hardware built in to today's Macs, so don't forget to turn Wi-Fi on first. (If you're displaying the Wi-Fi status icon in your Finder menu bar, click the icon and choose Turn Wi-Fi On.)
 You'll have to be within Wi-Fi signal range of another Mac to use AirDrop. Note, however, that the two computers don't have to be using the same Wi-Fi network. (For example, my iMac uses a wired connection to my network, but because the iMac has internal Wi-Fi hardware, I can use AirDrop to send files to my MacBook Pro.)
To use AirDrop to transfer files to another Mac, both users should click the AirDrop icon in any Finder window sidebar to join the AirDrop group. After a short delay, you'll see the account pictures for all the Macs within signal range that have AirDrop open. Drag the files you want to transfer to the person's picture. Both you and the recipient are prompted for confirmation before the transfer begins. When the transfer is completed, the files you sent are saved in the recipient's Downloads folder.
After you're done using AirDrop, just close the Finder window displaying the account pictures and you'll exit from the AirDrop group. (Don't forget that you have to open AirDrop again if someone wants to send you files, so I personally leave my AirDrop Finder window open and minimized to the Dock!)

Wired connections
If you're installing a wired network, your iMac already comes with most of what you need for joining your new cabled world. You just connect the hardware and configure the connection. Don't forget that you also need cables and an inexpensive Ethernet switch. (If you're using an Internet router or other hardware sharing device, it almost certainly has a built-in four- or eight-port switch.)
Connecting iMac hardware to a wired network
Your Ethernet 10/100/1000 port (which looks like a slightly oversized modem port) is located in the line of ports on the back of your iMac, ready to accept a standard Ethernet Cat5/Cat5E/Cat6 cable with RJ-45 connectors. If you're connecting to an existing wired network, you need a standard Cat5/Cat5E/Cat6 Ethernet cable of the necessary length. I recommend a length of no more than 25 feet because cables longer than 25 feet are often subject to line interference (which can slow down or even cripple your connection). You also need a live Ethernet port from the network near your iMac. Plug the cable into your iMac and then plug the other end into the network port.
Wired network hardware
If you don't know your switch from your NIC, don't worry. Here, I provide you with a description of the hardware that you need for your wired network.
Wired network components
If you're building your own wired network, you need
 A switch: This gizmo's job is to provide more network ports for the other computers in your network. They typically come in four- and eight-port configurations.
		As I mention earlier in this chapter, most Internet routers (sometimes called Internet sharing devices) include a built-in switch, so if you've already invested in an Internet router, before you go shopping for a switch make doggone sure that the router doesn't already come equipped with the ports you need!
 A number of Ethernet cables: Exactly how many cables you need is determined by how many computers and networked devices (like network printers) you're connecting. If you're working with a gigabit Ethernet system, you need Cat5E or Cat6 cables. Cat6 cables provide better performance, but they are more expensive.
	Naturally, if you're using a broadband Internet connection on your home network, you also have a DSL or cable modem. These boxes always include a port for connecting to your wired Ethernet network. (If you have one of the new breed of wireless cable or DSL modems — which acts as a wireless base station — don't panic, because it should also have a wired port for connecting to your existing switch.)
Wired network connections
After you assemble your cables and your router or switch, connect the Ethernet cables from each of your computers to the router or switch and then turn on the device. (Most need AC power to work.) Check the manual that comes with your device to make sure that the lights you're seeing on the front indicate normal operation. (Colors vary by manufacturer, but green is usually good.)
Next, connect your cable or DSL modem's Ethernet port to the WAN port on your switch with an Ethernet cable. If your modem isn't already on, turn it on now and check for normal operation.
When your router or switch is powered on and operating normally, you're ready to configure Mac OS X for network operation. Just hop to the upcoming section "Connecting to the Network." (How about that? Now you can add network technician to your rapidly growing computer résumé!)
Joining a wired Ethernet network
After all the cables are connected and your central connection gizmo is plugged in and turned on, you've essentially created the hardware portion of your network. Congratulations! (Now you need a beard and suspenders.)
With the hardware in place, it's time to configure Lion. In this section, I assume that you're connecting to a network with an Internet router or switch that includes a DHCP server.
Follow these steps on each Mac running Mac OS X that you want to connect to the network:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Network icon (under Internet & Network).
	3.	From the Connection list on the left, click Ethernet.
	4.	Click the Configure IPv4 pop-up menu (see Figure 21-4) and choose Using DHCP.
 

Figure 21-4: All hail DHCP, the magical networking fairy!

 
	5.	Click the Apply button.
		The Apply button is grayed out in the figure because my Status (in this dialog) is Connected.
		Enjoy the automatic goodness as Mac OS X connects to the DHCP server to obtain an IP address, a subnet mask, a gateway router IP address, and a Domain Name System (DNS) address. (Without a DHCP server, you'd have to add all this stuff manually. Ugh.)
		A few seconds after clicking the Apply button, you should see the information come up. You might also notice that the DNS Server field is empty, but fear not: Mac OS X is really using DNS Server information provided by the DHCP server.
	6.	Press +Q to quit System Preferences and save your settings.
		You're on!
Connecting to the Network
All right! The hardware is powered up, the cables (if any) are installed and connected, and you configured Lion. You're ready to start (or join) the party. In this section, I show you how to verify that you're connected as well as how to share data and devices with others on your network.
Verifying that the contraption works
After you have at least two computers on a wired or wireless network, test whether they're talking to each other over the network by pinging them. (No, I didn't make up the term, honest.) Essentially, pinging another computer is like yelling "Are you there?" across a crevasse.
To ping another computer on the same network from any Mac running Lion, follow these steps:
	1.	Click Launchpad in the Dock and then click the Utilities folder.
	2.	Click the Network Utility icon to launch the application.
	3.	Click the Ping tab; see upcoming Figure 21-5.
	4.	In the Please Enter the Network Address to Ping text field, enter the IP address of the computer that you want to ping.
	•	If you're pinging another Mac running Mac OS X, you can get the IP address of that machine by simply displaying its Network pane within System Preferences, which always displays the IP address.
	•	If you're trying to ping a PC running Windows and you don't know the IP address of that machine, follow these steps:
	a.	Click Start, right-click My Network Places (XP)/Network (Vista and Windows 7), and then choose Properties.
	b.	From the Network Connections window, right-click your Local Area Network connection icon and then choose Status.
	c.	Click the Support tab.
		The IP address of that PC is proudly displayed.
	5.	Select the Send Only x Pings radio button and enter 2 in the text field.
	6.	Click the Ping button.
	•	Yay!: If everything is working, you should see results similar to those shown in Figure 21-5, in which I'm pinging my Windows server at IP address 192.168.0.104, across my wired Ethernet network.
	•	Nay: If you don't get a successful ping, check your cable connections, power cords, and Mac OS X settings. Folks using a wireless connection might have to move closer to the network base station to connect successfully, especially through walls.
 

Figure 21-5: Look, Ma, I'm pinging!

 
Sharing stuff nicely with others
It works . . . by golly, it works! Okay, now what do you do with your all-new shining chrome network connection? Ah, my friend, let me be the first to congratulate you, and the first to show you around! In this section, I cover the most popular network perks. (And the good news is that these perks work with both wired and wireless connections.)
Network Internet connections
If your DSL or cable modem plugs directly into your iMac (rather than a dedicated Internet sharing device or Internet router), you might ponder just how the other computers on your network can share that spiffy high-speed broadband connection. If you're running a wireless network, it comes to the rescue!
Follow these steps to share your connection wirelessly:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Sharing icon (under Internet & Network).
	3.	Click the Internet Sharing entry in the Services list to the left of the pane.
	4.	From the Share Your Connection From pop-up menu, choose Ethernet.
	5.	Mark the Wi-Fi check box (in the To Computers Using list).
	6.	Select the On check box next to the Internet Sharing entry in the Services list.
		Lion displays a warning dialog stating that connection sharing could affect other computers on your network. If you intend to share the Internet connection provided on an existing network at your home or office that you didn't set up, contact your network administrator first! (Best to avoid sowing chaos and disorder.)
	7.	Click Start in the warning dialog to continue.
	8.	Click the Close button to exit System Preferences.
	Sharing an Internet connection (without an Internet router or dedicated hardware device) through Mac OS X requires your iMac to remain on continuously. This is no big deal if you're using your iMac as a web server — and your iMac has absolutely no problem remaining on ad infinitum — but tell others on your network that the svelte iMac must remain on, or they'll lose their Internet connection! Sharing your Internet using your iMac also requires that you enable the Wake For Ethernet Network Access check box within the Energy Saver pane in System Preferences.
Don't forget that you won't need to configure Internet sharing if your DSL or cable modem connects to a dedicated sharing device or router. That snazzy equipment automatically connects your entire network to the Internet.
Network file sharing
You can swap all sorts of interesting files with other Macintosh computers on your network. When you turn on File Sharing, Lion lets all Macs on the network connect to your iMac and share the files in your Public folder. (Note: Sharing across a network is different from sharing a single computer betwixt several people. I cover that environment in Chapter 20.)
Follow these steps to start sharing files and folders with others across your network:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Sharing icon.
	3.	Select the On check box next to the File Sharing service entry to enable the connections for Mac and Windows sharing.
		Other Mac users can connect to your computer by clicking Go in the Finder menu and choosing the Network menu item. The Network window appears, and your iMac is among the choices. If the other Macs are running Lion, your iMac's shared files and folders appear in a Finder window, and they're listed under the Shared heading in the Sidebar.
		Windows XP users should be able to connect to your Mac from their My Network Places window, and Vista and Windows 7 users can use the Network window. Those lucky Windows folks also get to print to any shared printers you've set up. (The following section covers shared printers.)
	4.	Click the Close button to exit System Preferences.
	Lion conveniently reminds you of the network name for your iMac at the top of the Sharing pane.
Sharing a network printer
Boy, howdy, do I love describing easy procedures, and sharing a printer on a Mac network ranks high on the list! You can share a printer that's connected to your iMac (or your AirPort Extreme, Time Capsule, or AirPort Express Base Station) by following these very simple steps:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Sharing icon.
	3.	Select the On check box next to the Printer Sharing service entry.
	4.	From the list at the right of the System Preferences window, select the printer you want to share by clicking the check box.
	5.	Click the Close button to exit System Preferences.
A printer that you share automatically appears in the Print dialog on other Macs connected to your network.
Running a website from a network
Web jockeys tell you that Mac OS X is a great platform for running a website that you can access from either the Internet or your local network. In fact, it's ridiculously easy to engage the mind-boggling power of Lion's built-in Apache web server. (Keep in mind, however, that your iMac must always be on and connected to the Internet or your web pages won't be available to your folks in Schenectady.)
To begin serving web pages, follow these steps:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Sharing icon.
	3.	Select the On check box next to the Web Sharing service entry.
	4.	Click the Close button to exit System Preferences.
To check out the default HTML page that ships with Apache, open the System Preferences Sharing pane again and click the link that's labeled Your Computer's Website. Note that Lion also creates a personal website under your username, which is different from the default website created by Apache. To display this page, click the link under the heading Your Personal Website.
To add pages to your web server, navigate to the Sites folder that resides in your Home folder. Because this is the root of your Apache web server, the files that you add to this folder are accessible from your web server.
	Don't forget that folks connecting to your website across the Internet must use your public IP address! Your iMac's IP address appears in the Built-in Ethernet description on the Network pane in System Preferences. If you're using an Internet router or Internet connection sharing device, your public IP address might be different, so the links on the Web Sharing pane might not work for folks outside your local network. Check the documentation for the device to determine how to find your actual public IP address. Also, your router or sharing device might require you to specify which computer on your network is to receive HTTP (web) page requests and send the pages. Again, this topic should be covered in the device manual.
USE YOUR FIREWALL!
Yep. That's the only heading in this entire book that's all uppercase. It's that important.
The following Mark's Maxim, good reader, isn't a request, a strong recommendation, or even a regular Maxim; consider it an absolute commandment (right up there with Get an antivirus application now).
 Turn on your firewall now.
When you connect a network to the Internet, you open a door to the outside world. As a consultant to several businesses and organizations in my hometown, I can tell you that the outside world is chock-full of malicious individuals who would dearly love to inflict damage on your data or take control of your iMac for their own purposes. Call 'em hackers, call 'em delinquents, or call 'em something I can't repeat, but don't let them in!
Lion comes to the rescue again with the built-in firewall within Mac OS X. When you use this, you essentially build a virtual brick wall between you and the hackers out there (both on the Internet and even within your local network). Follow these steps:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Security & Privacy icon.
	3.	Click the Firewall tab.
	4.	Click the Start button to activate your firewall.
	5.	Click the Advanced button.
	6.	Select the Automatically Allow Signed Software to Receive Incoming Connections check box.
	7.	Select the Enable Stealth Mode check box.
		This is an important feature that prevents hackers from trolling for your iMac on the Internet — or, in normal-speak, searching for an unprotected computer — so it's much harder for them to attack you.
	8.	Click OK.
	9.	Click the Close button to exit System Preferences.
Lion even keeps track of the Internet traffic that you do want to reach your iMac, such as web page requests and file sharing. When you activate one of the network features that I demonstrate in the preceding section, Lion automatically opens a tiny hole (called a port by network types) in your firewall to allow just that type of communication to your iMac. For example, if you decide to turn on Web Sharing (as I demonstrate earlier), Lion automatically allows incoming web access.
You can also add ports for applications that aren't on the firewall's Allow list. These applications include third-party instant messaging clients, multiplayer game servers, and the like. Depending on the type of connection, Lion will often automatically display a dialog prompting you for confirmation before allowing certain traffic, so most folks won't need to do anything manually.
However, you can add a program manually to your list of allowed (or blocked) Firewall ports. Follow these steps:
	1.	Click the System Preferences icon in the Dock.
	2.	Click the Security & Privacy icon.
	3.	Click the Firewall tab.
	4.	Click the Advanced button.
	5.	Click the Add button (which bears a plus sign).
		Lion displays a standard File browsing sheet.
	6.	Browse to the application that requires access to the outside world — or  the application that you want to block from outside communication — and click it to select it.
	7.	Click the Add button in the File sheet.
		The application appears in the Firewall list. By default, it's set to Allow Incoming Connections.
	8.	If you want to block any incoming communication to the application, click the Allow Incoming Connections pop-up menu and choose Block Incoming Connections instead.
	9.	Click the Close button to exit System Preferences.












Part VI
The Necessary Evils: Troubleshooting, Upgrading, Maintaining





In this part . . .
No computer is completely trouble-free — and if your iMac starts acting strangely, the troubleshooting tips you find in this part can help you get your favorite machine back to normal. I also provide you with all the guidance you need to maintain your iMac properly, and step-by-step instructions for upgrading your computer with goodies like additional RAM or external devices. Finally, you can learn how to run Windows on your iMac using Apple's Boot Camp feature.











Chapter 22
It Just . . . Sits . . . There
In This Chapter
 Avoiding the blame (righteously)
 Putting basic troubleshooting precepts to work
 Using Mark's Troubleshooting Tree
 Getting help
I wish you weren't reading this chapter. 
Because you are, I can only surmise that you're having trouble with your iMac, and that it needs fixing. (The other possibility — that you just like reading about solving computer problems — is more attractive, but much more problematic.)
Consider this chapter a crash course in the logical puzzle that is computer troubleshooting: namely, the art of finding out What Needs Fixing. You also see what you can do when you just plain can't fix the problem by yourself.
Oh, and you're going to encounter a lot of Tips and Mark's Maxims in this chapter — all of them learned the hard way, so I recommend committing them to memory on the spot!
Can You Troubleshoot? Yes, You Can!
Anyone can troubleshoot. Put these common troubleshooting myths to rest:
 It takes a college degree in computers to troubleshoot. Tell that to my troubleshooting kids. They'll think it's a hoot because they have Apple computers of their own at home and at school. You can follow all the steps in this chapter without any special training.
 I'm to blame. Ever heard of viruses? Failing hardware? Buggy software? Any of those things can be causing the problem. Heck, even if you do something by accident, I'm willing to bet it wasn't on purpose. It's Mark's Maxim time:
 	Don't beat yourself up — your iMac can be fixed.
 I need to buy expensive utility software. Nope. You can certainly invest in a commercial testing and repair utility if you like. My favorite is TechTool Pro from Micromat (www.micromat.com), but a third-party utility isn't a requirement for troubleshooting. (I would, however, consider an antivirus application as a must-have, and you should have one already. Hint, hint.)
 There's no hope if I can't fix it. Sure, parts fail, and computers crash, but your Apple Service Center can repair just about any problem. And (ahem) if you backed up your iMac (as I preach throughout this book), you'll keep that important data (even if a new hard drive is in your future).
 It takes forever. Wait until you read the Number One Rule in the next section; the first step takes but 15 seconds and often solves the problem. Naturally, not all problems can be fixed so quickly, but if you follow the procedures in this chapter, you should fix your iMac (or at least know that the problem requires outside help) in a single afternoon.
With those myths banished for good, you can get down to business and start feeling better soon.
Basic Troubleshooting 101
In this section, I walk you through my Should-Be-Patented Troubleshooting Tree as well as the Lion built-in troubleshooting application, Disk Utility. I also introduce you to a number of keystrokes that can make your iMac jump through hoops.
The Number One Rule: Reboot!
Yep, it sounds silly, but the fact is that rebooting your iMac can often solve a number of problems. If you're encountering these types of strange behavior with your iMac, a reboot might be all you need to heal
 Intermittent problems communicating over a network
 A garbled screen, strange colors, or screwed-up fonts
 The Swirling Beach Ball of Doom that won't go away after several minutes
 An application that locks up
 An external device that seems to disappear or can't be opened
To put it succinctly, here's a modest Mark's Maxim:
 Always try a reboot before beginning to worry. Always.
Try to save all your open documents before you reboot. That might not be possible, but try to save what you can.
If you need to force a locked application (one that's not responding) to quit so that you can reboot, follow these steps to squash that locked application:
	1.	Click the Apple () menu and choose Force Quit, or press the + Option + Escape keyboard shortcut.
		The dialog that you see in Figure 22-1 appears on your screen.
 

Figure 22-1: Force a recalcitrant application to take off.

 
	2.	Click the offending application and then click the Force Quit button.
		If you can get everything to quit, you should be able to click the Apple menu and choose Shut Down (not Restart) without a problem.
If your iMac simply won't shut down (or you can't get the offending application to quit), do what must be done:
	1.	Press and hold your iMac Power button until it shuts itself off.
		You have to wait about four seconds for your iMac to turn itself off.
	2.	Wait about ten seconds.
	3.	Press the Power button again to restart the computer.
	Note that you should not simply pull your iMac's power cord out of the AC socket (or turn off your power strip) to turn it off — pressing and holding the power switch on your iMac is a less destructive path to the same end.
After everything is back up, check whether the problem is still apparent. If you use your iMac for an hour or two and the problem doesn't reoccur, you likely fixed it!
	Rebooting fixes problems because it resets everything — even your network connection. Rebooting also fixes problems due to brownouts or those notorious AC power flickerings that we all notice from time to time.
Special keys that can come in handy
A number of keys have special powers over your iMac. No, I'm not kidding! These keys affect how your iMac starts up, and they can really come in handy whilst troubleshooting.
Using Safe Boot mode
You can use Safe Boot mode to force Lion to run a directory check of your boot hard drive and disable any Login Items that might be interfering with Lion. Use the Shut Down menu item from the Apple () menu to completely turn off your iMac; press the Power button to start the computer. Then press and hold down the Shift key immediately after you hear the startup tone. After Lion has completely booted, restart your iMac again (this time without the Shift key) to return to normal operation.
Startup keys
Table 22-1 provides the lowdown on startup keys. Hold the indicated key down either when you push your iMac Power button or immediately after the screen blanks during a restart. (As I just mentioned, the Shift key is the exception; it should be pressed and held down after you hear the startup tone.)
Table 22-1	Startup Keys and Their Tricks




Key


Effect on Your iMac




C


Boots from the CD or DVD that's loaded in your optical drive




Media Eject


Ejects the CD or DVD in your optical drive




Option


Displays a system boot menu, allowing you to choose the operating system and startup volume




Shift


Prevents your Login Items from running; runs a directory check




T


Starts your iMac in FireWire or Thunderbolt Target Disk mode




+R


Boots from Lion's Recovery HD




+V


Show Mac OS X Console messages




+S


Starts your iMac in Single User mode




+Option+P+R


Resets Parameter RAM (PRAM) and NVRAM




Some of the keys/combinations in Table 22-1 might never be necessary for your machine, but you might be instructed to use them by an Apple technician. I'll warrant that you'll use at least the +R startup key fairly often.
All hail Disk Utility, the  troubleshooter's friend
Lion's Disk Utility is a handy tool for troubleshooting and repairing your hard drive. You can find it in the Utilities folder within your Applications folder.
Fire up Disk Utility, click the volume, and click the First Aid tab to bring up the rather powerful-looking window shown in Figure 22-2.
In the left column of the Disk Utility window, you can see
 The physical hard drives in your system (the actual hardware)
 The volumes (the data stored on the hard drives)
		You can always tell a volume because it's indented underneath the physical drive entry.
 Any CD or DVD loaded on your iMac
 Disk images you've mounted
 USB or FireWire flash drives
 

Figure 22-2: The physician of hard drives — Lion's Disk Utility.

 

Danger, Will Robinson!
Many Disk Utility functions can actually wipe your hard drives clean of data instead of repairing them! These advanced functions aren't likely to help you with troubleshooting a problem with your existing volumes, anyway.
Remember: Don't use these Disk Utility functions unless an Apple technician tells you to use them:
 Partitioning and erasing drives
 Setting up RAID arrays
 Restoring files from disk images


For example, Figure 22-2 shows that I have one internal hard drive (the 250.06GB entry), one external hard drive (the 500.11GB entry), and one USB flash drive (the 16.01GB entry). The internal hard drive has two volumes (Johann and Windows XP), and both the external drive and the USB drive have one volume each (Time Machine Backups and Transporter, respectively).
	The information at the bottom of the Disk Utility window contains the specifications of the selected drive or volume . . . things like capacity, free space, and the number of files and folders for a volume, or connection type and total capacity for a drive.
Repairing disk permissions
Because Lion is built on a UNIX base, lots of permissions can apply to the files on your drive — that is, who can open (or read or change) every application, folder, and document on your hard drive. Unfortunately, these permissions are often messed up by wayward applications or power glitches or application installers that do a subpar job of cleaning up after themselves. And if the permissions on a file are changed, often applications lock up or refuse to run altogether.
	I recommend repairing your disk permissions with Disk Utility once weekly. Figure 22-3 shows a permissions repair sweep on my internal hard drive's volume.
Use these steps to repair permissions on your iMac's hard drive:
	1.	Make sure that you're logged in with an admin account.
	2.	Save and close any open documents.
		Chapter 20 shows you how to log in as an admin user.
 

Figure 22-3:  A successful run, using Repair Disk Permissions.

 
	3.	Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock; then click the Utilities folder and click the Disk Utility icon.
	4.	Click the volume that you want to check.
		Remember, you can repair permissions only on a boot drive.
	5.	Click the Repair Disk Permissions button.
		I don't worry about verifying. If something's wrong, you end up clicking Repair Disk Permissions, anyway. Just click Repair Disk Permissions; if nothing pops up, that's fine.
	6.	To finish the process, always reboot after repairing permissions.
		This last step allows you to see whether a problem has been corrected!
Repairing disks
Disk Utility can check the format and health of both hard drives and volumes with Verify Disk — and, if the problem can be corrected, fix any error with Repair Disk.
	Using Disk Utility to repair your hard drive carries a couple of caveats:
 You can't verify or repair the boot disk or the boot volume. This actually makes sense because you're using that disk and volume right now.
		If you have an external drive connected to your iMac that has a Lion boot volume, you can boot from the Mac OS X installed on the external drive to check your current startup disk. Or you can boot your system from the Recovery HD partition and run Disk Utility from the menu. (To choose the startup volume, open System Preferences and click the Startup Disk icon, or restart your iMac and hold down the +R startup key shortcut to boot directly to the Recovery HD partition.)
		Using one of these methods, you should be able to run Disk Utility and select your boot hard drive or volume, and the Verify Disk and Repair Disk buttons should be enabled.
 You can't repair CDs and DVDs. CDs and DVDs are read-only media and thus can't be repaired at all (at least by Disk Utility).
		If your iMac is having trouble reading a CD or DVD, wipe the disc with a soft cloth to remove dust, oil, and fingerprints. Should that fail, invest in a disc-cleaning contrivance of some sort.
	I generally check my disks once every two or three days. If your iMac is caught by a power failure or Mac OS X locks up, however, it's a good idea to immediately check disks after you restart your iMac.
If you need to verify and repair a disk or volume, follow these steps:
	1.	If you need to repair your boot drive and volume, save all your open documents and reboot from either an external drive or your Mac OS X Lion Recovery HD partition.
	2.	Click Launchpad in the Dock; then click the Utilities icon.
	3.	Click the Disk Utility icon.
Should I reinstall Mac OS X?
This question seems to get a lot of attention on Mac-related Internet discussion boards and Usenet newsgroups — and the answer is a definitive perhaps. (I know. That's really helpful.)
Here's the explanation. You shouldn't lose a single byte of data by reinstalling Mac OS X, so it's definitely okay to try it. However, reinstalling Mac OS X isn't a universal balm that fixes all hardware and software errors.
Follow the iMac Troubleshooting Tree all the way to the end before you consider reinstalling  Lion. Contact an Apple support technician via the Apple website before you take this step.
To reinstall, you can turn once again to Lion's Recovery HD volume. (That thing really comes in handy!) Hold down the +R key shortcut immediately after you hear your iMac's startup chord to boot directly to the Recovery HD partition. Click the Reinstall Mac OS X option in the window that appears.


	4.	In the list at the left side of the Disk Utility window, click the disk or volume that you want to check.
	5.	Click the Repair Disk button.
	6.	If changes were made (or if you had to boot from a disc or external drive), reboot after repairing the disk or volume.
Mark's iMac Troubleshooting Tree
As the hip-hop artists say, "All right, kick it." And that's just what my iMac Troubleshooting Tree is here for. If rebooting your iMac hasn't solved the problem, follow these steps in order (either until the solution is found or you run out of steps — more on that in the next section).
Step 1: Investigate recent changes
This is a simple step that many novice Mac owners forget. Simply retrace your steps and consider what changes you made recently to your system. Here are the most common culprits:
 Did you just finish installing a new application? Try uninstalling it by removing the application directory and any support files that it might have added to your system. (And keep your applications current with the most recent patches and updates from the developer's website.)
		From time to time, an application's preference file — which stores all the custom settings you make — can become corrupted. Although the application itself is okay, it might act strangely or refuse to launch. To check your preference files for signs of corruption, try scanning your iMac applications with PreferenceCleaner, a freeware utility from EchoMist Software, available from the company site at www.echomist.co.uk. (PreferenceCleaner's Syntax Checker feature will flag any dicey preference files, setting them up for a quick trip to the Trash.)
 Did you just apply an update or a patch to an application? Uninstall the application and reinstall it without applying the patch. If your iMac suddenly works again, check the developer's website or contact its technical support department to report the problem.
 Did you just update Lion by using Software Update? Updating Lion can introduce problems within your applications that depend on specific routines and system files. Contact the developer of the application and look for updated patches that bring your software in line with the Lion updates. (And use Software Update in automatic mode to check for Mac OS X updates at least once weekly.)
 Did you just make a change within System Preferences? Return the options that you changed back to their original settings; then consult Chapter 6 for information on what might have gone wrong. (If the setting in question isn't in Chapter 6, consider searching Lion's online Help or the Apple support website for more clues.)
 Did you just connect (or reconnect) an external device? Try unplugging the device and then rebooting to see whether the problem disappears. Remember that many peripherals need software drivers to run — and without those drivers installed, they won't work correctly. (Not to mention that updated drivers may be available.) Check the device's manual or visit the company's website to search for software that you might need.
If you didn't make any significant changes to your system before you encountered the problem, proceed to the next step.
Step 2: Run Disk Utility
The preceding section shows how to repair disk permissions on your Lion boot drive.
	If you're experiencing hard drive problems, consider booting from your Mac OS X Recovery HD partition to run a full-blown Repair Disk checkup on your boot volume.
Step 3: Check your cables
Cables work themselves loose, and they fail from time to time. Check all your cables to your external devices — make sure that they're snug — and verify that everything's plugged in and turned on. (Oh, and don't forget to check for crimps or even Fluffy's teeth marks in your cables.)
	If a FireWire, Thunderbolt, or USB device acts up, swap cables around to find whether you have a bad one. A faulty cable can leave you pulling your hair out in no time.
Step 4: Check your Trash
Check the contents of your Trash to see whether you recently deleted files or folders by accident. Click the Trash icon in the Dock once to display the contents. If something's been deleted by mistake, drag it back to its original folder and try running the application again.
I know this one from personal experience. A slight miscalculation while selecting files to delete made an application freeze every time I launched it.
Step 5: Check your Internet and network connections
Now that always-on DSL and cable modem connections to the Internet are common, don't forget an obvious problem: Your iMac can't reach the Internet because your ISP is down, or your network is no longer working!
A quick visual check of your DSL or cable modem will usually indicate whether there's a connection problem between your modem and your ISP. For example, my modem has a very informative activity light that I always glance at first. However, if your iMac is connected to the Internet through a larger home or office network and you can't check the modem visually, you can check your Internet connection by pinging www.apple.com, as follows (see Figure 22-4):
	1.	Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock and then click the Utilities icon.
	2.	Click Network Utility icon.
	3.	Click the Ping button.
	4.	Enter www.apple.com in the Address box.
	5.	Click Ping.
		You should see successful ping messages similar to those in Figure 22-4. If you don't get a successful ping and you can still reach other computers on your network, your ISP is likely experiencing problems. If you can't reach your network at all, the problem lies in your network hardware or configuration.
 

Figure 22-4: Ping www.apple.com to check your Internet connection.

 
Step 6: Think virus
If you made it to this point, it's time to run a full virus and malware scan — and make sure that your antivirus application has the latest updated data files, too. My antivirus application of choice is Virus Barrier X from Intego (www.intego.com). (If a virus is detected and your antivirus application can't remove it, try quarantining it instead, which basically disables the virus-ridden application and prevents it from infecting other files.) I can also recommend ClamXav 2, the antivirus application from www.clamxav.com. (If you like ClamXav 2, you can send a donation to the author.)
Step 7: Disable your Login Items
Mac OS X might encounter problems with applications that you've marked as Login Items within System Preferences. In this step, I show you how to identify login problems and how to fix 'em.
Checking for problems
It's time to use another nifty startup key (refer to Table 22-1). This time, hold down Shift after you hear the startup tone.
This trick disables your account's Login Items, which are run automatically every time you log in to your iMac. If one of these Login Items is to blame, your iMac will simply encounter trouble every time you log in.
Finding the Login Item that's causing trouble
If your iMac works fine with your Login Items disabled, follow this procedure for each item in the Login Items list:
	1.	Open System Preferences, click Users & Groups, and then click the Login Items button.
	2.	Delete the item from the list; then reboot normally.
		You can delete the selected item by clicking the Delete button, which bears a minus sign.
		When your iMac starts up normally with Login Items enabled, you discovered the perpetrator. You'll likely need to delete that application and reinstall it. (Don't forget to add each of the working Login Items back to the Login Items list!)
Step 8: Turn off your screen saver
This is a long shot, but it isn't unheard of to discover that a faulty, bug-ridden screen saver has locked up your iMac. (If you aren't running one of the Apple-supplied screen savers and your computer never wakes up from Sleep mode or hangs while displaying the screen saver, you found your prime suspect.)
Open System Preferences, click Desktop & Screen Saver, click the Screen Saver button, and then either switch to an Apple screen saver or drag the Start slider to Never.
	If this fixes the problem, you can probably remove the screen saver by deleting the application in the Screen Savers folder inside your Mac OS X Library folder. (If the application resides in the Library folder within your Home folder instead, hold down the Option key while clicking the Go menu, then click the Library menu item that appears to jump there directly. Now you can open the Screen Savers folder you find there.) If you can't find the screen saver application at all, use Spotlight to search for it.
Step 9: Run System Profiler
Ouch. You reached Step 9, and you still haven't uncovered the culprit. At this point, you've narrowed the possibilities to a serious problem, like bad hardware or corrupted files in your Mac OS X System folder. Fortunately, Lion provides System Information, which displays real-time information on the hardware in your system. Click the Apple menu and choose About This Mac, click More Info, and then click System Report. Figure 22-5 illustrates a typical healthy result from one of the Hardware categories, Disc Burning. Click each one of the Hardware categories in turn, double-checking to make sure that everything looks okay.
	You don't have to understand all the technical hieroglyphics. If a Hardware category doesn't return what you expect or displays an error message, though, that's suspicious.
 

Figure 22-5:  Check your iMac hardware from System Information.

 
Okay, I Kicked It, and  It Still Won't Work
Don't worry, friendly reader. Just because you've reached the end of my iMac tree doesn't mean you're out of luck. In this section, I discuss the online help available on the Apple website as well as local help in your own town.
Apple Help Online
If you haven't visited the Apple iMac Support site yet, run — don't walk — to www.apple.com/support/imac, where you can find
 iMac Troubleshooting Tips, which identifies symptoms being displayed by your iMac and offers possible solutions
 The latest patches, updates, and how-to tutorials for the iMac
 iMac and Mac OS X discussion boards, moderated by Apple
 Tools for ordering spare parts, checking on your remaining warranty coverage, and searching the Apple Knowledge Base
 Do-it-yourself instructions (PDF files) that you can follow to repair or upgrade your iMac
Local service, at your service
In case you need to take in your iMac for service, an Apple Store or Apple Authorized Service Provider is probably in your area. To find the closest service, launch Safari and visit

www.apple.com/buy/locator/service/
That's the Find Service page on the Apple website. You can search by city and state or ZIP Code. The results are complete with the provider's mailing address, website address, telephone number, and even a map of the location!
Always call your Apple service provider before you lug your (albeit lightweight) iMac all the way to the shop. Make sure that you know your iMac's serial number (which you can display in System Profiler) and which version of Mac OS X you're using.












Chapter 23
I Want to Add Stuff
In This Chapter
 Adding memory
 Upgrading your hard drive
 Adding USB, Thunderbolt, and FireWire devices
 Reviewing what add-ons are available
"No iMac is an island." Somebody famous wrote that, I'm sure. 
Without getting too philosophical — or invoking the all-powerful Internet yet again — the old saying really does make sense. All computer owners usually add at least one peripheral (external device), such as a printer, backup drive, joystick, iPod, or scanner. I talk about the ports on your iMac in Chapter 1. Those holes aren't there to just add visual interest to the back end of your treasured iMac. Therefore, I cover your USB, Thunderbolt, and FireWire ports (and what you can plug in to them) in detail in this chapter.
Ah, but what about the stuff inside your aluminum supercomputer? That's where things get both interesting and scary at the same time. In this chapter, I describe what you can add to the innards of your computer as well as how to get inside there if you work up the courage to go exploring. (Don't tell your family or your friends, but adding memory to an aluminum iMac is as simple as loosening a screw and pulling on a plastic tab. There's actually nothing to fear whatsoever.)
Here's the trick: Just make it sound like an adventure from Mission: Impossible, and folks will crown you their new resident techno-wizard!
More Memory Will Help
Hey, wait a second. No however stuck on the end? You mean that, for once, there isn't an exception? Aren't all computers different? Hard as it is to believe, just keep in mind this Mark's Maxim:
 More memory helps.
Period. End of statement. No matter what type of computer you own, how old it is, or what operating system you use, adding more memory to your system (to the maximum it supports) significantly improves the performance of your operating system (and practically every application that you run).
	Memory maximizes the power of your computer: The more memory you have, the less data your iMac has to temporarily store on its hard drive. Without getting into virtual memory and other techno-gunk, just consider that extra memory as extra elbow room for your applications and your documents. Believe me, both Mac OS X and Windows efficiently make use of every kilobyte of memory that you can provide.
Figuring out how much memory you have
To see how much memory you have in your computer, click the Apple menu () and choose About This Mac. Figure 23-1 shows the dialog.
 

Figure 23-1: Find out how much memory your iMac has.

 
	The 4GB of memory supplied by Apple is enough for running applications from the iLife and iWork suites as well as any of the applications bundled with Lion.
At the time of this writing, the current crop of iMacs has sockets for either three or four 1333 MHz PC3-10600 DDR3 SDRAM memory modules, depending on the model you choose. (Don't fret over what those abbreviations mean. Rest assured that this memory type is fast.) You can install as much as 8GB of memory on the entry-level 21.5-inch iMac (which has three memory slots) and up to 16GB of memory on the more expensive iMac models.
How you plan memory upgrades depends on how much memory you want. If your iMac uses the two default 2GB modules supplied by Apple, you can add RAM by inserting memory modules in the empty slots. At the time of this writing, a 4GB memory module should set you back about $40 or so.
If your iMac already has all four memory slots filled and you'd still like to add more system RAM, it's time to remove one or all of the existing modules and replace them with full 4GB modules. With all four slots filled with 4GB modules, you'll have the coveted 16GB that marks you as one of the "In" People.
	If your primary applications include video editing, playing the latest crop of immersive 3D games, or image editing, you can use all the memory your iMac can hold.
Unfortunately, Apple's prices for RAM are . . . well . . . outrageous. (As in, "Boy, howdy, I can't afford that!") Therefore, I can heartily recommend any one of these online sources that cater to Mac owners:
 MacMall (www.macmall.com)
 CDW (www.cdw.com/content/brands/apple/default.aspx)
 Crucial (www.crucial.com)
 SmallDog (www.smalldog.com)
 Newegg (www.newegg.com)
Installing memory modules
I'm happy to report that adding extra memory to your system is one of the easiest internal upgrades that you can perform. Therefore, I recommend that you add memory yourself unless you simply don't want to mess with your iMac's internal organs. Your local Macintosh service specialist will be happy to install new RAM modules for you (for a price).
Getting inside your iMac
Apple designed the world's best all-in-one computer. That even includes making it EZ-Open. (Forgive me if your treasured work of art now reminds you of a longneck beer bottle. Come to think of it, the level of technical knowledge required to gain access to either one is about the same.)
Unlike earlier "picture frame" iMac models, however, you can't remove the back completely.  In fact, Apple allows the owner of an iMac to perform only one kind of upgrade, and there's only one opening you need to worry about. (Note: You'll void your warranty by tinkering with anything other than your memory slots, so don't even think about it.) Naturally, an Apple repair technician can get deeper into the machine, but I hope that you never need aid from those folks.

To add memory modules to an aluminum iMac, follow these steps:
	1.	Get ready to operate.
	a.	Spread a clean towel on a stable work surface, like your kitchen table. The towel helps protect your screen from scratches.
	b.	Find a Phillips screwdriver.
	c.	Shut down your iMac.
	d.	Unplug all cables from the computer.
	2.	Tilt the computer over and lay the screen flat (face-down) on top of the towel.
	3.	Loosen the screw at the bottom edge of the computer's case.
		Apple thought of everything! There's only one tiny screw, and you can't lose said screw because it's captive. It actually stays in the door, so don't try to remove it completely.
	4.	Remove the RAM access door.
	5.	Stow the RAM access door safely out of reach of kids and cats.
		Tah-dah! That wasn't much of a challenge, was it? Take a moment to gaze with rapt fascination at a small portion of the bare innards of your favorite computer. 
	6.	Ground thyself!
		Check out the "Let's get grounded!" sidebar.
	7.	If you need to remove a module for your upgrade, untuck the tab over the existing module.

Let's get grounded!
Follow one cardinal rule when the unguarded insides of any computer are in easy reach: Always ground yourself before you touch anything! Your body can carry enough static electricity to damage the RAM you're installing or removing, and touching those modules without grounding yourself is an invitation for disaster.
Grounding yourself is easy to do: Just touch any metal surface around your work table, such as a chair leg or your local metal sink. After you ground yourself, you can then safely handle RAM chips that you remove (if any) as well as the new ones that you're installing.
If you walk anywhere in the room — say, hunting for a screwdriver, or taking a sip of liquid reinforcement that you stashed a comfortable and safe distance away — you must ground yourself again before you get back to work. Remember: You can actually pick up a static charge by simply walking. Go figure.

	8.	Gently pull on the tab to remove the module (as shown in Figure 23-2).
		Save the old module in the static-free packaging that held the new module. Your old RAM (which you can now sell on eBay) will be protected from static electricity.
	9.	Position the new module(s) in the socket(s).
	a.	Line up the module's copper connectors toward the socket.
	b.	Line up the notch in the module aligned with the matching spacer in the socket. See what I mean in Figure 23-3.
	10.	Press gently (but firmly) on both ends of the module until the module's tabs click into place on both ends of the socket.
	11.	Tuck any loose tabs back into the body of your iMac.
	12.	Replace the RAM access door, reversing Steps 3-5 of the preceding step list.
		Waxing nostalgic: This is rather like changing the oil on my Dad's 1970 Ford pickup truck.
Congratulations! You've done it — you're now an iMac memory guru! To verify that all is well with your iMac, boot the computer and once again click the Apple menu and choose About This Mac. Your iMac should report the additional memory.
 

Figure 23-2: Remove a memory module like a pro.

 
 

Figure 23-3: Installing the new modules is a snap (pun intended)!

 
Can I Upgrade My Hard Drive?
Asking whether you can upgrade your hard drive is a trick question. Yes, you certainly can upgrade your hard drive. But before you start cruisin' the Internet for a 2TB monster, I have two suggestions:
 Be sure you really need a hard drive upgrade.
		Apple is pretty generous when configuring hard drive storage for its base systems. (Current models run with anywhere from a 500GB to a whopping 2TB drive — yep, that's 2 terabytes, or 2,000GB! Something tells me that your prized walnut brownie recipe will have plenty of elbow room on a 2TB drive, as will as a huge amount of digital video.)
		I'll be honest here: Most folks simply don't need more than 500GB of hard drive space. You're likely to find that you still have plenty of wide-open spaces for a typical family's needs on your hard drive unless you're heavily into
	•	Digital video (DV)
	•	Cutting-edge video games
	•	Tons of high-quality digital audio
	•	Four generations of high-resolution digital photos of your family (hey, it's possible!)
 If you decide that you do need to upgrade, don't install your internal hard drive yourself.
		Read more about dealing with the installation of an internal hard drive in the upcoming section "Gotta have internal."
	If you're short on hard drive space, clean up your existing hard drive by deleting all the crud you don't need, such as game and application demos, duplicate or "work" copies of images and documents, archived files you downloaded from the Internet, and the contents of your Trash. You can read how in Chapter 24.
Consider your external options
If you do need additional hard drive space, I recommend using an external drive. Use a high-speed Thunderbolt, FireWire, or USB port to connect a second hard drive the quick and easy way.
Most of today's FireWire, Thunderbolt, and USB peripherals don't even require the driver software that Mac old-timers remember with such hatred. You simply plug a device into one of these three ports, and it works. You can move your external drive between different Macs with a minimum of fuss and bother.
An external hard drive can do anything that your internal hard drive can do. You can boot from it, for example, or install a different version of Mac OS X (great for beta testers like me).
	Apple's Time Capsule unit is an external hard drive with a difference: It stores the huge Time Machine backup files created by the Macs running Lion on your network, and it uses a wireless connection to transfer data! (In fact, if you're thinking of adding a wireless base station to your wired network, your Time Capsule actually acts as a full AirPort Extreme Base Station, complete with USB port for connecting a USB printer.) At the time of this writing, Time Capsule is available with either a 2TB ($299) or 3TB ($499) drive.
	Here's one problem with external drives: USB and FireWire data transfers more slowly this way than via an internal drive (only the newest Thunderbolt connection rivals the speed of an internal drive). That's why most Mac owners use their external drives for storing backups and little-used documents and applications. Their favorite applications and often-used documents are housed on the internal drive.
Putting a port to work
An aluminum iMac carries three kinds of high-speed ports, any of which is a good match for connecting any external device.
USB 2.0
The USB standard is popular because it's just as common in the PC world as in the Mac world. (Most PCs don't have a FireWire port.) Your iMac carries its USB 2.0 ports on the back of the case. Hardware manufacturers make one USB device that works on both types of computers.
	Apple has not released a Macintosh computer that has a USB 3.0 port onboard, so don't spend extra money on USB 3.0 devices. 'Nuff said.
FireWire 800
A FireWire 800 drive offers much better performance than either a FireWire 400 or a USB 2.0 drive, and today's FireWire 800 drives are getting cheaper every day. Your iMac proudly sports a FireWire 800 port on the back.
	The physical FireWire 800 connector is shaped differently than an older FireWire 400 port, so don't try to force the wrong connector into the wrong port!
Thunderbolt
Talk about raw speed — a Thunderbolt connection provides a blazing 10Gbps, which is an unbelievable 12 times faster than FireWire 800! You can use a Thunderbolt port to connect an external hard drive, or even a high-resolution monitor or HD-TV. Unfortunately, however, Thunderbolt is definitely the "new kid on the block," so you'll pay a premium price for Thunderbolt devices for the foreseeable future.
Connecting an external drive
With FireWire, Thunderbolt, or USB, you can install an external hard drive without opening your iMac's case. With your iMac turned on and the external drive disconnected from the AC outlet, follow these steps:
	1.	Connect the FireWire, Thunderbolt, or USB cable betwixt the drive and your computer.
	2.	Plug the external drive into a convenient surge protector or UPS (uninterruptible power supply).
	3.	Switch on the external drive.
	4.	If the drive is unformatted (or formatted for use under Windows), partition and format the external drive.
		The drive comes with instructions or software for you to do this. (Don't worry, external drives typically come from the factory completely empty, and you won't damage anything by formatting it. To be sure, check the drive's manual.) Partitioning divides the new drive into one (or more) volumes, each of which is displayed as a separate hard drive under Lion.
		If the drive comes preformatted for use with a Windows PC, I strongly suggest reformatting it for use with Mac OS X. Doing so results in faster performance and more efficient use of space.
After the drive is formatted and partitioned, it immediately appears on the Desktop. Shazam!
Gotta have internal
If you decide that you have to upgrade your existing internal hard drive — or if your internal drive fails and needs to be replaced — you must take your iMac to an authorized Apple service center and allow the techs there to sell you a drive and make the swap. Here are four darned good reasons why:
 Warranty: As I mention in the sidebar "Getting inside your iMac," you're very likely to void your iMac's warranty by attempting a drive upgrade yourself.
 Selection: If you're worried about picking the proper drive, an Apple technician can order the right drive type and size for you . . . no worries.
 Difficulty: Swapping a hard drive in your iMac is nothing like adding RAM modules. It's complex and involves breaking into your iMac — not A Good Thing, even for the knowledgeable Mac guru.
 Backup: That very same Apple service technician can back up all the data on your existing drive and move it to the new drive, saving you from losing a single document. That will save you time and possible angst.
	To those who truly won't be satisfied with their lives until they upgrade an internal drive in an iMac: Yes, I'm sure you can find a magazine article that purports to show you how. Even better, I've seen many how-to articles on the web that will lead you down a rosy path to a hard drive upgrade. Here's my take on those savvy instructions: You're walking into a field of land mines with someone else's map, so you had better have complete faith in your tech skills. (And a darn good backup.)
Attractive Add-Ons
The USB, Thunderbolt, and FireWire toys I cover in this section might add a cord or two to your collection at the back of your iMac, but they're well worth the investment. And they can really revolutionize how you look at technologies such as television, digital audio, and computer gaming.
Game controllers
If you're ready to take a shot at the enemy — whether they be Nazi soldiers, chittering aliens, or the latest jet fighters — you'll likely find your keyboard and mouse somewhat lacking. (And if that enemy happens to be a friend of yours playing across the Internet, you'll be ruthlessly mocked while you're fumbling for the right key combination.) Instead, either pick up a USB joystick (for flying games) or a gamepad (for arcade and first-person shooting games)!
Hard drive arrays
In case you're not familiar with a hard drive array, it's just a fancy moniker for an enclosure that holds multiple hard drives. "Grouping" hard drives like this provides a boost in speed, or you can use an array to make a self-maintaining redundant backup of all your data. Your Thunderbolt port is perfect for this high-tech magic: For example, the LaCie Little Big Disk (www.lacie.com) provides either 1TB (at $480) or 2TB (at $580) of storage at Thunderbolt transfer speeds.
Video controllers
For armchair directors, specialized USB digital video controllers make editing easier. The ShuttlePRO V2 from Contour Design (www.contourdesign.com) provides a 15-button jog control that can be configured to match any DV editor. For around $90, you'll have the same type of editing controller as do those dedicated video-editing stations that cost several thousand dollars.
Audio hardware
Ready to put GarageBand to the test with your favorite version of Chopsticks? You need a USB piano keyboard, and I recommend the Keystation 61es from M-Audio (www.m-audio.com), which retails for a mere $200. It provides 61 keys and uses a USB connection.











Chapter 24
Tackling the Housekeeping
In This Chapter
 Cleaning unnecessary stuff off your hard drive
 Backing up your data
 Fixing permissions errors
 Automating tasks in Lion
 Updating Mac OS X automatically
Nothing runs better than a well-oiled machine, and your iMac is no exception. (But please, don't ever oil your iMac — that's just a figure of speech.) In this chapter, I demonstrate how you can make good use of every byte of storage space provided by your hard drive.
With a little Lion maintenance, such as Time Machine (for backing up and restoring your hard drive), and frequent scans of your hard drive for permissions errors, you can ensure that your iMac is performing as efficiently as possible. Automator allows your iMac to perform tasks automatically that used to require your attention. In addition, configuring Software Update to run automatically can allow you to live life free and easy, watching your favorite reality TV and eating ice cream (or yogurt — your pick).
Cleaning Unseemly Data Deposits
Criminy! Where does all this stuff come from? Suddenly that spacious 1TB hard drive has 19GB left, and you start feeling pinched.
Before you consider buying a new internal or external hard drive (which you can read about in Chapter 23), take the smart step: "Sweep" your hard drive clean of unnecessary and space-hogging software.
Getting dirty (or, cleaning  things the manual way)
If you're willing to dig into your data a little, there's no reason to buy additional software to help you clean up your hard drive. All you really need is the willpower to announce, "I simply don't need this particular item any longer." (Sometimes that's tougher than it might seem.)
Unnecessary files and unneeded folders
Consider all the stuff that you probably don't really need:
 Game demos and shareware that you no longer play (or even remember)
 Movie trailers and other QuickTime video files that have long since passed into obscurity
 Temporary files that you created and promptly forgot
 Log files that chronicle application installations and errors
 StuffIt and Zip archives that you downloaded and no longer covet
 iTunes music, video, and movies that no longer appeal
How hard is it to clean this stuff off your drive? Easier than you might think!
 You can quickly delete files.
 You can remove items from your iTunes Library.
 You can get rid of most of the space taken by any application (often the whole application) by deleting its application folder that was created during the installation process.
Removing an application or file from your hard drive usually takes two simple steps:
	1.	Display the file or application folder in a Finder window.
	2.	Delete the file or folder with one of these steps:
	•	Drag the icon to the Trash.
	•	Select the icon and press +Delete.
	•	Right-click the icon and choose Move to Trash.
	•	Select the icon and click the Delete button on the Finder toolbar (if you added one).
Truly, no big whoop.
	Mac owners like you and me can once again feel superior to the Windows folks because most Mac OS X applications don't need a separate, silly "uninstall" program. In fact, most Macintosh software developers have always followed a simple general rule: All (or virtually all) of an application's support data should reside in a single folder.
	Don't forget to actually empty the Trash, or you'll wonder why you aren't regaining any hard drive space. (Lion works hard to store the contents of the Trash until you manually delete it, just in case you want to undelete something.) To get rid of that stuff permanently and reclaim the space, do the following:
	1.	Click the Trash icon in the Dock and hold down the button — or  right-click — until the pop-up menu appears.
 2.	Choose Empty Trash.
Associated files in other folders
Some applications install files in different locations across your hard drive. (Applications in this category include the Microsoft Office suite and Adobe Creative Suite applications like Photoshop.) How can you clear out these "orphan" files after you delete the application folder?
The process is a little more involved than deleting a single folder, but it's still no big whoop. Here's the procedure:
	1.	Click the Search text box in a Finder window.
		You can read more about Search and Finder windows in Chapter 7.
	2.	Type the name of the application in the Search text box.
		Figure 24-1 shows this search. I want to remove Toast Titanium, so I search for every file with the word toast in its name.
	3.	Decide which of these files belong to the to-be-deleted application.
		Be sure that the files you choose to delete are part of the deleted application. For example, a text file with the name Instructions on Making a Perfect Piece of Toast might not be part of Toast Titanium.
		Many associated files either
	•	Have the same icon as the parent application
	•	Are in the Preferences, Caches, or Application Support folders
	4.	In the Search Results window, click the associated file(s) that you want to delete and just drag them to the Trash.
		Don't empty the Trash immediately after you delete these files. Wait a few hours or a day. That way, if you realize that you deleted a file that you truly need, you can easily restore it from the Trash.
 

Figure 24-1: Mine your hard drive for additional files to delete.

 
Using a commercial cleanup tool
If you'd rather use a commercial application to help you clean up your hard drive, a number of them are available, but most are shareware applications that perform only one task. For example, Tidy Up! from Hyperbolic Software (www.hyperbolicsoftware.com) does one thing, but it does it well. It finds duplicate files on your hard drive, matching by criteria such as filename, size, and extension. It's a good tool at $30.
For a truly comprehensive cleanup utility, I recommend CleanMyMac, from MacPaw (macpaw.com). Not much crud squeaks by all those search routines, including duplicates, orphan preference files, and log files. You can even remove unneeded language files to free space on your drive! CleanMyMac sells for $30.
Backing Up Your Treasure
Do it.
I'm not going to lecture you about backing up your hard drive . . . well, perhaps just for a moment. Imagine what it feels like to lose everything — names, numbers, letters, reports, presentations, saved games, photographs, and music. Then ask yourself, "Self, isn't all that irreplaceable stuff worth just a couple of hours every month?"
Time for a Mark's Maxim:
 Back up. On a regular basis. Then store those DVDs or that external backup device somewhere safe, away from calamities.
Take my word for it — you will thank me some day!
You can back up your files either by saving them to external media or by using Lion's awesome Time Machine feature.
Saving Files
The simplest method of backing up files is simply to copy the files and folders to an external hard drive or a CD or DVD. Nothing fancy — in fact, I call this procedure the "quick-and-dirty backup" — but it works.
Backing up to an external hard drive
If you have an external hard drive on your iMac, you can easily drag backup files to it from your internal hard drive (I cover external hard drives in Chapter 23):
	1.	Open separate Finder windows for
	•	The external hard drive
	•	The internal hard drive
	2.	Select the desired files that you want to back up from your internal drive.
	3.	Drag the selected files to the external drive window.
Backing up to CD and DVD
You can burn backup files to a recordable CD or DVD.
Burning backups from the Finder
To use the Finder's Burn feature with a CD or DVD, follow these steps:
	1.	Load a blank disc into your iMac's optical drive.
		If you're using the default settings in the CDs & DVDs pane in System Preferences, a dialog appears, asking you to choose an action.
	2.	Click the Action pop-up menu and choose Open Finder; then click OK.
		An icon named Untitled DVD appears on your desktop. Double-click the icon to open a Finder window.
	3.	Drag the files and folders that you want to back up into the disc's Finder window.
		They can be organized any way you like. Don't forget that the total amount of data shouldn't exceed 4GB or so (on a standard recordable DVD) or 8GB (on a dual-layer recordable DVD). You can see how much free space remains on the disc at the bottom of the disc's Finder window.
	4.	When you're ready to record, click File and then choose Burn Disc from the Finder menu.
		You can also click the Burn button on the Recordable DVD bar, which appears at the top of the disc's Finder window.
	5.	Choose the fastest recording speed possible.
	6.	Click Burn.
Burning backups from other recording applications
If you've invested in Toast Titanium from Roxio (www.roxio.com) or another CD/DVD recording application, you can create a new disc layout to burn your backup disc. (Think of a layout as a "road map" indicating which files and folders Toast should store on the backup.)
	You can save that disc layout and use it again. This simplifies the process of backing up the same files in the future (if you don't move folders or files from their current spot).
Putting Things Right with Time Machine
If you enable backups via Lion's Time Machine feature, you can literally move backward through the contents of your iMac's hard drive, selecting and restoring all sorts of data. Files and folders are ridiculously easy to restore —  and I mean easier than any restore you've ever performed, no matter what the operating system or backup program. Time Machine can even handle such deleted items as Address Book entries or photos you sent to the Trash from iPhoto! To sum it up, Time Machine should be an important and integral part of every Mac owner's existence.
	Apple's Time Capsule device is designed as a wireless storage drive for your Time Machine backup files. If you're interested in a single Time Machine backup location for multiple Macs across your wireless network, Time Capsule is a great addition to your home or office.
	Before you can use Time Machine, you must have it enabled within the Time Machine pane in System Preferences. I cover the Time Machine configuration settings (and how to turn the feature on) in more detail in Chapter 6. You'll also need an external hard drive that provides considerably more storage capacity than the drive you're backing up — I recommend that your external Time Machine backup drive be at least twice the capacity of the drive you're backing up.
Here's how you can turn back time, step by step, to restore a file that you deleted or replaced in a folder:
	1.	Open a Finder window and navigate to the folder that contained the file you want to restore.
	2.	Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock and then click the Time Machine icon (which bears a clock with a counterclockwise arrow).
		The oh-so-ultra-cool Time Machine background appears behind your folder, complete with its own set of buttons at the bottom of the screen (as shown in Figure 24-2). On the right, you see a timeline that corresponds to the different days and months included in the backups that Lion has made.
 

Figure 24-2: Yes, Time Machine really does look like this!

 
	3.	Click within the timeline to jump directly to a date (displaying the folder's contents on that date).
		Alternatively, use the Forward and Back arrows at the right to move through the folder's contents through time. (You should see the faces of Windows users when you "riffle" through your folders to locate something you deleted several weeks ago!)
		The backup date of the items you're viewing appears in the button bar at the bottom of the screen.
	4.	After you locate the file you want to restore, click it to select it.
	5.	Click the Restore button at the right side of the Time Machine  button bar.
		Time Machine returns you to the Finder, with the newly restored file now appearing in the folder. Out-standing!
	To restore specific data from your Address Book or images from iPhoto, launch the desired application first and then launch Time Machine. Instead of riffling through a Finder window, you can move through time within the application window.
For simple backup and restore protection, Time Machine is all that a typical Mac owner at home is likely to ever need. Therefore, a very easy Mark's Maxim to predict:
 Get an external hard drive, connect it, and turn on Time Machine. Do it now. Don't make a humongous mistake.
Maintaining Hard Drive Health
Shifty-eyed, sneaky, irritating little problems can bother your hard drive: permissions errors. Incorrect disk and file permissions can
 Make your iMac lock up
 Make applications act screwy (or refuse to run at all)
 Cause weird behavior within a Finder window or System Preferences
To keep Lion running at its best, I recommend that you fix permissions errors at least once per week. Follow these steps:
	1.	Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock and then click the Utilities icon.
		From the keyboard, press +Shift+U to open the Utilities folder directly in a new Finder window.
	2.	Double-click the Disk Utility icon.
	3.	Click the volume at the left that you want to check.
		(Volume is just computer-speak for a named partition, like Macintosh HD, which appears under your physical hard drive.)
 4.	Click the Repair Disk Permissions button.
		Disk Utility does the rest and then displays a message about whatever it has to fix. (When will someone invent a car with a Repair Me button?)
Automating Those Mundane Chores
Lion's Automator application is a big hit among iMac power users. You use Automator (as shown in Figure 24-3) to create customized tools that automate repetitive tasks.
You can also create workflows, which are sequential (and repeatable) operations that are performed on the same files or data, and then your Automator application can automatically launch whatever applications are necessary to get the job done.
 

Figure 24-3: Automator is a dream come true for those who hate repetitive tasks.

 
Here's a great example: You work with a service bureau that sends you a CD every week with new product shots for your company's marketing department. Unfortunately, these images are flat-out huge — taken with a 16-megapixel camera — and they're always in the wrong orientation. Before you move them to the Marketing folder on your server, you have to use Preview to laboriously resize each image and rotate it, and then use the Finder window to save the smaller version.
With help from Automator, you can build a custom application that automatically reads each image in the folder, resizes it, rotates it, generates a thumbnail image, prints the image, and then moves the massaged images to the proper folder. Of course, you can run Automator from Launchpad. Currently, Automator can handle specific tasks within more than 80 applications (including the Finder), but both Apple and third-party developers are busy adding new Automator task support to all sorts of new and existing applications.
Creating an application in Automator
To create a simple application with Automator, launch the application and follow these steps:
	1.	Select Application and click Choose.
	2.	Click the desired item in the Library list.
		Automator displays the actions available for the item you've selected. Some of these items are media files, whereas others include Address Book contacts, files and folders in the Finder, PDF documents, and even Apple Mail messages.
	3.	Drag the desired action from the Library pane to the workflow pane.
	4.	Modify any specific settings provided for the action you chose.
	5.	Repeat Steps 1-3 to complete the workflow.
	6.	Click Run (upper right) to test your application.
		Use sample files while you're fine-tuning your application, lest you accidentally do something deleterious to an original (and irreplaceable) file!
		Figure 24-4 illustrates a workflow that will take care of the earlier example — resizing and rotating a folder full of images and then moving them to the Pictures folder.
	7.	When the application is working as you like, press +Shift+S to  save it.
	8.	In the Save As dialog that appears, type a name for your new  workflow.
 

Figure 24-4: Now you can handle 10 or 1,000 images in a folder. Your application does the work!

 
	9.	Click the Where pop-up menu and specify a location where the file should be saved.
	10.	Click the File Format pop-up menu and choose Application.
	11.	Click Save.
		Your new Automator application icon appears, sporting an Automator robot standing on a document.
		If you expect to use your new Automator application often, you can drag the application icon to your Dock or to your Desktop.
	To find all the actions of a certain type within the Library list, click in the Search box at the bottom of the Library pane and type in a keyword, such as save or burn. You don't even need to press Return!
Running applications at startup
If your Automator application should run every time you log in, follow these steps to set it up as a Login Item:
	1.	Open System Preferences.
	2.	Display the Users & Groups pane.
	3.	Click the Login Items button.
	4.	Click the plus button at the bottom of the list.
	5.	Navigate to the location of your new Automator application.
 6.	Click Add.
		Now your Automator application is really automatic.
	Many third-party applications have their own Automator actions. Check the developer's website often to see whether additional Automator applications have been added that you can download.
Updating Mac OS X Automatically
I prefer my iMac to take care of cleaning up after itself, so updating Lion should be automatic as well. In Mac OS X Lion, operating system updates are performed by the Software Update application.
	Software Update uses the Internet, so you need an Internet connection to shake hands with the Apple server and download any updates.
Software Update can be found in two convenient spots:
 The Apple menu: Click the Apple menu () and then click Software Update, which displays the Update dialog and alerts you to anything new that's available.
 System Preferences: Click the Software Update icon to display the Software Update pane that you see in Figure 24-5.
 

Figure 24-5: Setting up Software Update to launch itself, all by itself.

 
		If you take the System Preferences route, you can set Software Update to check for updates automatically:
	a.	Mark the Check for Updates check box to enable it.
	b.	Choose the time period from the Check for Updates pop-up menu.
		Software Update covers every Apple application, so I usually check once daily just to make sure that I don't miss anything.
		If something needs to be updated, the program alerts you, either automatically downloading the update(s) or displaying a dialog letting you know what you can update (depending on the settings you choose in the System Preferences Software Update pane).
You can even check for updates immediately from System Preferences. That, dear reader, is just plain thoughtful design.
	If you've installed applications from Lion's App Store, you'll be notified that updates are available for those applications by a tiny red circle next to the App Store icon in the Dock. (The number inside the circle indicates how many updates are available, much like the Mail icon in the Dock displays how many unread messages you have waiting for you.) Click the App Store icon to launch the Store and then click the Updates icon in the title bar.











Chapter 25
Running Windows on Your iMac
In This Chapter
 Introducing Boot Camp
 Comparing Boot Camp to software emulation
 Creating your Windows partition
 Switching to your Windows system
 Updating Apple software in Windows
Do you sometimes miss that other operating system? Are there legacy Windows programs you'd like to run on your iMac? Do you miss the familiar confines of the Microsoft world?
No need to be secretive or furtive about your Windows yearnings. Although I'm an enthusiastic Mac owner, I also own two smooth-running PCs, and they cohabitate quite well in my office. I use Windows 7 every day for a number of tasks. So, dear reader, what if I told you that both Mac OS X Lion and Windows XP, Vista, or 7 can live together in peace and harmony, all on the same hard drive inside your shiny iMac?
In this chapter, I discuss the wonder that is Boot Camp — the free utility included with Lion that allows you to install and run Windows on your iMac's hard drive. I explain why Boot Camp is superior in performance to Windows emulator software, and how to switch between operating systems with a simple reboot.
Hold on to your hat, Mac owners: You're about to take a wild trip that proves you can indeed have the best of both worlds!
Figuring Out How Boot Camp Works
First, a bit of technobabble — but I promise it'll be over soon, and I've tried  to keep things from getting too boring. In years past, you may have heard that  a Mac computer couldn't run Windows out of the box (without expensive hardware or software), and Mac software was off-limits to PCs. . . and you'd have been correct, at least for all but the recent history of the Macintosh computer. Why the incompatibility? It was because Apple used a series of processors (or CPUs) that didn't "talk the same language" as the Intel CPUs used in PCs. Consider a person speaking Korean trying to read a book in Arabic and you get the general idea.
Then Apple began using Intel processors in Macs, and the ground rules changed. Now Apple hardware was suddenly compatible with Windows. All that was needed was a "bridge" to help keep both operating systems separate on the same hard drive — and Apple developed Boot Camp. Of course, that bridge works in only one direction because you still can't run Macintosh software on a PC. (Go figure.)
Boot Camp accomplishes its magic by creating a separate Windows partition on your iMac's hard drive. The partition holds all your Windows data, including the operating system, your program files, and the documents you create while running Windows. Consider this partition as being completely separate from your Mac OS X data, even though both partitions exist on the same physical hard drive.
When you reboot your iMac using Boot Camp, it's similar to changing the station on your FM radio: The hardware is the same, but you've switched to a different DJ (Windows instead of Mac OS X) and you're listening to different music (country instead of rock). How's that for a comparison, Dr. Science?
Naturally, you'll need free space on your iMac's hard drive to install Boot Camp. Apple recommends 10GB of free space for a Windows 7 installation, but I'd bump that up to 40GB. Both the 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Vista and Windows 7 are compatible with most Macs capable of running Mac OS X Lion, and any Intel-based Mac can run 32-bit Windows XP or Vista.
	When your iMac is running Windows, it's as susceptible to virus and spyware attack as any other Windows PC. Make sure that you invest in quality antivirus and antispyware protection for your Windows side!
Comparing Boot Camp to  Windows Emulators
"But, Mark, what about Windows emulators?" you ask. Ah, that's a good point: A number of excellent Mac applications let you run Windows within what's called a virtual machine. Although your iMac is still running Mac OS X, these emulators create an environment in which Windows can share system resources such as hard drives, RAM, and even peripherals. My personal favorite Windows emulator is Parallels Desktop (www.parallels.com).
These Windows emulators have four big advantages over Boot Camp:
 Versatility: Unlike Boot Camp, which restricts you to creating one Windows partition, Parallels Desktop allows you to create as many virtual machines as you have hard drive space for. Plus, you can run multiple versions of Windows, or even other operating systems such as UNIX, Linux, and DOS.
 Portability: An emulator allows you to store your Windows installation on a separate hard drive — even a large-capacity USB flash drive! With Boot Camp, the Windows partition you create must reside on your Lion boot drive.
 Shared data: If you have Windows and Mac OS X applications that you must run concurrently (and they must access the same data with both Lion and Windows), an emulator is your only option.
 No need to reboot: With Boot Camp, you must reboot to run your iMac under Windows. Software Windows emulators don't need a reboot.
"Okay then, Mark, why are you such a fan of Boot Camp?" I'm glad you asked! Here are two major reasons to choose Boot Camp over a Windows emulator:
 Performance: One word, dear reader: speed. No software Windows emulator will ever run as fast or perform as trouble-free as Boot Camp! That's because an iMac running Boot Camp is actually running as a true Windows PC, able to access all the system resources Windows demands without an emulator slowing things down. It makes sense when you think about it: Because you're running Parallels Desktop "on top" of Lion, your iMac has to devote a significant amount of computing time to just keeping Mac OS X running. In fact, some Windows applications simply won't run well at all under emulation, such as today's memory- and processor-hungry 3D games.
 Peripheral control: If you're running a software Windows emulator and you plug a USB flash drive into your iMac, which operating system gets to use it? How about your digital camera, or that external Blu-ray recorder? Although Parallels Desktop has all sorts of automatic and manual controls that you can set to determine which operating system gets to use what, an iMac running Boot Camp owns everything you plug into it free and clear, with no troublesome conflicts between operating systems arguing over peripherals.
Oh, and don't let me forget what many Mac owners consider the most important advantage for Boot Camp: It's free. You need a licensed copy of the version of Windows you want to run, but there's nothing else to buy!
	Remember what I said about Boot Camp modifying your hard drive? Do not install Boot Camp without backing up your existing data on your iMac's hard drive! I personally have never had a problem with Boot Camp, but there's always a first time. In case of catastrophe, you can always use your Time Machine backup to restore your computer's operating system and all your data — yes, that's yet another good reason for you to pick up an external drive and use Time Machine on your iMac!
Configuring Boot Camp
Ready to install Boot Camp? The process is surprisingly easy and takes far less time than it takes to install Windows afterward. Follow these steps:
	1.	Launch the Boot Camp Assistant.
		The Assistant resides in your Utilities folder inside your Applications folder. I use Launchpad to reach it quickly: Click the Launchpad icon in the Dock, click the Utilities folder icon, and then click the Boot Camp Assistant icon.
		It's a good idea to click the Print Installation & Setup Guide button on the Introduction screen. Keep this additional documentation handy just in case you have questions about running Windows that aren't covered within the confines of this chapter!
	2.	Click Continue at the Introduction screen.
		Figure 25-1 illustrates the Boot Camp Assistant Support Software screen that appears.
	3.	Click the Download the Windows Support Software for This Mac radio button and click Continue.
		Boot Camp Assistant can copy these drivers to a blank CD or blank DVD, or to an external drive. If you decide to record a disc with the drivers, you'll load this disc after your Windows installation is complete, and it provides all the drivers that Windows needs for your Mac's hardware.
 Do not try to use a Windows Support Software disc created by Boot Camp for use on another Mac computer! You may think you're saving time, but the software and drivers that Boot Camp Assistant downloads are specific to the hardware used on the machine burning the disc.
	4.	Choose the size of your Windows partition and click Create.
		Again, you can devote more hard drive space to your Windows partition than the amount recommended by the Assistant, but don't forget this important fact: What you reserve for use in Windows cannot be used by Mac OS X Lion! Therefore, I always suggest a conservative amount. (In other words, don't devote 300GB of your 500GB drive to your Windows partition because you'll cramp your style within Mac OS X.)
 

Figure 25-1: Yes, you want the Windows support software. Trust me.

 
	5.	Reboot if required.
		You may be prompted to launch the Assistant again.
	6.	Click Start the Windows Installer and click Continue.
		From this point on, you're running the Windows installation program, just as you would be if you were using a PC. (Well, actually, you are using a PC now.) Follow the onscreen prompts, which differ for each version of Windows.
	When prompted by the Windows Installer to choose the partition to format, choose the partition named BOOTCAMP. Formatting any other partition will likely result in the loss of all your Mac OS X files and data. (Again, this is why you should always back up your existing system before putting Boot Camp  to work.)
After Windows has been installed, load the CD you burned with the drivers and support software. Windows should automatically run the Boot Camp driver installation program for you. After the drivers are in place, you're ready to do the Microsoft Dance.
	Are you moving your stuff from Windows (running on your old PC) to . . . well, Windows (running on your iMac)? Brings an entirely new meaning to the term Switcher, doesn't it? If so, the files and folders on your existing PC can be copied directly to Windows running on your iMac by using the Files and Settings Transfer Wizard (in Windows XP) or the Windows Easy Transfer utility (in Windows Vista and 7).
Switching to Windows
There are three methods of switching back and forth between your Mac OS X partition and your Windows partition:
 From within Mac OS X Lion: To restart your iMac in Windows, click System Preferences in the Dock and click the Startup Disk icon to display the settings you see in Figure 25-2. Click the Windows partition you created in the list to select it (the folder icon will bear the Windows logo, and it will be labeled Windows as well). Click Restart and then click Restart again when asked for confirmation (or just hold down the Option key when choosing Restart to skip the confirmation step). Your iMac reboots and loads Windows, and it continues to run Windows when started or rebooted until you follow one of the next two methods of returning to Mac OS X:
 From within Windows: Right-click the Boot Camp icon in the notification area at the right side of your Windows taskbar — it looks like a slanted square — and choose Restart in Mac OS X. Again, you'll be asked to confirm your choice. After you click OK, your iMac reboots and returns to Lion.
 During the boot process: Need a temporary fix from your other operating system? You can reboot from within either Lion or Windows and hold down the Option key when you see the Apple logo appear. Your iMac displays a nifty row of icons, each of which represents a bootable operating system that your iMac can use. To boot Mac OS X, click the Lion partition icon. To choose Windows, click the Windows partition icon. (Note that when you turn on or reboot your iMac, it returns to the operating system you last selected in the System Preferences Startup Disk pane.)
 

Figure 25-2: Preparing to jump ship to Windows.

 
Using the Boot Camp Control Panel
Besides having the ability to restart your laptop in Mac OS X Lion, the Windows Boot Camp notification icon includes a number of other features. Right-click the icon and choose Boot Camp Control Panel from the contextual menu to display the settings, which vary depending on the version of Windows you're using and the type of Mac you're running.
The Startup Disk tab is essentially a Windows version of Lion's Startup Disk pane in System Preferences. From here, you can choose to reboot in Mac OS X Lion by clicking the Mac OS X folder and clicking Restart. Here's what clicking the other tabs does for you:
 Brightness tab: Displays the Brightness slider, which you can drag to dim or brighten your display
 Remote tab: Enables or disables remote control by an Apple Remote
 Power tab: Lets you specify whether your iMac should restart automatically after a power failure
After you've made any changes within the Boot Camp Control Panel, click OK to save your changes and return to Windows.

Checking for Apple Updates
Apple sometimes releases updates for Boot Camp software and drivers. If you have an active Internet connection, you can easily check for updates within Windows using the Apple Software Update program.
To run Update, click the Start button and click Apple Software Update. The program automatically connects to Apple's servers and displays any updates (including those for the Windows versions of programs such as Safari and iTunes). Click the check box next to each update you want to apply to enable it; then click the Install button to start the ball rolling.
	Although this is a shameless plug, it fits very well at the end of a chapter dedicated to Windows: If you'd like a handy companion guide to Windows 7, Microsoft Office 2010 and the world of PCs, I can highly recommend the book PCs All-in-One For Dummies, 5th Edition, also written by yours truly and published by Wiley! (As I said at the beginning of this chapter, I draw no favorites between PC and Mac. I love 'em both.)











Part VII
The Part of Tens





In this part . . .
Ah, what book in the For Dummies series is truly complete without the infamous Part of Tens? Here you find lots of this author's raw opinion on things like tips for boosting your computer's performance and Ten Things to Avoid Like the Plague (a perennial reader's favorite). 











Chapter 26
Ten Ways to Speed Up Your iMac
In This Chapter
 Adding memory
 Using spoken commands
 Defragmenting your drive
 Banishing the Desktop background
 Using column mode
 Customizing the Dock
 Using keyboard shortcuts
 Customizing your Finder windows
 Launching recent applications and documents
 Using the Go menu
Even an iMac with an Intel Quad-Core i7 processor can always go just a bit faster . . . or can it? There's actually a pretty short list of tweaks that you can apply to your iMac's hardware to speed it up, and these suggestions are covered in this chapter.
You can also work considerably faster within Lion by customizing your Desktop and your Finder windows, which makes it easier to spot and use your files, folders, and applications. That's in this Part of Tens chapter, too.
Finally, you can enhance your efficiency and make yourself a power user by tweaking yourself. (Sounds a bit tawdry or even painful, but bear with me and you'll understand.)
Nothing Works Like a Shot of Memory
Okay, maybe shot is the wrong word, but adding additional memory to your iMac (by either replacing or adding a memory module) is the single surefire way to speed up the performance of your entire system. That includes every application as well as Lion itself.
With more memory, your iMac can hold more of your documents and data in memory, and thus has to store less data temporarily on your hard drive. It takes your iMac much less time to store, retrieve, and work with data when that data is in RAM (short for random access memory) rather than on your hard drive. That's why your system runs faster when you can fit an entire image in Adobe Photoshop in your iMac's system memory.
At the time of this writing, you can cram up to 8GB of memory in every iMac model, and some models can even be configured with a whopping 16GB of RAM (when you order from the Apple online store).
Hold a Conversation with Your iMac
Many Mac owners will attest that you can significantly increase your own efficiency by using the Speakable Items feature, which allows you to speak common commands within applications and Finder windows. Your voice is indeed faster than either your mouse or your fingers! Common commands in the Speakable Items folder include "Log me out" and "Get my mail."
To enable Speakable Items, choose System Preferences⇒Speech and then select the On radio button next to Speakable Items. Remember that, by default, the speech recognition system is active only when you press and hold the Esc key.
Vamoose, Unwanted Fragments!
Apple would probably prefer that I not mention disk fragmentation because Lion doesn't come with a built-in defragmenting application. (Go figure.) A disk-defragmenting application reads all the files on your drive and rewrites them as continuous, contiguous files, which your machine can read significantly faster.
To keep your hard drive running as speedily as possible, I recommend defragmenting at least once monthly. You can use third-party applications like Micromat's TechTool Pro (www.micromat.com) to defragment your drive.
Keep Your Desktop Background Simple
It's funny that I still include this tip in a chapter dedicated to improving performance. After all, I recommended using a solid color background in my first books on Mac OS 8 and Windows 98! Just goes to show you that some things never change.
If you're interested in running your system as fast as it will go, choose a solid-color background from the Desktop & Screen Saver pane in System Preferences. (In fact, there's even a separate category that you can pick called Solid Colors.)
Column Mode Is for Power Users
One of my favorite features of Mac OS X is the ability to display files and folders in column view mode. Just click the Column button in the standard Finder window toolbar, and the contents of the window automatically align in well-ordered columns.
Other file display options require you to drill through several layers of folders to get to a specific location on your hard drive — for example, Users/mark/Music/iTunes/iTunes Music, which I visit on a regular basis. In column mode, however, a single click drills a level deeper, and often you won't even have to use the Finder window's scroll bars to see what you're looking for. Files and folders appear in a logical order. Plus, it's much easier to move a file (by dragging it from one location on your hard drive to another) in column mode.
Make the Dock Do Your Bidding
Just about every Mac owner considers the Mac OS X Dock a good friend. But when's the last time you customized it — or have you ever made a change to it at all?
You can drag files and folders to the Dock, as well as web URLs, applications, and network servers. You can also remove applications and web URLs just as easily by dragging the icon from the Dock and releasing it on your Desktop.
I find that I make a significant change to my Dock icons at least once every week. I find nothing more convenient than placing a folder for each of my current projects in the Dock or adding applications to the Dock that I might be researching for a book or demonstrating in a chapter.
	You can position the Dock at either side of the Desktop or even hide the Dock from sight entirely to give yourself an extra strip of space on your Desktop for application windows. Click the Apple menu () at the left side of the Finder menu bar and then hover your pointer over the Dock item to display these commands.
It All Started with Keyboard Shortcuts
Heck, keyboard shortcuts have been around since the days of WordStar and VisiCalc, back when a mouse was still just a living rodent. If you add up all those seconds of mouse-handling that you save by using keyboard shortcuts, you'll see that you can save hours of productive time every year.
You're likely already using some keyboard shortcuts, like the common editing shortcuts +C (Copy) and +V (Paste). When I'm learning a new application, I often search through the application's online help to find a keyboard shortcut table and then print that table as a quick reference. Naturally, you can also view keyboard shortcuts by clicking each of the major menu groups within an application. Shortcuts are usually displayed alongside the corresponding menu items.
Hey, You Tweaked Your Finder!
Here's another speed enhancer along the same lines as my earlier tip about customizing your Dock: You can also reconfigure your Finder windows to present you with just the tools and locations that you actually use (rather than what Apple figures you'll use).
For example, you can right-click the toolbar in any Finder window and choose Customize Toolbar. By default, Lion's Finder toolbar includes only the default icon set that you see at the bottom of the sheet, but you can drag and drop all sorts of useful command icons onto the toolbar. You can save space by displaying small icons, too.
	The Sidebar — which hangs out at the left side of the Finder window — is a healthy, no-nonsense repository for those locations that you constantly visit throughout a computing session. For example, I have both a Games folder and a Book Chapters folder that I use countless times every day — it's important to balance work with pleasure, you know — and I've dragged both of those folders to the Sidebar.
Keep in Touch with Your Recent Past
Click that Apple menu () and use that Recent Items menu! I know that sounds a little too simple, but I meet many new Apple computer owners every year who either don't know that the Recent Items menu exists or forget to use it. You can access both applications and documents that you've used within the last few days. Consider the Dock and Finder Sidebar as permanent or semipermanent solutions, and the Recent Items menu as more of a temporary solution to finding the stuff that you're working on right now.
Go Where the Going Is Good
To round out this Part of Tens chapter, I recommend another little-known (and underappreciated) Finder menu feature (at least among Macintosh novices): the Go menu, which is located on the Finder menu.
The Go menu is really a catch-all, combining the most important locations on your system (like your Home folder and your iDisk) with folders that you've used recently. Plus, the Go menu is the place where you can connect to servers or shared folders across your local network or across the Internet.
Pull down the Go menu today — and don't forget to try out those spiffy keyboard shortcuts you see listed next to the command names. (For example, press +Shift+H to immediately go to your Home folder.) And if a Finder window isn't open at the moment, a new window opens automatically. Such convenience is hard to resist!
	Hold down the Option key when you click the Go menu and you'll be able to choose your personal Library folder (which is normally hidden) from the menu. This comes in handy when you have to troubleshoot problems with applications that save files or store configuration data in your Library folder.











Chapter 27
Ten Things to Avoid  Like the Plague
In This Chapter
 Strange mutant optical discs
 Phishing (without a pole)
 Using a single password
 Liquid Mac meltdowns
 Antique utility software
 Illegal software
 That nasty root account
 Cheap surge protectors
 Refurbished stuff
 Just plain dirt
If you've read other books that I've written in the For Dummies series, you might recognize the title of this chapter: It's a favorite Part of Tens subject of mine that appears often in my work. I don't like to see any computer owner fall prey to pitfalls. Some of these pitfalls are minor — like being less than diligent about keeping your iMac clean — but others are downright catastrophic, like providing valuable information over the Internet to persons unknown.
All these potential mistakes, however, have one thing in common: They're easily prevented with a little common sense — as long as you're aware of them. That's my job. In this chapter, I fill in what you need to know. Consider these pages as experience gained easily (for you, that is!).
Man, Dig That Crazy Disc
Once upon a time, all optical discs (read: audio CDs) used to be uniformly round, and one size. This pleased everyone until someone suddenly decided that odd-shaped discs — everything from rectangles to triangles — would attract attention and therefore be a great marketing ploy. Digital camera and video camera manufacturers started offering models that recorded on smaller optical discs that were about half the diameter of a standard size. The only thing that stayed the same size was the hole in the middle of the disc.
What, dear reader, does this tale have to do with your iMac? Unfortunately, optical discs that aren't the standard size or shape are designed to work only in older tray-style CD and DVD drives, and your iMac uses a "trayless" drive that actually pulls the disc inside the body of your computer (and out of your reach). If you feed your iMac one of these irregular discs, it has a very good chance of getting stuck inside your iMac, and you have an equally good chance of being unable to eject it! This situation would result in an expensive visit to your local Apple hardware technician.
Therefore, I implore you to load only standard-size CDs and DVDs into your iMac — avoid mutant optical discs unless you've bought an external optical drive that can handle them!
Phishing Is No Phun
Phishing refers to an attempt by unsavory characters to illegally obtain your personal information. If that sounds like an invitation to identity theft, it is —  and thousands of sites have defrauded individuals like you and me (along with banks and credit card companies) out of billions of dollars.
A phishing scam works like this: You get an e-mail purporting to be from a major company or business, such as eBay; a government agency; a social networking site; or a major credit card company. The message warns you that you have to "update" your login or financial information to keep it current, or that you have to "validate" your information every so often — and the message even provides you with a link to an official-looking web page (although sometimes full of spelling errors, and always with a bogus address). After you enter information on that bogus page, it's piped directly to the bad guys, and they're off to the races.
Here's a Mark's Maxim that every Internet user should take to heart:
 No legitimate company or agency will ever solicit your personal information through an e-mail message!
 Never respond to these messages. Don't use the link provided in the phishing e-mail! If you smell something phishy, open your web browser and visit the company's site (the real one) by typing in the address directly; then contact the company's customer support department to report the scam.
In fact, sending any valuable financial information through unencrypted e-mail — even to those whom you know and trust — is a bad idea. E-mail messages can be intercepted or can be read from any e-mail server that stores your message.
Don't Rely on a Single Password
Okay, confess: Are you using a single password for everything you do on your Mac? Is your Apple ID password the same as your user account password — and also the same as your password on every website you visit? Even your online banking? (Oh, my!)
If so, you're taking a big risk with both your personal data and your online reputation. All it takes is a single moment of weakness (perhaps when your friend or coworker asks to use your Mac, or you use that "oh-so-convenient" universal password on a phishing website). No matter how your password gets out, you and your Mac are suddenly wide open to malicious attacks.
I recommend the same security measure that I recommend to my clients, family, and friends: Use a different password for each of the important websites you visit often, and keep a completely separate password reserved for your user account. I know it's a hassle to remember multiple passwords, but the alternative is no security at all.
Do You Really Want a  Submerged Keyboard?
Your answer should be an unequivocal "No!" — and that's why everyone should make it a rule to park all beverages well out of range of keyboards, speakers, mice, backup drives, and any other piece of external hardware. Especially when kids or cats are in close proximity to your iMac.
Cleaning up a hazardous soda spill is hard enough in the clear, but if that liquid comes in contact with your hardware, you're likely to be visited with intermittent keyboard problems (or, in the worst-case scenario, a short in an external peripheral or your iMac's motherboard).
Suffice it to say that 12 inches of open space can make the difference between a simple cleanup and an expensive replacement!
Don't Use Antiquated Utility Software
If you're using Lion, you should upgrade your older utility programs. These older disk utility applications can actually do more damage than good to a hard drive under Mac OS X Lion. A number of things always change when Apple makes the leap to a new version of Mac OS X, including subtle changes to disk formats and memory management within applications. With an out-of-date utility, you could find yourself with corrupted data.
Make sure that you diagnose and repair disk and file errors by using only a utility application that's specifically designed to run in Lion, like TechTool Pro from Micromat (www.micromat.com). Your iMac's hard drive will definitely thank you.
(Oh, and while you're at it, don't forget to check the manufacturer's website for any updates to drivers or application software for your third-party external hardware! 'Nuff said.)
Don't Endorse Software Piracy
This one's a real no-brainer — remember, Apple's overall market share among worldwide computer users currently weighs in at little more than 15 percent. Software developers know this, and they have to expect (and receive) a return on their investment or they're going to find something more lucrative to do with their time. As a shareware author, I can attest to this fact firsthand.
An iMac is a great machine, and Lion is a great operating system, but even the best hardware and the sexiest desktop won't make up for an absence of good applications. Pay for what you use, and everyone benefits.
Call It the Forbidden Account
You might never have encountered the root, or System Administrator, account within Mac OS X — and that's always A Good Thing. Note that I'm not talking about a standard administrator (or admin) account here. Every iMac needs at least one admin account (in fact, it might be the only visible account on your computer), and any standard user account can be toggled between standard and admin status with no trouble at all (by another admin account).
The root account, though, is a different beast altogether, and that's why it's disabled by default. All Unix systems have a root account; because Lion is based on a Unix foundation, it has one, too. Anyone logging in with the root account can do anything on your system, including deleting or modifying files in the System folder (which no other account can access). Believe me: Deliberately formatting your hard drive is about the only thing worse than screwing up the files in your System folder.
Luckily, no one can accidentally access the root/System Administrator account. In fact, you can't assign the root account with System Preferences; you must use the Terminal application in Utilities (within your Applications folder). Unless an Apple support technician tells you to enable and use it, you should promptly forget that the root account even exists.
Don't Settle for a Surge Suppressor
Technically, nothing is wrong with using a surge suppressor to feed power to your iMac and all your external peripherals, but it doesn't do the entire job. Your system is still wide open to problems caused by momentary brownouts, not to mention the occasional full-fledged blackout. Losing power in the middle of a computing session will likely lead to lost documents and might even result in disk or file errors later. With an uninterruptible power supply (UPS), you can rest easily, knowing that your iMac will have a few minutes more of "ilife."
Most Mac owners know about the backup battery power that a UPS provides, but they don't know about the extra work performed by most UPS units: namely, filtering your AC current. A filtering UPS prevents electronic noise (think about a vacuum being used next to a TV set) and momentary current spikes. These days, you'll find good UPS models for under $100.
Refurbished Hardware Is No Deal at All
Boy, howdy, do I hate refurbished stuff. To quote someone famous, "If the deal sounds too good to be true, it probably is."
Examine what you get when you buy a refurbished (often called recertified) hard drive. It's likely that the drive was returned as defective, of course, and was then sent back to the factory. There, the manufacturer probably performed the most cursory of repairs, perhaps tested the unit for a few seconds, and then packed it back up again. (I should, however, note that Apple sells refurbished Macs, and generally has a good reputation for value on these computers.)
	Before you spend a dime on a bargain that's remanufactured — I can't get over that term — make sure that you find out how long a warranty you'll receive,  if any.
If at all possible, I recommend spending the extra cash on trouble-free, brand-new hardware that has a full warranty.
iMacs Appreciate Cleanliness
Clean your machine. Even though your iMac has a fan, dust is an insidious enemy within the confines of your computer's case. I know Mac owners who celebrate each passing year by opening up their machines to blow them clean of dust bunnies with a can of compressed air. (I'm one of them, as a matter of fact.)
	If you're adding memory to your aluminum iMac, as I demonstrate in Chapter 23, take advantage of the chance and use that trusty can of compressed air to clean up.
Your screen should be cleaned at least once every two or three days. Never spray anything — cleaners, water, anything! — directly on your screen or your iMac's case. I highly recommend using premoistened LCD cleaning wipes to safely clean your iMac monitor.
Your iMac case needs only a thorough wiping job with a soft cloth to stay spotless.












To access the cheat sheet specifically for this book, go to www.dummies.com/cheatsheet/imac.

Find out "HOW" at Dummies.com





