




CHAPTER 8: THE GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM
Emma Jakoi, Ph. D.
8.1 GENERAL STRUCTURE & FUNCTION
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the functional anatomy and role of the digestive system.
Describe the production of gastric acid in the stomach.
Describe the time course of acid secretion in the fed and fasted states.

OVERVIEW
The digestive system provides nutrients, water, and electrolytes to the cells of the body from the external environment. Food enters the oral cavity and is propelled by muscular contractions through the gastrointestinal (GI) tract moving towards the anus. At various points along the GI tract, acid, digestive enzymes, and buffers are added to facilitate the breakdown of complex foods (such as steak and rice) into simple molecules (such as amino acids, glucose, and fatty acids). These products are then absorbed into the body and delivered to the liver. The various secretions of the GI tract (enzymes, mucus, and water) sum to about 7 liters. This fluid is reabsorbed to prevent dehydration. Unabsorbed nutrients and waste products are eliminated from the body as feces (100 mL - 500mL per day). 
GENERAL ANATOMY
The digestive system includes the gastrointestinal tract and accessory organs (Figure 116).

Figure 116. Functional regions of the gastrointestinal tract and associated organs.
 
The outside wall of the gastrointestinal tract has two layers of smooth muscle which are oriented perpendicular to each other (Figure 117). Constriction of the innermost layer of muscle changes the diameter of the tube. Constriction of the outermost layer of muscle shortens the tube.

Figure 117. Tissue layers of the gastrointestinal tract.
The lumen of the gastrointestinal tract is lined by a layer of cells (called epithelium) which differs in structure along the tract. At the two ends, esophagus and anus, there is a "wear and tear" non-secretory, non-absorptive epithelium (Figure 118). The stomach has a secretory epithelium and the small intestines, absorptive epithelium.

Figure 118. Changes in the gastrointestinal tract epithelium reflect function.
There are four accessory organs (salivary glands, liver, pancreas and gall bladder) (Figure 116). Secretions from the salivary gland are added to the oral cavity. Those from the liver are stored within the gall bladder and then released along with those from the pancreas into the duodenum (first portion of the small intestine).
INGESTION & FRAGMENTATION
Ingestion and fragmentation (chewing) of food occur within the oral cavity. Chewing reduces the size of the food particle and increases its surface area to facilitate attack by digestive enzymes. Chewing and later swallowing are aided by the secretion of saliva from three salivary glands. Enzymes in saliva initiate the breakdown of complex carbohydrates such as bread and cereals. The bolus of shredded food is then conveyed to the esophagus by the actions of the tongue during swallowing. Transit through the esophagus to the stomach is rapid.
ACID SECRETION & DIGESTION
The stomach can hold ~2 liters of food and fluid. It is divided into four regions (Figure 119): cardiac, fundic, antrum, and pyloric. The epithelium in all four regions secretes a protective barrier of mucus, a carbohydrate rich material that coats the surface of the lumen. The cells of the fundic region produce hydrochloric acid (HCl) into the lumen of the stomach. The cells of the antrum regulate the production of acid. 
Digestion of dietary protein starts in the fundic region of the stomach. Here the epithelium lining the lumen contains 3 cell types: mucous secreting cells, chief cells and parietal cells. Their specific functions are as follows:
MUCOUS CELLS secrete mucus that protects the epithelium from acid. 
CHIEF CELLS secrete pepsinogen, an inactive enzyme, which is converted to an active enzyme called pepsin by acid in the lumen of the stomach.
PARIETAL CELLS secrete intrinsic factor and hydrochloric acid (HCl). Intrinsic factor is a carrier required for the absorption of vitamin B12 by the ileum (distal region of the small intestine). Vitamin B12 is necessary for the formation of red blood cells. In the absence of intrinsic factor, vitamin B12 absorption is insufficient resulting in pernicious anemia. HCl is a strong acid which lowers the stomach contents to a pH of 2.0- 5.0. 

Figure 119. Functional regions of the stomach.
SECRETION OF HYDROCHLORIC ACID BY PARIETAL CELLS
The production of hydrochloric acid (HCl) by the parietal cells requires the activity of the enzyme, carbonic anhydrase. In the presence of carbonic anhydrase, CO2 and H2O are converted to HCO3- and H+.

As shown in Figure 120, the newly generated proton (H+) is transported into the lumen of the stomach via the H+- K+ ATPase (called the proton pump).  Concurrently, HCO3- exits from the basal surface (blood side) of the parietal cell via the HCO3- - Cl- antiporter.
The chloride ion (Cl-) needed to form HCl, enters the parietal cell from the blood via the HCO3- - Cl- antiporter and exits at the luminal side by the Cl- channel. Once within the lumen of the stomach, Cl- combines with H+ to form HCl.
The luminal K+ that is needed to maintain the activity of the proton pump (H+-K+ ATPase), enters the parietal cells from the stomach lumen by the H+-K+ ATPase and is then recycled back into the lumen of the stomach by the K+ channel (Figure 120). 
Why is acid needed? The acidic pH in the stomach lumen is needed to convert pepsinogen (inactive pepsin) to pepsin (active enzyme) and to provide an optimal pH for pepsin action. Within the lumen of the stomach, muscle contractions mix the food particles with the HCl and the enzyme pepsin producing a semi-digested liquid called chyme.

Figure 120. Mechanism of HCl secretion.
Exposure of the food bolus to HCl starts the digestion of proteins. In addition, the HCl kills any bacteria that enter with the food.
With entry of food into the lumen of the stomach, acid secretion increases and reaches a peak output (PAO) by 90 minutes (Figure 121). Acid production subsequently falls as food leaves the stomach lumen to enter the small intestine.

Figure 121. Secretion of gastric acid during fed states. Why does the pH initially rise then fall by 2 hours after a meal?
It takes ~ 4 hours to empty the stomach after a meal because only a few milliliters of acidic chyme exit to enter the proximal small intestine (duodenum) at any time.
KEY CONCEPTS

The digestive system provides nutrients, water and solutes to the cells of the body from the external environment.
The digestive system is comprised of accessory glands and the gastrointestinal tract (tube) that coordinates four basic processes: fragmentation, secretion, digestion, and absorption.
The four regions of the gastrointestinal tract are specialized in structure and function and include: esophagus and anus (passive conduits), stomach (secretory) and intestines (absorptive).
The stomach produces acid from CO2 and water. This reaction occurs in the parietal cells and is catalyzed by carbonic anhydrase. The acid secretion of the stomach starts the digestion of protein and provides a barrier against the entry of bacteria. 

QUESTIONS
Case: A 23- year old male develops severe vomiting for 48 hours.

Will this change his acid-base status? If so, then how? 
Will this alter his minute ventilation?

ANSWERS

Yes. Loss of protons in the vomit will lead to metabolic alkalosis.
Yes. Minute ventilation will decrease to retain CO2.

8.2 REGULATION OF ACID SECRETION
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Explain the regulation of acid production in the stomach.
Explain the pathology of ulcer formation due to a loss of the mucus barrier.
Explain the target sites and relative effectiveness of drugs used for ulcers.

ACTIVATION OF GASTRIC ACID SECRETION
Gastric acid secretion by the parietal cell of the stomach is not constant. In the fed state, gastric acid secretion increases rapidly reaching a maximal output by 90 minutes (Figure 122). Subsequently as food empties into the small intestine, acid secretion again decreases and remains low when the stomach is empty.
The pH of the stomach content also changes with feeding. In the presence of food, the pH of the luminal content rises from 2.0 to 5.0 despite the increased production of acid (Figure 122). This rise in pH is due to buffering by the food. As the food content decreases, the pH falls to pH 2.0 and remains low during the fasting state. 

Figure 122. Secretion of HCl (mmol/hr) during fed states.
The production of acid is regulated by 3 reflex paths including: the parasympathetic nervous system (acetylcholine, Ach), the hormone, gastrin, and the paracrine, histamine. Each of these factors stimulates the activity of the H+-K+ ATPase to increase acid secretion. Their combined effect is known as potentiation (Figure 123). 
CEPHALIC PHASE OF GASTRIC ACID SECRETION is a feed forward control mediated by the parasympathetic nervous system (Figure 123). In the cephalic phase, the smell of food, the thought of food, and the chewing food leads to an increase in the secretion of hydrochloric acid. The cephalic phase accounts for about 40% of the total acid production.

Figure 123. Stimulation by histamine (paracrine), gastrin (hormone), and parasympathetic nervous system (Ach) increases HCl secretion in the stomach.
Increased parasympathetic nervous activity regulates two regions of the stomach:
In the fundic region, parasympathetic stimulation of the parietal cells increases activity of the H+- K+ ATPase (proton pump) and thereby increases acid secretion (Figure 123).
In the antrum, parasympathetic stimulation leads to an increase in secretion of the hormone, gastrin. Gastrin, in turn, stimulates the parietal cells directly leading to an increase in H+ - K+ ATPase (proton pump) activity.  Gastrin also acts on the enterochromaffin cells (ECL cells) located adjacent to the parietal cells to increase the secretion of histamine from these cells (Figure 123). Histamine in turn, acts as a paracrine to increase the activity of the H+ - K+ ATPase in the parietal cells.
*** Note that the final effector for acid production in the cephalic phase is the proton pump of the parietal cell.
GASTRIC PHASE OF GASTRIC ACID SECRETION is initiated by mechanical distension of the stomach by food and by the arrival of amino acids, alcohol, and caffeine within the antrum region of the stomach. These events stimulate the secretion of the hormone, gastrin, from the G cells of the antrum. Gastrin acts in the fundic region to increase the activity of the parietal cell proton pump as described above. The gastric phase accounts for about 60% of the gastric acid secretion.
INHIBITION OF ACID SECRETION
Tight regulation of acid production is needed because excess acid can be caustic and acid is needed only during feeding. The negative regulation of acid production is mediated by the stomach luminal pH. During feeding, proteins in the chyme act to buffer the pH to usually above 3.0 (Figure 122). However, in the empty stomach, the pH can fall below pH 3. At this low pH, the G Cells of the antrum are inhibited directly by excess protons (Figure 124) and indirectly by somatostatin secreted by neighboring D Cells. Somatostatin acts as a paracrine to inhibit gastrin secretion from the G cells (Figure 124).

Figure 124. Negative feedback by protons (H+) inhibits gastrin secretion.
Acid also initiates a negative feedback mediated by the hormone secretin. Secretin is secreted by the first part of the small intestine (called the duodenum) in response to the arrival of acidic chyme. Secretin acts as a hormone to inhibit gastrin secretion from the G cells of the stomach (Figure 124).
LOSS OF MUCUS BARRIER & GASTRIC ULCERS
The mucous cells that line the stomach lumen secrete mucus, a carbohydrate rich substance that protects the cells from erosion by acid. Disruption of this mucus barrier can lead to lesions in the epithelium called ulcers.  This is a painful condition that can lead to severe bleeding if other layers of the stomach wall are also involved.
There are three common causes of ulcers:


excess use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) which inhibit the
production of mucus by the epithelial cells
infection by helicobacter pylori.

Therapy targets include the following:


simple buffering of pH
inhibition of the parietal cell histamine receptor
inhibition of the parietal cell proton pump 

The most effective of these treatments is the inhibition of the proton pump but the fastest effect if simple buffering with either bicarbonate or food.  Infection by helicobacter pylori is the most common cause of stomach (gastric) ulcers. This infection is treated with antibiotics in addition to the proton pump inhibitor. 
KEY CONCEPTS

In the fed state, gastric acid secretion and pH of the stomach lumen increase in the first 90 minutes after ingestion of food.
In the fasting state gastric acid secretion and pH of the stomach lumen decrease and return to basal levels by 4 hours after food ingestion.
Secretion of gastric acid is regulated in a positive manner by the parasympathetic nervous system, by the hormone gastrin and by the paracrine histamine. The final effector for each of these factors is the proton pump located in the parietal cell.
Secretion of gastric acid is regulated in a negative manner by the hormone secretion and by the paracrine, somtatostatin.  Secretion of these factors increases in response to low luminal pH. The target for these negative factors is the G cell of the antrum which secretes gastrin.
The stomach has a protective mucus barrier to prevent cellular damage by acid. Disruption of this barrier leads to erosion of the epithelium lining the stomach lumen (gastric ulcers). 

QUESTION
What side effect would you predict from chronic use of a proton pump inhibitor?

increased gastrin secretion
decreased gastrin secretion
decreased pepsinogen secretion
increased secretin secretion

ANSWER

increased gastrin secretion


8.3 DIGESTION & ABSORBTION
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Explain the mechanisms of digestion and absorption of nutrients and identify where these occur within the gastrointestinal tube.
Explain the mechanisms of absorption of water and identify where this occurs within the gastrointestinal tube.
Explain the underlying mechanism for diarrhea and its causes.

SMALL INTESTINE & NUTRIENT ABSORPTION
Muscle contractions cause a ripple like movement that carries the food down the small intestine - like a conveyor belt. This transit is normally slow occurring over several hours. As complex food moves within the lumen of the small intestine, it is digested into small molecules. Subsequently these small molecules such as amino acids and sugars are absorbed into the body. These functions are coordinated by hormones.
The small intestine is divided into three regions: duodenum, jejunum and ileum. The first, duodenum, is 10 inches long; the other two total 10 feet.
The initial segment, the duodenum, receives the acidic chyme.  Here the epithelium contains mucous glands and goblet cells which secrete mucus to neutralize the pH of the chyme. The duodenal epithelium cells also secrete three hormones (Figure 125), glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP), cholecystokinin (CCK) and secretin, which signal the arrival of food to the pancreas, gall bladder, and stomach, respectively (Figure 125). Secretions from the pancreas and gall bladder are delivered directly to the lumen of the duodenum.
The specific reflex loops include the following hormones:

Arrival of acidic chyme (low pH) stimulates the release of secretin from the duodenal epithelial cells.  Secretin in turn increases the secretion of HCO3- from the pancreatic ducts. Secretin also mediates the negative feedback to the stomach G cells to inhibit gastrin secretion.
Arrival of carbohydrates increases glucose-dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP) secretion from the duodenal epithelial cells. GIP acts in a feed-forward manner to prime the pancreatic beta islet cells to secrete insulin. 
Arrival of amino acids and fat increases the secretion of cholecystokinin (CCK) from the duodenal epithelial cells. CCK acts in the pancreas to increase the secretion of zymogens (inactive enzymes). It also acts on the smooth muscle of the gall bladder to expel bile. Bile is a detergent like molecule that plays an important role in the absorption of lipid. It is synthesized continuously by the liver and is stored within the gall bladder until needed.

 

Figure 125. Digestive products signal the release of 3 hormones from the duodenum, glucose dependent insulinotropic peptide 1 (GIP), CCK, and secretin.
PHYSIOLOGIC ROLES OF THE PANCREAS
The pancreas consists of two separate glands: endocrine and exocrine. The endocrine pancreas secretes insulin and glucagon. The exocrine pancreas secretes digestive enzymes (proteases, lipases, nucleases, etc.) as inactive zymogens into a duct which delivers these products to the duodenum (Figure 126). Within the lumen of the duodenum, the zymogens are activated by the protease trypsin which is secreted by the epithelium of the duodenum. Digestion of complex foods into simple molecules by these enzymes occurs within the lumen of the duodenum, jejunum and ileum. 

Figure 126. Exocrine pancreas cells contain stored zymogens (inactive enzymes) in membrane bound vesicles called granules (red dots) which are secreted into ducts and delivered to the duodenum in response to CCK. The duct cells secrete HCO3- which is delivered to the duodenum in response to CCK. The duct cells secrete HCO3- which is delivered to the duodenum in response to secretin.
In addition to the secretion of zymogens from the pancreatic exocrine cells, pancreatic duct cells secrete HCO3- to neutralize the acidic chyme. Neutralization of the chyme protects the epithelial cells of the small intestine and provides an optimal pH for the activity of the pancreatic enzymes. 
JEJUNUM, ILEUM & NUTRIENT ABSORPTION
Movement through the small intestine is usually slow (several hours). This slow movement permits maximal absorption of nutrients. The epithelial cells that line the wall of the small intestine are covered with small folds called microvilli which increase the surface area. Without the microvilli, the intestinal epithelium would cover about 6 square feet of absorptive surface. The microvilli increase the absorptive area to 4,000 square feet (~ the surface of a doubles tennis court!). 
Absorption is the movement of a substance from the lumen across the epithelial cell and into the interstitial fluid compartment (IS). This is transcellular transport of materials. Absorption begins with the entry of a given substance at the luminal surface of the epithelial cell. The transport mechanism varies with the type of molecule as described below (Figure 127).
SIMPLE SUGARS and AMINO ACIDS are absorbed by secondary active transport. These molecules enter the intestinal cells via symporters usually coupled to Na+ entry (Figure 127). The simple sugars leave the cells by facilitated diffusion at the basal surface to enter the blood.
DI/TRI-PEPTIDES enter by a symporter (called the PepT). The PepT is a symporter which is coupled to H+ entry (Figure 127). The dipeptides and tripeptides are degraded to simple amino acids by the epithelial cells. The simple amino acids transverse the cell, exit at the basal surface and enter the blood. They are transported to the liver.

Figure 127. Co-transporters of the jejunum and ileum. Na+ moves with glucose (SGLT1) or with amino acids while protons move with peptides (PEPT) to enter the intestinal epithelial cells. Simple sugars and amino acids exit the cells at the basal surface by facilitated diffusion.
FATS (lipids) are digested to free fatty acids and cholesterol within the intestinal lumen (Figure 128) by lipases. These substances enter the epithelial cell primarily by simple diffusion. Once inside the epithelial cell, they are assembled with proteins into particles called chylomicrons, which leave the cell at the basal surface by exocytosis. The chylomicrons are too big to cross the capillary epithelium and instead they enter the lymphatic circulation and are transported to the liver. 

Figure 128. Digestion of lipids to free fatty acids and glycerol occurs in the lumen of the intestine by lipase.  These lipid products enter the epithelial cells by simple diffusion. They are packaged with proteins to form chylomicrons and then secreted from the basal surface to enter into lymphatic circulation.
GUT MICROBIOTA IN DISTAL INTESTINE
The lumen of the oral-gastrointestinal tract is colonized by a large number of micro-organisms, mostly bacteria (called microbiota). In humans more than 100 trillion reside in the distal intestine where these bacteria digest and ferment nutrients (carbohydrates), produce vitamins, and prevent colonization of the gut by pathogens.  Nutrients (carbohydrates and proteins) that are not absorbed in the small intestine undergo digestion and fermentation by bacteria in the large intestine. Fermentation generates short chain fatty acids which are used locally for fuel by the epithelial cells. 
SMALL & LARGE INTESTINE ABSORB WATER
The lumen of the small and large intestine is freely permeable to water. Water moves across the intestinal epithelium to maintain the luminal content isotonic at all times! The movement of water occurs passively in response to ionic gradients. Under normal conditions, the absorption of fluid predominates with water following the absorption of sodium (mostly by the SGLT1) into the body.  Under conditions of low perfusion and low O2 tension (hypoxia), absorption of nutrients such as glucose shifts from predominantly secondary active transport mechanism to facilitated diffusion. 
The movement of sodium across the gut epithelial cells occurs in an electro-neutral fashion. The dominant anions are bicarbonate (HCO3-) and chloride (Cl-). In the duodenum and colon, there is a net secretion of HCO3- into the gut lumen with a net absorption of Cl-into the body. In the ileum, there is a net secretion of chloride and absorption of HCO3-.
ILEUM is the dominant site for absorption of water (~ 6-7L/day). The ileum is also the site for the absorption of intrinsic factor-vitamin B12 complex and for bile.
LARGE INTESTINE (colon) receives about 2.0 L of chyme per day. Here, watery chyme is converted into semisolid feces by the absorption of water and electrolytes. Eventually, the feces (~0.1-0.5 L/day) are expelled from the body through the anal sphincter that is under voluntary control. 
DISORDERS OF THE GI TRACT are due to abnormal emptying and include:
Delayed emptying - nausea, vomiting, bloating, heartburn
Rapid emptying - anxiety, weakness, dizziness, sweating, diarrhea
Diarrhea is the excess loss of HCO3- and watery feces from the body (> 0.5L/day in the adult). Death may occur due to dehydration leading to cardiovascular collapse and metabolic acidosis. Diarrhea is classified by its underlying cause: secretory or osmotic. In both types of diarrhea, the feces will be isotonic (300 mOsM) always!
SECRETORY DIARRHEA is caused by an infection (such as cholera vibrio). In cholera, the infection results in increased secretion of chloride into the lumen of the ileum. Sodium follows chloride and water follows sodium to maintain isotonicity. The amount of fluid delivered to the colon exceeds the absorptive capacity of the colon and diarrhea results.  Note that the concentration of Na+ and Cl- in the feces will equal ~300 mOsM (isotonic to the body).
In OSMOTIC DIARRHEA, undigested material (such as the carbohydrate lactose) or poorly absorbed solute (such as Epsom salts) is delivered to the colon. Water from the body enters the lumen to maintain isotonicity. The feces will be isotonic but the sum of the Na+ and Cl- concentrations in the feces will be less than 250 mOsM due to the presence of the osmotically active solute (such as Epsom salts).
When the digestive system is working normally, you should not be aware of its functions.
KEY CONCEPTS

Gastric emptying into the duodenum occurs over several hours to allow for neutralization of the acidic chyme.
Hormonal pathways coordinate the secretion of bicarbonate, digestive enzymes, and insulin from the pancreas and bile salts from the gall bladder. 
Digestion of complex food to small molecules occurs within the lumen of the small intestine.
The small intestine is the major site for the absorption of nutrients, solutes, and water.
The luminal content of the small and large intestine is isotonic at all times.

QUESTIONS


Jane had severe diarrhea (isotonic fluid loss) for 2 days. What would be the best way to rehydrate her body? 

Drink water.
Drink isotonic salt (NaCl) solution containing glucose.
Drink isotonic salt (NaCl) solution containing rice (i.e., polymers of glucose).



In individuals who are "lactose intolerant", the lumen of the colon contains osmotically active material that is _____ leading to an influx of water from the body (diarrhea). 

hypertonic to the intestinal cells. 
hypotonic to the intestinal cells. 
isotonic to the intestinal cells. 



When running a marathon, blood is diverted away from the intestine to the working muscles leading to a decrease in O2 delivery to the intestinal epithelial cells. Under conditions of low O2 tension, you would expect:

lower production of ATP by the epithelial cells
an increase in the Na-K ATPase activity in the epithelial cells.
a decrease in the primary active transport of glucose.
A and C



ANSWERS

C. This solution will rehydrate the body faster. The rice will be digested into many molecules of glucose. This glucose plus the Na+ will drive the Na+-Glucose (SGLT) transporter in the small intestine. Water will follow the Na+ into the body.
These individuals do not have lactase, an enzyme that digests lactose. The undigested lactose is delivered to the colon where bacteria degrade the lactose into many osmotically active molecules within the lumen of the colon (leading to a hypertonic state). Water enters the colon to maintain isotonicity resulting to diarrhea. 
D. During low perfusion and hence low O2 tension in the gut, the generation of ATP by oxidative phosphorylation decreases. Consequently the activity of the Na-K ATPase in the epithelial cells is reduced. The decrease in the Na-K ATPase activity reduces glucose absorption by secondary active transport. In low O2 tension, the SGLT is down regulated in the epithelial cells of the gut; the GLUT2 and GLUT5 transporters increase in number. There is no primary active transport of glucose by these cells.


8.4 GASTROINTESTINAL MOTILITY
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the anatomy of the smooth muscle layers in the outer walls of the gastrointestinal tract.
Explain gastrointestinal motility and pacemaker function
Explain the patterns of motility in the fed and fasted states. 

GENERAL ANATOMY
The outside wall of the GI tract has two layers of smooth muscle which are oriented perpendicular to each other (Figure 129). Constriction of the innermost layer of muscle changes the diameter of the tube. Constriction of the outermost layer of muscle shortens the tube.
The smooth muscles of the GI tract behave like an electrical syncytium (single unit smooth muscle fibers).  Each muscle cell is connected to its neighbor by gap junctions that provide low resistance fiber-to-fiber coupling.

Figure 129. Inner and outer layers of muscle in the walls of the gastrointestinal tract are oriented perpendicular to one another.
MOTILITY
The motility in the different regions of the GI tract reflects coordinated contraction and relaxation of the two muscle layers located within the wall of the tube. Contractions are organized to propel the chyme along the tract and to mix ingested food with digestive enzymes and to bring nutrients into contact with the epithelial cells for efficient absorption.
Movement along the GI tract is regulated mostly by the local enteric nervous system which is modulated by inputs from the CNS. These two nervous systems organize motility under conditions of fasting and feeding, as well during times of abnormal behavior (GI distress).
The smooth muscle of the GI tract has pacemaker cells. The pacemaker activity is called the electrical slow waves.  These electrical slow waves occur spontaneously in the stomach, small and large intestines as cycles of depolarization and repolarization. Like all pacemakers, the electrical slow wave brings the membrane potential of the smooth muscle fiber close to the threshold. If threshold is reached then the voltage gated calcium channels open and an action potential is triggered. Electrical slow waves are always present but action potentials are not. Action potentials are triggered at the crest of depolarization (Figure 130). If an action potential occurs, then the muscle contracts (Figure 130).
The electrical slow waves determine the direction and velocity of the contractions along the tube.

Figure 130. Electrical slow waves are rhythmic changes in electrical potential (top tracing). If an action potential is fired from the crest of the slow wave then contraction follows (bottom tracing).
Enteric neurons work in concert with the electrical slow waves. There are excitatory and inhibitory enteric neurons. It is mostly the inhibitory neurons of the enteric nervous system that determine the initiation of the action potentials, their propagation, distance and direction. The inhibitory neurons are continuously active. Muscle contraction can occur only when they are turned off. The inhibitory neurons are coordinately on or off to allow movement of material from one segment to the next along the tube.
Recall that contraction of the inner circular muscle layer decreases the diameter of the tube. This propels the food bolus from the contracted region into a neighboring relaxed region.  Each contraction is discrete and transient. But prolonged contractions can occur if the action potentials summate with increased rate of firing.
PATTERNS OF MOTILITY
When food is present, all patterns of gastrointestinal motility are based on three fundamental motor events programmed by the enteric nervous system: peristalsis (propulsion), mixing movements (called segmentation), and tonic contraction at the sphincters.
SEGMENTATION (mixing movement) consists of local, cyclic contractions of the muscle in adjacent segments which force the chyme (food bolus) to slosh back and forth for short distances (Figure 131). This ensures maximal absorption of nutrients by the epithelial cells. Segmentation occurs in the fed state.
 

Figure 131. Mixing movements occurs when propulsive segments are bordered by relaxed segments. The chyme "sloshes" forward and backward.
PERISTALSIS is the unidirectional movement of chyme over variable distances within the intestinal lumen. This involves coordinated contraction and relaxation within adjacent regions (Figure 132). Peristalsis involves the contraction of the longitudinal muscle layer to shorten the tube while the inner muscle layer in an adjacent region is relaxed (Figure 132). The normal direction of flow is from mouth to anus.

Figure 132. Peristaltic propulsion moves the food bolus along the tube. This occurs in the fed state.
TONIC CONTRACTIONS occur when the tract is quiescent and there is no motility. Recall that phosphorylation of myosin light chain (MLC kinase) initiates contraction in smooth muscle. In tonic contraction, the MLC remains phosphorylated over long periods of time in a Ca++ independent manner. To remove the phosphate from the MLC, a phosphatase activity is needed. As long as the phosphatase is inhibited by the enteric nervous system, the muscle remains contracted. When the inhibition of the phosphatase is removed, the MLC kinase is dephosphorylated, and the muscle relaxes. The state of tonic contraction is lost when the inhibitory enteric innervation is ablated. Under these conditions, disorganized and non-propulsive contractile behavior will occur continuously.
Sphincters exhibit tonic contraction. They separate one region of the track from another. To open the sphincter, the inhibition must be turned off. Controlled relaxation of the sphincters occurs in both the fed and fasted states.
MIGRATING MOTOR COMPLEX (MMC) sweeps the GI tract clean during periods of fasting. The MMC performs a "housekeeping" function in that it prevents bacterial overgrowth due to stagnant food contents. The MMC usually originates in the stomach but can begin in either the duodenum or the jejunum. It occurs at a different frequency than the peristalsis associated with fed states. The hormone, motilin, is thought to be responsible for the initiation of the MMC. Motilin is secreted by an empty stomach. 
MASS MOVEMENTS are waves of contraction that propel semi-solid feces into the distal colon (large intestine) and then into the rectum and anal canal. These occur one to three times daily. Defecation is the voiding of fecal material from the body. Defecation is controlled by the parasympathetic nervous system and can be modulated by higher CNS centers. The anal sphincter is under voluntary control.
VOMITING is the expulsion of gastric chyme (and sometimes duodenal chyme) from the mouth. Vomiting occurs as a protective response to ingestion of toxins and in response to either too rapid emptying of stomach contents (dumping syndrome) or delayed emptying of stomach contents. Vomiting is controlled by the Vomiting Center located in the medulla of the brain stem. Respiratory and abdominal muscles are used in vomiting, not the smooth muscle lining the walls of the gastrointestinal tract. 
KEY CONCEPTS

Movement involves the coordinated activities of the two outer muscle masses in the wall of the gastrointestinal tract.
Movement and activities are coordinated by the enteric nervous system with modulation from the CNS.
Pacemaker cells are found throughout the gastrointestinal tract. These cells generate spontaneous electrical activity called electrical slow waves. An action potential can fire at the peak of a slow wave. Contractions follow an action potential. 
In the fed state two types of motility occur, segmentation (or mixing) and peristalsis. In the fasted state, the migrating motor complex sweeps the tract clean.
Tonic contractions occur at the sphincters and when there is no motility within the tract.

QUESTIONS


In the fed state, segmentation depends on:

an intact enteric nervous system
an intact parasympathetic nervous system
an intact sympathetic nervous system
occurs only in the stomach



If an electrical slow wave passes through a region of the ileum that is stretched due to the presence of food, then:

the resting membrane potential is hyperpolarized
an action potential is generated
a graded potential is generated
the slow wave is inhibited



In the fasting state, between meals,

slow waves are inhibited
migrating motor complexes occur
all sphincters are open
B and C



ANSWERS

A
B
B











CHAPTER 6: THE ENDOCRINE SYSTEM
Emma Jakoi, Ph. D.
6.1 THE HYPOTHALAMUS & PITUITARY GLAND
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Contrast the anterior and posterior pituitary with respect to cell types and development.
Identify appropriate hypothalamic releasing factors that control the secretion of each of the anterior pituitary hormones.
Explain the importance of pulsatile and episodic secretion from the hypothalamus.
Diagram the short loop and long loop negative feedback control of the anterior pituitary hormone secretion. Predict changes in the secretory rates of hypothalamic, anterior pituitary and target gland hormones caused by over secretion or under secretion of any of these hormones or receptor deficit for any of these hormones.
Describe the regulation and roles of the posterior pituitary hormones, oxytocin and vasopressin (ADH). Name the stimuli and mechanisms that control their secretion.
Describe the causes and consequences of hypo-secretion of vasopressin (ADH).

INTRODUCTION
Growth, metabolism, response to stress and reproduction are complex physiological processes that require the integration of multiple systems. In the human body, the hypothalamus-pituitary gland axis serves as the "master" endocrine gland governing these functions. The release of hypothalamic neuropeptides and control of the pituitary function is regulated by afferent signals from the brain, viscera, and circulating levels of substrates and hormones. This neuroendocrine axis secretes at least 8 hormones which:
Act directly on non-endocrine tissues [expl: growth hormone (GH), antidiuretic hormone (ADH)].
Act to modulate the secretory activity of other endocrine glands [expl: adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), lutenizing hormone (LH)].
ANATOMY & TERMS
HYPOTHALAMUS is the area in the brain that is structurally and functionally connected to the pituitary gland.
PITUITARY GLAND is also called the hypophysis. It arises from two different tissue sources: posterior pituitary is nervous tissue (neurohypophysis) and anterior pituitary is glandular (adenohypophysis).
POSTERIOR PITUUITARY is the neural portion derived from an extension of the hypothalamus (median eminence) which remains connected throughout life by a stalk, called the infundibulum (Figure 87).
ANTERIOR PITUITARY is the glandular portion derived from the mouth epithelium (Rathke's pouch) (Figure 87). It forms a cuff (pars tuberalis) around the infundibulum.

Figure 87. Embryological development of the pituitary gland.
NEUROENDOCRINE CONTROL
Nerve fibers from the hypothalamus terminate at capillaries in the infundibulum. The neuro-endocrine peptides secreted by these nerve fibers enter the blood and are carried by veins to a second capillary bed (portal system) in the anterior pituitary (Figure 88). These factors are delivered to the anterior pituitary where they govern the secretory activity of the endocrine cells in the anterior pituitary.
Hypothalamic hormones are peptides called releasing factors. They are secreted in an episodic and pulsatile manner. Why is this important? These peptides are delivered at high concentrations at their target cells in the pituitary. A pulsatile secretion prevents down regulation of their receptors in these target cells. Note that these releasing factors are present at very low concentration in systemic blood.

Actions of hypothalamic peptides include:
Binding to plasma membrane receptors.
Releasing stored target hormones (in pituitary) via exocytosis.
Increasing transcription of target hormones.
Modulating their receptor activity (up regulation; down regulation).


Figure 88. Diagram of the anatomic and functional relationships between the hypothalamus, the pituitary gland, and their blood supply.
The hypothalamus releasing factors and their downstream targets are illustrated below.

Figure 89. Hypothalamus releasing factors and their downstream targets.
Note that in two instances, growth hormone (GH) and prolactin (Prl), the axis is under positive and negative control by hypothalamic factors (Figure 89).
REGULATION BY FEEDBACK LOOPS
The hypothalamus regulates pituitary function with change in temperature, energy needs, or fluid balance. It is one of the few areas in the brain not sealed off from the blood (blood-brain barrier) and therefore can monitor and respond to substances within the blood, permitting hormonal feedback. The negative feed back loops that govern the hypothalamic-pituitary axis include (Figure 90):
LONG LOOP FEEDBACK: hormones from peripheral endocrine glands can exert feedback control on the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary. This feedback is usually negative.
SHORT LOOP FEEDBACK: Negative feedback by pituitary hormones can inhibit the synthesis and/or secretion of the related hypothalamic hormones.
ULTRA-SHORT LOOP FEEDBACK: Negative feedback by the hypothalamic releasing peptides regulates the pulsatility of their secretion. 

Figure 90. Negative feedback loops in a typical hypothalamus-pituitary-peripheral gland axis. X, a peripheral hormone:  XTH, a pituitary tropic hormone; XRH, the releasing hormone; XIH, the inhibiting hormone.
GROWTH HORMONE SECRETION
Growth hormone (GH) secretion is governed by the hypothalamus in a pulsatile and episodic (circadian) manner (Figure 91).  Maximum secretion of GH occurs during sleep.

Figure 91. wth hormone exhibits a circadian rhythm with maximal secretion during early sleep.
GH secretion is regulated in a positive manner by growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) from the hypothalamus and in a negative manner by two hormones, insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) from the liver and by somatostatin (SRIF) secreted by the hypothalamus (Figure 92).
Somatostatin and GHRH bind to two different receptors coupled to the same second messenger but in opposing manner. Their net effect governs secretion of GH from the pituitary target cells.

Figure 92. Regulation of GH secretion.
What are the target organs and the effects of GH and IGF-1? After birth, GH governs longitudinal growth of the skeleton (body height).  IGF-1 governs growth of the internal organs. During embryonic development, IGF-1 is essential for growth of the fetus.
Note that GH alters metabolism (Figure 93) preventing glucose storage in muscle and fat. This effect raises circulating levels of glucose in the blood for ready access by growing tissues. Recently, GH has been shown to enhance growth of muscles used in anaerobic exercise such as weight lifting and to enhance the metabolism of lactic acid to glucose in the liver. The resulting rise in blood glucose also mediates a negative feedback to regulate GH secretion (Figure 92).

Figure 93. Effects of growth hormone (GH) on target tissues and organs.
PATHOLOGY
HYPERSECRETION (excess secretion) of GH results in acromegaly. Acromegaly before puberty results in a giant. After puberty, acromegaly results in a thickening of the hands and feet and coarsening of facial features.
HYPOSECRETION in which there is an insufficiency IGF-1 alone results in pygmies (found in Africa and Australia). 
RECEPTOR RESISTANCE for GH results in Laron Dwarfism.
Would administration of recombinant GH correct any of the phenotypes described above? If so which one(s)? What hormone would you chose to correct acromegaly?
The hypothalamus-anterior pituitary axis also regulates development and metabolism, response to stress, and reproduction.  We will consider these axes in subsequent lectures.
SECRETION FROM POSTERIOR PITUITARY
Vasopressin (antidiuretic hormone, ADH) and oxytocin (OTC) are released from the posterior pituitary (Figure 94). Both are neuro-peptides which bind plasma membrane receptors in their target tissues.
OXYTOCIN is regulated by the suckling and the cry of an infant. It acts in both males and females to elicit "bonding" to the infant. 
ANTIDIURETIC HORMONE (ADH, Vasopressin) is regulated by cells in the hypothalamus that sense an increase in blood Na+ concentration (osmolality) (Figure 94) and a significant decrease in blood volume (of 10% or more).
For example in response to dehydration, ADH is released. It acts on the kidney to retain water. At the same time the hypothalamus signals a thirst response. The intake of water and the movement of water from the urine to the blood dilute the plasma osmolality returning the blood to its normal 300 mOsM. This system is most sensitive to increases in osmolality but will be activated by a large loss in plasma volume (hemorrhage). ADH also acts on the vasculature to cause vasoconstriction of the blood vessels. Note that the net actions of this feedback loop increase blood pressure.
During osmotic stress, the posterior and anterior hypothalamus-pituitary axes interact. Activation of osmoreceptors by hyperosmolarity results in ADH secretion from axons terminating in the posterior pituitary, and from axons terminating in the median eminence. The ADH entering into the anterior pituitary potentiates the release of ACTH, a peptide hormone that regulates the secretion of cortisol from the adrenal glands. Cortisol acts to raise glucose in the blood during stressful states. Note that ADH alone does not increase ACTH secretion from the pituitary.

Figure 94. Feedback loop regulating body osmolality.
Activation of ADH receptors in the kidney results in the insertion of aquaporin channels into the cell surface. This enables water to move across these cells from the urine to the blood.
DIABETES INSIPIDUS is a disease in which the ADH axis is dysfunctional. If the symptom is due to hyposecretion of ADH, then the lesion is central. If the defect is ADH receptor resistance in the kidney, then it is a nephrogenic lesion. ADH receptor resistance can occur in one of two ways:

ADH receptor is inactive or missing
Aquaporin (water) channels are defective or missing.

An individual with ADH receptor resistance is not able to concentrate urine. 
DISRUPTION OF SIGNALLING IN H-P AXIS
As a general rule a partial or complete lesion at any step in the feedback loop results in loss of hormones downstream of the lesion and an increase in hormones upstream of the lesion. 
KEY CONCEPTS

The hypothalamus of the brain regulates hormone secretion from the pituitary.
The pituitary consists of two distinct lobes (anterior and posterior) that have different
embryonic origins, are regulated separately, and produce different hormone products.
Secretion from the hypothalamus-pituitary axis is pulsatile and episodic.
Regulation of the anterior pituitary is by negative feedback via hormones from target organs.
There are four major feedback loops: GH, TSH, ACTH, LH and FSH.
The posterior pituitary secretes ADH in response to changes in osmolality and/or to volume. It secretes oxytocin in response to mechanical sensation (breast, birth canal).
The posterior and anterior H-P axes interact during the stressful condition of dehydration. 
Many hypothalamic and pituitary hormones increase the survival (number and size) of their target cells and are called trophic hormones.

QUESTIONS

A. Why does hypo-secretion of GHRH in young children affect their stature?B. Are IGF-1 levels affected?
A. What phenotype would you expect from a defect in GH receptor signaling?
      B. What effect does this have on GH levels?
      C. What effect on IGF-1 levels? 
What test(s) would you use to determine if an individual has excess secretion of GH?
Predict the effects of an insufficient release of ADH?

ANSWERS

A. Insufficient release of GHRH will diminish GH secretion. Since GH governs the growth of the long bones the affected individual will have a short stature.B. IGF-1 levels will be reduced because IGF-1 is a target hormone of GH.
A. A defect in GH receptor signaling would result in a loss or reduction in GH effects on the target tissues, so again short stature.B. GH levels will increase.C. IGF-1 levels will be reduced.
 RIA to measure circulating GH and then a suppression test in which glucose is administered and then GH levels are measured in the blood by RIA. Secretion of GH should fall if the pituitary is responsive. 
Insufficient release of ADH causes diabetes insipidus. These individuals cannot concentrate their urine. They drink copious amounts of fluids to compensate.  

6.2 THE HYPOTHALAMUS - PITUITARY - THYROID AXIS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the morphology and biological role of the thyroid gland.
Explain the structure of thyroid hormones, their synthesis and secretion by follicular cells.
Describe how plasma thyroid hormone levels are regulated by the hypothalamus-pituitary axis, by deiodinases, and by carriers. Why is serum TSH level used as indicator of thyroid gland function?
Describe the mechanism of action of thyroid hormones.
Explain the effect of hyper- and hypo-secretion of thyroid hormone on basal metabolism. What happens to thyroid hormone in prolonged fasting and in restricted diets?

INTRODUCTION
The thyroid hormones are trophic hormones that regulate basal metabolism, and are essential in the early development of the CNS, skeletal growth, and for "permissive actions" on body tissues. They are synthesized and secreted by the thyroid gland (Figure 95) as two active forms, thyroxin (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) (Figure 96). The thyroid contains 3-4 months supply of stored hormone.

Figure 95. Structure of the thyroid gland. Thyroid hormone is stored in the thyroid gland as an iodinated preprohormone called thyroglobulin. 

Figure 96. Thyroid hormones are derivatives of tyrosine. Their relative activity is T3> T4>> rT3 (inactive). Both iodine atoms on the inner ring and one on the outer ring are essential.
SYNTHESIS, SECRETION, & STORAGE
Synthesis of thyroid hormone takes place in the thyroid follicular cells. The preprohormone, thyroglobulin (330,000 Da), is synthesized on rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) and then secreted into the lumen of the follicles for storage (Figure 97). At the cell-lumen boundary, iodine is added covalently and a coupling reaction occurs to form the precursors of T3 and T4. Thyroglobulin and the thyroid hormones are the only iodinated proteins made in the body.
*** In the absence of iodide, thyroid hormones are not made. 

Figure 97. Synthesis and secretion of thyroid hormone is regulated by TSH which binds to its receptor (TSH R) on the basal surface of the follicular cells.
Dietary iodide enters the thyroid follicular cell by a Na+/I- transporter. This is a secondary active transport coupled to the activity of the Na-K ATPase also located on the basal surface of these cells. Under normal conditions, the thyroid/serum (T/S) ratio is 25:1. However, the Na+/I- transporter can be stimulated by TSH to concentrate iodide raising the T/S ratio to at least 250:1.
The thyroid gland is the only gland in the human body that stores iodine. Therefore the activity of the gland can be measured by radioactive iodide uptake. This is used clinically to determine the activity of the gland.
Thyroid hormone synthesis is controlled by the hypothalamus-pituitary axis. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) from the pituitary stimulates both the synthesis and secretion of thyroid hormone. In turn, TSH is regulated by thyroid releasing hormone (TRH) secreted from the hypothalamus. TRH and TSH secretions are inhibited by high blood levels of thyroid hormone in a classical negative feedback loop (Figure 98).  Thyroid hormone axis is sensitive to external factors such as cold and stress. These factors increase TSH secretion and thereby the synthesis and secretion of T3 and T4 to raise basal metabolic rate (BMR). 

Figure 98. Negative feedback loops regulate secretion of thyroid hormones.
TRANSPORT BY CARRIERS IN BLOOD
Thyroid hormones are not soluble in the plasma. They are transported by specific carriers (thyroid binding globulin). Only free T3 and T4 are biologically active. They enter target cells by facilitated diffusion. Under normal conditions, carrier bound T4 and T3 circulate in the blood in a ratio of about 20:1. T3 is more active than T4.
CONVERSION IN PERIPHERAL TISSUES
T4 is the prohormone which can be converted to T3 by an enzyme called deiodinase. During starvation or prolonged fasting, the deiodinase activity is inhibited (Figure 99) in most peripheral tissues but not in the brain, skeletal muscles, heart and thyroid gland. Why is this important? [Answer. The brain, heart and thyroid gland are the critical organs for maintenance of homeostasis. Skeletal muscle is usually the largest mass in the body. Its metabolism directly affects body temperature (both shivering and non-shivering thermogenesis).]

Figure 99. Deodinase activity in peripheral target tissues converts T4 to T3. Deiodinase I, expressed on most peripheral tissues, is down-regulated by starvation. Deiodinase II, expressed in the CNS, heart, thyroid and skeletal muscle, is not regulated by diet. 
TARGET CELLS & MECHANISM OF ACTION
Thyroid hormone activates gene transcription in all tissues. The thyroid hormone binds to the thyroid hormone receptor (THR) which resides on DNA in the nucleus. Transcription of two important genes, the Na-K ATPase and the beta 1 adrenergic receptor, are increased by TH action. Increased adrenergic receptor activity in turn leads to an increase in the expression of uncoupling proteins in mitochondria which generates heat.
PATHOPHYSIOLOGY
TOO LITTLE: CONGENITAL HYPOTHYROIDISM occurs with insufficient levels of TH at birth. This state results in growth disturbances and irreversible mental retardation.
TOO LITTLE: HYPOTHYROIDISM leads to weight gain due to decreased metabolism, hair loss, mental sluggishness, and decreased tolerance to cold.
TOO MUCH: HYPERTHYROIDISM leads to muscle wasting, nervousness, weight loss due to increased metabolism and decreased tolerance for heat.  A common sign of hyperthyroidism is a rapid heart rate. Why?
TOO MUCH: GRAVE'S DISEASE is an autoimmune disease in which circulating antibodies (IgG) bind to and activate the TSH receptor on the thyroid gland follicular cells. This leads to increased secretion of T3 and T4. Would TSH levels be increased in this condition?  Why?
IODINE DEFICIENCY can lead to an enlarged gland called a goiter.  Frank iodine deficiency has been virtually eliminated by iodine supplementation of salt. Predict the levels of TSH when the diet is deficient in iodine [increased, decreased, no change].
KEY CONCEPTS

T3 and T4 are synthesized and secreted by the thyroid gland in response to TSH.
Thyroid hormones are formed from hydrolysis of iodinated thyroglobulin.
Dietary iodine is essential for synthesis of the thyroid hormones.
Under normal conditions, the majority of T3 is made in peripheral tissues from T4. This is an important regulatory site governing basal metabolic rate (BMR). 
Thyroid hormones are essential for development of the central nervous system, for normal body growth, and to regulate basal energy and temperature.

QUESTIONS


A 20 year old student had been taking pills containing 5 times the normal dose of triiodothyronine (T3). When examined she had increased:

Basal metabolic rate (BMR)
T4 levels in her blood
TSH levels in her blood



The absence of iodine in the diet will lead to which of the following?

decreased levels of TSH and TRH in plasma
increased levels of T4 and T3 in plasma
increased levels of TSH and TRH in plasma
B and C



ANSWERS

A
C


6.3 THE HYPOTHALAMUS - PITUITARY - ADRENAL AXIS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the structural and functional organization of the adrenal gland.
Describe the synthesis and secretion of cortical adrenal hormones.
Describe the mechanism of action and physiologic effects of adrenal hormones.
Explain the control of adrenal hormone synthesis and secretion. Describe the major feedback loops that integrate the hypothalamic axis and body homeostasis.
Explain the physiologic roles of the adrenal hormones in normal physiology.

OVERVIEW
The adrenal glands maintain homeostasis in response to stress. Four hormones are secreted by these glands: aldosterone (mineralocorticoid), cortisol (glucocorticoid), DHEA (weak androgen), and catecholamines (epinephrine and norepinephrine).
FUNCTIONAL ANATOMY
The adrenal gland is located on top of the kidney (supra renal).  Like the pituitary, two distinct tissues merge during development to form the adrenal cortex (glandular tissue) and the medulla (modified neural tissue) (Figure 100).

Figure 100. Structure of the adrenal gland. Cortex secretes three steroid hormones. Zone 1, Aldosterone; zone 2 cortisol and zone 3 a weak androgen, DHEA. The medulla secretes epinephrine (Epi) and norepinephrine (NorEpi).
MINERALOCORTICOIDS
The major mineralocorticoid in humans is aldosterone.  Aldosterone is NOT under the hypothalamus-pituitary control and does not mediate a negative feedback to this axis.  Aldosterone secretion is increased by the vasoconstrictor, angiotensin II, and by elevated plasma K+ concentration. Elevated plasma Na+ inhibits the secretion of aldosterone.
Aldosterone, acts in the kidney to promote secretion of K+ into the urine from the blood and the reabsorption of Na+ from the urine into the blood. Water follows the sodium thereby increasing blood volume (Figure 101). The loss of the adrenal glands can be life threatening due to reduced ECF volume, reduced cardiac output, and elevated blood K+ levels.
Aldosterone also acts in acid-base balance. We will consider this action when we discuss the urinary system.

Figure 101. Mechanism of aldosterone action. Aldosterone acts in the kidney to stimulate Na+ reabsorption from the urine and to move K+ from blood into the urine (excretion).
GLUCOCORTICOIDS
In response to stress, the glucocorticoid, cortisol, maintains blood glucose levels for "fight or flight". Cortisol mobilizes energy stores. It changes metabolism in the body to degrade protein and fat and to synthesize glucose. These are catabolic actions that elevate blood glucose levels. Cortisol also suppresses the immune system.
Cortisol secretion is governed by the hypothalamus-pituitary - adrenal axis in response to stress and a sleep-wake cycle (Figure 102 and Figure 103).  Typically cortisol is highest in the circulation in early morning just before waking (Figure 103) with a half maximal secretion at late afternoon. Both physical and psychological stress will increase the amplitude of secretion but do not change the underlying circadian cycle.
Cortisol is a steroid derivative. It follows the typical steroid hormone pattern for synthesis, release, transport, and action. Upon synthesis, cortisol diffuses into the blood, where it binds to a carrier for delivery. A small fraction of the hormone is free. The free hormone diffuses into cells where it binds to the intracellular glucocorticoid receptor and changes transcription. 
In general the response to glucocorticoids is delayed (60-90 minutes) because cortisol is synthesized on demand. 

Figure 102. Hypothalamic-pituitary-cortisol negative feedback loop.

Figure 103. Daily secretion of cortisol.
All nucleated cells of the body have glucocorticoid receptors. However cortisol is inactivated in tissues that express the mineralocorticoid receptor to prevent inappropriate activation.
PATHOLOGY
TOO MUCH: CUSHING'S DISEASE is caused by over-secretion of ACTH leading to an excess of circulating cortisol. These patients develop hyperglycemia (high blood glucose levels) which is not corrected by insulin from the pancreas. Elevated levels of cortisol cause wasting of the muscle, bone and fat depots in the legs and arms of these individuals but also increased deposition of fat in the trunk ('beer belly"), face ("moon face") and at the back of the neck ("buffalo hump").
TOO LITTLE: ADDISON'S DISEASE is caused by the destruction of the adrenal gland. This is a life threatening condition due to the loss of aldosterone and cortisol. These patients exhibit lowered serum Na+ concentration, elevated serum K+ concentration, and low blood pressure. Why do these patients have low blood pressure? Would someone with Addison's disease have normal, low or high levels of ACTH in the blood?
ADRENAL MEDULLA HORMONES
Cells in the adrenal medulla synthesize and secrete norepinephrine (NorEPI) and epinephrine (EPI). The ratio of the two catecholamines differs considerably among species but in humans roughly 80 % of the catecholamine output is epinephrine.
EPI and Nor EPI are stored in granules. Their secretion is stimulated by the sympathetic nervous system in response to heavy exercise, hypoglycemia, and trauma.
The physiologic effects of EPI and NorEPI are mediated by adrenergic receptors on target cells. The physiologic consequences of increased medullary catecholamine include:


Increased heart rate and force of contraction of heart muscle.
Constriction of blood vessels (increased blood pressure).
Dilation of bronchioles to assist in pulmonary ventilation.
Increased metabolic rate, oxygen consumption, and heat production.
Stimulation of lipolysis in adipose cells to provide energy for "fight or flight" response.
Inhibition of insulin release from the pancreas to help maintain elevated blood glucose levels (Figure 104.)

The adrenal hormones, cortisol and epinephrine work in concert in stress conditions with a third hormone, glucagon which is secreted by the pancreas. All three hormones act to raise blood glucose levels in a synergistic manner (Figure 104).

Figure 104. Synergistic actions of cortisol, epinephrine (EPI), and glucagon raise blood glucose.
KEY CONCEPTS

Adrenal gland contains two distinct glands that are regulated separately and produce different hormone products.
Adrenal cortex produces three steroid hormones. Aldosterone acts on the kidneys and influences Na+ and K+ balance in the body. Cortisol affects metabolism, resulting in release of stored fuels.  DHEA, a weak androgen, affects secondary sex traits.
Adrenal medulla functions as part of the sympathetic nervous system and secretes primarily epinephrine (EPI). EPI acts on the cardiovascular and respiratory systems to increase delivery of oxygen to tissues and on the pancreas to inhibit insulin secretion to help raise plasma glucose levels. Combined effects of cortisol, EPI and glucagon (from the pancreas) act synergistically to raise blood glucose for "fight or flight response".

QUESTIONS


Strenuous exercise will most likely decrease blood levels of:

cortisol
epinephrine
insulin
A and B



Excess secretion of aldosterone would lead to:

Increased loss of K+  in the urine
Increased ECF volume
Increased loss of Na+  in the urine
A and B
B and C



ANSWERS

D
D


6.4 FUEL HOMEOSTASIS & THE ENDOCRINE PANCREAS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Explain the two metabolic states of fed and fasting and the minute to minute regulation of these states by hormones.
Identify the major hormones secreted by the pancreas, their cells of origin and their chemical nature.
Identify the time course for the onset and duration for the biological actions of insulin and of glucagon.
Describe the relationship between blood glucose concentrations and insulin secretion.
List the major target organs for insulin and the effect of insulin on these organs.
Describe the control of glucagon secretion.
Identify the target organ for glucagon.
Identify disease states caused by a lack of insulin or by resistance to insulin and describe the principle symptoms of each.

METABOLIC STATES
Metabolism is classified as one of two states, fed and fasting (Figure 105).
FED or ANABOLIC STATE occurs immediately after a meal when the energy of nutrients (carbohydrate, protein, or fat) is transferred to high energy compounds for immediate use or for storage. Peripheral tissues (predominantly skeletal muscle) buffer ingested glucose by storing it as glycogen.
FASTED or CATABOLIC STATE occurs later when the level of available nutrients decreases in the blood, and the stored reserves (initially glycogen) are mobilized to perform work or to generate heat. During prolonged fasting, fat oxidation and ketone bodies are used to meet whole body energy requirements.
One of the most important aspects of metabolism is the regulated use of carbohydrates, proteins and fat to generate glucose. Plasma glucose is closely regulated (80-100 mg/dL) because it is the primary fuel metabolized by the brain. Minute-to-minute regulation of glucose levels depends on the opposing actions of two pancreatic hormones, insulin and glucagon. The secretion of these two hormones is controlled in a reciprocal manner by blood glucose levels.

Figure 105. Changes in fuel depots associated with fed and fasted states.
HIGH INSULIN TO LOW GLUCAGON RATIO (Figure 106) occurs in the fed state activating anabolic pathways, such as storage of glucose and fatty acids as triglycerides (fats). Insulin is secreted from the pancreatic islet beta cells when blood glucose levels are higher than 100 mg/dL.

Figure 106. Feedback between glucose concentration and insulin secretion.
LOW INSULIN TO HIGH GLUCAGON RATIO (Figure 106) occurs in the fasting and "fight or flight' states resulting in increased levels of blood glucose. Glucose is released into the blood by the breakdown of glycogen (glycogenolysis) and fat (lipolysis). Glucagon is secreted from the pancreatic islet alpha cells when blood glucose levels are lower than 80 mg/dL.
PANCREAS SECRETES INSULIN & GLUCAGON
The endocrine cells of the pancreas are located in islets. The islets contain four distinct cell types, each secreting a different peptide hormone. Approximately 75% of the islet cells are beta cells which produce insulin. Another 20% are alpha cells that secrete glucagon. The delta cells produce the paracrine, somatostatin (SRIF). Which inhibits both insulin and glucagon secretion.
Insulin is secreted from the pancreas by a process called glucose stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) (Figure 107).

Figure 107. Regulation of insulin secretion by glucose.
Insulin is secreted in a biphasic manner. The initial burst reflects the release of preformed secretory vesicles; it lasts 5-15 minutes. The second more gradual and sustained secretion (30 min) is due to the release of newly synthesized insulin molecules.
The half- life of insulin, like most protein hormones, is short (~ 5 minutes). Most of secreted insulin is degraded by the liver and kidney.
Insulin secretion is regulated by factors other than glucose (Figure 108). Both an increase in plasma amino acids and the feed forward signaling by glucagon like peptide from the small intestine will lead to secretion of insulin.
INHIBITION OF INSULIN SECRETION
There are several potent inhibitors of insulin secretion including somatostatin and the catecholamines (epinephrine and norepinephrine) (Figure 108). While the paracrine role of pancreatic somatostatin in regulating insulin secretion is not well understood, the antagonistic effect of catecholamines is consistent with their role in mobilizing glucose stores during periods of stress. 

Figure 108. Positive and negative regulation of insulin secretion from the pancreatic beta cell.
EFFECTS OF INSULIN
The primary targets for insulin are liver, skeletal muscle, and fat. Insulin has multiple actions in each of these tissues, the net result of which is fuel storage (glycogen or fat). 
Glucose enters the circulation either from the diet or from synthesis in the liver. It enters all cells via the glucose transporter (GLUT). To prevent glucose from leaving the cells via this transporter, the glucose is rapidly phosphorylated to glucose-6-phosphate. There is a family of glucose transporters (e.g., GLUT 1, GLUT 2, GLUT 4). In skeletal muscle and fat cells, insulin binds to the insulin receptor which causes the active recruitment of the glucose transporter, GLUT 4, to the cell surface. Once located at the cell surface, GLUT 4 increases the amount of glucose that enters fat and skeletal muscle cells. The GLUT4 action enables a rapid removal of glucose from the circulation thereby restoring plasma levels to 80-100 mg/dL.
INSULIN DEFICIENCY
Problems arise from:


Reduced glucose uptake into various tissues (energy starvation).
Increased release of glucose from the liver (hyperglycemia).

The effect of these two deficiencies is simple:

Too little glucose inside cells.
Too much glucose in the blood (hyperglycemia)

GLUCOSE DEFICIENCY inside cells shifts the energy source to protein, fat, and glycogen. A first consequence is protein deficiency and the second consequence is an increase in free fatty acids and triglycerides from increased lipolysis. The liver uses these products to generate ketones which are acids. The brain does not store fuel. It uses glucose (primarily) and ketones which are supplied by the blood to drive its metabolism. In excess, circulating ketones can lead to metabolic acidosis (lower blood pH).
HYPERGLYCEMIA (excess glucose in the blood) can lead to cellular dehydration. Once the kidney reaches its threshold for glucose reabsorption, glucose is excreted in the urine. This leads to an increased output of urine and loss of electrolytes. Long term hyperglycemia can lead to vascular injury resulting in blindness and end-stage renal disease.
PATHOLOGY
DIABETES MELLITAS: IDDM (type I) and NIDDM (type II)
Symptoms include frequent urination, increased thirst, increased food consumption, and weight loss.
Diabetes mellitus is diagnosed by a blood glucose value > or = 126 mg/dL following an overnight fast (FOG) and by an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) of 200 mg/dL or higher (Table 5).
Table 5. Diagnostic values for diabetes mellitus.

In the Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT), a subject is given 75 mg of glucose orally. Timed blood draws are tested for glucose (Table 5).  In normal subjects, the plasma glucose returns to 80-100 mg/dL by 2 hours after ingestion of glucose. In the diabetic subject, plasma glucose remains elevated even 4 hours after ingestion of the glucose. 
INSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS (IDDM, type I) - these patients do not produce sufficient amounts of insulin and therefore they must be injected with insulin daily.
NON-INSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS (NIDDM, type II) - these patients are characterized by either insulin insufficiency due to beta cell dysfunction and/or by target cell receptor resistance. Following glucose ingestion, the diabetes type II patient will exhibit prolonged, elevated plasma glucose with either normal or elevated plasma insulin. 
GLUCAGON
Glucagon is a peptide hormone secreted from the pancreatic islet alpha cells when glucose levels are less than 80 mg/dL. Glucagon circulates unbound in the plasma; it has a half- life of 6 minutes.
Glucagon is a peptide hormone. It binds a plasma membrane receptor which initiates a second messenger signaling cascade. The target tissue for glucagon is the liver.  Glucagon causes the liver to secrete glucose leading to a net decrease in stored glycogen and an increase in plasma glucose.
In the absence of insulin, glucagon is secreted. Glucagon acts in a synergistic manner with cortisol and epinephrine to raise blood glucose levels (Figure 109).

Figure 109. Synergy of glucagon, cortisol and epinephrine actions raises plasma glucose during stress.
KEY CONCEPTS

Endocrine pancreas produces insulin and glucagon which regulate fuel homeostasis in the fed and fasted states, respectively.
Insulin is secreted primarily in response to an increased blood glucose level. Glucagon is secreted in response to decreased blood glucose level.
In the fed state, insulin directs the storage of excess nutrients in the form of glycogen, triglycerides, and protein. The targets of insulin are liver, muscle, and adipose tissue.
In the fasting state, glucagon directs the movement of stored nutrients into the blood. Liver is the main physiological target of glucagon.
Diabetes mellitus occurs when there is a deficiency of insulin action as a result of either insufficient insulin secretion or resistance (receptor impairment) to insulin at its target tissue.

QUESTIONS


Which of the following will be elevated in the blood of a diabetic type I individual who is not well controlled?

Adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH)
Insulin
Glucagon
Insulin like growth factor 1



Which of the following inhibit insulin secretion from the pancreas?

glucagon
glucagon like peptide
epinephrine
norepinephrine
C and D



During the fed (anabolic) state nervous tissue derives most of its metabolic energy from:

glucose
fatty acids
amino acids
ketones



ANSWERS

C
E
A











Introductory Human Physiology










CHAPTER 3: MUSCLE TYPES
Emma Jakoi, Ph. D.
Jennifer Carbrey, Ph. D.
3.1 SKELETAL MUSCLE
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Identify the principles common to all muscle types.
Explain the lever action of skeletal muscle in the body.
Explain the molecular basis of contraction & relaxation.
Explain the process of excitation-contraction coupling.
Explain force-velocity relationship with respect to load.
Explain force-length relationship.
List the energy sources for contraction.
Explain fatigue and give possible causes.
Compare skeletal muscle fiber types and their recruitment pattern.

MUSCLE TYPES
There are three types of muscle in the human body: skeletal, cardiac, and smooth. Each muscle cell is called a fiber. The three fiber types differ in structure and function within the body.
A SKELETAL MUSCLE FIBER is a large (10-100 micron in diameter), multinucleated syncytium. Those fibers attached to bone, mediate voluntary movement of the skeleton, and/or maintain body position and posture. Others such as the extra-ocular muscle of the eye and the tongue are not attached to the skeleton but provide precise voluntary movements. Skeletal muscle contraction is controlled by the somatic nervous system.
CARDIAC MUSCLE FIBERS are small (10-15 micron in diameter) cells with one (or two) nuclei that are connected to each other by gap junctions. These cells form a functional coordinated unit found in the walls of the heart and at the base of the large veins that empty into the heart. Cardiac muscle is regulated by the autonomic (parasympathetic and sympathetic) nervous system.
SMOOTH MUSCLE CELLS small (2-15 micron in diameter) cells found as bundles or sheets in the walls of blood vessels, the GI tract, and uterus. Where smooth muscle cells are connected by gap junctions, the bundle or sheet acts as a single coordinated unit.  Smooth muscle is regulated by the autonomic nervous system.
All three types of muscle contain the contractile proteins, myosin and actin, contract to generate force, and share 3 common principles:

Sliding filament mechanism in which myosin filaments bind to and pull actin filaments as a basis for shortening.
Regulation of contractile proteins by calcium ions.
Changes in membrane potential lead to a rise in intracellular calcium resulting in contraction (E-C coupling).

SKELETAL MUSCLE STRUCTURE
During early development of skeletal muscle, undifferentiated myoblasts fuse to form a single multinucleated cylinder or fiber. Differentiation is completed by birth after which the muscle fibers increase in size but not number. Adult muscle fibers can vary in length from a few millimeters to almost a meter.
In the body, connective tissue surrounds each muscle fiber, each bundle of muscle fibers (called a fascicle), and several fascicles to form a muscle. The connective tissue wrapping is essential to force transduction. At the end of the muscle, the connective tissue continues as a tendon which usually attaches the muscle to bone.
Skeletal muscle often overlaps a joint in the limb thereby allowing for lever action. In this arrangement a small degree of muscle cell shortening produces a large movement of the limb. The limb muscles are arranged in pairs such that muscles on opposite sides of the limb act in opposition. For example, flexors contract to close the angle at the joint and extensors contract to open the angle at the joint.
Each muscle fiber (single cell) is filled with longitudinally arranged myofibrils whose number determines the force generating capacity of the muscle fiber (Figure 41). Each myofibril extends the length of the muscle fiber. Myofibrils are composed of myofilaments which are polymers of the contractile proteins, actin and myosin (Figure 41). Actin is called the thin filament; myosin the thick filament.
Thick and thin filaments are organized into a series of repeating functional units called sarcomeres which give the striated appearance in the phase contrast microscope of skeletal (and cardiac) muscle. The striations are made of dark and light bands (Figure 41), which are called A and I bands, respectively. Places where there is only actin are the I bands and anywhere there is myosin are the A bands.

Figure 41. Organization of skeletal muscle. Top image by image by OCAL (modified), http://www.clker.com/profile-1068.html, public domain, middle and bottom image from OpenStax College, Anatomy & Physiology, Download for free at http://cnx.org/content/col11496/latest/
Thin filaments are anchored to a dense line called the Z line which bisects the I bands. The sarcomere extends from one Z line to the next Z line (Figure 42).
Thick filaments comprise the A band. These are polarized filaments in which the myosin tail region is anchored to the M line in the center of the sarcomere and the globular region (myosin head) extends away from the M line towards the Z lines. There are no myosin heads and no overlap with actin in the area immediately adjacent to the M line. This is called the H zone (Figure 42).

Figure 42. Sarcomere structure. Image by Sameerb (modified), http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Sarcomere.gif, public domain.
The space between the thick and thin filaments contains the myosin heads. They are called cross bridges because they extend from the parallel axis of the thick filaments towards the thin filaments. During muscle contraction, these cross bridges make contact with the thin filaments (actin) and exert force on them.
MOLECULAR MECHANISMS OF CONTRACTION
CONTRACTION is the activation of the force generating sites (cross bridges = myosin heads) within the muscle fibers and does not necessarily mean shortening. (For example, the muscle will contract as you hold a tray of glasses but does not shorten.) The force generated is called tension.
Relaxation is the cessation of force generating activity and a decline in tension.
The sliding filament mechanism of contraction states that the skeletal muscle fiber shortens when the overlapping thick filaments and thin filaments slide past one another, causing the Z lines of each sarcomere to move towards the M line (Figure 42). There is no change in the length of either the thick or thin filaments. Which band - A, I or H also shortens?
Movement of the thin filaments toward the M line is powered by the myosin ATPase located in the myosin head (cross bridge). During shortening, the myosin cross bridges attach to the thin filament (actin), undergo a conformational change (power stroke) which pulls the actin filament toward the M line similar to the rowing action of oars moving through water (Figure 43).
Energy (ATP) is needed to break a cross bridge, i.e., release the myosin head from its contact with actin. In the absence of ATP, cross bridges remain attached to actin in a state called rigor (Figure 43).

Figure 43. Cross bridge cycling. Image from OpenStax College, Anatomy & Physiology, Download for free at http://cnx.org/content/col11496/latest/
Regulation of contraction involves Ca++. In skeletal muscle, regulation of contraction occurs on the thin filament by a complex of two proteins, tropomyosin and troponin. Tropomyosin lies along actin, blocking the myosin binding site. Troponin is anchored to tropomyosin and the binding of Ca++ to troponin causes tropomyosin to shift thereby exposing the myosin binding site on actin. Contraction will continue in the presence of Ca++ and ATP.  Relaxation occurs when Ca++ is removed.
In skeletal muscle, Ca++ is stored within the cell in a membrane bound compartment called the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). The SR wraps around myofibrils. Ca++ is released from the SR into the cytoplasm in response to an electrical signal (action potential). The action potential opens a voltage gated channel in the T tubule (invagination of the plasma membrane) which is adjacent to the SR (Figure 44). This voltage gated channel is called the dihydropyridine receptor. Activation of the dihydropyridine receptor in turn opens a Ca++ channel (ryanodine receptor) on the SR and Ca++ enters the cytoplasm (Figure 44). Ca++ is taken back up into the SR from the cytoplasm by the SR CaATPase. 

Figure 44. Excitation-Contraction Coupling. Image copyrighted by Rick Melges, Duke University.
Transverse tubule system or T tubules are invaginations of the sarcolemma located between the SR terminals. The T tubule membrane contains the voltage gated Ca++ channels (dihydropyridine receptors) which open with depolarization of the membrane (Figure 44).
E-C coupling (excitation-contraction coupling) (Figure 44) refers to the electrical events which trigger a contraction. Each skeletal muscle is innervated by an alpha motor neuron. An action potential arriving at the neuromuscular junction releases the neurotransmitter acetylcholine from the presynaptic site. Acetylcholine transverses the synaptic cleft and binds to nicotinic receptors on the post synaptic muscle. These ligand (acetylcholine) gated Na+ channels open resulting in a graded potential (EPSP) sufficiently large to depolarize the sarcolemma to threshold. The voltage gated Na+ channels open and trigger an action potential. As this action potential moves along the muscle plasma membrane (sarcolemma), it sweeps down the T tubules, opens the dihydropyridine receptors and thereby triggers Ca++ release from the SR (Figure 44). Contraction ensues. During contraction the SR CaATPase removes Ca++ from the cytoplasm (Figure 44). This Ca ATPase will restore cytosolic Ca++ levels in less than 30 msec after the nerve impulses stop. 
TENSION AND METABOLISM
Muscle Tension
The mechanical response of a single muscle fiber to a single action potential is called a twitch.
Following an action potential there is brief period before tension, the force exerted on an object, develops. This is known as the latent period. The action potential of a single impulse lasts only 2 milliseconds.  The associated contraction time (twitch) lasts for 10-100 milliseconds. This means that repeated stimulation of a skeletal muscle will cause summation of the contractions until there is no relaxation and fused tetanus is reached (Figure 45).  Not all muscle fibers have the same contraction times. Some fast fibers contract in 10 milliseconds; slower fibers take 100 milliseconds or longer. The duration depends on the SR-ATPase activity.

Figure 45. Muscle contraction in response to action potentials. Image copyrighted by Rick Melges, Duke University.
Tension & Load. The tension generated varies with load. In order for a muscle to shorten and thereby move a load, muscle tension must exceed the opposing load. Maximal velocity of shortening occurs with no opposing load. In isotonic contractions, the muscle shortens and moves the load. Higher loads lengthen the latent period, slow the velocity of shortening, shorten the duration of contraction, and shorten the distance moved.  In isometric contractions, the muscle develops tension but does not shorten (or lengthen) because the opposing load equals or exceeds the force generation of the muscle. 
Length-Tension Relationship. The maximal amount of force (tension) a muscle can generate is determined by the degree of overlap of the thick and thin filaments (Figure 46). The basal state and slightly stretched state provide optimal force generation (Figure 46). Because the muscle is anchored to bone within the body, conditions of excess stretch or non-overlap and excess contraction are avoided. However, with injury, irreversible damage to the actin and myosin filaments can occur. 

Figure 46. Variation in active tension with muscle fiber length.  Image by Rick Melges, Duke University.
Skeletal Muscle Metabolism
Muscle fibers depend on ATP to produce force. There are three pathways a muscle fiber uses to make ATP. Creatine phosphate converts ADP to ATP in a single, fast reaction. As a result, 4 moles of ATP are produced per minute from creatine phosphate. However, the stores of creatine phosphate are limited so they are used up in the first 10 seconds of intense exercise. Creatine phosphate is the primary source of ATP during a short, high intensity activity such as the 100 meter dash. Anaerobic metabolism burns glucose as well as the large stores of muscle glycogen (a glucose polymer) to produce lactic acid and ATP in the absence of oxygen. Since only glycolysis is used, 2.5 moles of ATP can be produced per minute. Anaerobic metabolism is used during the first 1.5 minutes of high intensity activity and is the primary source of ATP for the 400 meter dash. Aerobic metabolism uses glycogen, blood glucose, or fatty acids to produce ATP, CO2, and water in the presence of oxygen. Only 1 mole of ATP is made per minute but the available fuel sources are limited only in extreme circumstances. Aerobic metabolism is the primary source of ATP during endurance activities such as a marathon.
With repeated stimulation, the tension generated by a muscle fiber decreases. This is called fatigue. This is not due to a lack of ATP and is not well understood.  Several factors have been implicated including:

Buildup of extracellular K+ which leads to a persistent depolarization of the cell.
Buildup of metabolites which affect the activity of proteins such as the SR- CaATPase.
Buildup of ADP and Pi in the cytoplasm, which inhibits cross bridge detachment and slows cross bridge cycling.
Decrease in fuel stores, glycogen, fatty acids and glucose.

SKELETAL MUSCLE FIBER TYPES
Skeletal muscle fibers are classified into one of three types distinguished by the speed of their myosin ATPase and preferred metabolism:

fast, glycolytic fibers fatigue quickly
fast, oxidative, glycolytic fibers resist fatigue
slow, oxidative fibers resist fatigue

Fast fibers undergo cross-bridge cycling about 4 times faster than slow fibers. Oxidative fibers contain lots of mitochondria for aerobic metabolism during tasks that require endurance. Glycolytic fibers use only small amounts of oxygen and are larger in diameter than oxidative fibers. As a result of their larger diameter, each glycolytic fiber can produce more tension than an oxidative fiber. Most skeletal muscles include all three fiber types. However, each motor unit contains only a single type of muscle fiber. Motor units containing slow, oxidative fibers contain fewer fibers than motor units containing fast fibers.
Recruitment is the process of activating different types of muscle fibers within a fascicle in response to need. Recruitment starts with slow, oxidative fibers that do not provide a lot of force but can provide fine muscle control. If more tension is needed, fast-oxidative-glycolytic fibers can be recruited. Finally, fast, glycolytic fibers that fatigue rapidly increase tension the most dramatically are recruited. 
QUESTIONS


Which of the following occurs during muscle contraction?

the A bands get shorter
the I bands get shorter
the Z lines get closer together
the Z lines get farther apart
A and C
B and C



A mutation in a muscle that prevents the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca+2-ATPase pump from functioning would disrupt which of the following steps?

action potentials traveling down the T tubules
cytosolic calcium increasing when the muscle was stimulated
myosin binding to actin
relaxation



Judy was holding a stack of books when Bill added three more. To prevent dropping the books, Judy's muscles increased their force of contraction through an increase in the:

length of the muscle.
number of motor units activated.
speed of the myosin ATPase.
strength of each cross bridge interaction with myosin.



John began lifting weights at the gym to improve his total lack of fitness. After strength training for 9 months, his biceps were bigger and he could lift 100 lbs. more than when he started. His training:

increased the number of muscle fibers in his biceps.
increased the number of myofibrils in his biceps.
increased the number of motor units in his biceps.



ANSWERS

F
D
B
B


3.2 SMOOTH MUSCLE
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the structure and function of smooth muscle.
Explain how smooth muscle myofilaments are regulated.
Name three ways in which smooth muscle contraction is initiated.
Explain spontaneous electrical activity (pacemaker) in smooth muscle.
Contrast single unit and multiunit smooth muscles.

SMOOTH MUSCLE
Smooth muscle fibers are cigar shaped cells that range in size from 20m in the walls of the blood vessels to 200 m in the wall of the intestine. As in striated muscle, the cytoplasm of the smooth muscle cell is filled with contractile proteins, actin and myosin. In smooth muscle the sarcomeres are not well ordered so no striated pattern is seen in light microscopy (Figure 47). 

Figure 47. Light microscope image of longitudinal and cross sectioned smooth muscle shows close packed, cigar shaped cells with central nuclei (arrows) and no cross striations.
THIN FILAMENTS contain actin. They are attached to dense bodies which in turn are anchored to the plasma membrane.
THICK FILAMENTS contain myosin which has two subunits (heavy chain and light chain). The heavy chain contains the myosin ATPase activity. The light chain regulates this myosin ATPase. When the light chain is phosphorylated by an enzyme (myosin light chain kinase), cross bridges form between myosin and actin; contraction begins (Figure 48). The myosin light chain kinase is regulated by Ca++. Consequently, the thick filament regulates contraction in smooth muscle.
MYOSIN ATPase has a slow rate of hydrolysis. It hydrolyzes ATP at about 10% of the rate observed in skeletal muscle.  Consequently smooth muscle produces slow, sustained contractions using only 10% of the ATP that skeletal muscle would require for the same work.

Figure 48. Initiation of contraction in smooth muscle by calcium. When cytosolic Ca++ levels decrease, myosin light chains are dephosphorylated, relaxation ensues.
CONTRACTION GENERATES TENSION
A special characteristic of smooth muscle is the variability of the tension it exerts at any given length. Smooth muscles of small blood vessels can exert increased tension when stretched. In contrast, smooth muscle of the bladder shows little change in tension as the bladder fills but once full the bladder smooth muscle contracts forcefully.  An additional feature of some smooth muscle is the ability to maintain a given contracted state for long periods of time without fatigue. This is called tonic contraction. It differs from phasic contraction in which the contraction is not maintained over time. 
TONIC CONTRACTION = sustained contracted state over time without fatigue.
PHASIC CONTRACTION = graded force generated by increasing stimulus up to fused tetanus.
MEMBRANE ACTIVATION
Contraction of smooth muscle, like skeletal muscle, is dependent on a rise of cytosolic Ca++ due to changes in the plasma membrane. However, smooth muscle does not have T tubules. Instead Ca++ enters from the ECF by diffusion through calcium channels in the plasma membrane. These Ca++ channels include: voltage-gated channels, ligand-gated channels and mechano-gated channels. The inputs that regulate contraction include:

Autonomic nervous system via voltage gated Ca++ channels.
Hormones via ligand-gated Ca++ channels.
Stretch via mechano-gated Ca++ channels.

At any one time, multiple inputs, some excitatory and others inhibitory, can be activated in a single cell. The net effect is dependent on the relative intensity of these inputs. Note that the intracellular Ca++ of smooth muscle can increase (or decrease) due to changes in the membrane potential from graded depolarization, hyperpolarization, or an action potential.
SPONTANEOUS PACEMAKER POTENTIALS
Some smooth muscle exhibits spontaneous contractile activity in the absence of either nerve or hormonal stimuli. The plasma membranes of these fibers do not maintain a stable resting membrane potential. Instead the resting membrane potential gradually drifts towards threshold where it triggers an action potential (Figure 49). Following repolarization the membrane again begins to depolarize. This is property is called pacemaker activity. Pacemakers are found within the GI tract. 

Figure 49. Pacemaker cells exhibit an unstable resting membrane potential leading to rhythmic states of depolarization followed by repolarization.
SINGLE VERSUS MULTI-UNIT FIBERS
Smooth muscle fibers do not have a specific neuro-muscular junction. Instead as the autonomic nerve nears a bundle of smooth muscle, it divides into many branches each containing a series of swellings (called varicosities) filled with vesicles of neurotransmitters.
MULTI-UNIT smooth muscle fibers are innervated independently. The fibers are not connected by gap junctions. Depolarization of one fiber is followed by contraction of that fiber only. These fibers are richly innervated by the autonomic nervous system. Nervous stimuli and hormones cause contraction (or relaxation) of these fibers, not stretch. The smooth muscle of the lung airways, in the walls of large arteries, and attached to the hair of the skin are multi-unit fibers.
SINGLE UNIT smooth muscle fibers are connected by gap junctions. Depolarization of one fiber triggers synchronous depolarization throughout the bundle followed by contraction of the fiber bundle. That is, many fibers act as one sheet. Single unit fibers are found in the walls of small blood vessels, the GI tract, and uterus where stretching of one fiber creates a coordinated contraction.
KEY CONCEPTS

Smooth muscle is an involuntary, non-striated type associated with blood vessels and visceral organs.
Smooth muscle has two sets of overlapping protein myofilaments, actin and myosin, the relative sliding of which produces shortening and generates force. This process involves cross bridge formation between actin and myosin which is driven by ATP.
In smooth muscle, coupling between the membrane action potentials and contraction is mediated by calcium ions (Ca++). Calcium regulates the thick filament (myosin) to enable cross bridge formation and contraction.
Relaxation of smooth muscle, like skeletal muscle, is by removal of Ca++.
Smooth muscle is regulated by the autonomic nervous system. Some smooth muscle is regulated by stretch and hormones.

QUESTIONS


In smooth muscle cells, a pacemaker potential:

always reach threshold
activate with the influx (entry) of Cl-
activate with the efflux (exit) of Na+
vary in size



Which of the following determines the speed of contraction in smooth muscle?

number of cross bridges formed
kinetics of the myosin ATPase
activation of the voltage gated sodium channel
unmasking of the thin filament



ANSWERS

A
B

3.3 CARDIAC MUSCLE
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Explain how cardiac muscle myofilaments and contraction are regulated.
Explain the contractile cardiac myocyte action potential.
Explain the absence of tetanus in the contractile cardiac myocyte.
Describe the structure of the heart. 

CARDIAC MUSCLE CELLS
Cardiac muscle is a striated fiber containing the same arrangements of contractile filaments as skeletal muscle. In addition, cardiac muscle fibers exhibit densely staining cross bands called intercalated discs (Figure 50). These intercalated discs join the muscle fibers end-to-end. They are highly specialized attachment sites which prevent the cells from pulling apart. On the lateral component of the intercalated discs are gap junctions which permit the cells to act as an electrical syncytium.

Figure 50. Cardiac myocytes are blunt ended with central nucleus (outline). Cells are mechanically coupled at the intercalated discs (ID) and electrically coupled by gap junctions.
There are two types of cardiac muscle cells: conducting and contractile.
CONDUCTING cardiac muscle cells are ~ 1% of the cardiac muscle cells. These are large diameter cells that do not produce tension, instead they are specialized for excitation. They constitute a network in the heart known as a conduction system. They are connected to the contractile cells by gap junctions. The conducting fibers are filled mostly with glycogen and have few myofilaments. These cells are the intrinsic pacemakers. We will deal with their action potentials in the next lecture.
CONTRACTILE cardiac muscle cells are slow oxidative muscle fibers. These fibers form the walls of the heart, shorten and produce tension. They use glucose and fatty acids as substrates. We will consider their action potentials below.
ELECTRICAL - CONTRACTION (E-C) COUPLING
As in skeletal muscle, contraction in cardiac muscle is dependent on the entry of Ca++ from the T tubule (Figure 51). Depolarization of the T tubule membrane opens the voltage gated Ca++ channels (dihydropyridine receptor), permitting the entry of a small amount of Ca++. This Ca++ opens the Ca++ gated Ca++ channel (ryanodine receptor) on the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) thereby releasing a lot of Ca++ into the cytoplasm.  In turn, Ca++ binds to troponin which unmasks the actin (thin filament), cross bridges form, and shortening occurs. With repolarization of the T tubule membrane, no further Ca++ enters the cells and the SR CaATPase removes Ca++ from the cytoplasm. This removal of Ca++ ends the contractile cycle and the muscle relaxes. 

Figure 51. E-C coupling in cardiac muscle cells. Step 1, Ca++ entry via the voltage gated Ca++ channel, dihydropyridine receptor, causes the SR Ca release channel to open. Ca++ exits the SR. Step 2, myofilaments are activated by the binding of Ca++ to the thin filaments. Step 3. SR CaATPase removes Ca++ from the cytoplasm causing contraction to cease and the muscle relaxes. Step 4. The Na-Ca++ exchanger and the plasma membrane Ca++ ATPase help to remove Ca++ from the cytoplasm. 
There are two other proteins located at the plasma membrane which help to return Ca++ to its basal level inside the cardiac muscle cell.  The plasma membrane CaATPase uses ATP to actively pump Ca++ out. The Na+ - Ca++ exchanger transports Na+ into the cell for each Ca++ moved out of the cell (i.e., exchanges Na+ for Ca++).
ACTION POTENTIAL OF CONTRACTILE CARDIAC CELLS
The action potential of the contractile cardiac muscle fiber (Figure 52) is longer in duration (200-220 msec) than that seen in skeletal muscle (2 msec). In cardiac cells there are four phases to the action potential.

Figure 52. The action potential of the contracting cardiomyocyte is called the fast action potential. The plateau phase 2 is due to opening of the voltage gated Ca++ channel.
Phase 0, voltage gated Na+ channels open.
Phase 1, voltage gated Na+ channels inactivate and voltage gated K+ channels open.
Phase 2 (plateau), voltage gated Ca++ channels open and voltage gated K+ channels remain open.
Phase 3, only voltage gated K+ channels are open and cells repolarize.
Phase 4, all of the voltage gated channels are closed and the resting membrane potential is restored by the Na/K ATPase. 
Note that the entry of Ca++ in phase 2 is essential for initiating contraction and triggering the opening of the Ca++ gated Ca++ release channel (ryanodine receptor).  One other point, each action potential results in one contraction. One contraction (twitch) is ~250 msec, almost the same duration as the action potential (200 msec).  This is due to the prolonged plateau phase 2.
REFRACTORY PERIOD AND ABSENCE OF TETANUS
Recall that these voltage gated Na+ channels must undergo a conformational change from an "inactivated" state to a "closed" state before they can reopen and initiate another action potential. As a consequence of phase 2, the voltage gated Na+ channels remain "inactivated" for an extended period of time and do not "close" until repolarization in phase 3 (~180 msec). This time period during which the voltage gated Na+ channels are inactivated is called the absolute refractory period (Figure 53). No amount of stimulus can cause an action potential during the absolute refractory period.
Note that the absolute refractory period (180 msec) is almost equal in duration to the action potential (200-220 msec).  From ~180 msec to 200 msec is called the relative refractory period. During this time period, a second action potential can be fired but the stimulus required is greater than normal. This is because there are fewer voltage gated Na channels in the "closed" state and therefore it is harder to reach threshold.
An important point regarding the refractory period is that contractions cannot sum and therefore there is no fused tetanus (summed contractions). Fused tetanus in the heart would lead to death as it would prevent the rhythmic pumping of blood.

Figure 53. The absolute refractory period of the cardiac muscle action potential refers to the time interval when the voltage gated sodium channels are inactivated. The absolute refractory period lasts ~180 msec.  The action potential lasts 200-220 msec. A single contraction is 250 msec.
MUSCLE FIBER LENGTH AND TENSION
The contractile cells of the heart act as an electrical syncytium with all of the cells contracting during a single beat. Therefore it is not possible to increase the force of contraction by fiber recruitment.  Instead the heart has developed other strategies to increase the force of contraction which we will consider below and in the cardiovascular lectures.
The relationship between initial fiber length and total tension in cardiac muscle is similar to skeletal muscle; there is a fiber length at which tension development is maximal. However in the heart, the length of the cardiac muscle fiber is determined by the filled state of the heart chamber. At the beginning of diastole when the heart begins to fill with blood, the muscle fibers are relaxed and the sarcomeres are not at optimal length for generating tension (Figure 54). Filling the heart with blood stretches the muscle fibers. This stretching produces optimal overlap of the myofilaments (optimal sarcomere length) and enhances contraction. This is known as Starling's Law of the heart.

Figure 54. Diagram depicts the correlation between muscle fiber length and tension in the heart. Filling of the heart increases sarcomere length such that optimal force is generated. In contrast the resting length of skeletal muscle in the body provides optimal o overlap of the thick and thin filaments to generate tension.  Less tension is generated when the sarcomere is "too short" or when there is little or no overlap of the myofilaments.
HEART STRUCTURE
Cardiac muscle comprises the walls of the heart. The inner surface facing the blood is lined by a thin epithelium called endothelium. The heart is divided into right and left halves. Each half contains upper chamber called the atrium and a lower chamber called the ventricle.  Located between the atrium and ventricle are valves (A-V valves) which permit blood to flow in a unidirectional manner from the atria to the ventricles. There are two other valves: the pulmonic valve permits blood to flow from the right ventricle to the lung circulation and the aortic valve (aorta) allows blood to flow from the left ventricle to the systemic circulation (every organ).
All of the valves open and close depending on the pressure differences across them. In each heart beat, blood moves from the right side of the heart to the lung to pick up oxygen, returns to the left side of the heart from which it is pumped to the systemic circulation for delivery of oxygen and nutrients and removal of wastes.
In the next three lectures on the cardiovascular system we will consider the mechanical and electric properties of the heart as a pump and its regulation.
KEY CONCEPTS

Cardiac muscle is the involuntary, striated type that forms the heart wall.
Cardiac muscle has two sets of overlapping protein myofilaments, actin and myosin, the relative sliding of which produces shortening and generates force. This process involves cross bridge formation between actin and myosin which is driven by ATP.
In cardiac muscle, coupling between the membrane action potentials and contraction is mediated by calcium ions. In cardiac muscle Ca++ regulates the thin filament (actin) to enable cross bridge formation. In smooth muscle, Ca++ regulates the thick filament (myosin) to enable cross bridge formation and contraction.
Cardiac muscle is regulated by the autonomic nervous system.
Relaxation of cardiac muscle, like skeletal muscle, is by removal of Ca++.
The force of contraction in cardiac muscle is increased by stretch (Frank-Starling law). This is in contrast to skeletal muscle which increases force either by recruiting more muscle fibers or by summing twitches (fused tetanus).
Cardiac muscle comprises the walls of the heart. The heart consists of two separate pumps that move blood in a unidirectional manner through the pulmonary circulation for gas exchange and then to the systemic circulation for the delivery of O2 and nutrients and removal of waste products.

QUESTIONS


In smooth muscle cells, a pacemaker potential:

always reach threshold
activate with the influx (entry) of Cl-
activate with the efflux (exit) of Na+
vary in size



During contraction, when the cardiac muscle is shortening in length, the I band (thin filament) will:

lengthen
shorten
remain unchanged



Which of the following determines the strength of contraction in all three muscle types?

number of cross bridges formed
kinetics of the myosin ATPase
activation of the voltage gated sodium channel
unmasking of the thin filament



ANSWERS

A
B
A










Preface
This book is designed to provide the foundation for understanding the normal function of the human body.  It can be used alone or as a supplement with other resources, textbooks, or with our Coursera course, Introductory Human Physiology.  Each chapter emphasizes the basic concepts that apply to each organ and organ system as well as their integration to maintain homeostasis and proper responses to perturbations such as exercise, illness, and trauma. The organ systems covered include: nervous, muscle, cardiovascular, respiratory, endocrine, reproductive, gastrointestinal, and urinary. Examples from daily life activities and clinical scenarios as well as review questions are presented to illustrate basic science principles, to facilitate integration of the course content and to foster problem solving skills. 
Introductory Human Physiology is written primarily for those with a general background in biology who will gain a practical knowledge of the human body and proficiency in basic science and medical terminology. Because it emphasizes basic concepts, this book also serves as a review for health professionals and for students in preparation for the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) and Boards. The findings presented are those widely accepted within the field of physiology. In the interest of brevity, general references and experimental data in support of these findings are not included.  The clinical information provided is for review purposes and should not be used for treatment or diagnosis.
The inspiration for this work was lecture handouts associated with a mini Introductory Physiology course (Duke University) taught by Jo Rae Wright and Emma Jakoi. For this ebook, the lecture handouts have been rewritten and their content broadened in scope to be more inclusive of the body's organ systems as well as to add more detailed explanations, case scenarios and short applications. Jo Rae's wisdom and joy of life are greatly missed. The authors are grateful to Lee Mewshaw who helped format this book for e-publishing. We extend a special thanks to Rick Melges for his excellent illustrations.
We hope that this book will be helpful to you.
Emma Jakoi, Ph.D
Jennifer Carbrey, Ph.D.










CHAPTER 4: THE CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM
4.1 ELECTRICAL ACTIVTY OF THE HEART
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the conduction system of the heart.
Explain spontaneous electrical activity (pacemaker) in cardiac muscle.
Explain action potentials of ventricular cardiac muscle.
Explain the cardiac conduction system, pacemakers, and regulation of heart rate by the autonomic nervous system.
Explain the ECG and its correspondence to the cardiac action potential (AP).

EXCITATION IN CARDIAC MUSCLE
The cardiovascular system transports blood containing oxygen, carbon dioxide, nutrients and wastes, between the environment and the cells of the body. It consists of a heart (pump) and blood vessels which deliver nutrients to the tissues (arteries) and ferry waste products away from the tissues (veins). 
The heart is a muscular organ (Figure 55) which can contract in a rhythmic manner without direct stimulus from the nervous system. Each heart beat begins with the flow of ions across the plasma membrane of the cardiac muscle cell. This current is generated in specialized cells called pacemaker cells. The impulse from the pacemaker cells flows in a unidirectional manner throughout the heart via specialized conducting tissue (Figure 55) and into the heart muscle. The electrical impulse results in mechanical contraction of the cardiac muscle through a series of intracellular events involving calcium. 

Figure 55. Electrical conduction within the heart starts at the sinoatrial (SA) node and passes sequentially to the atrial ventricular (AV) node, Bundle of His, left and right bundle branches, and the Purkinje fibers. So the electrical activity moves from the base (A-V junction) to the apex (tip of ventricle) distant from the atria and then sweeps up the sides of the ventricles towards the base.
PACEMAKER CARDIAC MUSCLE CELLS
Pacemaker cells have the unique property of being able to generate action potentials spontaneously (i.e. without input from the nervous system).  They can generate an action potential because their resting membrane potential (- 60mV) is unstable.  Because the membrane potential never "rests" it is called a pacemaker potential.  This potential exists because the pacemaker cells have unusual channels that are permeable to both Na + and K+.  These channels are called If channels.  The "f" is derived from the fact that they were originally called "funny" channels because the If channels are Na+ channels with unusual properties. When the If channels opens, the influx of Na+ exceeds the efflux of K + and the net influx of positive charges slowly depolarizes the cell.  As the membrane potential becomes more positive, the If channels close and the Ca++ channels open transiently, which further depolarize the cell.  When the threshold potential is reached, a burst of Ca++ channels open, more Ca++ rushes in, and a steep phase of depolarization (Phase2) occurs (Figure 56).  At the peak of the action potential, K+ channels open, K+ rushes out of the cell and the cell repolarizes.

Figure 56. Slow action potential of nodal cells has 3 Phases (2, 3, and 4).
The pacemaker cells set the rate of the heartbeat. They are anatomically distinct from the contractile cells because they have no organized sarcomeres and therefore do not contribute to the contractile force of the heart. There are several different pacemakers in the heart but the sinoatrial node (SA) is the fastest. In normal hearts, the SA node is the pacemaker. The other conduction tissue (AV), Bundle of His and Purkinje Fibers will take over in disease states according to their speed of depolarization (AV > bundle of His >Purkinje).
HEART RATE (HR) can be modulated by autonomic nervous stimulation. Increased parasympathetic stimulation of muscarinic receptors on the heart slows the firing of the SA node. Parasympathetic stimulation does so by delaying the closing of K+ channels (efflux). The increased K+ efflux further hyperpolarizes the cells and slows the opening of the If channels. In contrast, sympathetic stimulation speeds heart rate by shortening the time to threshold. Sympathetic stimulation increases Na influx via the If channels and closes the K channels.
MYOCARDIAL CONTRACTILE CELLS are tightly linked to one another by intercalated discs, specialized adhesive junctions, which ensure transmission of force from one myocardial cell to an adjacent cell.  The cells also contain gap junctions that facilitate transmission of electrical impulses from cell to cell. Myocardial contractile cells have a resting membrane potential of approximately -85 millivolts (mV).  Depolarization occurs when the permeability to sodium increases, and sodium flows into the cell (Phase 0, Figure 57).  As the membrane potential reaches about +20 mV, the voltage gated sodium channels inactivate. The muscle cell begins to repolarize as K+ leaves the cell through open voltage gated K+ channels (Phase 1).  At this membrane potential, voltage gated Ca++ channels open causing the action potential to flatten as the K+ efflux balances the Ca++ influx. The plateau (Phase 2) ends when Ca ++ channels close and K+ efflux exceeds Ca++ influx. In Phase 3, K+ efflux repolarizes the muscle cell. The resting membrane potential is maintained by the activity of the Na-K ATPase (Phase 4).

Figure 57. Fast action potential of cardiac contractile cell has four phases (0-4).
ELECTROCARDIOGRAM (ECG also known as EKG)
The electrical activity of the heart can be recorded by the electrocardiogram (ECG).  Electrodes placed on the surface of the body can measure electrical activity of the heart because the fluid of the body is a good conductor. 
An ECG recording is the sum of all of the electrical potentials generated by all the cells of the heart at any instance in time.  Each deflection (wave) of the ECG represents either depolarization or repolarization of the specific parts of the heart.  Because depolarization occurs before mechanical contraction, the waves of depolarization can be associated with contraction and relaxation of the atria and the ventricles.
A typical ECG recording and the waves are shown below (Figure 58).  The P wave corresponds to depolarization of the atria.  The QRS complex corresponds to depolarization of the ventricles.  The T wave corresponds to repolarization of the ventricle.  Why is repolarization of the atria not seen?

Figure 58. ECG corresponds to the contractile myocyte action potential. Phases 0 and 1 are the QRS complex. Phase 2 is the ST segment. Phase 3 is the T wave.  X axis, time. Y axis, voltage. By ECG-PQRST+popis.svg: *SinusRhythmLabels.svg: Created by Agateller (Anthony Atkielski), converted to svg by atom. derivative work: Kychot (talk) derivative work: Kychot (ECG-PQRST+popis.svg) [Copyrighted free use], via Wikimedia Commons
ELECTRICAL ACTIVITY PRECEEDS CONTRACTION
In the heart, electrical activity (depolarization and repolarization) proceeds in a sequential manner. Normally each heart beat starts in the pacemaker cells of the sinoatrial (SA) node located in the right atria. From the SA node, the wave of depolarization moves through both atria (P wave), resulting in atrial contraction.  The impulse then passes through the intranodal pathways connecting the SA node with the atrioventricular node (AV node).  At the AV node the impulse slows allowing the atria to contract before the ventricles depolarize. The impulse then passes from the AV node through specialized conducing tissue known as the Bundle of His.  The Bundle of His branches (left and right) within the septum that separates the ventricles and then into the Purkinje fiber system, which carry the impulse through the ventricular walls (QRS complex).  This specialized conduction system ensures that the ventricles contract in a synchronized fashion and results in a contraction that begins at the apex (tip) of the heart. This is important because blood is ejected through the valves (pulmonic and aorta) that are located at the base of the heart (at the A-V junction).
Heart rate and rhythm can be obtained from the ECG.  Heart rate is calculated from peak to peak of the QRS complex (i.e., from R wave to R wave).  A normal resting heart rate is 60-100 beats per minute.  Rates faster than this are called tachycardia; slower rates are bradycardia.
A normal heart rhythm occurs at regular intervals and includes a P wave, QRS complex, and T wave.  An irregular rhythm is called an arrhythmia. Arrhythmias can occur if there is an extra beat, a missed beat, or a condition known as fibrillation, when the atria or ventricles are contracting in an uncoordinated fashion.
Problems within the electrical conductance system can change the ECG.
For example:

No P waves are evident, if the SA node fails to fire. 
P waves occur independently of the QRS complex, if there is a complete block of conductance through the AV node. In this condition, ventricular depolarization is driven by pacemakers within the ventricle (either the Bundle of His or the Purkinje fibers).

KEY CONCEPTS

The heart is a muscular organ which can contract in a rhythmic manner without direct stimulus from the nervous system because of the activity of pacemaker cells. The action potentials of the pacemaker and contractile cells of the heart differ. The pacemaker cells have an unstable resting membrane potential. In the heart, the SA node is the fastest pacemaker cells and sets the rate of beating. Other pacemakers are found within the electrical conduction system and include the AV node, bundle of His and Purkinje fibers.
Heart rate is determined by the input from the parasympathetic (PNS) and sympathetic (SNS) nervous systems. PNS activity slows heart rate; SNS speeds heart rate. At rest the normal heart rate is 70-80 beats per min.
The ECG is the sum of the electrical activity of the entire heart. The P wave correlates to atrial depolarization. The QRS complex correlates to ventricular depolarization. The T wave is the repolarization of the ventricles. Rhythm is determined by the SA node.
Disease of the electrical conduction system in the heart is manifested by change(s) in the ECG.

QUESTIONS

What portion of the ECG would change if there is a delay in the conduction between the SA node and the AV node?
Will the ECG change when heart rate increases?

ANSWERS

PR interval increases.
Increased sympathetic drive to the heart increases heart rate. There is a decrease in the R-R interval, Q-T interval, and P-R interval.

4.2 THE HEART AS A PUMP
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the structure and function of the heart chambers and associated valves.
Explain systole and diastole.
Explain pressure-volume loops, stroke volume and cardiac output.
Explain the cardiac cycle and associated heart sounds.
Discuss the Frank-Starling relationship in terms of venous return and cardiac output.

HEART STRUCTURE
The human heart is a four-chambered organ consisting of two atria and two ventricles (Figure 59).  Blood flows from the atria to the ventricles in a unidirectional manner. Valves interposed between these two chambers prevent backwards flow of blood. 
The right side of the heart has a thin muscular wall and works at low pressures. Contraction of the right ventricle (RV) pumps blood into the pulmonary circulation (lungs) where oxygen is taken up and carbon dioxide is eliminated. The left side of the heart has a thicker muscular wall and works at higher pressures.  Contraction of the left ventricle (LV) pumps blood into the systemic circulation for delivery to the limbs and to all of the organs. The right atrium (RA) receives blood returning from the systemic circulation; the left atrium (LA) receives blood from the lungs (Figure 59). Because the circulation is a closed system, in a steady state, the flow of blood (cardiac output) from the left side of the heart equals the cardiac output from the right side of the heart.  Total amount of blood circulating is ~5 liters/ minute.
Most of the heart is cardiac muscle (myocardium) which is covered on the outside surface by a thin epithelial sac called the pericardium. The inner surface facing the blood is lined by a thin epithelium called endothelium. The cardiac muscle of the myocardium is attached to a thick fibrous connective tissue skeleton which divides the upper two chambers (atria) from the lower two chambers (ventricles). The major blood vessels (aorta and pulmonic artery) which conduct blood away from the heart emerge from the base of the heart at the A-V junction (Figure 59). The pulmonary veins and vena cava which return blood to the heart from the lung and systemic tissues, respectively, connect to the left and right atria, respectively. The coronary arteries and coronary veins run across the surface of the ventricles to supply blood to the heart muscle.

Figure 59. Blood flows from the atria to the ventricles in a unidirectional manner. Valves interposed between these two chambers prevent backwards flow of blood.
Note that blood enters and leaves the ventricles at the base (A-V junction). That means that the ventricles must contract from the bottom (apex) upward to expel the blood from the base.
Four valves are embedded within the cardiac skeleton between the atria and ventricles. 
These valves respond passively to pressure gradients. The pulmonic and aortic valves (Figure 60) open when the ventricles contract and close with relaxation. The pulmonic and aortic valves prevent back flow from the arteries into the relaxing ventricles.

Figure 60. Cardiac valves viewed from the base.
The AV valves (mitral and tricuspid) close once the ventricles fill. These two valves are closed during contraction of the ventricles and ejection of blood and therefore experience high pressures.  To prevent the mitral and tricuspid valves from prolapse (being pushed into the atria) they are tethered to the ventricle wall via tendon like cords and the papillary muscles. One way to remember the location of the different valves is that the mitral valve (two leaflets) is most often replaced because it is subjected to the high pressures of the left ventricle. The pulmonic and aortic valves do not have tendons to resist prolapse, instead they are semilunar valves (cup like in shape) which fill with blood when closed.  These two valves are closed during relaxation and passive filling of the ventricles.
One other point regarding the connective tissue skeleton of the heart is that it isolates the electrical activity of the atria from the ventricles. Thus the ONLY passage for the electrical signal is via the AV node.  With a complete AV block, the bundle of His will take over as pacemaker.
CARDIAC CYCLE
Recall that each action potential in muscle is followed by a contraction. In the heart, the period of contraction is called systole. The period of relaxation is called diastole. The cardiac cycle is the period of time from the beginning of one heart beat (depolarization) to the beginning of the next. 
Because the atria and ventricles do not contract and relax at the same time, we will consider the events in the atria and ventricles separately. We start the cardiac cycle in the ventricles at the beginning of diastole (Figure 61) when the AV valves are open. At this time, both ventricles are relaxed and filling passively with blood. Then a P wave occurs, followed by depolarization of the atria, and contraction of the atria. Blood is ejected into the ventricles. The ventricular pressure now exceeds atrial pressure and the AV valves close. Note that the last 20% of ventricular filling is due to the active contraction of the atria.
Next the QRS complex occurs (Figure 61) which marks the beginning of systole. The QRS complex is followed by depolarization of both ventricles. Subsequently, the ventricles start to contract. Note that all four valves are closed so that contraction increases pressure within the ventricles. This is called isovolumic contraction because the amount of blood within the ventricles is not changing only the pressure. Eventually the pressure within the ventricle exceeds that in the pulmonic artery and aortic artery and these two valves open. Blood is ejected.

Figure 61. Each cardiac cycle (heart beat) includes one systole and one diastole.
Following ejection of the blood, the myocardium of the two ventricles relaxes (diastole) and the pressure within the ventricles falls. When the ventricular pressures are less than that in the pulmonic artery and aorta, the pulmonic and aortic valves close.  Again all four valves are closed. The two ventricles relax further (isovolumic relaxation). When the pressure within the ventricles is less than that within the atria, the AV valves open and blood flows from the atria passively into the ventricles. The cycle repeats.
The events of the cardiac cycle are summarized in the Wigger's Diagram (Figure 62).  The Wigger's diagram shows the relationship between the ECG, pressure, and volume changes in the left ventricle and aorta.  Note that there are two heart sounds (lub-dub). The first is associated with the onset of systole and the second with the start of diastole (Figure 62).
The volume of blood in the ventricles at the end of ventricular relaxation (filling) is the end diastolic volume (EDV).  EDV in the left ventricle is usually about 125 ml.  The volume of blood ejected with each beat during contraction of the ventricles is the stroke volume (SV) (~70 ml).  Not all of the blood in the ventricles is ejected. The volume of blood remaining at the end of ventricular contraction is the end systolic volume (ESV).  ESV in the left ventricle usually averages 55 ml but the EDV, ESV, and SV can vary with different physiologic states. (See discussion below).

Figure 62. Wigger's diagram integrates left ventricular pressure, volume, electrical activity (electrocardiogram) and heart sounds (phonogram). By DanielChangMD revised original work of DestinyQx [CC-BY-SA-2.5 (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5)], via Wikimedia Commons
One cardiac cycle can be represented by a pressure-volume (P-V) loop. Consider the P-V loop ABCD shown in Figure 63.  B is the EDV and D is the ESV. What is the stroke volume? What valve opens at C? What valve closes at D?

Figure 63. Pressure-volume loop ABCD depicts changes in left ventricle in one beat. The ventricle fills between A-B. Interval B-C depicts isovolumic contraction. Interval C-D depicts ejection. Interval D-A depicts isovolumic relaxation.
CARDIAC PERFORMANCE
CARDIAC OUTPUT (CO) is the volume of blood ejected by one ventricle in a period of time. Cardiac output is one measure of the effectiveness of the heart as a pump. It dynamically adjusts by changing either the heart rate or stroke volume or both.
Cardiac output = stroke volume x heart rate
CO= SV x HR
For an average resting heart rate of 70 beats per min (bpm) and a stroke volume of 70 mL per beat, the CO = ~ 5L/min.
The average total volume of blood circulating in the body is ~ 5L. Therefore, each ventricle pumps all of the blood of the body through it in only one minute. 
EJECTION FRACTION (EF) describes the efficiency of the heart. It is SV divided by end diastolic volume (EDV) times 100.
EF (%) = SV/ EDV x 100
During strenuous exercise, CO can increase to 30-35 L/min. What parameter (stroke volume or heart rate) limits this increase in CO? [Answer: heart rate.] As heart rate increases, the time for contraction and relaxation of the cardiac muscle shorten; the filling time limits CO. 
CONTROL OF STROKE VOLUME
Normally as the force of contraction increases, the stroke volume increases. Because the contractile cells of the heart act as an electrical syncytium with all of the cells contracting during a single beat, it is not possible to increase the force of contraction by fiber recruitment. Instead, the force of contraction is increased by changing: (1) length of the cardiac muscle fibers at the beginning of the contraction and (2) the contractility of the muscle fiber itself.
The length of the fiber is dependent on the volume of blood in the ventricle. In the intact heart, as the ventricle wall stretches with the filling of blood, the overlap of the actin and myosin increases in the sarcomere up to an optimal length and contractile force increases. This is called the Frank-Starling relationship. It means that within physiological limits, the heart pumps all of the blood returned to it.
PRELOAD is the degree of stretch of the myocardium before contraction. An increase in venous return (filling) will increase preload and thus increase the force of contraction. Consider the P-V loop depicted in Figure 63. An increase in preload (filling) will move the EDV to the right along the X axis and increase the pressure generated (Y axis). The heart (depicted as ABCD) when filled to an EDV of 140 ml, generates a systolic pressure of 180 mmHg. The "red curved" line in Figure 63 depicts the force generated for each increase in EDV for this particular heart. 
Four factors can increase venous return (EDV):

Skeletal muscle pump in which contraction of leg muscles surrounding the veins aids in returning blood to the heart.
Respiratory pump in which deep breathing expands the chest and decreases the intra-thoracic cavity pressure.
Sympathetic nervous system activation leads to greater constriction of the arterial vessels and large veins which moves the blood to the heart.
Increase in blood volume as in blood doping.

In contrast, contractility of the cardiac myocytes is affected by specific chemicals. Any agent that affects contractility is called an inotropic agent.  For example, catecholamines, epinephrine and norepinephrine, and drugs such as digitalis enhance contractility and are said to have positive inotropic effects (Figure 64).  The myocardium uses changes in preload and contractility to regulate the pressure generated.

Figure 64. Sympathetic nervous stimulation of the heart (red line) increases the ejection volume (stroke volume) at any given end diastolic volume.
KEY CONCEPTS

The heart consists of two separate pumps that move blood in a unidirectional manner through the pulmonary circulation for gas exchange and then to the systemic circulation for the delivery of O2 and nutrients and removal of waste products.
Each beat of the heart (cardiac cycle) involves the electrical activation of the atria and ventricles, contraction and relaxation of those chambers, closing and opening of the cardiac valves and filling and emptying of the atria and ventricles. The sequence is the same for the right and left chambers.
Ventricular contraction and ejection occur during systole. The beginning of the systole coincides with the first heart sound and ends with the 2nd heart sound.
Ventricle relaxation and filling occur during diastole. Diastole begins with second heart sound and ends with the first heart sound.
The volume of blood ejected with each beat is the stroke volume.
The sum of the stroke volumes ejected in one minute is the cardiac output.

QUESTIONS

What are the stroke volumes of the two loops (A and B) shown below?


What is the ejection fraction of loops A and B?
What is the electrical event on the ECG that precedes contraction of the atria?
What is the electrical event on the ECG that precedes ventricular diastole?

ANSWERS

Stoke volume of loop A = 40 ml; loop B = 40 ml
Ejection fraction for loop A = 40 / 90 x 100 = 44%Ejection fraction for loop B = 40 / 130 x 100 = 30%
P wave
T wave

4.3 THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM & BLOOD FLOW
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe how blood flows within the systemic and pulmonary circulation.
Describe the functions of arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins.
Describe the relationship between pressure, flow, and resistance in regulating peripheral circulation.
Define systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressure.
Explain the myogenic response, hyperemia and reactive hyperemia. Name two reflexes that control blood pressure.
Explain the factors that alter trans-capillary movement (filtration and reabsorption).
Explain capacitance vessel versus distributing vessels and the relationship between lymphatic and blood circulations.

BLOOD VESSELS
Blood ejected from the left ventricle flows into the aorta (Figure 65), which branches into arteries, arterioles, and eventually capillaries.
ARTERIES are low resistance vessels that serve as pressure reservoirs to maintain blood flow during diastole. All arteries have muscular walls. In response to pressure, to paracrines, and to nervous activity, the smooth muscle of the artery can either constrict or relax and thereby change the diameter of the vessel. The arteries regulate which organ receives blood (i.e., is perfused).
ARTERIOLES are located downstream of the arteries. They have smaller diameters and have the highest ratio of smooth muscle to lumen size. The arterioles act as spigots (sphincters) to increase or decrease local perfusion (i.e., delivery of blood to the tissues).
CAPILLARIES are very thin walled vessels and are the site of gas, solute, and fluid exchange between the blood and tissues.
VENULES receive the blood draining out of the capillaries. Venules converge into larger diameter vessels called VEINS, and finally into the VENA CAVA, the major vessel that empties into the right atrium. The veins are low resistance vessels that serve as capacitance or volume reservoirs. 

Figure 65. Model of the systemic and pulmonary circulations.
On the right side of the heart, blood ejected from the right ventricles flows into the pulmonary arteries, the pulmonary capillaries, and finally into the pulmonary vein, which empties into the left atrium, which drains into the left ventricles. 
The walls of blood vessels are composed of a layer of simple squamous epithelium (flat cells) called endothelium which in the larger vessels is surrounded by layer(s) of smooth muscle and connective tissue. The smooth muscle in arteries and arterioles is arranged concentrically around the lumen permitting control of the luminal diameter. The smooth muscle in the large veins is arranged parallel to the lumen permitting peristaltic contraction (shortening of the length). The large veins also have valves which prevent backflow. In most blood vessels, the smooth muscle is partially contracted at all times (muscle tone). This basal tone is maintained by the sympathetic nervous system. Contraction of smooth muscle can be modulated by ligands (neural transmitters, hormones, and paracrines) or by stretch. 
Angiogenesis is the process by which new blood vessels develop. This occurs in normal growth, in exercise, and in response to injury (wound healing). Angiogenesis is controlled by proliferative and anti-proliferative factors that regulate mitosis. Growth factors that promote angiogenesis include vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF). Anti-angiogenesis factors are two cytokines, angiostatin and endostatin.
PRESSURE, VOLUME, & FLOW
Bulk flow is the movement of blood from a region of high pressure to a region of low pressure (P2 - P1). In the systemic circulation the highest pressure is in the aorta. The pressure in the aorta oscillates from the systolic pressure, usually 120 mmHg, to the diastolic pressure, usually 80 mm Hg. The pressure within the aorta and arterial system is called the after load. To eject blood, the heart develops pressure equal to or greater than the after load. 
Hydrostatic pressure is that which is exerted on the walls of the vessel by the fluid within the vessel. The rapid ejection of blood into the aorta can be felt as a pulse (pressure wave). The pulse pressure is systolic pressure - diastolic pressure.  Pulse pressure is usually 120- 80 = 40 mmHg.
PP = SP - DP
Once fluid begins to flow through the cardiovascular system, pressure decreases because energy is lost due to friction exerted by the vessel walls and from friction between blood cells. This friction is called resistance.
Model of the systemic and pulmonary circulations
Flow rate is expressed as volume per time (ml/min) and is directly proportional to driving pressure (delta P) and inversely proportional to resistance.  Blood flow is abbreviated Q with a dot above it.  Note that flow is not velocity. Velocity is expressed in distance per time (mm/sec).

RESISTANCE is the opposition to fluid movement and is determined by the radius and length of the vessel and the viscosity of the blood.  The primary way that resistance is changed in the cardiovascular system is by changing the vessel radius.  Radius can be changed by altering the amount of contraction of the smooth muscle in the arteries and arterioles.  Also, resistance can be increased when vessels are plugged by plaques of fatty lipids; this disease is known as atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries. 

Because the arterial pressure is pulsatile, we use the mean arterial pressure (MAP) to represent the driving pressure. Mean arterial pressure is estimated as diastolic pressure plus 1/3 of the pulse pressure (SP-DP).
MAP = DP + 1/3 (PP)
For a person with a SP of 120 and DP of 80, MAP = 93 mmHg.
The MAP is closer to DP than SP because diastole lasts longer than systole. MAP is determined by the balance of blood flow into the arteries and blood flow out of the arteries into the tissues.  If the flow in is greater than the flow out, blood will collect in the arteries and MAP will rise.  If the flow out exceeds the flow in, MAP will decrease. 
Blood flow into the arteries is determined by the cardiac output (CO).  Blood flow out is determined by the total peripheral resistance (TPR), which is the total resistance of the circulatory system.
CO x TPR = MAP - P vena cava
Note: because pressure in the vena cava is ~ zero, the equation used is as follows:
CO = MAP/TPR or CO x TPR = MAP
In hypotension, the blood pressure falls too low and the driving force for blood flow will be unable to overcome the opposition of gravity. Blood will pool in the feet. Delivery of blood and oxygen to the brain will decrease; the person will become "light headed" or faint.
In hypertension (>139 SP or >89 DP), the blood pressure is chronically raised. This can lead to rupture of a weak vessel wall (hemorrhage) and bleeding into the tissue. If this occurs in the brain it is called a stroke. Rupture of a major artery can be fatal.
We estimate blood pressure with a sphygmomanometer (inflatable pressure cuff and pressure gauge). The cuff encircles the arm, is inflated until the pressure exerted exceeds the systolic pressure and collapses the artery. The pressure in the cuff is gradually released. When the cuff pressure is less than the arterial pressure then flow resumes in the artery.  The blood squeezing through a partially collapsed vessel makes a sound (Korotkoff sound) which can be heard by a stethoscope. The pressure when the sound starts is systolic pressure. The pressure when the sound disappears is the diastolic pressure.
TOTAL PERIPHERAL RESISTANCE (TPR) is determined by several factors:

Length of the blood vessels
Radius of the blood vessels
Viscosity of the blood. 

Normally the length of the blood vessels and the viscosity of blood remain fixed. Therefore the most important of these factors is the radius of the vessel. As the radius (r) of a tube increases, the resistance (R) of the tube to fluid flow decreases dramatically because R is proportional to the radius to the 4th power.
BLOOD FLOW AND CONTROL OF BLOOD PRESSURE
The distribution of blood flow is regulated by changes in vascular resistance. The arterioles are the primary site of variable resistance in the systemic circulation. Arterioles are small in diameter and few in number so their total cross sectional area is the smallest. Arteriolar resistance is primarily affected by sympathetic regulation although local regulatory mechanisms match blood flow to the metabolic needs of the tissue. For example, at rest, skeletal muscles receive approximately 20% of the cardiac output, but during exercise the metabolic demands of the muscle increases and they receive as much as 85% of cardiac output.
Resistance of the arterioles is regulated by local control (paracrines, metabolites) and by reflex control (sympathetic innervation, hormones).
LOCAL CONTROL of BP includes: 

Hyperemia = increased blood flow to organs. The paracrine factors that are active in hyperemia are increased CO2, H+ and K+ in interstitial fluid.-          Active hyperemia is due to increased metabolism.-          Reactive hyperemia is due to reperfusion.
Myogenic response = contraction or dilation of arteriolar smooth muscle in response to a change in stretch (transmural pressure).

REFLEX CONTROL of BP includes:  mediated by epinephrine (Epi) and norepinephrine (NorEpi).

Sympathetic innervation - expl. vasoconstriction by norepinephrine acting on the adrenergic receptors (AR) of blood vessels.
Hormones - expl. vasoconstriction by either epinephrine or by vasopressin.

Variation in blood flow to individual tissues/organs is possible because the arterioles are arranged in parallel not in series. Total blood flow through all of the arterioles of the body always equals cardiac output. [Question: Will the blood flow in the left arm increase when you apply a tourniquet to the right arm?]
TRANS-CAPILLARY EXCHANGE OF SOLUTES & FLUIDS
The transport of materials to the organs is only one part of the circulatory system. Once blood reaches the capillaries, the plasma and cells exchange materials across the endothelium of the capillary. Transport can occur via bulk flow across patent openings (fenestrated capillary found in the liver, endocrine glands, and kidney), via diffusion, or via vesicle transport (sealed capillary of the brain, testes, and thymus).
Dynamic changes in arterioles (vasodilation or vasoconstriction) regulate downstream pressures and flow rates across capillary beds.
Recall that velocity of blood flow is dependent on the cross sectional area. Although the capillaries are the smallest blood vessel in diameter, blood flow through the capillary bed is slow. This is because the capillaries are more numerous than any other blood vessel hence their total cross sectional area is large. The slow flow rate enables time for the exchange (filtration and reabsorption) of solutes and fluid across the endothelium of the capillary with the interstitial fluid. 
FILTRATION is the net movement of solutes out of the capillary into the interstitial fluid.
REABSORPTION is the net movement of solutes and fluid into the capillary from the IF.
Two pressure gradients dictate net movement across this endothelium. The first is the difference in the hydrostatic pressures (P) of the plasma and of the interstitial fluid (ISF) (Figure 66). The second is the difference in the oncotic pressures () (attraction of water by protein) between these two fluid compartments.
Net filtration = (Pplasma - PISF) - ( plasma - IF)
***** The hydrostatic pressure and the oncotic pressure of the IF are usually zero. 
The hydrostatic pressure decreases from the arteriole side (35 mm Hg) to the venule side (15 mm Hg) of the capillary due to resistance of the vessel walls but the oncotic pressure of the plasma (28 mm Hg) does not change. Therefore filtration occurs at the arteriole end of the capillary and reabsorption at the venule end of the capillary.

Figure 66. Filtration and reabsorption of solutes and fluid across the capillary endothelium determined by differences in hydrostatic pressure (solid line) and oncotic pressure (dotted line).
What happens if the upstream arteriole dilates? This will raise the hydrostatic pressure in the capillary increasing filtration but decreasing reabsorption so more fluid will remain in the ISF. This accumulation of fluid is called edema. Edema can result if there is an increase in capillary hydrostatic pressure; a decrease in plasma protein concentration (oncotic pressure); or an increase in the interstitial protein content (oncotic pressure).
Under some circumstances (such as hemorrhage or severe dehydration) the balance between filtration and reabsorption favors reabsorption and fluid moves into plasma. This auto-transfusion helps to maintain blood volume.  
VENOUS RETURN
The amount of blood returned to the heart dictates EDV. In exercise when the oxygen demands of the body increase, venous return is increased to increase stoke volume and cardiac output. This is accomplished by: 
Increased sympathetic drive = constriction of large veins. 
Respiratory pump = increased depth of breathing expands the chest and thereby lower pressure within the thoracic cavity.
Skeletal pump = contraction of the skeletal muscles "squeezes" the veins.
The importance of venous return is that the heart can only pump out what enters. Recall that a stretched heart has a greater force of contraction (Frank Starling's law).
LYMPHATIC SYSTEM
In a normal body, there is a mis-match of filtration to reabsorption causing some fluid to remain in the interstitium (ISF). This is called lymph. Lymph is drained by a separate series of thin walled vessels called the lymphatics. The lymphatic system is designed for one-way transport of interstitial fluid from the tissues to the circulation. Small lymph vessels in the tissues coalesce to form larger lymphatic vessels that progressively increase in size. Interposed along the lymphatic vessels are filters called lymph nodes which help to capture and destroy foreign pathogens.
The lymphatics have no pump analogous to the heart; instead fluid is moved by contraction of skeletal muscles which compress the lymphatic vessels. Uni-directional movement is insured by valves. The return of filtered fluid to the circulation is important because: (1) it recycles plasma proteins thereby maintaining a low oncotic pressure within the interstitial space, and (2) it maintains hydrostatic pressure by returning as much as 3L per day to the circulation.  
KEY CONCEPTS

Heart consists of two pumps. The pressure generated by the heart drives the unidirectional flow of blood through the pulmonary circulation where gas exchange occurs and through the systemic circulation where exchange of nutrients metabolites, heat, and hormones occurs.
The vascular system is both a conduit for the flowing blood and a dynamic system that controls the distribution of the blood to the organs of the body.  
Arteries are low resistance conduits and pressure reservoirs for maintaining blood flow during diastole. Arterioles are the dominant site of resistance to flow.
Capillaries are the site of exchange. The balance of hydrostatic and oncotic forces determines the direction of fluid movement into or out of the capillaries.
Veins are the low resistance conduits for venous return and volume reservoirs. Sympathetic NS constriction of veins can increase venous return, thereby increasing SV and CO.
The lymphatic system provides a one-way route for the return of interstitial fluid to the cardiovascular system.
Disease states that alter the hydrostatic and oncotic pressures can result in edema. These disease states include heart failure, liver disease, kidney disease and protein malnutrition.

QUESTIONS


Which of the following arterial blood pressures (mmHg) has the largest pulse pressure?

130/85
120/90
115/75
125/70



If blood pressure doubled at the same time that peripheral resistance doubled, the blood flow through a vessel would be:

doubled
halved
16 times greater
unchanged



Which of the following promote edema formation?

decreased blood protein concentration
lymphatic blockage
venous blockage (clot)
A and C
A, B, and C



ANSWERS

D
D
E


4.4 CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM REFLEX CONTROL  
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the reflex control of blood pressure (BP).
Explain how baroreceptors (pressure sensors) control BP.
Explain how other sensors such as the cardio-pulmonary receptors and blood volume receptors can control BP. 
Describe central control of blood pressure in response to hypertension, hypotension and strenuous exercise.

CENTRAL CONTROL OF BLOOD PRESSURE
The reflex arc that controls blood pressure on a minute to minute basis involves the central nervous system (Figure 67). The main integrating center is located in the brain stem (medulla oblongata) in an area known as the medullary cardiovascular control center (MCCC). The primary function of the MCCC is to maintain a constant mean arterial pressure (MAP) for adequate perfusion of the organs, in particular brain and heart. Sensory input comes from peripheral sensory receptors sensitive to stretch (baro-receptors) and to volume (cardio-pulmonary) sensors. The output from the MCCC alters the sympathetic and parasympathetic tone of the body to regulate cardiac output and total peripheral resistance. [Recall that MAP = CO x TPR]
BARORECEPTOR REFLEX
Baroreceptors are mechanoreceptors located in the walls of the carotid artery and aorta. When blood pressure increases, these sensors are stretched and action potentials are sent to the MCCC. Efferent output from the MCCC is relayed by the parasympathetic nervous system resulting in slowed heart rate and lower cardiac output thereby lowering blood pressure. Concurrently there is a decrease in MCCC output to the sympathetic nervous system which innervates blood vessels and the heart. Lowered sympathetic tone causes vasodilation and decreased contractility of the ventricular myocardium. Again blood pressure is reduced.

Figure 67. Reflex loop regulates cardiac output.
Conversely, if blood pressure falls, then the firing from the baroreceptors decreases. This leads to increased output of the MCCC to the sympathetic nervous system and decreased output to the parasympathetic system. Consequently heart rate, contractility and TPR increase thereby increasing MAP.
The baroreceptors are not the only mechanism for modulating blood pressure. Inputs from other peripheral receptors include: arterial chemoreceptors, hypothalamus, and kidney.
ARTERIAL CHEMORECEPTORS are activated by low blood oxygen levels. These receptors integrate the cardiovascular system with the respiratory system. Integration occurs in the medulla oblongata by the MCCC and the center that controls breathing. This integration is dynamic such that if more oxygen is needed by the tissues, then both cardiac output and breathing is increased.
HYPOTHALAMUS (brain region) controls body temperature by regulating the sympathetic tone of the vascular beds in the skin.
KIDNEY regulates fluid volume by responding to hormones such as atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) which increases fluid loss in urine and vasopressin which reduces fluid loss in urine (see discussion below).       
ORTHOSTATIC HYPOTENSION
The baroreceptor reflex functions whenever you rise from a prone position. When you are lying down, blood is evenly distributed throughout the circulation and gravitational pull is equally applied along the body axis. However, on standing, gravity causes a shift in the blood volume such that it pools in your legs. Consequently there is less blood returning to the heart at the beginning of the next contraction. This decrease in venous return reduces cardiac output and MAP. This reflex is known as orthostatic hypotension.  In the normal person, orthostatic hypotension decreases baroreceptor firing leading to an increase in sympathetic tone. Concurrently, parasympathetic activity decreases. The baroreceptor reflex causes a rapid increase in TPR and CO returning MAP to normal.
HYPOTENSION DUE TO HEMORRHAGE
The loss of blood volume (as with a hemorrhage) can lead to hypotension. In this instance, the baroreceptors decrease their activity (Figure 68).  The end result is to increase TPR, CO and MAP.
There are two hormones that act during hemorrhage to correct for the loss of blood volume, vasopressin from the pituitary (brain) and renin from the kidney which leads to the production of angiotensin II. Both vasopressin and angiotensin II are potent vasoconstrictors. Vasopressin also acts on the kidney to increase the reabsorption of water thereby increasing blood volume.

Figure 68. Response to volume depletion activates multiple effectors including the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and hormones (aldosterone, antidiuretic hormone (ADH) and angiotensin II (ANGII)].
INTENSE AEROBIC EXERCISE AND BLOOD PRESSURE
Strenuous exercise such as running or swimming will reset the baroreceptors. Under these conditions, baroreceptors act as if MAP decreased. They decrease their firing which increases sympathetic drive to increase CO and HR. TPR also decreases due to local signals that cause vasodilation of the capillaries in the working skeletal muscle and skin. Consequently, MAP increases slightly because the rise in CO is offset by the drop in TPR (see table below). 
Table 4.  Effects of aerobic exercise.

EFFECT OF CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE
SUSTAINED HYPERTENSION (>139/90) will cause the baroreceptors to reset their set point higher with subsequent down regulation of their activity. Without input from the baroreceptors, the MCCC interprets the high blood pressure as normal.
Is this a problem? Yes. Hypertension is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Afterload increases and with increased pressures the endothelium lining the blood vessels may be damaged. This condition leads to atherosclerotic plaques. In addition, MAP must increase to maintain CO constant at a higher TPR. The heart muscle responds to increased afterload by hypertrophy (growth) which thickens the ventricular wall. With time, this response in the left ventricle fails to meet demand and the CO of the two ventricles is no longer matched, pulmonary edema ensues. Why? What happens to SV with high afterload and lower contractility?  Fluid in the interstitial space of the lung interferes with oxygen exchange resulting in less oxygen in the arterial blood perfusing the heart. This damages the myocardium and the contractility of the left ventricle is compromised further (Figure 69). This leads to heart failure. 

Figure 69. Normal and weak hearts exhibit increased ejection volume (stroke volume) with increased end diastolic volume (filling) of the left ventricle.
Heart failure can also occur in the right ventricle due to hypertension within the lung vasculature. Failure of the right heart to maintain normal CO leads to an accumulation of blood in the systemic veins, increased capillary filtration, and edema.
There are two common treatments for heart failure.

Reduce afterload by administering a diuretic which cause more fluid loss from the kidney and thus lower blood volume.
Administer a Ca++ blocker. Why? Blood vessels will dilate when Ca++ is unable to enter the vascular smooth muscle which reduces TPR and hence MAP. If needed, a beta adrenergic agonist is given to sustain adequate CO. 

One other target is angiotensin II, a homeostatic response triggered by the kidney. Drugs called ACE inhibitors are given because they inhibit the enzyme that converts angiotensin I to the active vasoconstrictor, angiotensin II, in the blood stream. The end result is a decrease in TPR. What will happen to CO when resistance is decreased?
KEY CONCEPTS

Cardiac output is matched with tissue blood flow by maintaining constant mean arterial blood pressure (MAP).
Baroreceptors act as short term regulators of arterial blood pressure by providing sensory information to the cardiovascular center in the medulla (MCCC). Autonomic outflow from the MCCC maintains blood pressure constant.
Hemorrhage leads to reduced CO (hypotension) as a result of reduced ventricular EDV. The normal compensatory response to hemorrhage is vasoconstriction of arteries and capacitance veins and increased cardiac contractility and heart rate. 
Hypotension can also result from a sudden postural change or prolonged quiet standing (orthostatic hypotension). The compensatory response is stated above for hemorrhage.
Failure of the left heart to maintain normal CO leads to an accumulation of blood in the lungs which inhibits gas exchange.
Failure of the right heart to maintain normal CO leads to an accumulation of blood in the systemic veins, increased capillary filtration, and edema.
Compensation for decreased arterial pressure caused by heart failure includes increases in HR and TPR, vasoconstriction of veins, and retention water by the kidneys.

QUESTIONS


Fred has hypertension. His doctor prescribed an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor.

What are two effects of angiotensin II? 
What does the ACE inhibitor do?



When a baroreceptor activity decreases due to a decrease in blood pressure:

sympathetic activity increases.
cardiac output increases.
peripheral resistance decreases.
A and B
B and C



Predict the effect of aging (increased afterload) on baroreceptor activity.

resets to higher set point
resets to lower set point
activated chronically
inhibited chronically
remains unchanged



John donated 1 liter of blood to the Red Cross. In response, the baroreceptors ____ their firing.

increased
decreased
no effect



ANSWERS

A. Vasoconstriction as well as the release of aldosterone (from the adrenal) leading to water reabsorption by the kidney (i.e., concentrated urine). B. Prevents conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II by the angiotensin converting enzyme. 
D
A
B










CHAPTER 2: THE NERVOUS SYSTEM & SENSES
Jennifer Carbrey, Ph. D.
Emma Jakoi, Ph. D.
2.1 COMMUNICATION & ORGANIZATION
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the structure and function of nerve cells & synapses.
Explain the generation of the resting membrane potential and how changes in selective ion permeability underlie electrical communication.
Explain and contrast graded potentials and action potentials, where they are generated and their function in nerve cell communication.
Discuss the relationship of fiber diameter, myelination and impulse velocity.
Explain the function and structure of synapses.
Describe how the nervous system acts as a reflex arc and identify the roles of the CNS and PNS neurons. 
Compare the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems in terms of function and neurotransmitters.

INTRODUCTION
Like the endocrine system, the nervous system responds to the environment and regulates the body. However in contrast to the endocrine system, the nervous system is much more rapid and targets cells more specifically. In addition, the nervous system is able to integrate more types of information from the environment and to respond with a broader range of reactions compared to the endocrine system.
A sizable portion of the nervous system is involved in collecting information about our environment. The information is integrated and interpreted by the central nervous system (brain, spinal cord) and used to cause a response often by stimulating muscles or glands.
CELL TYPES
Despite the fact that the nervous system is extremely complicated, there are relatively few cell types present.
Neurons
Neurons are the cells of the nervous system that communicate and integrate information. They communicate with one another with their processes, or cell extensions, that emanate from the cell body (Figure 18). Dendrites are processes which usually receive information from other neurons while axons are processes that usually pass information on to other neurons. Neurons use electrical signals to communicate along their length and often use chemical signals to communicate with one another. The morphology of neurons can differ widely depending on their role in the nervous system. Some neurons that receive signals from many other neurons can have thousands of dendrites. However, most neurons have only a single axon. Axons can branch to form many axon terminals that can be used to communicate with many neurons downstream.

Figure 18. Parts of a neuron image by OCAL (modified), http://www.clker.com/clipart-9828.html, public domain.
Glial Cells
Several types of glial cells support neurons in the nervous system. The axons of many neurons have a covering of specialized plasma membrane called myelin that makes the electrical signals that travel through axons faster and more efficient. In the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord), oligodendrocytes use their processes to wrap many layers of myelin around each axon. Each oligodendrocyte insulates many axons. In the peripheral nervous system (outside of the brain and spinal cord), a single axon is coated by many Schwann cells that wrap themselves around a portion of a single axon to cover it with myelin.
Astrocytes are another type of glial cell that function to support neurons in the central nervous system. Astrocytes provide metabolic support to neurons and maintain the extracellular environment so that neuronal signaling can occur. Some astrocytes have processes that coat the outside of blood vessels in the brain and help to form a tight blood-brain barrier that protects the brain from toxic substances in the blood.
Microglial cells are scavenger cells of the nervous system that can take up cellular debris as well as serve other immune functions for the brain.
MEMBRANE POTENTIALS
Signaling Along Neurons
The speed and efficiency of the nervous system is contributable to the electrical and chemical signals that travel along and between neurons. Neurons use electric currents that can travel along their lengths in a very efficient manner. The current is generated by the flow of ions across the plasma membrane through ion channels.
Electrochemical Gradient
In order for a neuron to generate a current, or flow of electrical charge, the cell spends energy to establish a concentration and electrical gradient of ions across the plasma membrane. The gradient is primarily established by affecting the concentration of three ions in the cell, Na+, Cl- and K+ (Figure 19).

Figure 19. Chemical Gradients of major ions across the cell membrane (mM)
Equilibrium potentials
Due to the concentration gradient of ions across the plasma membrane of cells, the intracellular fluid has a small excess of negative charge compared to the extracellular fluid. The separation of charge has the potential to do work. As a result, the magnitude of the charge difference between the inside and outside of the cell is referred to as the membrane potential and measured in millivolts. If there is an excess of negative charges on the inside of the cell, the membrane potential is negative. If the excess charge on the inside of the cell is positive, the membrane potential is positive. The membrane potential of a cell under specific conditions is determined by the concentration of ions inside and outside of the cell and by the permeability of the membrane for those ions.
The simplest case is to consider a system that is permeable to only one ion (Figure 20). In part 1, there are two compartments separated by a membrane with two different solutions that differ in their Na+ and K+ concentrations. The ion channels in the membrane are not open. Since the number of positive and negative charges is equal on both sides of the membrane, the membrane potential is 0 mV. In part 2, if K+ selective ion channels are opened, K+ will travel down its chemical concentration gradient out of the compartment which will cause an excess of positive charges outside the compartment and an excess of negative charges in the compartment. In part 3, there is still a chemical concentration gradient for K+, but the increase in negative charges in the compartment is causing some K+ to be pulled back in. Finally in part 4, the number of K+ leaving the compartment because of the concentration gradient equals the number which are being pulled back into the compartment because of the excess of negative charge. The membrane potential of the compartment in part 4 is the equilibrium potential for K+ in this system. In a cell, the equilibrium potential for an ion is determined by the concentration of the ion inside the cell versus the concentration outside the cell. Using the concentrations from the table in Figure 19 the equilibrium potential for K+ in a typical neuron is -90 mV (EK) and for Na+ is +60 mV (ENa). The ENa is positive while EK is negative because Na+ and K+ accumulate on opposite sides of the plasma membrane.

Figure 20. Equilibrium potential for K+
Membrane potential
If a cell at a given time is permeable to only one ion, the membrane potential will become equal to the equilibrium potential for that ion. However, if ion channels open for more than one ion, then the membrane potential will be determined by the concentration of the ions inside and outside of the cell as well as the permeability of the cell to those ions. Under resting conditions, there are pumps and channels that collectively contribute to the resting membrane potential. The Na+/ K+-ATPase is a pump that uses the energy from ATP to transport three Na+ out of the cell and two K+ into the cell (Figure 21). This maintains the concentration gradients across the plasma membrane (Figure 19) and causes the inside of the cell to have an excess of negative charges. In addition, there are some K+ channels that allow K+ to leave the cell which makes the inside of the cell even more negative. There are also some Na+ channels (fewer than the K+ channels) that let a little Na+ into the cell (Figure 21). Once the system reaches steady-state the Na+/ K+-ATPase is pumping the same number of Na+ and K+ as the channels are letting through and they balance each other. When taking into account the action of the Na+/ K+-ATPase and the K+ and Na+ channels, the resting membrane potential (-70 mV) is between the equilibrium potential for K+ and Na+ but closer to the equilibrium potential for K+ because the membrane is more permeable to K+.

Figure 21. Transport proteins important for establishing resting membrane potential.
The membrane potential can change quickly and dramatically when the cell is excited. When the membrane potential increases but still remains negative, the membrane is depolarizing. An overshoot is when the membrane potential becomes positive. When the membrane potential decreases towards the resting potential it is repolarizing. If the membrane potential goes below the resting potential then it is hyperpolarized (Figure 22).

Figure 22. Terms for changes in membrane potential.
Graded Potentials
Changes in membrane potential produce the electrical signals that neurons use to communicate. A change in membrane potential at a location on the plasma membrane of a neuron results from opening of ion channels. The change in membrane potential can then travel along the length of the neuron due to neighboring ion channels that are gated by electrical stimuli. A graded potential is a transient change in the membrane potential that decreases in magnitude as it spreads out along the plasma membrane of the neuron and is proportional to the intensity of the stimulus. If ion channels in a specific part of the membrane are activated and that portion of the membrane is depolarized, the positive charges that have entered the cell will diffuse along the inside of the membrane (Figure 23). This area of depolarization will continue to spread but will decrease in intensity over distance. If the stimulus is more intense, more ion channels will open and the change in potential will be greater. This will result in the graded potential traveling a further distance (Figure 23). Graded potentials signal over small distances since the intensity of the signal decreases over distance. However, they can also be additive if they occur in rapid succession. Graded potentials can stimulate or inhibit neurons and have no refractory period, or time period when the cell cannot respond to a stimulus after the first change in potential.

Figure 23. Graded potential. Copyrighted by Rick Melges, Duke University.
Action potentials
Most neurons use action potentials as the most efficient and quickest way to convey electrical currents along the length of their axon. An action potential is an electrical signal like graded potentials but they differ in several ways. Action potentials are large changes in membrane potential that have a similar pattern of membrane potential change. In this way, an action potential is an all-or-none phenomenon because either there is a large change in membrane potential if the stimulus was adequate or there is little change in membrane potential. In addition, action potentials have the same intensity as they travel along a membrane - they do not diminish over distance. Cells that are capable of producing action potentials are excitable due to the expression of the voltage-gated ion channels required to form an action potential. At the beginning of an action potential the cell which was at resting membrane potential has a graded potential that causes the membrane to be depolarized (Figure 24). If the depolarization from the graded potential reaches a certain voltage, called the threshold, then enough voltage-gated Na+ channels will be opened to start an action potential (stage 2). Once enough Na+ channels are open, Na+ starts rushing into the cell due to the net negative charge inside the cell and the excess of Na+ outside the cell. This causes the membrane potential to increase (stage 2) and surpass 0 mV due to the concentration gradient of Na+. The cell is so permeable to Na+ that the membrane potential quickly comes close to the equilibrium potential for Na+. Right before the membrane potential reaches the equilibrium potential for Na+, the Na+ channels inactivate and the slower opening voltage-gated K+ channels open. When the K+ channels open, there is an excess of positive charge and K+ inside the cell (a positive membrane potential) so K+ leaves the cell and travels down its concentration and electrical gradients. This lowers the membrane potential (stage 3) and it approaches the equilibrium potential for K+, which is below resting potential (stage 4). The K+ channels start to close and the membrane returns to the resting potential (stage 5).Once the Na+ channels have inactivated, the membrane must repolarize before the channel returns to the closed state and can be opened again. This means that there is a refractory period that prevents another action potential from occurring before the first one has ended. Once an action potential occurs in one portion of the axon, the adjacent area will experience a depolarization from the spread of Na+ just like in a graded potential as long as the proper channels are expressed. This will be above threshold and will cause an action potential in the adjacent area which allows the action potential to travel along the axon. However, because of the refractory period, the action potential travels in one direction along the axon and not in two directions. In addition, each action potential that is produced down the axon will be identical and will not diminish over time or distance.

Figure 24. Action potential. Top image (modified) from OpenStax College, Anatomy & Physiology, Download for free at http://cnx.org/content/col11496/latest/, bottom image copyrighted by Rick Melges, Duke University.
Neurons relay signals along their length using graded potentials and action potentials. However, certain parts of neurons are specialized to facilitate certain kinds of potentials. Some sensory neurons receive their signals from their processes that are embedded in a tissue sensing changes in the environment. These changes cause graded potentials to travel down the process toward the cell body. In other neurons, the source of the graded potential comes from a neuron that is contacting a dendrite or the cell body. In either case, the graded potentials can start in the dendrites or cell body and if it is strong enough travel to the axon initial segment, where the neuron has the highest concentration of voltage-gated ion channels and the lowest threshold, to start an action potential. The initial segment is the beginning of the axon that connects to the neuronal cell body at the axon hillock. Once an action potential is started at the beginning of the axon, due to the refractory period, it will travel down the axon to the end of the neuron. Because a neuron can have many dendrites and have many other neurons contacting the dendrites or cell body, the axon hillock and initial segment can integrate those signals by requiring that signals reach a threshold before an action potential is formed. The strength, frequency and location of a stimulus received by a neuron will determine if threshold is reached because graded potentials are formed, not action potentials.
SALTATORY CONDUCTION
In the human body, axons can be quite long (from the spinal cord to the tip of the toe). In order for an action potential to travel quickly along an axon that may be one meter long, some axons are myelinated. Myelin is an insulator that is made up of many layers of specialized plasma membrane that is formed by Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system and oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system. The Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes lay the myelin along the axons with regularly spaced gaps called nodes of Ranvier (Figure 25). The myelin speeds conduction along an axon by insulating it and preventing leaking of ions in the area around an action potential. This allows the effects of the action potential, or the change in membrane potential, to be detected further down the axon in the neighboring node where there is a concentration of ion channels. In a myelinated axon, the action potential jumps from node to node allowing it to travel more quickly and more efficiently (Figure 25).

Figure 25. Saltatory conduction of an action potential. Image by OCAL (modified), http://www.clker.com/clipart-9828.html, public domain.
The diameter of an axon also determines how quickly action potentials travel down its length. Larger diameter axons have less resistance so action potentials travel more quickly along their length. This is exploited by the body. Neurons that sense touch have large diameter axons while pain and itch neurons have small diameter axons.
METHODS OF COMMUNICATION
Neurons signal to one another through a specialized junction called a synapse. The synapse is where the electrical signal from one neuron (presynaptic neuron) is transmitted to another neuron (postsynaptic neuron). Depending on the role of a particular neuron, it can receive signals from many presynaptic neurons (convergence) or it can send signals to many postsynaptic neurons (divergence).
The presynaptic neuron causes a graded potential to occur in the postsynaptic neuron. The graded potential can depolarize the postsynaptic membrane, which makes the potential closer to threshold, and is called an excitatory postsynaptic potential (Figure 26, synapses 1 and 2).

Figure 26. Integration of signals by a postsynaptic neuron. Image copyrighted by Rick Melges, Duke University.
Alternatively, the graded potential can hyperpolarize the postsynaptic membrane, which makes the membrane potential farther from threshold, and is called an inhibitory postsynaptic potential (Figure 26, synapse 3). Since presynaptic neurons cause graded potentials in postsynaptic neurons, spatial and temporal summation of signals from multiple synapses can occur so the postsynaptic neuron can integrate information (Figure 26).
One example of neurons integrating information is during lateral inhibition of sensory neurons. In order to discern the exact point of contact of a stimulus such as a pencil, neighboring neurons must be inhibited. For instance in Figure 27, the pencil is depressing the skin so that three sensory neurons are firing. However, the neuron in the middle, neuron 2, is firing more frequently because the pencil is in the middle of its receptive field. Branches from the axons of all three neurons converge on neighboring neurons. However, since neuron 2 is firing action potentials most frequently, its firing is affected the least by the inhibition. Lateral inhibition leads to reduction of the firing of neurons 1 and 3 and the sensation that the pencil is depressing only the field of neuron 2 (Figure 27). This allows for more precise determination of the stimulus site and type.
Most synapses in the mammalian nervous system transmit between the presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons using chemicals called neurotransmitters. As the action potential from the presynaptic neuron travels to the end of the axon, calcium is released from voltage-gated calcium channels and causes vesicles full of neurotransmitters to fuse with the plasma membrane and dump their contents into the space between the two neurons called the synaptic cleft. The neurotransmitters diffuse across the synaptic cleft and either directly or indirectly activate ion channels on the postsynaptic neuron to cause a graded potential. In an excitatory synapse, ion channels are opened that let positive ions into the cell causing a graded potential that depolarizes the membrane and may or may not be sufficient to reach threshold (excitatory postsynaptic potential). In an inhibitory synapse, chloride enters the cell or potassium leaves the cell causing a graded potential that hyperpolarizes the membrane and moves the membrane potential farther from threshold (inhibitory postsynaptic potential).

Figure 27. Lateral inhibition of neurons 1 and 3 as a result of pathways that converge on those neurons. Image copyrighted by Rick Melges, Duke University.
The nervous system contains many types of neurotransmitters along with their respective receptors. There are two main types of synapses that are not only found in the central nervous system but also in the periphery. In cholinergic synapses the presynaptic neuron releases acetylcholine as the neurotransmitter and it is received by one of two main types of receptors in the postsynaptic neuron or cell. Skeletal muscle and brain express nicotinic receptors which are ion channels that are gated by acetylcholine. In heart, smooth muscle and glands, muscarinic receptors bind acetylcholine which starts a signal transduction pathway that regulates ion channels. Adrenergic synapses release either norepinephrine or epinephrine into the synaptic cleft. The norepinephrine or epinephrine binds to one of two classes of receptors, alpha-adrenergic or beta-adrenergic receptors. Both types of receptors use signal transduction to affect the postsynaptic cell which can be in the heart, smooth muscle, or a gland (Figure 28).

Figure 28. Organization of the efferent peripheral nervous system.
ORGANIZATION
The nervous system collects information from the environment, processes the information obtained, and then reacts in an appropriate manner. This is accomplished as a concerted effort between both the central and peripheral nervous systems. Afferent neurons are sensory neurons that lead from their sensory receptors in the periphery to the central nervous system which processes the information. Efferent neurons lead from the central nervous system back out to the periphery to cause the response to the stimulus. There are two different classes of efferent neurons in the peripheral nervous system, somatic motor neurons and autonomic neurons (Figure 29). Somatic motor neurons excite only skeletal muscle and are responsible for most of our voluntary movements. The somatic nervous system and autonomic nervous system also differ in their anatomy. In the somatic nervous system, neurons with cell bodies in the central nervous system send axons to the skeletal muscle they innervate. In the autonomic nervous system, a neuron with a cell body in the central nervous system synapses with a second neuron whose cell body is in a ganglion, or cluster of neuronal cell bodies in the periphery. The second neuron sends an axon to the target organ (Figure 28).
Within the autonomic nervous system there are three divisions. The enteric neurons connect to neurons in the wall of the intestinal tract that control many processes there. The sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions are important for controlling many processes for body homeostasis (Figure 29).

Figure 29. Organization of the nervous system.
Sympathetic and Parasympathetic Systems
The sympathetic and parasympathetic divisions of the autonomic nervous system differ in their anatomy. Both utilize two neurons in series to lead from the central nervous system to the target organ (Figure 28). However, the ganglia for the sympathetic system are for the most part next to the spinal cord while the ganglia for the parasympathetic system are usually very close to or within the target organs. The sympathetic and parasympathetic systems both use acetylcholine and nicotinic receptors at the synapses in their ganglia. In the target organs in the parasympathetic system, acetylcholine and muscarinic receptors are usually present at the synapse. In the sympathetic system, norepinephrine is usually the neurotransmitter that binds to adrenergic receptors on the target organ. One exception is in the adrenal gland where the postganglionic neurons don't release neurotransmitter into a synapse. Instead, they release a mixture of epinephrine and norepinephrine into the bloodstream that can bind adrenergic receptors all over the body (Figure 28).
Many organs are innervated by the parasympathetic and sympathetic nerves, or bundles of axons. In most cases this allows one system to activate the organ and the other system to inhibit it. In general, the parasympathetic system is activated during periods of rest or digestion while the sympathetic system is most active during the fight or flight situations. The sympathetic system prepares us for fighting by increasing the heart rate, releasing glucose from the liver, and dilating our pupils. In addition, the sympathetic system can divert blood from the skin and digestive system to the heart, brain and skeletal muscles. The sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system can be thought of as the gas pedal on a car while the parasympathetic branch is like the brake. If you want to slow down you can press the brake or let up on the gas. This dual control of systems that cause opposing actions allows for fine control of an organ's activity and overall body homeostasis.
QUESTIONS


In a cell, if the equilibrium potential for Na+ is +50 mV and the equilibrium potential for K+ is -50 mV, what is the membrane potential if the membrane is equally permeable to Na+ and K+?

+50 mV
+25 mV
0 mV
-25 mV
-50 mV



Would an increase in the number of open K+ channels near the initial segment of a neuron affect the size of the stimulus required to initiate an action potential?

yes, the stimulus required would be greater
yes, the stimulus required would be smaller
no



In a post-synaptic neuron, which of the following changes would increase the likelihood of an action potential firing?

increasing the number of excitatory synapses
increasing the firing rate of an excitatory synapse
moving an inhibitory synapse closer to the initial segment
both A and B
A, B, and C



Heart rate is increased by the sympathetic nervous system and decreased by the parasympathetic nervous system. Which of the following changes will increase heart rate?

increased sympathetic nervous system tone
decreased sympathetic nervous system tone
increased parasympathetic nervous system tone
decreased parasympathetic nervous system tone
both A and D



ANSWERS

C
A
D
E

2.2 THE SENSES
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Explain transduction of sensory signals from receptor potentials to action potentials.
Explain how sensory information is encoded for intensity, stimulus type, and location.
Describe the receptors important for somatosensation.
Describe structures of the eye and their importance in vision.
Differentiate between rods and cones; describe the role of each in vision.
Describe sequence of events and structures involved from transmission of sound entering the external auditory canal to its transformation into receptor potentials (hair cells) and action potentials.
Describe how the loudness and pitch of sounds are encoded.
Describe the vestibular apparatus and explain the role of each component in analyzing linear accelerations, rotation and head position.
Describe the receptor mechanisms of taste and smell, identifying the four modalities of taste.

INTRODUCTION
Sensory systems consist of sensory cells that respond to changes in the external or internal environment of our bodies and relay that information to the central nervous system. We are unaware of most of the sensory information collected by sensory cells. The sensation tells us what the stimulus is, where it is in relation to our body, and the strength of the stimulus. Sensory systems also have the ability to adapt to constant stimulation by decreasing in sensitivity. Adaptation leads to decreased action potential frequency after exposure to the same stimulus repeatedly. Interpretation of a sensation by the central nervous system leads to our perception of the stimulus. How the central nervous system is able to convert sensations into perceptions is not well understood in most cases. 
PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM INPUT
In general, there are two different ways that sensory information is conveyed to the central nervous system. In some cases, such as the odorant receptor cells of the nose, an afferent neuron has a specialized ending that produces graded potentials that can lead to action potentials in response to a stimulus. In other systems such as vision, taste, and hearing, a specialized receptor cell produces graded potentials that can trigger an action potential in an afferent neuron. Each afferent neuron receives signals from a single type of stimulus.
SOMATOSENSATION
The skin, muscles, and joints have receptors that can sense touch, pressure, temperature, pain, or the position of the body. The information gathered by these receptors leads to sensations referred to as somatosensations.
Each receptor type responds primarily to only one type of stimulus. Mechanoreceptors are nerve endings that are encapsulated by connective tissue that sense touch and pressure. There are different types of encapsulated nerve endings that have different morphologies which allow them to respond to a specific kind of touch. Stretching of the connective tissue fibers of the encapsulated endings activates ion channels which can produce action potentials that signal to the central nervous system.
Posture and movement of body parts are sensed by muscle stretch mechanoreceptors, as well as mechanoreceptors present in skin, joints, tendons, and ligaments. Together they sense the amount of muscle stretch as well as the rate of muscle stretch. Vision and balance also play a role in the perception of where the body is in space, or proprioception.
Temperature is sensed in the skin using different types of thermoreceptors. Free nerve endings, which are processes of neurons, sense temperature using ion channels that are activated only at certain temperatures. A single sensory neuron only expresses a single kind of thermoreceptor. Thermoreceptors can also detect certain chemicals. For instance, cold-sensing thermoreceptors respond to menthol, while heat-sensing thermoreceptors respond to capsaicin (from chili peppers) and ethanol.
Pain is sensed by free nerve endings expressing nociceptors, which are receptors that sense extreme mechanical deformation, high temperatures, as well as chemicals released by damaged cells or immune cells.
VISION
Overview
The visual system detects light to allow us to perceive the shape and color of objects as well as their movement. The light sensing portion of the eye, the retina, lines the inside of the back of the eye (Figure 30). It consists of photoreceptor cells and their afferent neurons. Before coming in contact with the retina, light passes through the cornea, a clear epithelium, and the lens of the eye. Between the cornea and lens, the anterior chamber is filled with fluid, called aqueous humor. The posterior chamber is between the lens and the retina. It contains a gel called vitreous humor.

Figure 30. The anatomy of the human eye. Image from http://www.nei.nih.gov/photo/eyean/images/NEA13_72.jpg (modified), National Eye Institute, public domain.
In vision, light is reflected by objects and enters the eye. The pupil controls the amount of light entering the eye. The light is focused by the lens on to the retina (Figure 30). The photoreceptor cells convert energy from the light into an electrical signal that is processed by the brain and transformed into a perceived image.
Refraction and Focusing of light
Only photons with certain wavelengths can be detected by the retina. Different wavelengths of light within the visible range are perceived by the central nervous system as different colors. When light hits the cornea, it is bent, or refracted as it passes from air into the tissue. This is the largest source of refraction and focusing by the eye. The light continues through the aqueous humor and is refracted as it travels through the lens, which can adjust to focus on objects a certain distance away. Ciliary muscles encircle the perimeter of the lens and flatten the lens when the muscles relax or make the lens more round when the muscles contract. A lens that is more round allows the eye to focus on closer objects. Due to the refraction of light by the cornea, the image on the retina appears upside down and backwards. The pupil plays a role in focusing light by restricting bright light to the center of the retina for clearer vision.

Figure 31. The steps of light detection by photoreceptor cells. Image by Jason J. from http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Phototransduction.png (modified), Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported license.
THE RETINA
The retina contains two types of photoreceptor cells, the rods and cones. Because the light-sensing portion of the photoreceptor cells faces the back of the retina, the light must travel through several layers of cells before it is detected. Photopigment proteins (G-protein coupled receptors) in the plasma membrane of the photoreceptors contain retinal, a derivative of vitamin A that changes its conformation in response to a photon of light (Figure 31). The change in conformation of retinal affects the conformation of the photopigment protein which starts a signal transduction cascade. The signal transduction cascade reduces the amount of cGMP which causes a cGMP-gated cation channel to close (Figure 31). This hyperpolarizes the photoreceptor cell and eventually results in signaling to the central nervous system.
Rods
Photoreceptor rod cells express rhodopsin photopigment protein and are very sensitive to light. As a result, they are used in night vision. Many rod photoreceptor cells bind a single bipolar cell. This convergence of signals translates into low resolution vision during conditions of low illumination.
Cones
Photoreceptor cone cells express one of three different photopigment proteins called opsins. Cones are less sensitive to light and so are used in conditions of high levels of illumination. Bipolar cells bind only one cone cell so there is high resolution vision with cones. The three different opsins that are expressed by the three types of cones bind retinal in unique ways which leads to absorption of light at different wavelengths. The three opsins are sensitive to red, blue or green wavelengths of light.  For instance, red light from a red object primarily hyperpolarizes cones expressing red-sensitive opsin. This activates red bipolar cells and ganglion cells. Colors other than red, blue, or green are perceived when combinations of different cones are stimulated. For instance, we perceive yellow when the red and green cones are both stimulated.
HEARING AND THE VESTIBULAR SYSTEM
Sound
Sound waves cause vibration of air molecules so that the molecules alternate between being compressed and expanding. The amplitude of the difference between the high and low pressure of air molecules determines the volume of the sound (measured as decibels, dB). The frequency of the changes between high and low pressure determines the pitch of the sound (measured as Hertz, cycles per second).

Figure 32. Anatomy of the ear. Image by Dan Pickard (modified), http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:HumanEar.jpg, public domain.
Sound transmission
The outer ear, which consists of the pinna and external auditory canal, amplify and direct the sound to the middle ear (Figure 32). The middle ear is an air filled cavity with three bones, the malleus, incus, and stapes. The sound hits and deforms the tympanic membrane between the outer and middle ear (Figure 32). The three bones of the middle ear respond to the deformation of the tympanic membrane and amplify the vibration to the oval window on the cochlea of the inner ear. Because the oval window is much smaller than the tympanic membrane, the vibrations are amplified. This is important because in the inner ear, fluid is used to transmit the sound (Figure 33).

Figure 33. The anatomy of the cochlea. image by Dick Lyon (modified), http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Cochlea.svg, public domain
Cochlea
The cochlea contains the receptor cells for sound which are located in a central fluid-filled cavity called the cochlear duct. The cochlear duct is bordered by two additional fluid-filled cavities that vibrate in response to deformation of the oval window (Figure 33).  Sound travels down the scala vestibuli after deformation of the oval window and then travels down the scala tympani and ends at the round window (Figure 33). During this process the basilar membrane of the cochlear duct vibrates (Figure 34).

Figure 34. The Organ of Corti. image by Oarih (modified), http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Cochlea-crosssection.png, Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported license.
Organ of Corti
Within the cochlear duct, sitting on the basilar membrane is the organ of Corti, which contains the hair cells that serve as the receptor cells for sound. Stereocilia of the hair cells are embedded in a tectorial membrane. As the basilar membrane bounces up and down, the stereocilia bend (Figure 34).  Bending the stereocilia on the hair cells opens stretch-sensitive K+ channels and K+ enters the cells due to the composition of the surrounding fluid. K+ entry depolarizes the hair cell and neurotransmitter is released.  Bending in the other direction hyperpolarizes the cell and inhibits neurotransmitter release. After a hair cell activates the afferent neuron, axons from these neurons join to form the cochlear nerve. The region of the basilar membrane along the length of the cochlea that vibrates the most correlates with the frequency of the sound. As a result, the sensation of pitch is determined by which portion of the basilar membrane is activated. The louder the sound, the more vibration and the greater frequency of action potentials produced in the afferent neurons.

Figure 35. The vestibular system of the inner ear. Image from The Effects of Space Flight on the Human Vestibular System, an online educational article by the U.S. government's National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), http://commons.wikimedia.org/wik
BALANCE
The portions of the inner ear that sense movement of the head are called the vestibular system. The semicircular canals detect rotation of the head while the otolith organs detect linear movement of the head (Figure 35).
Semicircular canals
There are three semicircular canals in the inner ear that allow detection of head rotation along three perpendicular axes - nodding the head, shaking the head, and tipping the ear towards the shoulder (Figure 35). Each canal contains hair cells that move with the head as it rotates around a certain axis. Because the fluid remains stationary, it bends the steriocilia of the hair cells which causes release of neurotransmitter similar to hair cells of the auditory system.
Otolith organs
The otolith organs contain sheets of hair cells that have calcium carbonate crystals, called otoliths, embedded in gel that surrounds the stereocilia of the hair cells. Since the otoliths are heavier than the fluid around the hair cells, they remain stationary and pull on the stereocilia during linear movements. The utricle contains hair cells that point straight up in a standing postion and respond to horizontal linear acceleration. The saccule contains hair cells that are oriented at a 90 degree angle compared to those of the utricle (Figure 35). This allows them to detect up and down motions.
CHEMICAL SENSES
Chemoreceptors all bind chemicals but they differ in their specificity. Taste buds in the tongue and odor receptors in the nose bind chemicals in food and air, respectively. There are other chemoreceptors such as those in the carotid arteries that sense the levels of blood gases and neurons in the brain that sense the osmolarity of blood.
TASTE
Taste ligands dissolved in saliva bind to chemoreceptors on taste buds. Receptor binding raises intracellular Ca++ causing the release of neurotransmitters and producing graded potentials. This leads to the initiation of action potentials in the postsynaptic neuron. Taste buds can detect chemicals that can be categorized into five different flavors: sweet, sour, salty, bitter, and umami. Each type of chemical is detected by different receptors. Each taste bud responds primarily to one flavor at low concentrations and two or three at higher concentrations.
SMELL
Odors in the air are detected by chemoreceptors of olfactory neurons. The olfactory neuron serves as the receptor cell as well as the afferent neuron. Binding of an odorant receptor leads to activation of signal transduction pathways that open cation channels and lead to graded potentials. Each odorant binds a combination of odorant receptors that are specific for different parts of the molecule. It is the combination of activated receptors that leads to our perception of a smell of a particular substance.
QUESTIONS


In the eye, relaxation of the ciliary muscles encircling the lens will cause the lens to:

become more rounded
flatten
ciliary muscles do not affect lens shape



The convergence of rod cells on bipolar cells explains which of the following?

the low resolution of color vision
the low resolution of night vision
the high resolution of color vision
the ability to see color



The volume of a sound is conveyed to the brain through:

the portion of the basilar membrane which vibrates
the amount of fluid that leaves the cochlea
the frequency of action potential production



The response of the otoliths of the utricle during deceleration is similar to leaning the head in which direction?

forward
backward
to the right
to the left



ANSWERS

B
B
C
A

2.3 THE SOMATIC NERVOUS SYSTEM
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Define motor unit.
Explain the spatial organization of lower motor neurons in the spinal cord.
Describe the role of alpha and gamma motor neurons, muscle spindle and Golgi tendon organ in the stretch reflex and knee jerk reflex loops. 
Explain the components that mediate the withdrawal reflex to noxious stimuli and the cross extensor reflexes.
Describe central pattern generators and explain their role in locomotion.

INTRODUCTION & STRUCTURE
The efferent portion of the peripheral nervous system consists of the somatic nervous system and the autonomic nervous system. The autonomic nervous system controls the function of glands, smooth muscle, cardiac muscle, and the neurons of the GI tract. It is composed of two neurons in series that can either excite or inhibit the target organ. In contrast, the somatic nervous system contains single neurons that excite skeletal muscles. The movements controlled by the somatic nervous system can be voluntary or involuntary (reflexes).

Figure 36. Neuromuscular junction. Image by OCAL (modified), http://www.clker.com/clipart-26784.html, public domain.
MOTOR UNIT
The axons of motor neurons are myelinated and have large diameters for fast conduction of action potentials. As the axon approaches a skeletal muscle fiber (muscle cell) it usually branches to form synapses with anywhere from three to one thousand muscle fibers. However, each muscle fiber is usually innervated by only a single neuron. A motor unit consists of a neuron and all of the muscle fibers it innervates. A single neuron innervates fibers from only one muscle and the innervated muscle fibers are usually spread throughout the muscle.

Figure 37. Spinal cord structure. Image by Ruth Lawson Otago Polytechnic (modified), Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported license http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Anatomy_and_physiology_of_animals_Relation_btw_sensory,_relay_%26_motor_neurons.jpg
The portion of the skeletal muscle fiber plasma membrane that synapses with the motor neuron axon is called the motor end plate. Once an action potential arrives at the axon terminal, the depolarization of the membrane opens voltage-gated calcium channels (Figure 36). An increase in intracellular calcium at the terminal causes release of acetylcholine vesicles into the neuromuscular junction. The acetylcholine binds nicotinic channels at the motor end plate which causes them to open and allow sodium to enter (Figure 36). The sodium entry triggers voltage-gated sodium channels near the motor end plate, initiating an action potential which is propagated in all directions along the plasma membrane of the muscle fiber.
SPINAL CORD ANATOMY
The cell bodies of the neurons that innervate skeletal muscle of the body are found in the ventral horn of the spinal cord (Figure 37, blue). The neurons that innervate the skeletal muscle of the head are in the brainstem. In the body, sensory signals come into the spinal cord from the dorsal root ganglia, which contain the cell bodies of sensory neurons (Figure 37, red). These neurons can excite motor neurons in the spinal cord. Motor neuron axons travel through tissues as nerves and synapse on skeletal muscle cells. Excitation of motor neurons causes acetylcholine to be released at the neuromuscular junction causing contraction of the muscle. The muscle relaxes when the motor neuron is no longer excited.
CONTROL OF MOVEMENT
The spinal cord is not just a conduit connecting the peripheral nervous system and the brain. Instead, movements such as walking as well as reflexes are organized by the spinal cord. In situations when control by upper motor neurons in the brain is necessary, they act on the lower motor neurons of the spinal cord to influence reflexes and voluntary movements.
Two types of lower motor neurons
The portion of a skeletal muscle that controls posture and movement, the extrafusal muscle fibers, are innervated by alpha motor neurons. A specialized type of skeletal muscle fiber, the intrafusal muscle cell, resides in the muscle spindle in the interior of the muscle (Figure 38). The intrafusal muscle fibers are innervated by gamma motor neurons. During muscle contraction, alpha and gamma motor neurons are coactivated. Stretching of the intrafusal fibers in the muscle spindle is sensed by stretch receptors and sent via afferent sensory neurons to the spinal cord. This allows for monitoring of the length of the muscle which helps control muscle tone.
Two types of muscle sensory receptors 
In order for the body to be able to control muscle contraction properly, there must be feedback about the contractile status of individual muscles. The muscle spindle is an important muscle sensory receptor that provides information about muscle length and the rate of change of muscle length. In addition, Golgi tendon organs are encapsulated sensory receptors situated in tendons near the junction with the muscle (Figure 38). They detect changes in muscle tension instead of changes in muscle length. Both types of sensory receptors send information to the spinal cord and the brain that is usually subconscious.

Figure 38. Sensory receptors in skeletal muscle. Image copyrighted by Rick Melges, Duke University.
Muscle Stretch Reflex. If a muscle spindle within a muscle is quickly stretched, the muscle stretch reflex causes contraction of the muscle as well as nearby muscles. This is what occurs when the patellar tendon is struck during a physical exam (Figure 39). The afferent sensory neuron relays the stretch signal from the muscle spindle to its cell body in the dorsal root of the spinal cord. The sensory neuron synapses with the motor neuron in the spinal cord that controls that muscle. In addition, the sensory neuron activates an inhibitory neuron which inhibits the motor neuron (reducing its likelihood of firing an action potential) leading to the muscle on the opposite side of the limb, causing it to relax (Figure 39). The muscle spindle reflex is important in allowing maintenance of the length of a certain muscle.

Figure 39. The circuitry of the muscle stretch reflex. Image copyrighted by Rick Melges, Duke University.
Golgi Tendon Reflex. If the Golgi tendon organs of a muscle are stretched and stimulated, muscle contraction is inhibited through inhibition of the motor neuron leading to that muscle. This is because the afferent neuron activates an inhibitory neuron which is synapsing with the motor neuron (Figure 40). In addition, the opposing muscle is stimulated to contract through the interaction of an excitatory interneuron with the afferent neuron (Figure 40). The Golgi tendon reflex acts to protect muscles and tendons from damage due to excessive tension. In addition, they may play a role in equalizing the load across different parts of a muscle.
Withdrawal Reflexes. A withdrawal reflex occurs when a part of the body such as a portion of a limb is subjected to a painful stimulus. The flexor reflex causes contraction of one muscle and relaxation of the opposing muscle to move that portion of the body away from the insult. A short time after the flexor reflex initiates, the crossed extensor reflex initiates on the opposite side of the body. This reflex allows for the opposite side of the body to support the body's weight or to push the body out of the way of the painful stimulus.

Figure 40.  The circuitry of the Golgi tendon reflex. Image copyrighted by Rick Melges, Duke University.
Locomotion. Walking and running require the legs to alternate between forward flexion (the swing phase) and backward extension (the stance phase). The repetition of this pattern is synchronized with the other leg so that the two legs remain in opposite phases. In most animals, if the spinal cord is separated from the brain the four legs can still make coordinated walking motions. This is accomplished through central pattern generators which are oscillatory neural circuits of lower motor neurons in the spinal cord.  Even though these circuits control the basic movements of walking, they are greatly influenced by the brain. For instance, running occurs when the brain causes the central pattern generators to shorten the stance phase. In addition, posture and goal-directed locomotion require input from the brain. However, the central pattern generators allow relatively simple modifications by the brain to control a very complicated process such as locomotion.
QUESTIONS


In the muscle spindle reflex, stretching of the biceps muscle leads to:

contraction of the biceps and relaxation of the triceps
relaxation of the biceps and contraction of the triceps
contraction of the biceps and contraction of the triceps
relaxation of the biceps and relaxation of the triceps



The Golgi tendon organ fires action potentials most frequently when its associated muscle is in which state?

relaxed
stretched
contracted



ANSWERS

A
C











CHAPTER 5: THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM
Emma Jakoi, Ph. D.
Jennifer Carbrey, Ph. D.
5.1 ANATOMY & MECHANICS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Identify the components of the respiratory system and their functions.
Define ventilation and describe the determinants of airflow.
Define the standard lung volumes and capacities.
Describe compliance, the factors that affect compliance and its role in determining lung volumes.

INTRODUCTION
The respiratory system carries out several homeostatic functions, including:

gas exchange between the atmosphere and the blood to provide an adequate supply of oxygen to tissues and to remove carbon dioxide (CO2) generated in oxidative metabolism.
        O2 + Food = CO2 + H2O + ATP
regulation of body pH by either retaining or eliminating CO2
conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II which acts to control blood pressure
protection from inhaled particles.

In the respiratory system, air flow occurs by bulk flow from regions of high pressure to lower pressure with the pressure differences generated by a muscular pump. Resistance to air flow is influenced primarily by the radius of the tube (1/r to the 4th power) through which air is flowing.  F = (P1 -P2)/R
The movement of fresh air into the lung (inspired) or out of the lung (exhaled) is called ventilation. Both the rate and size of the breath (tidal volume) can change in response to needs of the body. 
ANATOMY
The respiratory system consists of structures involved in moving air into and out of the lungs (bulk flow) and in gas exchange (diffusion).
LUNGS AND CHEST WALL act as a unit. Each lung is surrounded by a membranous sac (pleura) filled with a thin film of fluid (Figure 70). This intrapleural fluid serves as a lubricant so the lungs can move freely within the chest wall and functionally connects the lungs to the chest wall such that expansion of the chest expands the lungs.

Figure 70. Anatomy of the respiratory system. Image by OCAL, http://www.clker.com/clipart-12109.html, public domain
CONDUCTING ZONE leads from the external environment to the gas exchange surfaces of the lungs (Figure 70). This zone includes a series of tubes (nasal cavity, pharynx, trachea, bronchus, and bronchioles) with small radii and small surface areas. Their total volume is about 150 ml. Since no gas exchange occurs in the conducting zone, it is often called the anatomical dead space.
RESPIRATORY ZONE is the region of the lung where gas exchange occurs (Figure 71). The respiratory zone is much larger than the conducting zone and has a volume of about 3 L. It consists of respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts and alveoli. The alveoli are small sac-like structures with very thin walls wrapped by capillaries (Figure 71).  The 300 million alveoli provide a surface area of about 70 m2.  Here oxygen (O2) diffuses from the air space to the blood and carbon dioxide (CO2) diffuses from the blood to the air space. The distance that gas has to diffuse is very short, about 0.2 microns, making the alveolus-capillary unit ideally suited for gas exchange.

Figure 71. Respiratory zone of the lung. Image by Mohamed Ibrahim, http://www.clker.com/clipart-49452.html, public domain
CELL TYPES
TYPE I CELLS are thin epithelial cells that line about 90% of the surface area of the alveoli. Gases diffuse across the type I cells to and from the blood (Figure 71). 
TYPE II CELLS are interspersed among the type I cells. Type II cells synthesize, secrete, and metabolize alveolar surfactant. Surfactant is a lipid-rich substance that lines the alveoli and helps keep lungs from collapsing.
ALVEOLAR MACROPHAGES are the third type of cell found in alveoli. Macrophages engulf inspired particles such as bacteria. These cells are mobile and are attracted to areas of either infection or trauma.
PULMONARY FUNCTION
BREATHING is the process of inspiration (air flows into the lung) and exhalation (air flows out of the lung).
Inspiration begins when the diaphragm and the intercostal muscles of the chest wall contract in response to neural impulses from the brain stem (Figure 72). Contraction of the diaphragm causes it to descend and contraction of the intercostal muscles raises the ribs; the chest cavity expands. Because the lungs are functionally connected to the chest wall by the pleural sac, the lungs also expand (Figure 72). This increase in lung volume reduces the air pressure in the alveolar ducts and alveoli. When the pressure in the alveoli (PA) becomes less than the pressure at the mouth, which is ordinarily atmospheric pressure (Patm), air flows in until PA = Patm (Figure 72).
 
Exhalation occurs when the muscles of inspiration relax. The lung returns passively to its pre-inspiratory volume due to its elastic properties. This reduction in volume raises the pressure in the lung causing air to flow out.

Figure 72. Expansion and contraction of the alveolar space alters the pressure of air within. Image by Mohamed Ibrahim, http://www.clker.com/clipart-49504.html, public domain
VENTILATION CYCLE is one inspiration and exhalation. Ventilation rate (f) is in the range of 10-18 breaths per min. Both the rate and depth can be changed by output from the respiratory centers in the brain stem (medulla oblongata).  During heavy exercise air flow can increase 20-fold and blood flow 3-fold. To expel such increased volumes, active exhalation is required in which abdominal muscles and external intercostals muscles contract. These actions actively decrease the size of the thorax (chest cavity). 
LUNG VOLUMES
LUNG VOLUMES are determined by the interaction of the lung and chest wall. The lungs are elastic like a rubber band. They expand during inspiration and recoil passively during exhalation. Functional residual capacity (FRC) is the resting volume of the lung and chest wall. It occurs when the elastic recoil of the lung (pulling inward) balances the pressure of the chest wall to expand (pulling outward). When chest wall muscles are weak, FRC decreases.
Lung volumes play a major role in gas exchange and in the work of breathing. They are measured under dynamic and static conditions. Dynamic volumes refer to measurements made when volumes are changing, i.e., during gas flow. Static volumes can be measured between two points where there is no flow, for example before and after inspiration.
There are four standard lung volumes (Figure 73). There are also four standard lung capacities, which consist of a combination of two or more volumes. A spirometer is used to measure lung volumes directly. All volumes except the residual volume (amount of air remaining in the lung at all times) can be measured with a spirometer.

Figure 73. Lung volumes and capacities. image by Vihsadas (modified), http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:LungVolume.jpg, public domain
Residual volume (RV): Amount of air in the lungs at the end of maximal exhalation (~ 1.5 L young men).
Tidal volume (TV): Volume of air inhaled or exhaled with each breath (in adult males ~ 0.5L; in females usually about 20- 25% less).
Inspiratory reserve volume (IRV): Volume of air that can be inspired after a normal inspiration (~ 3.0 L in males).
Expiratory reserve volume (ERV): Maximal volume of air that can be expired (exhaled) from resting expiratory level (~1.0 L in males).
Inspiratory capacity (IC=TV+IRV): Maximal volume of air that can be inspired from resting expiratory level (~3.5 L in males).
Functional residual capacity: (FRC=RV+ERV): Volume of air in lungs at end of a normal exhalation. (~2.5 L in males) (see Figure 73).
Vital capacity (VC=ERV+TV+IRV): Volume of air that can be exhaled after maximal inspiration (~ 4.5 L)
Total lung capacity (TLC=RV+ERV+TV+IRV): Volume in lungs at end of maximal inspiration (~6 L).
Changes in lung volumes are some of the earliest indicators of lung disease. One of the most informative is the ratio of RV and TLC. Normally RV/TLC ratio is less than 0.25, that is the air trapped in the lung is ~25% of the total lung volume.  In obstructive lung diseases the amount of trapped air (RV) increases, hence RV/TLC increases. In restrictive lung disease in which the lung cannot fill normally, RV/TLC also increases but in this case, total lung volume (TLC) is reduced disproportionate to residual volume.
ELASTIC RECOIL AND COMPLIANCE
LUNG COMPLIANCE is defined as the stretchability of the lung for any 1-cm change in pressure across the lung. CL =  VL/ (PA - Pip)
The greater the compliance, the easier it is to expand the lungs at any given change in trans-pulmonary pressure. Compliance is the inverse of elastic recoil or stiffness.

Figure 74. Pressure-volume relationship during inflation of isolated lungs. In the restrictive lung disease, fibrosis, the lung shows decreased compliance and reduced volume (vital capacity). The emphysema lung shows increased compliance and increased volume (vital capacity). Image copyrighted by Rick Melges, Duke Univ.
The most common way to obtain a compliance curve is to have an individual inspire to total lung capacity and then exhale slowly in small increments. When airflow is temporarily stopped, volume and transpulmonary pressure are recorded. A pressure-volume curve is constructed (Figure 74). The slope of the pressure - volume curve at any given point is lung compliance at that point.
Note that the pressure-volume curve is not linear (Figure 74). At high lung volumes, the lungs are almost maximally stretched and a large change in pressure produces only a small change in volume. Therefore, compliance is usually measured in the mid-range of the pressure - volume curve during tidal volume breathing. A normal value for lung compliance at this point is 0.2 liter/cm H2O.
Lung compliance is determined in part by the elastic tissue of the lung. A lung with high compliance is easy to stretch. The disease emphysema destroys this elastic tissue and thus increases lung compliance. A lung with low compliance is stiff and hard to stretch and so is hard to fill with air. This is seen in the disease fibrosis. 
Compliance of the lung is determined also by the surface tension generated at the air-water interfaces within the alveoli. The alveoli are air filled sacs lined with water. The attractive force between the water molecules (known as surface tension) resists stretching.  The surface tension of pure water is so great that were the alveoli lined by water alone, lung expansion would require exhausting muscular effort and the lungs would tend to collapse. The detergent-like substance, surfactant, markedly reduces this surface tension and thereby increases lung compliance.
Lung surfactant is synthesized by the alveolar type II cell and secreted into the alveolar space by stretching the type II cells during breathing. The major component in surfactant is a phospholipid which is inserted perpendicularly into the gas-liquid interface so that its non-polar, hydrophobic fatty acids are pointed toward the gas and its polar end is in the liquid. The phospholipids form a monolayer that generates a film pressure opposing the surface tension. When this film is compressed (as the volume of the lungs is reduced) the film pressure rises and surface tension falls even further. This property stabilizes the lungs.
The lungs of many premature babies are unable to produce adequate amounts of functional surfactant. Approximately 50% of babies born before the 31st week of gestation will suffer from Respiratory Distress Syndrome. Because of the lack of surfactant, the surface tension in their lungs is high, which increases the tendency of the lungs to collapse. Do these lungs have high or low compliance? 

Figure 75. Stabilizing effect of surfactant on lung alveoli.
Surfactant stabilizes the alveoli. The surface tension of the alveoli tends to pull inward creating a pressure. The relationship between surface tension and pressure is shown in Figure 75 and is defined by the law of Laplace.
According to Laplace, transmural pressure is equal to twice the surface tension divided by the radius: Transmural Pressure = 2T/r
If surface tension were equal in alveoli of different sizes, the pressure in the smaller alveolus would be greater than the pressure in the large alveolus and the smaller alveolus would collapse into the larger one. Alveolar collapse does not normally happen because the surface tension in a lung with surfactant is not constant. Instead surfactant reduces surface tension in a nonlinear fashion; i.e., as area is reduced, surface tension is reduced even further. By lowering surface tension proportionately more in smaller alveoli, surfactant makes it possible for alveoli of different radii to coexist and to be stable at low lung volumes.
During normal tidal breathing, the surface area of the lung remains fairly constant and with time the surfactant becomes "inactivated" through poorly understood mechanisms. A deep sigh or a yawn will increase the surface area of the lungs and new surfactant will spread at the air-liquid interface.
QUESTIONS


Which of the following conditions leads to decreased lung compliance?

Decreased production of surfactant
Increased fibrosis
Increased fluid in the interstitial space surrounding the alveoli (edema)
A, B and C



Alveoli are less compliant at:

Low lung volume
High lung volume
Functional residual capacity (FRC)



ANSWERS

D
B


5.2 AIR FLOW IN THE LUNGS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe how changes in lung volume affect air flow in inhalation and exhalation.
Describe the relative changes in alveolar, intrapleural, and transmural pressures in inhalation, exhalation and between breaths.
Describe the factors that affect airway resistance and their affect on ventilation.
Explain how the pulmonary function tests (FVC and FEV1) are used to distinguish changes in lung compliance versus airway resistance.
Contrast minute ventilation and alveolar ventilation.
Explain the steady state changes in partial pressures of O2 and CO2 in the lung and blood circulation.

PRESSURE CHANGES AFFECT LUNG VOLUMES
In a normal lung, air flows in and out when a pressure gradient is created. Gas always flows from a higher to a lower pressure. During inspiration, expansion of the thorax causes the intrapleural and alveolar pressures to decrease, gas flows into the lung. During exhalation passive recoil of the lung causes the intrapleural pressure and alveolar pressure to increase; gas flows out of the lung. Note that during inspiration and exhalation the pleural pressure is always less than the pressure in the alveoli.
The transpulmonary pressure (Figure 76) also increases and decreases with lung volume. By convention, the transpulmonary pressure is always positive (Ptp = PA - Pip). 
At the end of an unforced exhalation when no air is flowing, then the following conditions exist:
Alveolar pressure = 0 mmHg
Intrapleural pressure (i.e., pressure in pleural cavity) = -5 mmHg
Transpulmonary pressure (PA- Pip) = +5mmHg.
When there is no airflow in or out of the lungs, the transpulmonary pressure and intrapleural pressure are equal in magnitude but opposite in sign (Figure 76).
At rest, the volume of the lung is a balance between the expansion of the chest wall and the inward elastic recoil of the lungs. The lung at rest is in a partially expanded state (stretched).
A pneumothorax, can occur with trauma or surgery. In this instance, the chest wall is pierced without damaging the lung. Atmospheric air enters the intrapleural space raising its pressure to 0 mmHg. This input of air causes the lung to collapse since its elastic recoil is no longer opposed. Concurrently the chest wall moves outward. 

Figure 76. In ventilation, air flow is determined by the difference between atmospheric and alveolar pressures. Lung size is determined by the balance between the transpulmonary pressure and elastic recoil.
AIRWAY RESISTANCE
Thus far we have discussed the changes in pressure that are required to overcome the elastic recoil tendencies of the respiratory system. An additional force that must be overcome during normal breathing is the resistance to airflow. Measurement of airway resistance is an extremely useful diagnostic tool because changes in airway resistance accompany aging and many lung diseases. 
Air flow (F) will depend upon the driving pressure (P) and the resistance (R) according to the equation: F = (Patm -PA)/R. Factors that influence airway resistance include airway diameter, lung volume, and elastic recoil of the lung. 

AIRWAY DIAMETER: It is probably intuitive that the more narrow the airway, the higher the resistance in that individual airway. What may not be intuitive is that most of the resistance to air flow is found in the mouth, trachea and large bronchi. The reason for this is that as the airways divide and become narrower, they also become more numerous. The small airways divide more rapidly than their diameter decreases, therefore, the resistance of each individual airway is relatively high, but their total-cross sectional area is so great that their combined resistance is low.
LUNG VOLUME: The diameter of the airway lumen is affected by lung volume. The airways are not rigid and are capable of being distended and compressed. At high lung volumes, the airways such as bronchi and bronchioles, are "pulled" open and their resistance is lower than at low lung volumes. Patients with increased airway resistance frequently have high lung volumes in an attempt to compensate.

ELASTIC RECOIL: Airway diameter will be affected by the transmural pressure across them (Figure 77). Although the airways are embedded in the lung, the pressure that they are exposed to on their outside wall is close to intrapleural pressure. If elastic recoil is reduced, then intrapleural pressure will be less negative than normal. The transmural pressure across the airways will be reduced, the airway diameter will be smaller than normal, and resistance will be higher than normal. Patients with emphysema often have destruction of lung tissue, decreased elastic recoil (increased compliance), and increased airway resistance.

Figure 77. Increased resistance in the airways (bronchi) can lead to airway compression. The movement of air through the narrowed opening can cause wheezing.At the equal pressure point, pressure inside the airway equals that in the pleural space. In normal lungs this occurs in the large airways which are surrounded by cartilage. However, in diseases associated with airway obstruction, resistance to flow is increased and the pressure gradient for flow is reduced. Consequently the equal pressure point moves into airways that do not contain cartilage causing these airways to close completely (premature airway collapse) (Figure 77). This premature airway closure can be heard as crackles.
      
MUSCLE TONE Constriction of bronchial smooth muscle will decrease the diameter of the airways and increase airway resistance.  Parasympathetic stimulation causes contraction of bronchial smooth muscle; sympathetic stimulation causes relaxation. Asthmatics often have hyper-reactive airways and smooth muscle contraction. Drugs which stimulate adrenergic receptors in the bronchioles cause relaxation and are often used to treat asthmatics.

PULMONARY FUNCTION TESTS
FORCED EXPIRATORY VITAL CAPACITY TEST provides an indirect assessment of airway resistance. In this pulmonary function test, the subject inhales to total lung capacity and then exhales into a spirometer as forcefully, rapidly, and as completely as possible. The volume expired under these conditions is called the forced vital capacity (FVC) (Figure 78). 

Figure 78. Forced expiratory vital capacity curves generated by individuals X, Y and Z.
The forced expiratory vital capacity test also measures the volume exhaled in 1 second, called the 1-second forced expiratory volume (FEV1). This value is often expressed as a % of FVC (i.e., FEV1/FVC %). Normally FEV1 is at least 80% of FVC (curve Y). Patients with restrictive lung disease will have a normal value of 80% (curve Z). In patients such as asthmatics, who have obstructed airways, this value will be reduced (<80%) (curve X).
EXCHANGE OF GASES IN ALVEOLI & TISSUES
Respiration involves two processes:


Delivery of O2 to and removal of CO2 from the cells of the body.
Use of O2 in oxidative metabolism to generate ATP, water, and CO2.

In a steady state, the amount of O2 that is consumed by the cells per unit time is equal to the amount of O2 added to the blood in the lungs during the same time period. Likewise the rate at which CO2 is generated by the cells is equal to the rate at which CO2 leaves the blood in the lungs and is exhaled. 
Gases move by diffusion from regions of high concentration to regions of low concentration. Therefore to provide adequate gradients for diffusion, the pulmonary system must increase the amount of oxygen in the alveoli above that found in the mixed venous (MV) blood of the lung. Additionally it must lower the carbon dioxide in the alveoli below that of mixed venous blood.
A second set of gradients must exist at the tissue-blood interface. Here the amount of O2 consumed by cells and CO2 produced are not necessarily identical and depend on the fuel source consumed. The ratio of CO2 produced to O2 consumed is called the respiratory quotient (RQ). For a mixed diet, 8 molecules of CO2 are produced for every 10 molecules of O2 consumed (i.e., RQ = 0.8). For a diet composed of carbohydrates, the RQ is 1.0. For a diet of fat, the RQ is 0.7. 
MINUTE & ALVEOLAR VENTILATION
Minute ventilation (VE) is the total volume of gas entering (or leaving) the lung per minute. It is equal to the tidal volume (TV) multiplied by the respiratory rate (f).
Minute ventilation = VE = TV x f
At rest, a normal person moves ~450 ml/breath x 10 breath/min = 4500 ml/min.
However, because of the anatomical dead space (VD), not all of this entering air is available for exchange with the blood. Recall that the conducting airway (anatomical dead space) has a volume of ~150 ml. As illustrated in Figure 79, when 450 ml of fresh air is inspired, the first gas to reach the respiratory zone comes from this anatomical dead space (150 ml). Then 300 ml of fresh gas reaches the respiratory zone and the last 150 ml of inspired gas remains in the dead space. Thus, the total amount of fresh air reaching the alveoli during each inspiration equals the tidal volume minus the volume of  the anatomical dead space.
TV - VD = 450 - 150 ml = 300 ml.

Figure 79. Effect of anatomical dead space on alveolar ventilation.
Alveolar ventilation (VA) is the total volume of fresh air entering the alveoli per minute. It is calculated as:
Alveolar ventilation = VA = (TV - VD) x f
When evaluating the efficiency of ventilation, one should focus on the alveolar ventilation not minute ventilation.
For example, in the table below, Subjects A and B have the same minute ventilation (VE = 6 L) but very different alveolar ventilations (VA).  Subject A has no alveolar ventilation and would be become unconscious in a few minutes but Subject B is breathing normally.

One other important point shown in the table above is that the depth of breathing (TV) is far more effective in elevating the alveolar ventilation than an increase in ventilation rate (f). This is because for each tidal breath a fixed volume is dead space. As tidal volume decreases, the fraction going to dead space increases. The respiratory system will respond to O2 need (as in exercise) by reflexively increasing ventilation by increasing the depth of breathing.
The anatomical dead space is not the only type of dead space in the lung. Some fresh air is not used for gas exchange even though it reaches the alveoli because some alveoli may have little or no blood supply (i.e., blood perfusion). This volume of air is called alveolar dead space. In normal individuals this is quite small but may be large in several kinds of lung disease. As we will discuss later, a mismatch in ventilation and blood perfusion is minimized by local mechanisms that match air and blood flow. The sum of the anatomical dead space and alveolar dead space is the physiologic dead space.
PARTIAL PRESSURE OF GASES 
The amount of various gases can be measured by comparing the pressure they exert. Gas molecules behave like individual particles that are in a constant state of motion. When the particles collide with one another or the sides of the container they exert a pressure. The pressure exerted depends on the number of collisions. Two factors affect the number of collisions: the temperature of the gas and the number of gas molecules. Dalton's law states that in a mixture of gases, the pressure exerted by each gas is the same as it would be if that gas alone occupied the entire container. These individual pressures are called partial pressures and are denoted as P in front of the symbol for the gas.
To calculate the partial pressure of gas "Y":
PY = Patm x FY
Where, Patm is the atmospheric pressure (at sea level = 760 mm Hg), and FY is the fractional concentration of gas Y.
Atmospheric air contains mostly nitrogen (79%) and oxygen (21% O2) with trace amounts of CO2 and other gases. Air also contains water vapor. At sea level, water vapor is 47 mm Hg. For simplicity, respiratory physiologists and physicians generally assume that room air is always dry. Since 21% of dry room air is oxygen, the fraction of O2 in inspired air (FiO2) is:
FiO2 x Patm = 0.21 X 760 mm Hg = 160 mm Hg.
The concentration of carbon dioxide in room air is so low (0.04%), it is considered to be 0.
When inspired, the room air is warmed to 37oC and becomes humidified as it passes through the nasal passages. The water vaporizes into the air until the PH2O= 47 mm Hg. What this means is that only 760 - 47 mm Hg or 713mm Hg is available for other gases besides water. Therefore,
PO2 of inspired gas = 0.21 X (760mm Hg - 47 mm Hg) = 150 mmHg.
PARTIAL PRESSURES OF ALVEOLAR GASES
In the alveoli, the partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide vary during the respiratory cycle. As gas exchange occurs, the alveolar partial pressure of carbon dioxide will rise and the alveolar partial pressure of oxygen will fall. Because these fluctuations are small (a few mm Hg) as compared with the 3000 ml present at the end of tidal exhalation, they are generally ignored and only mean values PO2 and PCO2 are considered.
The relationship between PO2 and PCO2 in the alveoli is described by the alveolar gas equation:
PAO2 = (Patm- PH2O) x FiO2 - PACO2/RQ
Because diffusion is so rapid and complete in the lung, the PACO2 and PAO2 in the alveoli normally determine these gas pressures in arterial blood (PaCO2 and PaO2). But there is a slight difference between alveolar and arterial gas pressures even in normal subjects such that PAO2 and PaO2 differ by 5-15 mm Hg. This difference is due to anatomical shunting of blood (reduced perfusion) and to the mismatch between ventilation and perfusion that exists even in normal lungs. Both of these conditions will be discussed later in detail.
Normal values for arterial PaO2 and PaCO2 are:
PaO2 = 100 mm Hg
PaCO2= 40 mm Hg.
The PaO2 and PaCO2 can be measured directly from arterial blood draws. PAO2 is calculated by the alveolar gas equation. For a patient breathing room air at sea level, this equation simplifies to:
PAO2 = 150 - PaCO2/0.8
Notice that alveolar PO2 is determined by three factors:

PO2 of atmospheric air
Alveolar ventilation rate
Rate of tissue O2 consumption (RQ).

Each of these factors can change independent of another. For example, a decrease in either PO2 of the atmospheric air (changes with altitude) or in alveolar ventilation (hypoventilation) will decrease the amount of fresh air entering the alveoli per unit time. Likewise, an increase in the rate of total body O2 consumption will decrease PO2 in the alveoli.
Because there is essentially no PCO2 in inspired air, only the rate of ventilation and the rate of tissue metabolism affect the PCO2 levels in the alveoli. In this instance, hypoventilation and/or increased cellular metabolism will increase PCO2 in the alveoli.
QUESTIONS


Jake is floating on the surface of a lake and breathing through a snorkel. Does he need to increase his tidal volume to keep his alveolar ventilation normal?

Yes.
No



Jake's snorkel is 100 ml. His alveolar ventilation is 6L/min and his rate of breathing is 10 ml/min. What is his tidal volume?

600 ml
700 ml
750 ml
850 ml



When is PAO2 highest in the lung?

end of expiration
end of inspiration
mid expiration
mid inspiration



ANSWERS

A
D
B

5.3 DELIVERY OF O2 AND CO2 TO AND FROM TISSUES
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Explain how ventilation rate alters the partial pressures of O2 and CO2 in the alveolus and blood.
Explain how oxygen and carbon dioxide are carried in the blood.
Describe the role of the lungs in regulating the body's pH.
Explain how alveolar ventilation and blood perfusion of the alveoli are matched and the importance of V/Q mismatch in disease.

VENTILATION RATE
Hypoventilation exists when there is an increase in the ratio of CO2 production to alveolar ventilation. That is the alveolar ventilation cannot keep up with CO2 production resulting in a rise in alvelolar PACO2 > 40 mm Hg (Figure 80). Hypoventilation can be caused by drugs such as barbiturates that depress the part of the central nervous system that drives breathing, or by damage to the chest wall, lungs, or respiratory muscles and when the movement of the chest wall is limited (e.g., caused by arthritis or deformation of the thoracic cavity).

Figure 80. Effect of ventilation rate on PAO2 and PACO2. As ventilation increases, PACO2 will decrease toward 0. As ventilation decreases, PACO2 will increase.
Hyperventilation exists when there is a decrease in the ratio of CO2 production to alveolar ventilation. That is the alveolar ventilation is too great for the CO2 produced resulting in PACO2 < 40mmHg (Figure 80). Hyperventilation will occur in response to hypoxia, high altitude, or some drugs such as cocaine which can cause anxiety attacks.
***Notice that hyperventilation is not the increased ventilation that accompanies mild to moderate aerobic exercise. In aerobic exercise the increase in production of CO2 is matched to increased alveolar ventilation (depth and rate of breathing).
TRANSPORT OF OXYGEN AND CARBON DIOXIDE
To enhance delivery and transport of O2 and CO2 to and from tissues, specialized mechanisms (O2-hemoglobin and bicarbonate transport of CO2) have evolved.
OXYGEN TRANSPORT
Oxygen is not very soluble in water and therefore requires the carrier, hemoglobin (Hb), for transport in blood. Blood normally contains about 15 g of Hb per 100 ml. This effectively raises the solubility of O2 from 3ml/L of plasma (blood minus the red blood cells) to 200 ml/L plasma. Since oxygen consumption ranges from 250 to 1500 L/min, this extra O2 carrying capacity of Hb enables the heart and lungs to provide for the O2 needs of the body.
Hemoglobin binds up to 4 molecules of O2 tightly, cooperatively, and reversibly. Normally Hb is almost completely saturated (96%) when exposed to room air (FiO2 = 21%). This occurs because of the transit time (0.75 seconds) for the red blood cell through the alveolus-capillary unit and the rapid equilibration (0.3 seconds) for both carbon dioxide and oxygen within this region of the lung.
This rapid equilibration reflects the driving pressure for diffusion and the solubility of the gas. The driving pressure for diffusion of CO2 in the alveolus-capillary unit is lower (PmvCO2-PaCO2 = 46 mm Hg - 40mm Hg = 6 mm Hg) than that for O2 (PaO2 - PmvO2 = 100 - 40 = 60 mm Hg), but the solubility of CO2 in plasma is much greater. The net result is that the rates of diffusion for CO2 and O2 are approximately equal in the alveolus-capillary unit. This means that in normal lungs there is ALWAYS adequate time to saturate Hb with O2 regardless of ventilatory rate.
Oxygen concentration in the blood is dependent on the Hb concentration in the red blood cells, the number of red blood cells (hematocrit), and on the adequacy of perfusion of the lungs rather than on diffusion rate itself.
Not all of the O2 bound to Hb is released in the tissues. At rest only about 25% of the O2 in blood is released (Figure 81). This provides a large driving force for diffusion and a large reservoir of O2 to be called upon when needed as in exercise.
The Hb-O2 dissociation curve (Figure 81) is S-shaped because the interaction of oxygen with hemoglobin is cooperative. That is, when one oxygen molecule binds, it increases the affinity of the hemoglobin for the next oxygen molecule. Each hemoglobin molecule can bind four oxygen molecules.
The plateau of the Hb-O2 dissociation curve is called the "association part" of the curve, because oxygen is loaded in the lungs at relatively high partial pressures. Increasing the partial pressure above 100 or down to about 80 mm Hg, does not result in a large change in the % saturation. This tends to stabilize arterial O2 content, making it relatively insensitive to moderate changes in breathing or altitude.

Figure 81. Hemoglobin dissociation curve. Image (modified) from OpenStax College, Anatomy & Physiology, Download for free at http://cnx.org/content/col11496/latest/
The "dissociation part" of the curve is the steep part of the curve (Figure 82). In this region a small change in PO2 results in a large change in % saturation which allows for large quantities of oxygen to be dumped in the tissues.
The P50 is the partial pressure of oxygen required to saturate 50% of the hemoglobin. A normal P50 is about 26-27 mm Hg. This value is a useful measure of the affinity of hemoglobin for O2.

Figure 82. Shifted hemoglobin dissociation curve. Image (modified) from OpenStax College, Anatomy & Physiology, Download for free at http://cnx.org/content/col11496/latest/
Oxygen-Hb binding and association is affected by a number of parameters including temperature, the red blood cell metabolite 2,3 diphosphoglycerate (DPG), and pH.  Elevated temperature, low pH and increased 2,3 DPG shift the curve to the right (decrease affinity) which enhances unloading of O2 from Hb (Figure 82).  Note that these are conditions found within the interstitial tissue surrounding actively contracting muscle. Hypoxic conditions also result in increased formation of 2,3-DPG by the red blood cells. 
Conversely, a decrease in temperature, high pH and a decrease in 2,3, DPG shifts the O2-Hb dissociation curve to the left (increase affinity) which promotes loading of O2 onto Hb (Figure 82).
CARBON DIOXIDE TRANSPORT
Carbon dioxide is a product of oxidative metabolism. Unlike O2, CO2 is very soluble in water and does not need a carrier for transport in the blood. Most (60%) of the carbon dioxide in blood is transported as bicarbonate (HCO3-). The conversion of CO2 to bicarbonate is catalyzed by the enzyme carbonic anhydrase located inside red blood cells.
CO2 + H2O = H2CO3 = HCO3- + H+
Once formed, the HCO3- is transported out of the RBC into the plasma in exchange for Cl-.
About 10% of the total CO2 in blood is transported as dissolved CO2. The amount dissolved is proportional to the PCO2, and to the solubility coefficient for CO2. At PaCO2 = 40 mm Hg, there would be approximately 26.8 ml CO2/L of plasma.
The remaining 30% of the CO2 combines with Hb to form carbamino-hemoglobin compounds.
Because CO2 diffuses 20X more rapidly than O2, a rise in blood CO2 can be compensated by an increase in ventilatory rate. Hyperventilation increases the amount of CO2 removed from the body and increases the unloading of CO2 from the blood in the lung.
VENTILATION & PERFUSION
Ventilation is the process of bringing air in and out of the lungs. Perfusion is the process of bringing blood in and out of the lung capillary bed to allow for gas exchange. The right ventricle delivers blood to the lungs at relatively low pressures (mean pressure of 15 mmHg). However, lung perfusion pressure can increase for multiple reasons including obstruction of vessels (i.e., embolism) or increased resistance to flow (i.e., fibrosis). The lung will compensate for lowered blood flow (1) by recruiting other capillary beds within the lung and (2) by distention of small vessels. If these responses are inadequate, then pressure within the pulmonary artery will rise causing a rise in right ventricular pressure. This is called pulmonary hypertension.

Figure 83. V/Q mismatch in a normal lung.
Under normal conditions, regulatory mechanisms within the lung match ventilation (V) to perfusion (Q) to optimize the oxygenation of the blood. V/Q mismatch can occur when ventilated alveoli are not perfused giving a V/Q ratio of infinity and conversely, when unventilated alveoli are perfused, giving a V/Q ratio of zero. This latter condition is equivalent to shunting venous blood from the right to the left side of the heart bypassing the lungs. Usually lung disease is progressive. It leads to a gradual worsening of either ventilation or perfusion and therefore the V/Q mismatch is intermediate between zero and infinity. Many believe that V/Q mismatching is the most common cause of low PaO2.
In a normal individual at the level of the lung, alveolar ventilation is about 4.0 L/min and pulmonary blood flow is about 5.0 L/min. This gives a V/Q = 0.8 overall. 
Note that V/Q mismatch occurs within the normal lung because blood flow is never perfectly uniform in this organ. In a normal person while standing, gravitational pull causes the apex of the lung to be more expanded than within the base thereby compressing the capillaries and reducing perfusion; V/Q ratios are greater than 1 in the apex (Figure 83). In contrast, perfusion is greater than ventilation at the base of the lung in an upright individual; V/Q ratios are less than 1 (Figure 83).
One mechanism that compensates for V/Q mismatch is the vasoconstriction of the lung vasculature in response to hypoxia (low O2). [Note that this is in contrast to the smooth muscle of the systemic vasculature which dilates in response to low O2 conditions.] Vasoconstriction of the lung vasculature to hypoxia enables the blood to be shunted away from poorly ventilated areas. This occurs without an increase in pulmonary artery perfusion pressure because of the large capacity of the pulmonary capillaries.
A second compensation that compensates for V/Q mismatch occurs when PACO2 falls (e.g. when V/Q ratio increases). In this instance, the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+) in and around the smooth muscle of the airways (bronchioles) decreases. This reduction in H+ results in airway constriction and a shift of ventilation away from the areas which are over ventilated (i.e., not perfused).
QUESTIONS


An increase in tissue PCO2 will cause vasoconstriction in:

arterioles that perfuse the lung alveoli
arterioles that perfuse skeletal muscle
arterioles perfuse lung alveoli and skeletal muscle
veins only



Predict the O2 binding curve for fetal Hb relative to adult Hb?

right shifted indicating higher affinity for O2
left shifted indicating higher affinity for O2
right shifted indicating lower affinity for O2
left shifted indicating lower affinity for O2
identical to adult Hb



Nancy arrived at the emergency room in a coma. You suspect a drug overdose which has depressed her rate and depth of breathing. As a consequence you expect her PaCO2 level to be:

increased
decreased
normal



ANSWERS

A
B
A

5.4 THE REGULATION OF BREATHING
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the reflex loop governing respiration.
Describe the brain stem centers and lung receptors that regulate breathing patterns, inflation and deflation.
Explain the negative feedback regulation by O2, CO2 and H+.
Explain the effect of exercise on breathing.
Describe the four types of hypoxia.

CONTROL OF RESPIRATION
Breathing is essentially automatic and can only be altered temporarily by voluntary efforts. You cannot consciously stop breathing for long. You breathe when you are asleep, awake, or even anesthetized. Breathing is finely tuned to meet metabolic demands, such that during exercise ventilation increases to maintain arterial PO2, PCO2 and pH within a narrow range. To achieve this tight regulation, peripheral receptors send information to a CNS respiratory center whose output adjusts initiation, duration, depth, and rate of breathing. 
The intercostal muscles and diaphragm are skeletal muscles that will not contract unless stimulated. Thus breathing depends on cyclical excitation of the motor neurons that innervate these muscles. Destruction of these nerves by the polio virus for example results in paralysis and death if the individual is not ventilated. 
The underlying respiratory rhythm is established by respiratory centers in the medulla of the brain stem. The general term for this integration center is the respiratory rhythm generator. Inspiratory neurons located in the respiratory center initiate respiratory rhythm by sending signals to the motor neurons that innervate the effector skeletal muscles (intercostals and diaphragm). This rhythm is modified by input from peripheral sensors (chemoreceptors and mechanoreceptors) located in blood vessel walls and by central receptors (chemoreceptors) in the brain.
Inspiration is limited by several inputs including stretch of the lungs and innate rhythm generators within the brain stem (medulla). The medullary inspiratory neurons are quite sensitive to drugs such as barbiturates and morphine. Death from an overdose of these drugs is often due to cessation of breathing.
Inspiratory receptors in the lung include:

Pulmonary stretch receptors located in the smooth muscle of the large and small airways of the lung are mechanoreceptors that fire with the inflation of the lung.  These receptors stop inspiration as part of the Hering-Breuer reflex. In the adult this reflex is evoked only under conditions of large tidal volumes as in rigorous exercise.
J Receptors located in the walls of the pulmonary capillaries which are stimulated by pulmonary vascular congestion, edema, air emboli (air in the blood), and low lung volumes. Stimulation of these receptors can result in rapid breathing (hyperpnea), and or labored breathing (dyspnea).
Pulmonary irritant receptors located in airway epithelium and the nasal mucosa. Mechanical or chemical irritation elicits a cough reflex and bronchoconstriction.

TRANSPORT OF HYDROGEN IONS
Metabolism generates protons (H+) which are extruded to the interstitial fluid surrounding cells and eventually enter the blood by diffusion. As blood flows through the tissues, a fraction of the oxy-hemoglobin (O2-Hb) loses its oxygen to become deoxy-Hb. Deoxy-Hb has a much higher affinity for H+ and thus binds most of the newly generated H+.
HbO2 + H+ = HbH + O2
This effectively removes the H+ from the blood and thereby buffers the blood. As a consequence venous blood is slightly more acidic (pH of 7.36) than arterial blood (pH 7.4). 
As venous blood passes through the lungs, HbH is converted to HbO2 and H+ is released. The H+ reacts with the bicarbonate (HCO3-) in the blood to give carbonic acid (H2CO3) which dissociates to H2O + CO2. The CO2 diffuses into the alveoli to be expired. Normally all of the H+ will be removed by this process and none will appear in the arterial blood.
H+ + HCO3- = H2CO3 = H2O + CO2
However, if an individual is either hypoventilating or has a lung disease that prevents normal elimination of CO2, then the PaCO2 will rise and the arterial H+ concentration will rise (by mass action). Increased arterial H+ concentration due to CO2 retention is called respiratory acidosis. Conversely, if a person is hyperventilating, then PaCO2 and H+ concentration will decrease, producing respiratory alkalosis.
VENTILATION IS REGULATED BY CHEMORECEPTORS
Respiratory rate and tidal volume can increase or decrease over a wide range. At rest, chemoreceptors located in the periphery and centrally within the CNS provide feedback to regulate these two factors. 
Peripheral chemoreceptors are the carotid receptors and aortic bodies. They are stimulated by:
a)      decrease in PaO2 (hypoxia)
b)      increase in PaCO2 (respiratory acidosis)
c)      decrease in pH within the arterial blood (metabolic acidosis).
Of the two, the carotid receptor is the predominate input in controlling respiration.
Central chemoreceptors are widely distributed throughout the brain stem. They respond to an increase in blood PCO2. These receptors actually sense H+ concentration in the interstitial fluid of the brain. They are not affected by changes in arterial pH because the blood brain-barrier is not permeable to H+ or HCO3-. Instead, CO2 equilibrates across this barrier, causing a change in the interstitial fluid pH. Because the interstitial fluid and the adjoining cerebrospinal fluid contain little protein, they are not well buffered. Hence small changes in PCO2 produce large changes in pH in this area.
VENTILATORY RESPONSE TO OXYGEN
The ventilatory response to hypoxia is shown in the graph in Figure 84. PaO2 must decrease to about 50-60 mm Hg before respiration is increased. It has been suggested that the carotid chemoreceptors (which respond to changes in PaO2), are designed to protect the organism against hypoxia rather than to regulate respiration. Note that the stimulation to hypoxia is arterial PO2 not arterial O2 content. That means that individuals with anemia do not have increased ventilation because their PaO2 is normal.

Figure 84. Effect of low arterial O2 pressures on ventilation
VENTILATORY RESPONSE TO CARBON DIOXIDE
A very small increase in PaCO2 (2-4 mm Hg) provides a powerful stimulus to increase respiration (doubles alveolar ventilation) (Figure 85).
What is the physiologic role of this response? Recall that changes in PaCO2 have profound effects on pH. Thus this tight regulation of PaCO2 allows for tight control of acid-base balance. For example, in emphysema patients retention of CO2 occurs because of the decrease in the elastic recoil. This raises their PaCO2 leading to increased minute ventilation (i.e, "blowing down" the CO2 in the blood).  Of the two sets of receptors involved in this reflex response to elevated PaCO2, the central chemoreceptors are more important accounting for ~70% of the increased ventilation.
Hypoxia (low PO2) potentiates the effects of CO2. The response curve is shifted to the left and has a steeper slope. Thus a lower PaO2 will result in a stronger ventilatory response for the same arterial PCO2.
Very high levels of carbon dioxide (greater than 70-80 mm Hg) can depress respiration, cause headaches, restlessness, faintness, and even unconsciousness or coma.

Figure 85. Effects of arterial PCO2 on minute ventilation.
CHANGES IN PH WITHOUT CHANGES IN PACO2
Excess retention or elimination of CO2 causes respiratory acidosis or alkalosis, respectively. However, many normal and pathological conditions can change arterial H+ levels in which the primary cause is not a change in PCO2. These conditions are called metabolic acidosis (increased H+ concentration) and metabolic alkalosis (decreased H+ concentration). Which chemoreceptors play a major role in these instances, central or peripheral? Why?
For example, in strenuous exercise, lactic acid is released by the working muscle. The addition of lactic acid to the blood lowers the pH and causes hyperventilation almost entirely by stimulating the peripheral chemoreceptors.  Recall that H+ do not cross the blood brain barrier, but CO2 does and is converted in the interstitial fluid to H+ and HCO3-. 
Predict what happens when arterial H+ concentration is decreased by vomiting (loss of acid from the stomach). Is ventilation increased or decreased? Answer: The peripheral chemoreceptors will reflexively decrease ventilation to conserve CO2 in the blood.
Thus the respiratory system compensates for metabolic acidosis by increasing ventilation (hyperventilation) and for metabolic alkalosis by decreasing ventilation (hypoventilation). Notice that maintenance of PCO2 levels is not as important as maintenance of H+ concentration in the blood. This is because most enzymes of the body function best at physiological pH (pH = 7.4).
EXERCISE AFFECTS VENTILATION
With moderate physical activity, both oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production increase. Minute ventilation can increase up to 25-fold. It would seem logical to guess that the increase in CO2 production increases PaCO2 which would, in turn, stimulate ventilation. However, measurements of PaCO2 during moderate exercise show that it does not change appreciably (Figure 86). In fact, neither does PaO2 nor pH (Figure 86). However, at near maximal exercise, arterial H+ concentration does rise and PaCO2 falls. Why does the H+ concentration increase while PaCO2 decreases?

Figure 86. Effect of exercise on ventilation, arterial gas pressures and arterial H+ concentration.
The mediators that cause increased ventilation in response to moderate exercise are likely to include increased body temperature, increased epinephrine level, reflex input from the mechanoreceptors of the joints and muscles, and conditioned behavior (feed forward).
The deep breathing after exercise removes the oxygen debt restoring oxygen storing molecule (myoglobin) and energy storing (creatine phosphate) in the muscles, as well as removing lactic acid and H+. 
HYPOXIA (LOW PO2) & VENTILATORY CONTROL
Hypoxia is defined as a deficiency of oxygen at the tissue level. There are many causes of hypoxia but they can be grouped into four classes.

Hypoxia- hypoxia in which arterial PO2 is reduced.
Anemic hypoxia in which arterial PO2 is normal but the content of O2 is reduced because of inadequate numbers of red blood cells or incompetent Hb or competition of carbon monoxide for Hb.
Ischemic hypoxia in which blood flow to the tissues is too low.
Histotoxic hypoxia in which the O2 content in the tissue is normal but the cell is unable to utilize it because a toxic agent (such as cyanide) interferes with oxidative metabolism.

Individuals who reside at high altitudes (where O2 tension is reduced) or who have sleep apnea syndrome (that is, they stop breathing for prolonged periods during sleep) may have diminished hypoxia drive to breathe. This is due to the "resetting" of their chemoreceptors set point. 
The effects of O2 deprivation vary from individual to individual but most people who ascend rapidly to altitudes above 10,000 ft experience some degree of altitude sickness. The symptoms of altitude sickness are headache, nausea, vomiting, fatigue and possible mental confusion. In severe cases, life threatening pulmonary edema can occur due to pulmonary hypertension.  Over a course of a several days these symptoms will disappear due to acclimatization which includes increased hematocrit (more red blood cells), increased 2,3-DPG and a shift in the O2 dissociation curve to the right to facilitate unloading in the tissues.
During sleep, breathing frequency and inspiratory flow rate are reduced and minute ventilation decreases. This is accompanied by a relaxation of the skeletal muscle tone throughout the body including those muscles associated with the larynx, pharynx and tongue. Relaxation of muscle tone in these areas can cause partial obstruction of the upper airways and snoring. However, in some individuals the airways are completely occluded which can lead to sleep apnea. In sleep apnea, respiration stops for long periods (30-60 sec) and PaCO2 rises; the respiratory center is stimulated. The individual reacts by gasping and often awakens.
QUESTIONS


A decrease in blood pH will _________ the rate of breathing.

increase
decrease
not change



At the first half mile of a marathon run you would expect which of the following?

PaCO2 to decrease but no change in PaO2.
PaCO2 and PaO2 to show little or no change from resting values.
PaCO2 to increase and PaO2 to decrease.
PaCO2 and PaO2 to decrease markedly.



In the last half mile of a marathon run, you would expect which of the following?

PaCO2 to increase
PaCO2 to decrease
PaCO2 to remain 40 mmHg



ANSWERS

A
B
B











CHAPTER 9: THE URINARY SYSTEM
Emma Jakoi, Ph. D.
9.1 GENERAL STRUCTURE & FUNCTION
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the structure of the kidney and its filtering unit, the nephron.
List the homeostatic functions of the kidney. 
Explain filtration, reabsorption, secretion, and excretion.
Explain how glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is regulated.
Define auto-regulation and list 2 mechanisms involved in auto-regulation.
Describe the factors that determine renal blood flow and how it is regulated independent of MAP.
Define filtration fraction and filtration load.

WHAT DOES THE KIDNEY DO?
The kidney is a filter of the blood that maintains water and electrolyte homeostasis by balancing intake with excretion in the urine. Specifically it regulates:

Extracellular fluid volume
Osmolarity
Specific ion balance (e.g., Na+, K+, Ca++)
pH
Excretion of waste products
Production of hormones [erythropoietin needed for production of red blood cells] and enzymes [renin needed for blood pressure and volume control]

ANATOMY OF THE URINARY SYSTEM
Each kidney is divided into a cortex and medulla (Figure 133). Distributed between these two regions are approximately 1 million filtering units called nephrons.
Each nephron begins in the cortex with a ball-like structure called the glomerulus. The glomerulus is a capillary bed, fed by an afferent arteriole and drained by an efferent arteriole. Surrounding this capillary bed is a cup-like structure called Bowman's capsule. Bowman's capsule is derived from the closed end of the renal tubule (Figure 134). This is the site where blood is filtered. The filtrate within Bowman's capsule contains molecules and fluid but not cells and large proteins (such as albumen).

Figure 133. Diagram of kidney interior and exiting ureter.
The efferent arteriole drains into a second capillary bed that surrounds the renal tubule in the cortex (called peritubular capillary) and follows the tubule as it extends down into the medulla. The renal tubule and this capillary bed form a loop in the medulla and then return to the cortex.  The renal tubule from each nephron drains into a collecting duct which in turn empties into the ureter. 

Figure 134. Diagram of the nephron and its blood supply.
There are two types of nephrons: cortical and juxtamedullary.
CORTICAL NEPHRON has most of its renal tubule located within the cortex. Most of the nephrons in the human kidney are cortical nephrons.
JUXTAMEDULLARY NEPHRON has a renal tubule that extends deep into the medulla. The juxtamedullary nephrons are responsible for maintaining a hyperosmotic gradient within the medulla that is critical for concentrating urine.
RENAL TUBULE starts as the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT). Subsequent regions are the thin loop of Henle, ascending thick loop of Henle (TAL), and distal convoluted tubule (DCT). 
Renal tubules from several nephrons empty into a collecting duct (CD).  Urine exits from the collecting duct to enter the ureter.
HOW DOES THE NEPHRON WORK?
In a given day, 180 L of plasma are filtered, but only 1.5 L are excreted as urine. The solute and/or water content of the filtrate are modified within specific regions of the renal tubule (Table 6). The basic processes that occur along the renal tubule include: filtration (F), reabsorption (R), secretion (S) and excretion (E) (Figure 135).
Table 6. Renal tubule filtrate (fluid volume & osmolarity).


Figure 135. Net handling of a substance by the renal tubule is given by the following equation
Excretion (E) = Filtration (F) - Reabsorption (R) + Secretion (S).
FILTRATION (F) is the movement of material from blood into the tubular lumen. It follows the same principles that govern movement of water across other capillaries.
REABSORPTION (R) is the movement of filtered material from the tubular lumen back to the blood.
SECRETION (S) is the movement of material from the blood directly into the renal tubule.
EXCRETION (E) is the movement of filtrate (urine) from the kidney into the ureter.
Net handling of a substance is described as follows:
Net reabsorption when filtration rate > excretion rate
No net reabsorption when filtration rate = excretion rate
Net secretion when filtration rate < excretion rate
FILTRATION
GLOMERULAR FILTRATION RATE (GFR) describes the efficiency of filtration. This is the amount of fluid that enters into Bowman's capsule per unit time. Average GFR is 125 ml/min or 180L/day.
GFR is influenced by two factors: the net filtration pressure and the filtration coefficient. The filtration pressure is determined by renal blood flow and pressure.
Net filtration = Hydrostatic pressure GC - Oncotic pressure GC - Hydrostatic pressure BC
For example, if the hydrostatic pressure in the glomerulus capillary is 50 mm Hg,  oncotic pressure  is 30 mmHg, and minus the fluid pressure in Bowman's capsule is 10 mmHg, then the net filtration pressure is 50 - 30 - 10 = 10 mmHg. 
The filtration coefficient is determined by the surface area of the glomerular capillaries available for filtration and the permeability of the capillary-Bowman capsule interface.
If a substance is freely filtered then the filtration load of any substance can be calculated as follows:
FILTRATION LOAD = [plasma concentration of substance] X (GFR).
For example, the filtration load of glucose = [100 mg glucose/ 100 mL] X [125 mL /min] =125 mg/min
Usually about 1/5 of the plasma that flows through the kidney is filtered with each pass. Why not filter all of the blood at one time? Recall that capillaries in the area are in series. If too much water is removed from the plasma in the glomerulus, then the viscosity of the blood in the efferent arterioles and peritubular capillaries increases. If the viscosity is too high, then the flow will decrease dramatically.
The rate of filtration in each glomerulus is regulated independently. Because each glomerulus (capillary bed) is fed and drained by arterioles, a change in resistance of either arteriole will alter the net filtration pressure (Figure 136). 

Figure 136. Schematic demonstrates regulation of GFR by (A) normal blood flow, (B) dilation of afferent arteriole (aa), and (C) constriction of afferent arteriole (ea). G is the glomerulus.
This geometry also enables the kidney to maintain GFR independent of the mean arterial pressure.  In fact, GFR and renal blood flow are maintained nearly constant as the mean arterial pressure varies between 80 and 180 mm Hg. This is accomplished by auto-regulation.
AUTO-REGULATION involves the two control mechanisms: myogenic and tubule-glomerular feedback.
MYOGENIC MECHANISM refers to the stretch response of smooth muscle cells in the walls of the afferent arteriole. If the renal arterial pressure changes (up or down), then the resistance in the afferent arteriole will change to maintain a constant flow (GFR).
TUBULO-GLOMERULAR FEEDBACK involves two regions of the same nephron, the smooth muscle cells of the afferent arteriole and specialized cells (called the macula densa) of the thick ascending loop of Henle (TAL). These two sets of cells form the juxtaglomerular apparatus (JGA). The JGA provides a negative feedback loop mediated by paracrines which change the resistance of the afferent arteriole and hence GFR. For example, when the macula densa detect low filtrate flow in the TAL, it signals the afferent arteriole to dilate thereby increasing GFR. The opposite occurs when increased flow is detected. The activity of the JGA controls volume and Na+ reabsorption because an increase in GFR delivers more solutes to the PCT permitting greater uptake of Na+ by the PCT. Conversely, a decrease in GFR leads to lower reabsorption of Na+.
REGULATION BY REFLEX LOOP is mediated by changing the resistance of the afferent and efferent arterioles. Increased sympathetic activity (Norepi) and certain hormones (Epi) cause a decrease in GFR by constricting the afferent arteriole more than the efferent arteriole (Figure 136 B). Other hormones (vasopressin) affect the efferent arteriole preferentially and thus partially offset the overall decrease in GFR by modulating the hydrostatic pressure within the glomerulus (Figure 136 C). 
RENAL BLOOD FLOW & FILTRATION FRACTION
Recall the equation for blood flow through an organ is:  Q = P/R. For the kidneys, renal blood flow is calculated as follows:
RBF = (aortic pressure - renal venous pressure)/ (renal vascular resistance)
The renal arteries, afferent arterioles, and efferent arterioles are the resistance vessels in the kidneys which determine renal vascular resistance. The kidneys receive about 20 to 25 percent of cardiac output. In normal humans, renal blood flow is approximately 1,000 ml/min.
PLASMA is the fluid phase of blood. It normally accounts for roughly 60% of blood volume; cells account for the remainder 40%.  The fraction of blood volume that is cells is called the hematocrit. Therefore renal plasma flow (RPF) is approximately 600 ml/min.
RENAL PLASMA FLOW = (1-hematocrit) X (renal blood flow)
FILTRATION FRACTION is the fraction of plasma that becomes glomerular filtrate. The filtration fraction is the ratio of GFR to renal plasma flow. Since normal GFR is 120 ml/min, the normal filtration fraction is about 0.2.
FILTRATION FRACTION = GFR/ RPF = (120ml/min)/(600 mml/min) = 0.2.
RBF & GFR RESPOND TO PHYSIOLOGICAL STRESS
HEMORRHAGIC (hypotensive) shock: causes renal vasoconstriction to shunt blood to other tissues (heart and brain) if the MAP is less than 80 mmHg. If prolonged, then the ischemia (lack of blood flow) to the kidney will trigger apoptosis (cell death of the renal tubules) and cause kidney failure. 
KEY CONCEPTS

The kidneys' primary functions are to maintain fluid volumes of the body by regulating salt balance and to maintain the osmolarity of the body by regulating water balance.
GFR is regulated independent of mean arterial pressure (MAP) ranging from 80-180 mmHg because of autoregulation which alters arteriolar resistance.
Autoregulation includes the myogenic response and tubular-glomerular feedback.
Reflex regulation of GFR involves hormones and sympathetic nervous activity. 
Filtration fraction is the ratio of GFR to RPF. 

QUESTIONS


Measurements in a nephron reveal a glomerular hydrostatic pressure of 70 mm Hg and a fluid pressure in Bowman's capsule of 15 mm Hg. Assuming an oncotic pressure of 30 mmHg and essentially no plasma protein are filtered, what is the glomerular filtration pressure in this case?

40 mmHg
115 mmHg
55 mmHg
25 mmHg



In response to a decrease in systemic blood pressure, the afferent arteriole of a nephron dilates. What happens to the afferent arteriole resistance and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in that nephron?

arteriolar resistance increases/ GFR increases
arteriolar resistance decreases/ GFR increases
arteriolar resistance increases/GFR decreases
arteriolar resistance decreases/ GFR decreases



ANSWERS


D
B

9.2 REABSORPTION & SECRETION
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Identify the region of the renal tubule in which reabsorption and secretion occur.
Describe the cellular mechanisms for transport of solutes by the major tubular segments. 
Contrast transcellular and paracellular pathways for movement of solutes and water.
Explain clearance and how it can measure glomerular filtration rate (GFR).
Contrast the handling of inulin, glucose, urea, and penicillin by the kidney.

REABSORPTION OF SOLUTES & WATER
Formation of urine involves 3 basic processes: filtration, reabsorption and secretion. The kidney filters the entire plasma volume 60 times per day. Freely filtered solutes such as amino acids, glucose, and ions must be reabsorbed to prevent their loss from the body. The processes of reabsorption and secretion enable the cells lining the renal tubules (epithelium) to modulate both the volume and content of urine.  In doing so, the renal tubules control the volume, osmolality, composition, and pH of the ECF and ICF compartments.
The renal tubule epithelium is polarized with distinct luminal and basal surfaces. Specific transport proteins are inserted into these distinct cell membranes which mediate reabsorption and secretion of solutes and water. Defects in their location and/or expression along the renal tubule underlie many kidney diseases.
The primary site for reabsorption is the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT). In the initial 2/3 of the PCT, 100% of filtered glucose and amino acids, and 80% of filtered bicarbonate (HCO3-) are reabsorbed. In addition, 65% of filtered Na+ is reabsorbed.
Reabsorption of these solutes occurs as secondary active transport using co-transporters located on the luminal surface of the epithelial cells coupled to the extrusion of Na+ at the basal surface by the Na+-K+ ATPase (Figure 137).

Figure 137. Resorption of solutes and organic substances (glucose) by secondary active transport. The sodium gradient is maintained by the Na-K ATPase at the basal surface of the epithelial cells.
At saturation, all of the transporters are occupied and a maximal rate of transport (Tm) for that substance is reached (Figure 138). This is called the renal threshold for that substance. Below saturation, the rate of transport is proportional to the concentration of the substrate. 

Figure 138. Saturation of solute transport.
As Na+ moves across the epithelium in the PCT, water follows by osmosis (Figure 137). Consequently the tubule filtrate remains isosmotic to the ICF and ECF. Note that the movement of water occurs in both a transcellular (across cells) and paracellular manner (i.e., between the cells).  As water moves between cells (paracellularly), certain solutes such as K+ are carried along with it and are returned to the blood. This is known as solvent drag. 
Solutes such as Cl- and urea are not reabsorbed efficiently in the first 2/3 of the PCT. As water exits the tubule, these solutes become more concentrated. In the last 1/3 of the PCT, Cl- and urea move across the epithelium by facilitated diffusion. Water follows by osmosis.
What happens if some of the filtered solutes are not reabsorbed in the PCT? Under these conditions, more water would be lost from the body because the later regions of the renal tubule do not contain transporters for these solutes. For example, in diabetes mellitus, the glucose transporters of the PCT are saturated and excess filtered glucose remains within the renal tubule and is excreted in the urine. Because glucose is osmotically active, its presence in the renal tubules opposes the movement of water in the collecting duct (CD). As a result, water is lost from the body and must be replenished by drinking.
Where does the reabsorbed solutes and water go? They enter the interstitial fluid (ISF) and then enter the capillaries that are aligned with the tubules (Figure 137). The reabsorbed solutes and water pass from the capillaries to the venous circulation, exit the kidney via the renal vein, and return to the heart.
Table 7. Reabsorption of Na+ within the renal tubule and collecting duct.

Reabsorption of Na+ occurs in most parts of the renal tubule and collecting duct (Table 7). The exception is the descending thin loop of Henle which is impermeable to Na+. About 65% of the filtered Na+ is reabsorbed in the PCT.  Another 25% is reabsorbed in the thick ascending loop of Henle. Reabsorption of the remaining Na+ occurs in the distal convoluted tubule (DCT) and collecting duct (CD) under hormonal control by aldosterone. 
SECRETION
SECRETION OF ORGANIC MOLECULES
Secretion increases the excretion of a filtered molecule and enables removal of molecules that are not filtered by the glomerulus. Secretion of organic compounds by the PCT plays a key role in limiting the body's exposure to toxic compounds and metabolic wastes. These molecules move across the epithelial cells from the blood into the renal tubules by secondary active transport. Penicillin, vitamins, and epinephrine, and norepinephrine are important organic molecules secreted by the kidneys.
SECRETION OF K+ AND REABSORPTION OF Na+
The last segment of the distal convoluted tubule (DCT) and the collecting duct (CD) contain principal cells. The principal cells reabsorb Na+ and water and secrete K+ into the urine. Both Na+ reabsorption and K+ secretion by principal cells depend on the activity of the Na+-K+ ATPase (Figure 139).  Recall that the Na-K ATPase moves 3 Na+ ions for 2 K+ ions.  As Na+ is reabsorbed, a charge potential is established across these epithelial cells (luminal surface more negative than the basal surface).

Figure 139. Transport pathways in principal cell of CD. Na+ and K+ channels are located on the luminal surface. Na+-K+ ATPase is located on the basal surface.
This charge gradient is used to move Cl- in a paracellularly manner from filtrate to blood and to increase the secretion of K+ into the filtrate. 
In addition to the charge gradient, the reabsorption of Na+ across the principal cells establishes a chemical gradient. As Na+ exits via the Na-K ATPase, K+ enters the cells. This raises the intracellular content of K+. Consequently, the diffusion gradient favors the exit of K+ ions at the luminal cell surface. K+ exits the CD cells to enter the filtrate via the K+ channel.
Note that two conditions favor the secretion of K+:

Increased delivery of Na+ to the CD principal cells.
Increased fluid flow in the CD which "removes" K+ from the luminal surface of the CD principal cells thereby maintaining a steep diffusion gradient for K+ exit. 

Aldosterone regulates the secretion of K+ and reabsorption of Na+ in the CD. It acts to increase the number of Na+-K+ ATPases, Na+ Channels and K+ channels in the principal cells (Figure 139).
EXCRETION
Urine output is the end result of all processes in the kidney. The excretion rate of a substance in the urine is called CLEARANCE (C).  Clearance is calculated as:

Because only the filtration and excretion of a substance can be measured, the net handling of substance X by the kidney is determined by comparing the clearance of X to that of inulin, a large sugar (polysaccharide), that is freely filtered and neither secreted nor reabsorbed (Table 8). 
The clearance of inulin equals GFR. Inulin can be used to measure the function of the kidney (GFR) in a human by taking only blood and a timed urine sample. In actual practice, inulin is not used for routine clinical applications because it must be administered by continuous intravenous infusion. Instead creatinine, a breakdown product of muscle protein, is used to estimate clearance and GFR. Creatinine is used because it is constantly produced by the body, is not reabsorbed, and is secreted only to a small extent. 
Table 8. Renal handling of solute (X).

KEY CONCEPTS

Formation of urine involves 3 basic processes: filtration, reabsorption and secretion.
The kidney modulates both the volume and content of urine, as well as controls the volume, osmolality, composition, and pH of the ECF and ICF compartments.
Reabsorption of solutes occurs predominantly within the PCT.  Some reabsorption of Na+, K+ and Cl- also occurs in the TAL. Aldosterone regulates reabsorption of Na+ in the DCT and CD.
Water moves by osmosis within the PCT to maintain isosmotic conditions. Water can move across this epithelium in transcellular manner via aquaporin channels and in a paracellular manner. 
Potassium reabsorption in the PCT is by solvent drag.
Secretion of toxins and organic waste products occurs in the PCT by secondary active transport.
Secretion of K+ occurs in the CD in response either to increased delivery of Na+ or increased fluid flow.  Secretion of K+ can be increased by aldosterone.
Clearance is the excretion rate of a substance. It equals GFR when the substance is freely filtered and not reabsorbed or secreted by the renal tubule. Handling of a substance can be determined using either inulin, an exogenous standard or creatinine, an endogenous standard. 

QUESTIONS


The figure below shows glucose reabsorption in the PCT. In normal individuals, all filtered glucose is reabsorbed. But in individuals with diabetes, glucose is excreted. Answer all of the following:

At what plasma concentration is glucose excreted?
What is this called?
Why is glucose excreted?
What is the maximum rate of glucose reabsorption?


Figure 140. Glucose reabsorption in the PCT.


Which of the following is increased in concentration at the end of the PCT relative to the beginning of the tubule?

creatinine
bicarbonate
amino acids
glucose



Which of the following will produce the greatest increase in K+ secretion?

decrease in urinary flow
increase in distal tubule Na+ concentration
increase in renal blood flow



ANSWERS

A. Excretion of glucose occurs at levels equal to or greater than 200mg/dL plasma.B. This is called the renal threshold for glucose.C. This occurs when all of the carriers (symporters) available for reabsorption are saturated.D. The maximal rate of reabsorption for glucose is 250 mg/min.
A
B


9.3 REGULATION OF EXTRACELLULAR FLUID VOLUME
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Review the function and location of the juxtamedullary nephrons.
Explain the change in permeability along the renal tubule to ions and water.
Explain the importance of the osmotic gradient in the medulla of the kidney. 
Explain the RAAS pathway and the conditions that activate this pathway.
Explain hormonal regulation of ECF volume in conditions of expanded volume and contracted volume (dehydration).
Define diuresis and explain the different causes of diuresis.

FLUID & ELECTROLYTE BALANCE
Over the course of a day, we ingest about 2 liters of food and drink that contains varying amounts of ions and solutes. To maintain mass balance, what comes in and is not used must be excreted.  Two of the major functions of the renal system are to maintain fluid volumes of the body by regulating Na+ and to maintain the osmolarity of the body by regulating water. Adjustments made by the kidney are slow (over hours) because they are mediated by hormones.
Table 9. Daily changes in filtrate volume & osmolarity.

MEDULLARY GRADIENT 
The kidney can conserve water but cannot replenish lost water. Of the water lost by the body due to evaporation of sweat, breathing, and metabolism, only water which is excreted by the kidney can be regulated. When water is conserved, the urine becomes concentrated up to 1200 mOsM (blood is 300 mOsM).
Conservation of water is regulated by the peptide hormone, vasopressin (antidiuretic hormone, ADH), which is secreted by the posterior pituitary.  When the body needs to eliminate excess water, copious amounts of dilute urine are made with an osmolarity as low as 50 mOsM. This is called diuresis. Drugs that cause diuresis are called diuretics.
The kidneys control the concentration of urine by varying the reabsorption of water in the distal regions of the renal tubule. Here water moves across the tubular epithelial cells by osmosis. Recall that osmosis will not take place unless a concentration gradient for water exists. Within the kidney medulla, there exists a standing osmotic gradient (due to Na+ and urea) within the interstitial space (ISF) of 300-1200 mOsM. This gradient is established and maintained by nephrons, called the juxtamedullary nephrons which are located near the cortex-medulla boundary. The renal tubule of these nephrons, unlike the cortical nephrons, extend deep within the medulla. Both the loop of Henle and urea transporters located in the collecting ducts (CD) of the juxtamedullary nephrons contribute to the osmotic gradient within the medulla. 
How does this work? In the medulla, the epithelial cells lining the renal tubule have selective permeability to water and ions (Figure 141). In the descending loop of Henle, the epithelial cells are impermeable to Na+ but permeable to water. This means that as the filtrate flows through the descending thin loop of Henle, it becomes progressively more hyperosmotic. Ultimately, at the bottom of the loop deep in the medulla, the loop filtrate reaches 1200 mOsM.
In contrast, in the thick ascending loop of Henle (TAL), the epithelial cells are permeable to ions and impermeable to water. Here Na+, K+, and Cl- are reabsorbed (Na-K-2Cl, 2nd active transport) from the renal tubule, but water from the tubule cannot follow (Figure 141) due to the absence of aquaporin in the luminal surface of the epithelial cells. Because the epithelial cells of the TAL are NOT permeable to water, the tubular filtrate becomes hyposmotic (100mOsM) as it flows towards the cortex-medullary boundary. This filtrate will be dilute urine, if water is not reabsorbed in either the distal convoluted tubule (DCT) and collecting duct (CD). 

Figure 141. Schematic of the renal tubule shows the medullary gradient (300-1200 mOsM) versus the isosmotic state of the cortex (300mOsM). As water leaves the descending loop of Henle, it is removed by the capillary (red line). Flow within the capillary is opposite to that in the tubule (counter current). Note that the capillary "gains" Na+ on its downward path (right side of its loop) and "gains" water (left side of the loop) as it returns to the cortex.
To prevent "washing out" of the standing osmotic gradient in the medulla, the blood in the capillary flows opposite to the flow of filtrate in the tubule (counter- current manner) (Figure 141).
HORMONES & URINE CONCENTRATION
In the DCT and CD, the osmolarity and ionic content of the urine can be altered. This is regulated by two hormones: antidiuretic (DH, vasopressin) and aldosterone.
ANTIDIURETIC HORMONE (ADH) acts on the CD epithelial cells in the kidney medulla to increase their permeability to water. Recall that ADH is secreted by the posterior pituitary in response to either increased plasma osmolarity or a large decrease in plasma volume. Within the CD, activation of the ADH receptor results in the insertion of aquaporin 2 channels into the luminal plasma membrane. In the presence of the aquaporin 2 channels, water moves from the filtrate (urine) to the blood. The end result is more a concentrated urine and increased blood pressure.  In the absence of ADH, this tubule is impermeable to water and 18 L/day of urine is excreted (Table 9Error! Reference source not found.).
Vasopressin also increases facilitated transport of urea across the CD epithelial cells. Urea, a byproduct of protein metabolism, must be excreted by the kidney but it is also used to generate in part the osmotic gradient in the inner medulla. Urea transporters are located in the CD and within cells lining the thin loop of Henle and the medullary capillaries, as well as in red blood cells. These transporters enable rapid equilibration of urea preventing cell shrinkage in the inner (deep) medulla.
ALDOSTERONE regulates the movement of water and Na+ across the CD epithelial cells.  The adrenal gland secretes aldosterone in response to either elevated plasma K+ or angiotensin II (see below). Aldosterone increases the expression of the Na+ and K+ channels on the luminal surface of the CD epithelial cells and the number of Na+-K+ ATPases in the basal surface of these cells. Consequently, Na+ is reabsorbed from the filtrate and K+ is secreted into the renal tubule from the blood. Because water follows Na+, aldosterone concentrates urine, increases the volume of the blood and increases blood pressure. Note that aldosterone is not secreted when plasma Na+ concentration is high.
RENIN - ANGIOTENSIN II- ALDOSTERONE SYSTEM (RAAS) is a third pathway that can alter the volume of the urine and blood pressure. This pathway works as follows. Each nephron has an osmo- and mechano-sensor, the macula densa, which signals to the juxtaglomerular (JG) cells (smooth muscle) of the afferent arteriole to regulate glomerular filtration rate (GFR).  When the flow of the filtrate is low in the TAL, the macula densa triggers the JG cells to secrete renin into the blood. Renin, an enzyme, activates a cascade of signals in the blood to generate angiotensin II, a potent vasoconstrictor (Figure 142). Angiotensin II, in turn, increases the secretion of aldosterone from the adrenal gland and vasopressin (ADH) from the posterior pituitary.

Figure 142. RAAS includes secretion of Renin, Aldosterone and ADH.
The RAAS pathway is NOT activated and aldosterone is NOT secreted when the osmolarity of the filtrate is high or when the volume of filtrate is high (Figure 143).

Figure 143. Increased plasma osmolarity increases secretion of ADH but not aldosterone.
CHANGES IN BODY FLUID COMPARTMENTS
Water can be lost from the body by diarrhea, vomiting, and excessive sweating. If sufficient, this can lead to volume contraction and alter the size of the major fluid compartments of the body (ECF and ICF).  Fluid loss can lead to either isotonic volume depletion or hyperosmolarity.
LOSS OF ISOTONIC FLUID (volume depletion) from the ECF leads to a decrease in blood pressure and disruption of O2 and nutrient delivery to tissues.
LOSS OF HYPOTONIC FLUID (water) from the ECF which leads to an increase in the omolarity of the ECF and a decrease in ICF volume (i.e., cells shrink).
In contrast, when an excess of fluid is ingested, then the ECF volume expands. In this condition blood volume is increased. If this increase in blood volume is sufficiently large, it can stretch the cardiac muscle cells of the atria. Stretching of the atrial muscle cells releases a hormone called atrial natriuretic factor (ANF). ANF relaxes the juxtaglomerular (JG) cells of the afferent arteriole and thereby increases GFR and urine output. ANF also inhibits the reabsorption of Na+ by the renal tubule epithelial cells and thereby increases the loss of water and sodium from the body.
DIURESIS & DIURETICS
Increased urine excretion above 1mL/min is called diuresis. There are several causes including the following:
WATER DIURESIS occurs when the osmolarity of the plasma is decreased. This condition inhibits secretion of antidiuretic hormone (ADH).
OSMOTIC DIURESIS occurs when an osmotically active substance (such as glucose) is present within the renal tubule.
DIURETICS are drugs that increase loss of body water primarily by inhibiting Na+ reabsorption by the renal tubule. Diuretics act at different segments of the renal tubule (Table 10).
Table 10. Diuretics & their sites of action.

KEY CONCEPTS

The kidneys' primary functions are to maintain fluid volumes of the body by regulating salt balance and to maintain the osmolarity of the body by regulating water balance.
Reabsorption and secretion of water and solutes is governed by concentration gradients and secondary active transport.
Healthy people use hormones to regulate osmolarity (ADH), to regulate K+ (aldosterone), and to regulate fluid volume (ADH, aldosterone, or ANF).
Diuresis is the excess loss of body water as urine. Diuresis may be caused by excess total body water, presence of osmotically active solutes within the renal tubules, and drugs (diuretics) which inhibit the reabsorption of Na+ across the tubular epithelium.

QUESTIONS
Complete table (below), indicating gain, loss or unchanged (=).
Table 11. Effects of solute and/or water on body fluid compartments. (fill in the blanks)

ANSWERS
Table 12. Effects of solute and/or water on body fluid compartments.


9.4 ACID - BASE BALANCE & ANALYSIS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe how the body buffers free H+ that either enter from the diet or are generated by metabolism each day. 
Explain the role of the lungs and of HCO3-/CO2 buffer pair in maintaining the stability of the pH in the body.
Explain the role of the kidney in eliminating filtered H+ and HCO3- to maintain plasma pH.
Explain how new bicarbonate is generated when fixed acids and ammonia are eliminated by the body.
Explain the classification of the four acid-base disorders. Describe how metabolic acidosis is differentiated from respiratory acidosis.

DETERMINANTS OF ACID-BASE BALANCE
Recall that the acidity of a solution is measured by its hydrogen ion concentration.
*** Acids are substances that can donate hydrogen ions (H+). 
*** Bases are substances that accept hydrogen ions (protons).
The amount of an acid (or base) is expressed usually in terms of equivalents (Eq) or milliequivalents (mEq).  One Eq of acid will neutralize one Eq of base.
The pH of a solution is a measure of its H+ concentration. A normal arterial plasma sample has an H+ concentration of 40 mEq/L compared to 140 mEq/L of Na+. Because the H+ concentration is so low, it is expressed on the logarithmic pH scale of 0-14.



At pH 7.0 (i.e. 1x10-7M) = neutral


Below pH 7.0, the H+ concentration is increased = acidic


Above pH 7.0, the H+ concentration is decreased = basic


Normal plasma pH 7.4 is slightly basic with .00004 mM H+



**** For each change of 1 pH unit there is a 10-fold change in H+ concentration.
Normally the kidneys and lungs work in concert to maintain the pH of plasma and of intracellular fluid (ICF) between 7.35-7.45. However, there are body fluids such as the luminal contents of the stomach that can have pH as low as 2.0. The pH of urine can vary from 4.5 to 8.5 depending on the body's needs to excrete H+ or HCO3-. 
REGULATION OF BLOOD pH
Each day acids and bases are added to the body from the diet and by metabolic processes. In addition, base (bicarbonate) is normally lost each day in the feces. To maintain mass balance, the input and output of acids and bases are regulated by the kidney and the lungs. The lungs remove the volatile acid, CO2, but nonvolatile acids such as phosphates and sulfates are removed by the kidney. The nonvolatile acids added to the body daily usually amount to 1mEq per kg of body weight (i.e., ~ 70 mEq/day for a 70 kg adult). These are eliminated by the kidney as fixed acids and ammonium ion. 
The intracellular pH and the pH of the extra cellular fluid (ECF) must be regulated because too low pH and too high pH can affect the conformation of enzymes, receptors, and channels.
ACIDOSIS:  The excess protons in the ECF enter the cells. Potassium ions exit the cells to maintain charge balance. In the kidney, the excess protons in the blood are excreted into the filtrate and potassium ions are reabsorbed from the filtrate to enter the blood. Consequently, plasma levels of K+ increase (hyperkalemia). This rise in extracellular K+ affects the resting membrane potential (depolarize) of excitable cells. Neurons and muscle will depolarize more easily but these cells cannot repolarize quickly. Consequently the CNS activity is depressed and muscle is weak.
ALKALOSIS:  The protons leave the cells to enter the ECF. This causes K+ to enter cells to maintain charge balance. In the kidneys, potassium ions from the blood are excreted into the filtrate and protons are reabsorbed from the filtrate to enter the blood. Consequently, plasma K+ levels fall (hypokalemia). This decrease in plasma [K+] alters the resting membrane potential of excitable cells (hyperpolarize) such that a greater stimulus is needed to generate an action potential. This makes skeletal muscle cells less excitable and can lead to weakness and paralysis.
The specific terms used to define the physiological states and underlying processes are:
Acidemia is a state in which the arterial blood pH is lower than 7.35.
Alkalemia is a state in which arterial blood pH is greater than 7.45.
Acidosis is a process that lowers the arterial blood pH to < 7.35.
Alkalosis is a process that raises the arterial blood pH to > 7.45.
To maintain blood pH over time, the body uses a complex system of buffers, the lungs, and the kidneys. Each participates as follows:
RAPID BUFFERING (occurs immediately). Buffers allow the body to tolerate a small excess (or deficiency) of acid without significant changes in either cellular or blood pH.
The major intracellular buffers in the body are negatively charged proteins (e.g., hemoglobin).
The major extracellular buffer is bicarbonate.

The formation of carbonic acid from CO2 and water occurs in all cells and in the plasma. This reaction is catalyzed by the enzyme carbonic anhydrase.  This reaction is extremely important because in the lungs, CO2 is exhaled (removed from the body). By removing the CO2, the reaction is "pulled" to the left (by mass action) eliminating H+ from the body. Note that for every H+ removed, one HCO3- is lost from the body.
Normal plasma concentration of HCO3- is 24 mEq/L. 
VENTILATION BY THE LUNGS (occurs within minutes). The lungs can take care of 75% of pH disturbances by eliminating CO2 from the body and thereby removing carbonic acid.  The rate of breathing is controlled by the respiratory center located in the medulla (brain stem) in response to arterial PCO2 and from input from the peripheral chemoreceptors.
RENAL REGULATION (occurs within hours to days). The kidneys can adjust the amount of HCO3- and of H+ that are lost in the urine. Both H+ and HCO3- are filtered freely by the nephron and under most conditions little or no HCO3- is excreted. That means that essentially 99% or more of the filtered load of HCO3- is reabsorbed by the renal tubule.

For example, filtered load of HCO3- = 24 mEq/L x 180 L/day = 4320 mEq/ day
Specific regions of the renal tubule can secrete H+. For each H+ lost to the urine, a bicarbonate ion is returned to the blood. The specific actions of the renal tubules are considered below:
PROXIMAL CONVOLUTED TUBULE (PCT) REABSORBS MOST OF THE FILTERED HCO3-. Recall that HCO3- does not cross the tubule epithelial cell membrane in this region of the tubule. Reabsorption of bicarbonate depends on the carbonic anhydrase reaction and entry of CO2 and water into these cells (Figure 144). Within the cells, CO2 and H2O combine to form H+ and HCO3-. The regenerated H+ leaves the epithelial cell via transporters (H+/Na+ antiporter and H+ ATPase) to reenter the tubular lumen; HCO3 leaves at the basal (blood) side via the HCO3-/Cl- antiporter. 

Figure 144. PCT tubules reabsorb most of filtered bicarbonate.
The distal tubule (DCT) and collecting duct (CD) can either reabsorb or excrete the remaining filtered HCO3 depending on the body's needs. The epithelial cell that is active in this region is called the intercalated cell. There are two types of intercalated cells: A cells and B cells.
In acidosis, the intercalated A cells reabsorb bicarbonate (Figure 145) and return the H+ to the filtrate. Again because the cell is not very permeable to H+, the HCO3- and H+ are generated inside the intercalated cells from CO2 and water in the presence of carbonic anhydrase. The extrusion of H+ is mediated by two proton pumps, H+ ATPase and H+/K+ ATPase, located on the luminal surface. Bicarbonate exits the intercalated A cells via the HCO3-/Cl- antiporter located on the basal lateral surface.  [Note: intercalated A cells make Acidic urine].
In alkalosis, the intercalated B cells reabsorb H+ and return HCO3 to the filtrate. The intercalated B cell is built as mirror image of the A cells. Here the proton pumps are located on the basal surface; the HCO3-/Cl- antiporter is at the luminal surface. [Note: B cells make Basic urine].
*** When plasma pH is low, the distal tubule secretes H+ and reabsorbs bicarbonate.
*** When plasma pH is high, the distal tubule secretes bicarbonate and reabsorbs H+. 
Under normal conditions, H+ secretion predominates in the distal tubules and collecting ducts. Because the luminal surface of the epithelial cells lining the collecting ducts are not very permeable to H+, the tubular fluid in this region can reach a pH of 4.0 - 4.5, the lowest pH within the nephron.

Figure 145. Reabsorption of HCO3- by the distal tubule (type A cells) during acidosis. Protons are actively pumped out of the cells by either the H+ ATPase or by the H+/K+ ATPase. Bicarbonate ions  leave the cell by the HCO3- /Cl- antiporter on the basal side to enter the blood.
GENERATION OF NEW HCO3 - AND EXCRETION OF NH4+
Bicarbonate reabsorption alone does not replenish the HCO3- lost in buffering volatile acids. To maintain pH balance, lost HCO3- must be replenished by the kidneys. This involves two mechanisms:

generation of new bicarbonate from glutamine
excretion of nonvolatile acids.

"NEW" BICARBONATE IS GENERATED FROM GLUTAMINE (Figure 146). In this process the amino acid glutamine is converted to ammonium ion (NH4+) and new HCO3-. The NH4+ exits the epithelial cell by the Na+/H+ antiporter substituting NH4+ for H+ to enter the filtrate and HCO3- is added to the blood circulation.
The generation and secretion of NH4+ occurs in the PCT epithelial cells. En route to the CD, the r NH4+ is reabsorbed in the TAL to enter the interstitium (IS) of the medulla. Within the IS, NH4 + is converted to NH3 which can diffuse across the CD epithelial cells to enter the lumen of the tubule. Once in the filtrate, the NH3 combines with a H+ to form NH4+ and is removed from the body in the urine.
The proper functioning of the CD is required for the elimination of the NH4+. Why is this important? If NH4+ is not removed by the kidney, then NH4+ enters the blood circulation of the kidney and is delivered to the liver where it is converted to urea (called BUN or blood urea nitrogen). Conversion of NH4+ to urea generates H+ which must be buffered by HCO3-. This "removes" the newly made HCO3- from the circulation and there is no net gain in buffer.  In renal failure, ammonium excretion is insufficient and urea levels (BUN) rise in the blood.

Figure 146. Ammonium ion production, transport, and excretion by the renal tubule. The Na gradient is maintained by the actions of the Na-K ATPase located on the basal surface (facing the IS) of these cells.
EXCRETION OF NONVOLATILE FIXED ACIDS
Fixed (nonvolatile) acids generated from protein metabolism include sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, and phosphoric acid. Others such as lactic acid and ketoic acids are generated from the incomplete metabolism of carbohydrates and fats. In addition, fixed acids can be ingested from the diet. The lungs cannot remove fixed acids, only the kidney. Excretion of fixed acids by the kidney generates new bicarbonate (Figure 147).
Typically each day the total acid secretion by the kidney includes: 35 mEq fixed acids and 35 mEq
NH4+. The amount of free H+ is negligible.
In response to acidosis, increased production and excretion of NH4+ is quantitatively more important than increased formation of fixed acids. Usually of the ~70 mEq/L input of acid daily, loss of free H+ in the urine is 40 nEq/L (i.e., pH 7.4).

Figure 147. Excretion of fixed acids such as H2PO4- adds new HCO3- to the blood.
The daily net acid excretion (NAE) is calculated as follows:

INTEGRATED RESPONSE TO ACIDOSIS & ALKALOSIS
Normally, compensatory mechanisms by either the lungs or the kidneys take care of most changes in plasma pH. But under some circumstances those mechanisms fail. In these latter states the pH of the blood moves out of the normal range of 7.35-7.45. A blood pH below 7.00 and above 7.70 can be fatal.
Acid-base problems are classified by the direction of change as follows:
Acidosis is when the pH of blood is in the range of 7.00 -7.34
Alkalosis is when the pH of blood is in the range of 7.46 -7.70
Acid-base problems are classified by the underlying cause (metabolic or respiratory) (Table 13).
RESPIRATORY DISORDERS are changes in pH due to increased (or decreased) ventilation (CO2).
METABOLIC DISORDERS are changes in pH due to acids (or bases) of non - CO2 origin.
RESPIRATORY ACIDOSIS is decreased pH and elevated PaCO2 levels. The most common cause is chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) such as emphysema. To minimize the change in pH, the kidney excretes H+ and reabsorbs bicarbonate. This is called renal compensation, a process that can take several hours.
Table 13. Four types of acid-base disturbances.

METABOLIC ACIDOSIS occurs when metabolic input of H+ exceeds H+ excretion. Causes include lactic acid build up from anaerobic exercise and ketosis when there is an excess breakdown of fat. This can occur also if there is a loss of bicarbonate from the body in diarrhea. Under these circumstances, the respiratory system will attempt to compensate by increasing ventilation. Eventually the kidney will excrete H+ and reabsorb bicarbonate but the correction will take several (12-24) hours.
RESPIRATORY ALKALOSIS occurs with increased ventilation that is not matched by metabolism. This is much less common than acidosis but can occur with excessive artificial ventilation.
METABOLIC ALKALOSIS has two common causes: excessive vomiting or excessive ingestion of bicarbonate-containing antacids. The respiratory system will compensate by depressing ventilation. Less CO2 is blown off, raising PaCO2 and thereby creating more H+.
HOW TO ANALYZE ACID-BASE DISORDERS
Ask the following questions of an individual's blood values to determine if a simple acid-base disorder is present. 

What is the pH of the arterial blood?  Is the pH state normal, acidemia or alkalemia?
Is it a metabolic or a respiratory disorder and is the process acidosis or alkalosis? Examine the [HCO3-] and PaCO2. Normal values are 24 mEq/L for HCO3- and 40 mmHg for PaCO2. Because compensatory mechanisms can not correct an acid-base disorder by themselves, the change in pH indicates the underlying process as acidosis or alkalosis.  Consult Table 13 for expected outcomes.
What is the compensatory response?  Metabolic disorders result in changes in ventilation (i.e., PaCO2).  Respiratory disorders result in compensatory changes in renal net acid excretion. Again consult Table 13 for expected outcomes.

MIXED ACID-BASE DISORDERS can occur in which there is a normal blood pH but the [HCO3-] and PaCO2 values are abnormal. We will not consider these circumstances.
KEY CONCEPTS

As a result of metabolism, the body has a net production of acids. The kidneys excrete excess H+ combined with urinary buffers such as phosphate (i.e., fixed acids) and ammonia.
The kidneys along with the lungs maintain the body's pH by regulating the HCO3-/CO2 buffer pair. The lungs exert an immediate effect by controlling PaCO2; the kidneys exert a slower effect by controlling HCO3- and H+ concentration.
The kidneys maintain acid-base homeostasis by reabsorbing filtered bicarbonate, forming titratable (fixed) acids and excreting ammonium ions (NH4).
There are four types of acid-base disturbances. They are classified as to the direction of change in pH (acidosis or alkalosis) and by the underlying problem (ventilation or metabolism).

QUESTIONS


A person who takes rapid, deep breaths (panting) will exhibit signs of:

respiratory acidosis
respiratory alkalosis
metabolic acidosis
metabolic alkalosis



Renal compensation for an acid-base disorder _________ respiratory compensation for an acid-base disorder.

is faster than
is the same as
is slower than



In acidosis, the concentration of K+ in the blood:

decreases (hypokalemia)
increases (hyperkalemia)
does not change



ANSWERS

B
C
B










CHAPTER 1: HOMEOSTASIS & BASIC MECHANISMS
Emma Jakoi, Ph. D.
1.1 HOMEOSTASIS & BASIC MECHANISMS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Identify the tissues, organs, and organ systems that comprise the human body and name their functions.
Identify the fluid compartments of the body and their relative sizes.
Explain the terms homeostasis, steady state, and equilibrium.
Define components of a reflex loop.
Contrast reflex and local homeostatic control
Explain negative and positive feedbacks.
Explain tonic and antagonistic controls.
Explain circadian rhythms

DEFINITION OF PHYSIOLOGY
Physiology is an integrative science that studies the functions of complex living organisms from tissues and cells to organs and organ systems. Physiologists ask questions of how the specific organ or system works and of what advantage does this system provide. They use this information and that obtained from related fields of anatomy, biochemistry, genetics, and immunology to develop a cohesive picture of how organ systems coordinate to maintain life in a constantly changing environment. It is this integrative approach and consideration of coordinated function among organs systems that is a special focus of physiology.
Because physiology deals with the integrated behavior of several organ systems in the maintenance of life, it is often considered to be one of the most challenging sciences. Our objective is that you acquire the terms and concepts of specific areas in physiology but also develop a conceptual framework to analyze data and to predict how one or more organ systems respond to change. Towards this end it is helpful to recognize the recurrent themes or underlying principle (Table 1) as a means for approaching or understanding a new situation.
Table 1. General Concepts.

TISSUES, ORGANS, ORGAN SYSTEMS & FLUID COMPARTMENTS
DIFFERENTIATED CELLS are cells specialized for a specific function.
TISSUES are groups of cells which carry out related functions. The four tissue types include: epithelium, muscle, nervous, and connective.
ORGANS are functional units formed by different tissues. 
ORGAN SYSTEMS include several organs that act in an integrated manner to perform a specific function. They provide a means for exchange of materials between the external environment surrounding the body and it's interior. The ten organ systems of the human body include cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive, endocrine, immune, integument, musculoskeletal, nervous, reproductive, and urinary.
The body can be divided into two fluid compartments (Figure 1): intracellular (ICF) and extracellular (ECF).

Intracellular fluid (ICF) is the cytoplasm within a cell.
Extracellular fluid (ECF) surrounds the cells and serves as a buffer.

The ECF is divided into the interstitial fluid (ISF) that bathes the outside of the cells and the intravascular fluid (IVF) (i.e., plasma, lymph, and cerebral spinal fluid) (Figure 1).
In the adult 70 kg male, approximately 60% of body weight is water. Under normal conditions, 2/3 of this is ICF and 1/3 is ECF of which  is interstitial fluid and  intravascular fluid.  Most of the capillaries that separate the ISF and IVF are leaky; therefore the composition of these two compartments is essentially identical. The main difference is that the IVF compartment has a higher content of protein.  In contrast, the composition of the ICF and ECF differ (Table 2, Figure 1). This is due to the hydrophobic nature of the cell membrane which prevents free exchange of ions and proteins.
ICF is a reducing environment that has a high concentration of K+, but low concentrations of Na+ and free Ca++ (Table 2). Additionally, the concentrations of phosphates and proteins in the ICF are greater than in the ECF. 
ECF is an oxidizing environment that has low concentration of K+ but high concentrations of Na+ and free Ca++ (Table 2).

Figure 1. Fluid compartments of the body
In most cells, there is a passive leak of K+ across the plasma membrane allowing K+ ions to move from the inside of cells to the outside. This leak is matched by pumping K+ back into the cell via the Na+ - K+ ATPase, an integral membrane protein. The movement (pumping) of K+ back into the cells requires energy (ATP). During each cycle of the ATPase, two K+ are exchanged for 3 Na+ and one molecule of ATP is hydrolyzed to ADP.
Table 2. Electrolytes in human cells.

When K+ is pumped into cells, Na+ is pumped out. This generates an unequal distribution of Na+ and K+ across the plasma membrane which is called a chemical gradient. The unequal distribution of ions also establishes a charge (electro) gradient with the inside of the cell more negative relative to the outside of the cell. The "electrochemical" gradient represents a storehouse of energy (called the electrochemical potential). Sodium ions can enter cells through special protein channels. When Na+ enters, it moves passively down its electrochemical gradient. Its entry is matched by the rate of its removal via the Na+ - K+ ATPase so that the intracellular concentration of Na remains low and constant. The actions of the Na+- K+ ATPase balance the amounts of Na+ and K+ entering and leaving the cell per unit time; however, their intracellular and extracellular concentrations are NOT equal. This is called a steady state. Metabolic energy (ATP) is expended to maintain a steady state.
EQUILIBRIUM, STEADY STATE & HOMEOSTASIS
The keys to maintaining stability of the ECF are self-regulatory mechanisms which allow us to adapt to a changing environment. To understand these adaptations, we need to consider the concepts of equilibrium and steady state.
EQUILIBRIUM is a condition in which the opposing forces are balanced. There is no net transfer of a substance (or of energy) from one compartment to another. An equilibrium state will occur if there is sufficient time for exchange and if there is no barrier to movement from one compartment to the other. No energy expenditure is required to maintain an equilibrium state.
STEADY STATE is a condition in which the amount (or concentration) of a substance is constant within a compartment and does not change with time. There is no net gain or net loss of a substance in a compartment because the input and output are equal. A steady state is not necessarily an equilibrium state. Energy expenditure may be needed to maintain a steady state.
HOMEOSTASIS is the maintenance of the ECF as a steady state. When conditions outside of the body change (e.g., temperature), these changes are reflected in the composition of the ECF which surrounds the individual cells of the body. The ECF is the site of exchange where nutrients are delivered and cellular wastes removed. Therefore the composition of the ECF dynamically changes with time, but certain factors must be kept within a narrow range for optimal functioning of cells, tissues, and organs. These specific factors include oxygen (O2) and carbon dioxide (CO2), glucose and other metabolites, osmotic pressure, concentrations of H+, Ca++, K+, Mg++, and temperature. Uncorrected deviations can lead to disease and/or death.
HOMEOSTATIC REGULATION
To maintain homeostasis, the functions of various organ systems must be integrated. Both homeostasis and integration require that the cells of the body (~ 75 trillion!) communicate with each other in a rapid and efficient manner. There are two basic types of extrinsic physiological control paths: local and reflex.
LOCAL CONTROL involves paracrine (between neighbors) and/or autocrine (self-to-self) responses. Proteins called cytokines mediate local control.
REFLEX CONTROL involves the nervous and endocrine systems. Reflex control responds to changes that are more widespread or systemic in nature. In a reflex control pathway (or loop), the decision to respond is made at a distance from the target cell or tissue. Reflex control has three basic components (Figure 2): an input stimulus, integrator of the stimulus, and a response (effector).

Figure 2. Components of a reflex loop
The integrating center evaluates the incoming signal, compares it with a set point (desired value), and decides on an appropriate response. The effector carries out the appropriate response to bring the situation back to within normal limits. Reflex pathways are closed loops.
MASS BALANCE in the body refers to a steady state in which the total amount of a substance equals its intake plus its production minus its output.

MASS FLOW is mass balance over time, such that:

For example, infusion of 5g of glucose in 10 ml at a rate of 2 ml/min gives a mass flow of:
(5g /10 ml) X (2ml/min) = 1.0 g/min
There are several different types of reflex pathways within the body. These include negative feedback, positive feedback, feed forward, tonic control, antagonistic control and circadian rhythms.
NEGATIVE FEEDBACK loops remove the stimulus (Figure 3). A critical consequence of negative feedback control is that it allows the system to resist deviation of a given parameter from a preset range (set point). Negative feedback is the most common form of homeostatic control in biological systems.

Figure 3. Negative feedback control responds to external change of lower body temperature.
In physiological systems, we encounter two types of negative feedback systems (Figure 4): simple (A) and complex (B). The complex negative feedback system permits finer control.

Figure 4. Simple and complex negative feedback loops. (A) Simple negative feedback involves two cellular compartments. (B) Complex negative feedback involves more than two cellular components which feedback to inhibit secretion at previous levels.
POSITIVE FEEDBACK reinforces the stimulus rather than decreasing or removing it (Figure 5) and is therefore an unstable condition. The consequence of positive feedback is not to maintain homeostasis but to elicit a change. Positive feedback loops are found during development or maturation. They are finite loops; often negative feedback will reduce or terminate these responses.

Figure 5. Positive feedback loops. A positive feedback occurs when a hormone signal increases its stimulation rather than decreasing it.
FEED-FORWARD CONTROL enables the body to anticipate a change and start a reflex loop. For example, the sight, smell, or even the thought of food starts our mouths to water. The saliva lubricates the food particles during chewing.
TONIC CONTROL permits the activity of the organ system to be modulated (either up or down) and for these changes to be sustained over time. For example, the diameter of a blood vessel is set by the activity of the sympathetic nervous system (Figure 6). A moderate rate of signaling from the nerve results in a blood vessel of intermediate diameter. An increase in the rate of signaling by the nerve results in constriction of the vessel; a decrease in signaling leads to dilation. The change in the vessel is maintained over time.

Figure 6. Tonic control regulates by modulation (up-down) rather than by on-off switches. Tonic control is an important regulator of blood flow to the organs
ANTAGONISTIC CONTROL modulates the activity of an organ by two separate regulators which act in opposition. For example (Figure 7), chemical signals (neurotransmitter) from a sympathetic neuron increase heart rate, whereas neurotransmitters from a parasympathetic neuron decrease it.

Figure 7. Antagonistic control of heart rate.
CIRCADIAN RHYTHMS allow predictable fluctuations in physiologic parameters over a 24 hour cycle as their set points change. Circadian rhythms govern many biological functions, including blood pressure, body temperature, and metabolic processes. Circadian rhythms arise from special group of cells in the brain (hypothalamus) which are programmed by either the light-dark, day-night cycle by input from the retina or our sleep-wake periods. When the circadian clock is altered (e.g., jet lag), body temperature and the secretion of various hormones are also altered.
KEY CONCEPT
The human body consists of an inter-dependent set of self-regulating systems. Their primary function is to maintain an internal environment compatible with living cells and tissues (homeostasis).
IMPORTANT GENERALIZATION OF HOMEOSTATIC CONTROL

Internal variables are maintained within a narrow range by balancing inputs and outputs to the body and among organ systems.
In negative feedback systems, a change in a variable is corrected by bringing the body back to the initial set point. Note that set points can be "reset" at a higher or lower physiological value.
Not always possible to maintain everything relatively constant by homeostatic control mechanisms in response to change. There is a hierarchy of importance in the maintenance of life.

QUESTION
Identify the components of the reflex loop in the following scenario:
You have finished the marathon in just under three hours. You are tired, sweating profusely, and start to drink water. After a few minutes you are still tired but no longer sweating or thirsty. 
ANSWER
This is an example of negative feedback.
Sweating = loss of ECF water (stimulus).
Stimulus is recognized by the hypothalamus (integrator) which activates the thirst response (effector) and the individual drinks water. This response removes the stimulus (thirst).
1.2 TRANSPORTERS, CHANNELS & PUMPS
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe how solutes cross cell membranes.
Explain how charge, size, and solubility affect solute movement across cell membranes.
Contrast how transporters, pumps and channels work.
Describe how ion channels are gated.
Explain transcellular transport.
Explain osmosis.
Explain osmolarity and tonicity.
Explain how effective solutes regulate fluid compartments.

BODY FLUID COMPARTMENTS
Recall from the homeostasis lecture that the human body stripped of fat is ~60% water. Under normal conditions, 3/4 of the extracellular fluid (ECF) is interstitial water (IS) and 1/ 4 of ECF is blood plasma (IVS). Thus only 1/12 (i.e., 1/ 4 x 1/ 3) of the total body water is blood plasma.
Total body water = ICF + ECF where ECF = IS + IVS

Figure 8. Fluid compartments of a body weighing 70 kg.
The fluid volumes of the body are measured by the isotope dilution method. In this procedure, a known quantity of a radioactive substance (marker) is administered, allowed to equilibrate within the body compartments and then its concentration is measured in a known volume of plasma. As the total amount administered is known, the volume of the diluted marker can be calculated from its final concentration in the plasma. This quantity is corrected for any of the substance excreted during equilibration and for the half-life (decay) of the radioactive isotope over time. To measure the intravascular space (plasma), radiolabeled albumin is infused; for extracellular markers, inulin is used. The whole body water volume is determined by infusing tritiated water. 
SOLUTE AND WATER FLOW
One of the key concepts that reoccur in physiology is the importance of gradients and the movement of solutes and water across barriers to maintain normal body function. Biological membranes are bilayers of lipid which restrict the movement of water soluble molecules, such as ions and glucose, from entering cells. In contrast, lipid soluble molecules cross membranes easily.
DIFFUSION is the passive movement of materials down their concentration gradient. It takes place in an open system or across a permeable partition. There are two types of diffusion (Figure 9): simple and facilitated.
Simple diffusion - membrane permeable (lipid soluble) molecules cross membranes moving from a high to low concentration.  Characteristics of simple diffusion include:

Occurs from an area of higher concentration to one of lower concentration.
Requires no energy expenditure.
Continues until equilibrium is reached.
Occurs rapidly over short distances and slowly over long distances
Is directly related to temperature (faster movement at higher temperatures).
Is inversely related to the size of the molecule (large molecules move slowly).


Figure 9. Comparison of solute uptake by simple versus facilitated diffusion.
Facilitated diffusion - membrane impermeable molecules can either enter or leave cells using transport proteins. Transport proteins are classified as either transporters or channels.
Transporter proteins are membrane proteins that bind specific molecules (substrates) and then carry them across the membrane by changing conformation (shape) (Figure 10). Transporters never form a direct connection between the ECF and ICF compartments. Small organic molecules such as glucose and amino acids cross membranes using transporters.
A transporter is open to one side of the membrane at any time. An open channel forms an aqueous pore across the membrane.

Figure 10. Channels and transporters allow membrane impermeable solutes to cross membranes.
Some transporters bind a single substrate; others bind two or more and are called co-transporters (Figure 11). Co-transporters are further classified into: symporters and antiporters.
SYMPORTER moves two (or more) substances in the same direction across a membrane.
ANTIPORTER moves two (or more) substances in opposite directions across a membrane.

Figure 11. Co-Transporters include symporters and antiporters.
Channel proteins are membrane proteins that create a water filled passageway that connects the ECF and ICF compartments (Figure 10). Water and ions move through these channels. The open and closed state of the channels is determined by a part of the channel that acts as a "gate".  The gating of the channel is controlled by ligands (chemically gated), electrical state of the cell (voltage gated) and by tension (mechanically gated).
Solutes can also move across membranes by active transport.
ACTIVE TRANSPORT moves a molecule against its concentration gradient and requires the input of energy (ATP). Active transporters are called "pumps". They exhibit specificity, competition, and saturation.
Active transport is involved in two types of solute movement: primary and secondary.
Primary active transport uses ATP as energy. The transporters are enzymes with ATPase activity. The solute is "pumped" against its concentration gradient.
Secondary active transport couples two processes, primary active transport and facilitated transport. Active transport is used to generate an intracellular ion gradient, usually Na+. This ion gradient is then exploited to allow entry of a solute by either a co-transporter or a single channel. In secondary active transport solutes are moved across whole cells. The ATPase pump is located on the basal side of the cells (nearest to the blood) and the solute enters (or exits) the apical (luminal) side of the cell. 
OSMOSIS IS THE DIFFUSION OF WATER
OSMOSIS is the movement of water across membranes. Osmosis only refers to the movement of water and is facilitated diffusion. The water channel is called aquaporin. Water is never actively transported. Water flows from compartments with "dilute" solutions (where concentration of water is high) to "concentrated" solutions (where concentration of water is low) until the concentrations of water and solute are equal in both compartments. Note that the concentration of water is highest in pure water.
OSMOTIC PRESSURE prevents the movement of water across a membrane. There is no osmotic pressure across a semi-permeable membrane when the water concentration on each side of the membrane is equal.
Non-penetrating solutes (e.g., Na+) determine the movement of water and consequently the size of the fluid compartment.
Penetrating solutes (e.g., steroid hormones, urea) diffuse freely across cell membranes so no net water movement will occur.
Osmolarity is the number of particles per liter of solution. To predict the osmotic movement of water we must know the concentration of the solutions. In chemistry, concentrations are usually expressed as molarity (M) or number of moles per liter of solution (mol/L). A mole is 6 x 1023 molecules. Molarity describes the number of molecules per liter of solution. Osmolarity (Osmol/L) deals with the number of particles in a liter of solution, not the number of molecules. Because some molecules dissociate into particles when they dissolve in a solution, the number of particles may not equal the number of molecules.

For example in a popular sports drink, the molecule NaCl dissociates into two ions (Na+ and Cl-) but the glucose is only one molecule. NaCl and glucose are both non-penetrating molecules but NaCl contributes 2 non-penetrating particles while glucose only one.

Osmolality is an osmole of solute per kg of water. Osmolarity and osmolality are often used interchangeably because physiological solutions are very dilute and very little of their weight comes from solute. 
TERMS TO REMEMBER
ISOSMOTIC SOLUTIONS: the solutions (A and B, see below) have the same number of solute particles (includes membrane penetrating and non-penetrating solutes).
HYPEROSMOTIC SOLUTIONS: when one solution (A) has a higher number of solute particles than the other solution (B), then solution (A) is hyperosmotic to (B).
HYPOSMOTIC SOLUTIONS: when one solution (A) has a lower number of solute particles than the other solution (B), then solution (A) is hyposmotic to (B).
Co-Transporters include symporters and antiporters. 

Why are non-penetrating solutes important? Non-penetrating solutes are the bases for maintaining cell size at rest and for protection against cell shrinkage or swelling. To maintain homeostasis, the concentration of non-penetrating (osmotically active) particles in the ECF must be maintained within a narrow range (~300mOsM).
Osmolarity of the human body is ~300 mOsM.
TONICITY: is used to compare two fluid compartments (e.g., ICF and ECF). It refers to the concentration of non-penetrating solutes only and is always comparative. Tonicity can be estimated but not measured directly.
To determine the relative tonicity of a solution you must know the number of non-penetrating solutes in the solution and in the cell. If the cell has a higher number of non-penetrating solutes then the cell is "hypertonic" with respect to the solution, water will enter the cell, and the cell swells. In this example the solution is "hypotonic" relative to the cell.
For example, if a cell has intracellular tonicity of 100mOsM, in which of the following solutions will it swell?   In which solution will it shrink?



      Solution A = 100 mOsM
    

      Solution B = 50 mOsM
    

      Solution C = 200 mOsM
    


Answer: The cell will not change volume in solution A (isotonic to the cell). The cell will swell in solution B. The cell will shrink in solution C.
To illustrate the role of a solute in maintaining compartment size, consider what happens when either water or solute is ingested (Figure 12).

Figure 12. Dynamic changes in body's fluid compartments.  A. Normal state. B. Ingestion of 3L of water adds 2L to the ICF and 1L to the ECF.  C.  Ingestion of 3L of isotonic NaCl adds 3L to the ECF and no change to the ICF volume. Why?
What would happen if solid NaCl is ingested but no water? All of the NaCl remains within the ECF. This increases the osmolar concentration in the ECF compartment. To equalize the osmolarity inside and outside the cells, water moves out of the cells. The ECF will increase in volume and the cells will shrink. How does the NaCl distribute between the IS and IV spaces?
In later lectures we will see that the kidney's primary functions are to (1) maintain fluid volumes of the body by regulating salt balance and (2) the osmolarity of the body by regulating water balance. Healthy people use two primary control systems to regulate water or sodium overload:

Osmolarity controls the elimination of water in the urine.
Changes in blood volume (blood pressure) control sodium excretion-not osmolarity!

KEY CONCEPTS

Movement of solutes across membranes involves simple diffusion, facilitated diffusion, primary active transport and secondary active transport. Water always moves by facilitated diffusion called osmosis.
Movement of solute across a membrane is dependent on its size, charge, and lipid solubility.
Cellular volume is critically dependent on the steady state movement of solutes and water across membranes in exchange with the ECF. Cells swell in hypotonic conditions and shrink in hypertonic conditions.

QUESTIONS

Bob ate an anchovy pizza (very salty) during the super bowl but had nothing to drink. Did this meal alter the size of his ECF compartment? Why or why not?
Mark tried to pass his kidney stone by drinking 6 liters of water over 1 hour. His wife became concerned when he became confused and disoriented. At the ER, they were told that Mark had lowered (diluted) the sodium concentration of his IS compartment to 123 mOsM. Did the osmolarity of the IVF change? When the ISF becomes hypotonic, does this affect the volume of brain cells (neurons)?
John ran a marathon. How did his perfuse sweating (loss of hyposmotic water) affect the osmolarity of the ECF (increase, decrease, remain unchanged)? Did the ECF volume increase, decrease, or remain unchanged? Was there a change in water distribution between ECF and ICF compartments?

ANSWERS

Yes, the ECF compartment increased. Due to an increase in osmolarity, water moved into the ECF from the ICF.
Yes, the sodium concentration in the IVF and ISF are in equilibrium (123 mOsM). If the IS becomes hypotonic to a cell, then water enters the cell causing the cell to swell. Note: lowering the extracellular sodium concentration decreases the electrochemical gradient (i.e., makes more negative).
Osmolarity of ECF increases because the sweat lost is hyposmotic fluid. ECF volume decreases because total body water decreases. Yes, the ECF volume decreases which raises the osmolarity of the ECF. Water moves from the ICF to the ECF to "restore" osmotic equilibrium.

1.3 CONCEPTS IN ENDOCRINOLOGY
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Define hormone, target cell, and receptor.
Contrast the terms endocrine, paracrine, autocrine, and neuroendocrine based on the site of release and the pathway to the target tissue.
Contrast peptide, steroid and amine hormones in terms of receptor location and signal transduction, solubility in blood and transport in blood.
Explain the effects of hormone binding proteins (carriers) on access of hormones to their sites of action, degradation, and the regulation of hormone secretion.
Explain the effects of secretion, excretion, degradation, and volume of distribution on the concentration of a hormone in blood plasma.
Explain how endocrine cells act as signal integrators.
Explain how negative feedback, feed-forward, and positive feedback systems work.
Describe the principles and limitations of RIA and bioassays (stimulation/suppression tests).
Explain the classification of endocrine pathologies.

HOMEOSTATIC CONTROL
Homeostatic control mechanisms include reflex loops in which the response decision is made at a distance from the target cell.

There are two general classes: endocrine and neuroendocrine.
Endocrine: hormone reaches its site of action via the blood circulation.
Neuroendocrine: hormone is secreted from neurons into the blood to act at a distance.
The other homeostatic control mechanism is the local response in which the signal and action occurs close to or at the target cell.

Paracrine: cytokine is secreted into the interstitial fluid to act locally on target cells.
Autocrine: cytokine is secreted into interstitial fluid to act on the cell that produced it.
FUNCTIONS OF HORMONES 
Endocrine system coordinates and integrates cellular activity within the whole body by chemicals (hormones) delivered by blood. Specific missions are to:

Regulate sodium and water balance
Regulate calcium balance
Regulate energy balance
Coordinate processes that cope with stressful environments
Coordinate growth and development.
Coordinate processes associated with reproduction and lactation.

EFFECT DEPENDS ON BLOOD LEVEL
Hormones are secreted into the blood stream and circulate throughout the body at very low concentrations (pMolar to nMolar). Therefore, their rate of production, delivery, and turnover are important control sites.
Rate of production

most regulated aspect
mediated by (+) and (-) feedbacks

Rate of delivery

dependent on perfusion and blood flow
follows mass action laws (carriers)

Rate of degradation and /or excretion
CLASSIFICATION OF HORMONES
There are three general types of hormone molecules: peptides, steroids, and amines. They differ in their relative solubility in plasma.
Peptide hormones consist of three or more amino acids and are soluble in blood.
Steroid hormones are derived from cholesterol and are insoluble in blood.
Amine hormones are derivatives of amino acids and some are soluble in blood.
PEPTIDE and PROTEIN HORMONES: are synthesized, packaged, and transported as other secretory proteins. Most are synthesized initially as preprohormones which in the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) are cleaved to remove the signal sequence forming the prohormone (Figure 13). Later in the Golgi, the prohormones are packaged, trimmed into an active hormone, and stored in vesicles.  Peptide hormones are usually secreted in bursts in response to stimuli.

Figure 13. Peptide hormone processing.
STEROID HORMONES: are derived from cholesterol. They are made only in the adrenal cortex, gonads and in pregnant women in the placenta. The first and rate limiting step in the synthesis of all steroid hormones is conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone. Pregnenolone is formed on the inner membrane of the mitochondrion, and then shuttled between the mitochondrion and the smooth endoplasmic reticulum for further enzymatic transformations. Steroid hormones are synthesized on demand. They are not stored. Steroid hormones can be converted to more active (or less) active hormones within their target tissues.
AMINE HORMONES: are derivatives of amino acids.
Thyroid hormones (T3 and T4) contain "double tyrosines" covalently bound to iodine atoms. T4 can be converted to T3 within target tissues.
Catecholamines: Epinephrine (Epi) is a hormone; norepinephrine (NorEpi) functions as a hormone and as a neurotransmitter.
DELIVERY BY TRANSPORT CARRIERS
Peptide hormones are soluble in blood. They are degraded by the liver and then cleared by the kidney with half-lives of a few minutes.
Steroid hormones and thyroid hormone are not soluble in blood. They circulate bound to protein carriers. Binding to the transport carrier protein extends the half-life of the hormone in the blood (60-90 minutes for steroids, several days for thyroid hormone).
The carrier-hormone complexes sequester the hormone from its target cell with most of the hormone in the bound state. The concentration of free plus bound equals total hormone concentration in the blood but only free is active.
RECEPTORS DETERMINE SPECIFICITY & BIOLOGICAL RESPONSE
Hormones are widely distributed throughout the body and have access to all cells but only target cells respond because they possess a receptor for the hormone. The receptor contains a recognition site that binds its hormone with high affinity and selectivity. A cell may express thousands to tens of thousands of receptors for a single hormone.
The lipid solubility of the hormone dictates the cellular location of its receptor. Plasma insoluble hormones bind to intracellular receptors; plasma soluble hormones bind to cell surface receptors.
Thyroid and steroid hormones bind to intracellular receptors to activate transcription. This results in synthesis of new proteins and therefore is a slow response (30 minutes or more).
Peptide hormones bind to cell surface receptors which activate a second messenger (Figure 14).  This results in a rapid (seconds) change in function/metabolism. Second messengers are important because they provide:

Amplification: One hormone molecule can generate thousands of copies of second messenger (e.g., cAMP) and thereby affect many copies of responsive target molecules (effectors) in the cell.
Memory: Once activated the second messenger stays on for several seconds to minutes.
Complex regulation: Multiple pathways can be initiated by binding one hormone to a single receptor type (Figure 14). 

The duration of a response depends on how long the hormone is available (i.e., its half life) and the time period of its biological response.

Figure 14. Receptor signal transduction pathways.
Adaptation or desensitization of receptors: diminishes the cell's response when the level of hormone is chronically elevated.
Rebound: is increased sensitivity of the target cell to a hormone due to its prolonged absence. In this instance the target cell increases its receptor number and so is "hyperactive" with return of the hormone.
REGULATION OF HORMONE SECRETION
Hormone secretion is governed by one of three types of regulatory stimuli: neural, hormonal, and nutrient (or ion). These stimuli activate a reflex loop in which the endocrine cell(s) is the effector. These reflex loops are typically negative feedback loops.
Hormones seldom work alone. Other interactions may include:
FEED FORWARD primes a target tissue. For example, the smell of food alone causes gastrin to be secreted by the stomach (antrum) which stimulates HCl secretion from the corpus/fundic stomach.
SYNERGY occurs when the net effect of several hormones acting a on a target tissue causes a bigger response than simple addition of each independent hormonal effect.
Re-ENFORCEMENT occurs when the actions of a single hormone on multiple tissues converge to regulate a process such as glucose production (see Figure 15).
PERMISSIVENESS occurs when the actions of a hormone sensitize the target tissue to a second hormone. For example, maturation of the male gonads is dependent on the presence of the sex hormone, testosterone. However, the fetus will not grow unless thyroid hormone is present. Thyroid hormone itself cannot trigger maturation of the gonads but leads to the expression of testosterone receptors that govern this differentiation process.

Figure 15. Cortisol acts on muscle and fat to re-enforce the production of glucose from the liver.
INACTIVATION OF HORMONE SIGNALING
Inactivation of the hormone signaling occurs at two levels. Cellular inactivation involves the termination of the receptor's response (receptor desensitization). Systemic inactivation involves homeostatic control mechanisms such as negative feedback (most common) which removes the initial stimulus (see Figure 16).

Figure 16.  Negative feedback loops eliminate the initiating stimulus.
For example, the pituitary and adrenal glands are in a negative feed-back loop (Figure 17). The stimulus, hypoglycemia (low blood glucose level) leads to the secretion of cortisol from the adrenal gland. Cortisol acts on liver, muscle, and fat to raise blood glucose levels. Over-ride of the set points for this loop occurs at the hypothalamus (brain) in response to inputs such as circadian rhythm and stress. Why is this important?

Figure 17. Negative feedback loops such as the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis have positive inputs (circadian rhythm) that transiently override the set point to govern blood glucose levels.
IMPORTANCE OF HORMONE LEVELS
Disorders of the endocrine system result from too little or too much hormone or target cell resistance.
Hypo-secretion: results in an insufficiency of hormone.
Hyper-secretion: results in an excess of hormone.
Resistance: is an abnormal target organ response due to receptor and/or second messenger dysfunction despite adequate active hormone levels.
The hormone and its regulated substance do not change independently. By monitoring both the hormone and its regulated substance, one can readily deduce the nature of the dysfunction. When the target endocrine gland itself is misbehaving, then it is referred to as a primary pathology. If the problem occurs in the proximal regulating gland (pituitary), then it is a secondary pathology, and those due to the more distal regulator (hypothalamus) are tertiary pathologies.
Shown in the table below are the findings indicative of hyper-secretion pathologies associated with the cortisol axis (diagrammed in Figure 17).
Table 3. Findings indicative of hyper-secretion pathologies associated with the cortisol axis.

Because hormones are present at very low concentrations (nM or pM) in body fluids and many have related structures, their measurement requires very high sensitivity and high specificity. Two common types of assays are used:
Radio-immune assay (RIA) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent (ELISA) assay measure the immuno-reactivity of the hormone in the body fluid.
Bioassay (suppression and stimulation) measures the biological activity to a challenge dose of hormone or substrate such as glucose (glucose tolerance test).
The results from these two assays can differ. Specifically,
RIA measures total hormone (carrier-bound hormone plus free) but only free is active. 
RIA will detect both active and inactive hormones but the cell receptor does not.
The hormone can be modified which alters its bio-activity but not its immuno-reactivity (and conversely).
Certain hormones are secreted at regular intervals (pulsatile) so a randomly taken sample may have assayed either a peak or trough.
KEY CONCEPTS

Peptide hormones are soluble in plasma, act via surface receptors, and are fast-acting and short-lived.
Thyroid hormones and steroid hormones are insoluble in plasma, act via intracellular receptors to change transcription, are slow-acting and are long-lived.
Thyroid and steroid hormones can be converted to more active (or less active) hormones within target tissues.
Transport carriers regulate hormone availability, physiologic function, and half-lives.
Hormone release can be governed by neuronal input, other hormones, nutrients and ions.
Regulation of hormone signaling occurs most often by negative feedback to control plasma concentration of the hormone and at the target cell where hormone actions are integrated.
Pathology in endocrinology occurs when there is either too little or too much hormone or resistance to the hormone due to receptor dysfunction.

QUESTIONS
Case: A 25 year old male comes in to your office for evaluation. The following was found:
Plasma cortisol at 4PM: 50 g/dL (normal 3-15 g/dL)
To suppress the HPA axis, you administer dexamethasone at 11PM. Sixty minutes later, the results are: 
Plasma cortisol levels are 45 g/dL (normal <5 g/dl)
Plasma ACTH: 7pg/mL (normal, >20 mg/mL)


These results are consistent with an overproduction of: (choose one)

CRH from the hypothalamus
ACTH from a pituitary
Cortisol from the adrenal



You would classify this state as: (choose one)

primary endocrine pathology
secondary endocrine pathology
tertiary endocrine pathology



ANSWERS

C
A











Copyright
Copyright  2015 by Emma Jakoi and Jennifer Carbrey
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of the authors (jakoipublishing@gmail.com), except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical reviews and certain other noncommercial uses permitted by copyright law.
This book is not intended as a substitute for the medical advice of physicians. The reader should consult a physician in matters relating to his/her health.










CHAPTER 7: THE REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM
Emma Jakoi, Ph. D.
Jennifer Carbrey, Ph. D.
7.1 THE MALE REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the H-P axis common to male and female that controls reproduction.
Describe spermatogenesis, the role of different cell types in this process and the roles of GnRH, FSH, LH, testosterone, and inhibin.
List the target organs for testosterone and DHT and their effects on each.
Describe the effect of sex steroids on the skeleton.

SEXUAL DIFFERENTIATION
The chromosomal determinants of genetic sex are the XX or XY chromosome combination. Expression of the SRY gene on the Y chromosome results in testes being formed instead of ovaries. Whether or not an individual has testes or ovaries determines their gonadal sex. The gonads (either testes or ovaries) are the source of gametes (sperm or ova) as well as sex hormones which determine the external and internal genitalia (phenotypic sex). The SRY gene is necessary for maleness but not sufficient. For example, the testosterone receptor gene on the X chromosome is also required.
THE COMMON AXIS
There are many similarities between the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonad axis in males and females. The process of producing sperm or ova is coordinated by the hypothalamus which secretes GnRH (gonadotropin-releasing hormone) in a pulsatile manner. In turn, GnRH stimulates the pituitary to secrete FSH (follicle-stimulating hormone) and LH (luteinizing hormone) (Figure 110). In both males and females, androgens (like testosterone) produced in the gonad is needed for development of the ovum or sperm. Production of inhibin B by cells in the testis or ovary decreases FSH secretion while sex hormones like testosterone and estrogen regulate GnRH, LH, and FSH secretion.
MATURATION OF THE H-P-GONAD AXIS

Figure 110. The hypothalamus-pituitary-gonad axis shows local secretion of testosterone within the testes and negative feedback by inhibin B to pituitary (FSH only). Testosterone (androgen) inhibits the secretion of LH, and FSH directly and of GnRH indirectly via kisspeptin.
In humans, the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonad axis differentiates in a sex-specific manner. In the adult male, GnRH secretion has a continuous (24-hr) pulsatile pattern and in the adult female, a cyclic (28 day) pulsatile pattern.
How does this maturation occur? The hypothalamus functions like a thermostat which responds negatively or positively to the levels of circulating gonadal steroids (testosterone or estrogen). During development, it is initially very sensitive to the negative feedback of these steroids and becomes progressively less so as puberty approaches. By puberty, its sensitivity to circulating gonadal steroids has changed from a super-sensitive state to a lower state of sensitivity. This continues until the feedback actions characteristic of the adult are established (Figure 110). This maturation is now understood to involve another hypothalamic factor, kisspeptin, and its receptor GPR54. In the absence of either kisspeptin activity or its receptor (GPR54) activity, the individual (male or female) fails to enter puberty and is infertile. 
During fetal life, testosterone is secreted by the testes independent of GnRH control. This early rise in testosterone imprints the hypothalamus as male. Later, at birth, a second surge in testosterone results in permanent virilization of the hypothalamus which imprints the GnRH secretion pattern as 24-hour and pulsatile. Throughout childhood until puberty, testosterone remains low. At puberty the plasma level increases to adult levels, remains elevated until middle age, and then declines somewhat later in life.
SPERM PRODUCTION
In the adult male, in response to GnRH, the pituitary secretes FSH and LH (Figure 110). These hormones act on the testes to regulate sperm production (spermatogenesis) and sex hormone synthesis. Spermatogenesis occurs in the testes. Unlike the female, the stem cell population, spermatogonia, of the male can undergo continuous division renewing the developing sperm population throughout the life of the male. FSH acts on the Sertoli cells of the seminiferous tubules of the testis (Figure 110). Sertoli cells surround the stem cells and developing sperm, isolating them from the rest of the body (blood-testes barrier). FSH initiates spermatogenesis by promoting the germ cells to undergo division (Figure 111). Cohorts of functional sperm take 90 days to fully mature. A fertile sperm count is 200-400 million sperm/5 mL of semen.

Figure 111. Schematic depicting a seminiferous tubule, Sertoli cells, Leydig cells and sperm of the testis.
In addition, FSH induces the expression of androgen binding protein (ABP) on the cell surfaces of the Sertoli cells. ABP binds testosterone (androgen). The testosterone-ABP complex provides a local supply of testosterone in high concentration near the developing sperm which is critical for the maturation of the sperm.
FSH also increases the secretion of inhibin B by the Sertoli cells which acts to negatively regulate FSH release by the pituitary.
The target cell for LH is the Leydig cell of the testes. Leydig cells secrete testosterone for use as a paracrine within the testes and as a hormone by the peripheral target tissues (Figure 111). Leydig cells also produce dihydrotestosterone (DHT).
ROLE OF TESTOSTERONE IN SPERM PRODUCTION
Testosterone is a steroid hormone. As with all steroid hormones, it binds to nuclear receptors to initiate transcription. Locally, within the testes, testosterone binds to androgen receptors in sertoli cells leading to increased transcription, synthesis, and secretion of androgen binding protein (ABP) and maturation of sperm in spermatogenesis.
Testosterone alone cannot initiate spermatogenesis. FSH is required. But once initiated, FSH is no longer required and testosterone alone can maintain sperm maturation.
Testosterone also circulates in the plasma bound to a carrier protein. In the peripheral target tissues, it acts as an anabolic hormone responsible for the growth and function of accessory sex structures (penis, seminal vesicle, prostate) and to increase lean muscle mass.
TESTOSTERONE CONVERSION
In many target tissues, testosterone acts as a prohormone. It is converted to a more potent androgen called dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by the enzyme, 5-alpha reductase. DHT is responsible for development and maintenance of the male secondary sex characteristics including beard growth, deep voice, and growth of the prostate. In the ovary and breast (of males and females), testosterone is converted to estrogen by the enzyme aromatase.
SEX STEROIDS AND THE MALE SKELETON
Both testosterone and estrogen are required for optimal bone deposition and skeletal growth in men and women.  Gender differences in bone mineral density are established during puberty, resulting in a higher peak bone mass in men compared to women. In addition, men lose less bone mass during aging. It is now established that bone expresses aromatase activity and that estrogen and testosterone have separate roles in bone homeostasis. In males and females, estrogen and estrogen receptor activity stimulate longitudinal growth and induce epiphyseal growth plate closure at the end of puberty. In contrast, androgen and androgen receptor activation play little role in epiphyseal growth plate closure, but are involved in elongation of the skeleton and maintenance of bone mass.
Two different types of mutations reported in human males reveal the role of estrogen in bone homeostasis. Receptor resistance in which the estrogen receptor is inactivated results in continual longitudinal growth of the skeleton. Insufficiency of estrogen in which the aromatase gene is inactivated results in undetectable plasma estrogen levels, but normal plasma testosterone levels, low bone density, and continual longitudinal growth of the skeleton. Administration of estrogen to these individuals induces epiphyseal closure limiting the elongation of the skeleton.
QUESTIONS


Which of the following DIRECTLY determines whether an individual appears male or female?

genetic sex (XX vs. XY)
the presence of a testis or ovary
the hormonal secretions of the gonad
all of the above



Which of the following are necessary for proper sperm or egg production?

LH
FSH
androgen
A, B, and C



A 35 year old male has an inactivating mutation in his LH receptor expressed on his Leydig cells. Predict the effect on spermatogenesis:

increased
decreased
no effect



An adult male who has not produced testosterone since early childhood and who has not been treated for this condition will:

be taller than average
have a very deep voice
have abundant chest hair
undergo premature baldness



ANSWERS

C
D
B
A


7.2 THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM
LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Describe the H-P axis common to male and female that controls reproduction.
Describe oogenesis and ovulation. Discuss the hormonal regulation of these processes. Explain the roles of GnRH, FSH, LH, estrogen, and inhibin.
Describe the changes that occur in the uterus and ovary during the follicular and luteal stages of the menstrual cycle and identify the hormones that regulate these processes.
Describe the mechanism for the action of oral contraceptives.

THE COMMON AXIS
There are many similarities between the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonad axis in males and females. The process of producing sperm or ova is coordinated by the hypothalamus which secretes GnRH (gonadotropin-releasing hormone) in a pulsatile manner. In turn, GnRH stimulates the anterior pituitary to secrete both FSH (follicle-stimulating hormone) and LH (luteinizing hormone) (Figure 112). In both males and females, androgens (like testosterone) produced in the gonad are needed for development of the ovum or sperm. Production of inhibin B by cells in the testis or ovary decreases FSH secretion while sex hormones like testosterone and estrogen regulate GnRH, LH, and FSH secretion.

Figure 112. The hypothalamus-pituitary-gonad axis in females.
THE AXIS IN FEMALES
In the female, the cyclic pattern of hypothalamic secretion controls the menstrual cycle. Starting at puberty, the hypothalamus secretes GnRH which leads to LH and FSH secretion from the anterior pituitary. LH acts on the theca cells of the ovary to secrete androgen. FSH acts on the follicles in the ovary and specifically on the granulosa cells which surround the ovum. These cells contain the enzyme aromatase which converts local androgen (from the theca cells) to estrogen. Estrogen exerts a negative feedback blocking secretion of GnRH, LH and FSH (Figure 112). Granulosa cells also secrete inhibin which selectively suppresses FSH secretion.

Figure 113. The menstrual cycle. Image from OpenStax College, Anatomy & physiology, Download for free at http://cnx.org/content/col11496/latest/
THE OVARY
The ovary has two primary functions. In oogenesis, the ovum and its surrounding granulosa cells mature in a structure called a follicle. The other role of the ovary is the secretion of estrogen and progesterone which develops and maintains female secondary sex characteristics and prepares the uterine surface for the initiation of pregnancy (implantation of embryo).
OOGENESIS
The ovarian germ cell population changes in number over time. The peak stem cell population occurs at about the fifth month of gestation and is followed by a very rapid fall in numbers such that at birth the germ cell population is about 10-20 million cells. During the prepubertal and reproductive periods there is a further reduction in oocyte number such that only about 400-500 oocytes actually mature to ovulation (i.e., leave the ovary). The others are lost to cell death (called atresia). The loss of oocytes is the fundamental basis of menopause.
FOLLICLE GROWTH
Each oocyte is surrounded by one to several layers of granulosa cells. This structure is called a follicle. The menstrual cycle in the ovary can be divided into follicular and luteal phases. The follicular phase extends from day 1 (beginning of menses) to day 14. The follicle develops in response to FSH. Granulosa cells of the follicle continue to secrete increasing amounts of estrogen which feeds back in a negative manner to regulate FSH. Plasma FSH levels decline. FSH levels are also regulated by a second hormone, inhibin, secreted by the granulosa cells. Inhibin negatively regulates FSH secretion from the pituitary.
Each month several follicles start to mature but only one is chosen to be ovulated (i.e., expelled from the ovary) for transport to the uterus. This chosen follicle expresses the highest number of FSH and LH receptors. It survives and the others die (atresia).
Between days 12-14, there is a rapid rise in estrogen secretion by the granulosa cells. Now estrogen acts in a positive manner resulting in an increase in kisspeptin within the hypothalamus (Figure 113 and Figure 114).

Figure 114. The role of kisspeptin in the H-P-gonad axis in males (left) and females (right).
The surge of LH production in response to increased estrogen is unique to females. Male brains develop in the presence of testosterone which is converted to estrogen. Increased levels of estrogen in the male brain prevent development of a certain group of neurons in the anteroventral periventricular (AVPV) nucleus of the hypothalamus. However, under conditions of low estrogen during prenatal development as is seen in females, neurons gather in the AVPV which synapse with the cell body of GnRH producing neurons and stimulate GnRH release under increased estrogen levels as occurs during follicular development (Figure 114). This local rise in kisspeptin increases GnRH secretion and consequently a surge in LH secretion. Thirty six to forty eight hours after the LH surge, ovulation of the chosen ovum occurs.
LUTEAL PHASE
The luteal phase of the ovary extends from days 14-28 (). In the ovary, the now empty chosen follicle converts to a hormone secreting tissue called the corpus luteum. The corpus luteum secretes both estrogen and progesterone (Figure 113). In the luteal phase, estrogen inhibits FSH and LH secretion from the pituitary, as well as GnRH.  If fertilization does not occur, then 12-14 days after ovulation, the corpus luteum degenerates and ceases estrogen and progesterone production (Figure 113). The decrease in estrogen and progesterone allows for increased GnRH production to begin the cycle all over again.
THE MENSTRUAL CYCLE
During the menstrual cycle the hypothalamus, pituitary, ovary, and uterus interact to cause a follicle to mature, egg to be released, and provide a uterus suitable for pregnancy. This is accomplished by the hypothalamus and pituitary exerting control over the ovary while the steroids of the ovary feedback to regulate the hypothalamus and pituitary. The steroids of the ovary are also responsible for initiating and controlling changes that occur in the endometrium of the uterus (Figure 115).
THE UTERUS
The menstrual cycle of the ovary causes the uterus to be either proliferative or secretory. 
The uterus proliferative phase (growth phase) is regulated by estrogen during days 1-14 of the menstrual cycle (Figure 113). During this time the uterine wall thickens and uterine glands develop.
The secretory phase of the uterus is regulated by progesterone during days 14-28 of the menstrual cycle (Figure 113). Progesterone prepares the uterus for the possibility of embryo implantation. In the absence of fertilization and implantation, progesterone levels decline late in the menstrual cycle so that by day 28, the uterine glands atrophy and the uterine surface sloughs off. This is due to vascular constriction and enhanced uterine smooth muscle activity. Menses ensues.
Successful implantation and pregnancy requires a continuous production of progesterone. If fertilization and pregnancy occurs, then the newly formed embryo (blastocyst) secretes the hormone, human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG), which stimulates the corpus luteum to produce estrogen and progesterone during the first trimester of pregnancy (Figure 115). hCG is used to assess the viability of the fetus and is the basis of the at home pregnancy test. If there is not successful implantation, there is no hCG produced and the corpus luteum degenerates and ceases estrogen and progesterone production. hCG levels increase and peak at 10-12 weeks of pregnancy. Once the hCG levels decrease, 3 months into the pregnancy, the corpus luteum regresses. However, estrogen and progesterone levels continue to increase throughout the pregnancy because the placenta produces them.

Figure 115. The regulation of the corpus luteum during the 1st trimester of pregnancy.
MECHANISMS OF ACTION FOR ESTROGEN
Steroid hormones act as transcription factors in their target tissues. In the uterus and breast, estrogen up-regulates estrogen receptors. In addition, estrogen primes the tissue for progesterone action by increasing the numbers of progesterone receptors expressed. The continual exposure to unopposed estrogen can result in pathological stimulation of these target tissues (cancer of the uterus).
In contrast, progesterone-dependent transcription down-regulates the estrogen receptor (decreases its numbers) thereby facilitating differentiation. Remember that the tissue is sensitive to the hormone only if it expresses the receptor for that hormone.
ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES
Oral contraceptive pills are usually a combination of synthetic estrogen and progesterone. The doses are lower than would be normally found in the body due to a prolonged half-life (4-8 hours versus 20 min). This is accomplished by adding groups such as acetyl or methyl groups which slow metabolism of the synthetic hormones by the liver. They act by inhibiting pituitary secretion of LH (negative feedback) which often prevents ovulation. Some pills, such as progesterone-only pills, are not as effective at preventing ovulation. However, they prevent pregnancy by affecting cervical mucus which prevents sperm from entering the uterus or by making the endometrium unable to facilitate implantation. Periodic withdrawal of steroids is used to allow for a sloughing of the uterine wall (menstrual flow).
QUESTIONS


Predict the levels of FSH in the post-menopausal female (no longer has any oocytes):

increased
decreased
no effect



In a female, if pregnancy occurs, the next menstrual cycle is prevented by:

production of hCG by the embryo
maintenance of the corpus luteum
feedback of estrogen and progesterone to keep FSH low
A, B, and C



In humans, ovulation at mid-cycle results from a ______to the hypothalamus which causes a surge in the secretion of____. 

positive feedback by estrogen; LH
withdrawal of progesterone; GnRH
withdrawal of the gonadotrophin releasing hormone; FSH
positive feedback by inhibin; FSH



Estrogen produced by the chosen follicle:

causes the uterus to be in the proliferative phase
reduces FSH production by the pituitary
causes the LH surge to induce ovulation
A, B, and C



ANSWERS

A
D
A
D
















