




Is Your Wi-Fi Free Wi-Fi?A Simple Guide to Stopping Hackers & Neighbors From Stealing Your Internet 
 
 
 
 
Jason Miller












 
Contents
People Love Free Wi-Fi
How The Hackers Operate
Should You Use A Router Supplied By An Isp?
Access Your Wireless Router
Don't Tell SSID
Enable Your Encryption
Disable WPS
Turn Off UPnP
Filter MAC Addresses
Stifle The Range
Keep Updated
Find A Manual For Your Router
 










People Love Free Wi-Fi
When a letter popped through the door of a friend warning him to stop downloading copyrighted material, he was understandably concerned. As someone who would recoil in horror if anyone thought he was up to something dodgy, he racked his brain trying to work out how it could have happened. Living alone, it couldn't have been a family member - and, having run a virus check, he couldn't see any signs of malicious code. Perhaps it was just a case of mistaken identity, he thought. Or maybe someone had managed to gain access to his wi-fi network. 
Unfortunately, his second hunch was correct. A neighbour had been using his network to download films and games, and he was mightily upset. He was right to be; someone with access to a wireless network can compromise a host of devices these days, ranging from computers and phones to cameras, smart televisions and connected appliances. An unprotected network can allow people to see the content of the data being transmitted back and forth, and it can let them view your private information.
It can also, as the friend saw first-hand, allow others to download illegal content or infect a machine with spyware or viruses. That's just the start, though. Compromised networks can be used to send spam and viruses to other people too, with the added danger of the offence being traced right back to your door. Indeed, as if to underline the effects of a hack on an unsecured network, you only have to cast your mind back to November 2015.
You may well have missed this piece of news, but the Herald Scotland reported that the comedy duo the Krankies lost £3,000 to fraudsters when their home wi-fi was compromised, apparently by a man who parked up outside in a dark saloon. They are not alone either, as security company Avast says around 75% of households are at risk of attack via a wireless router.
While hacking wi-fi may not be the easiest thing in the world to achieve - it requires patience, some technical skill and decent software (most of the stuff online is packed with cookies and malware) - there is no point in tempting fate. You'll do yourself a lot of favours in the long-run and sleep more easily if you secure your home wi-fi network. After all, you don't want any scammers parking down your way in the future.










How The Hackers Operate
Hackers looking to breach a home network have an easier time of it thanks to the number of devices that are now hooked up, providing a greater number of entry points. Devices such as smart televisions, with fewer network restrictions, are viewed as easy ways in but, as always in these things, we users are often the weakest link - so make sure you put up the right defenses and watch out for any potentially dodgy downloads in emails and online.
Experts say the problem is only going to get worse thanks to the wide availability of simple software that can be used to access networks. Aircracking, for example, works with a wireless card and actually has step-by-step instructions showing users how to discover network passwords. WEPCrack is an open source tool that lets people break into 802.11 WEP secret keys, while AirSnort bills itself as a wireless LAN encryption key recovery tool that passively monitors transmissions, computing the encryption key when enough packets have been gathered.
KisMAC for Mac OSX and Kismet for Linux need advanced knowledge but they will help to crack WEP and WPA keys by brute force, exploiting flaws including weak scheduling and badly generated keys. Yet, even without such specialist software, you can see which Wi-Fi networks are available thanks to built-in features in modern operating systems, and there are password lists around on the dark web that show the popular terms people use to log in.
Knowing that there is such support for hackers should make you more determined to shore up your machine and make it less vulnerable to attack. Experts suggest it takes mere seconds for a decent hacker to access a home network and a couple of minutes for someone using a tool downloaded from the web. The truth being: they are generally not going to such efforts for mere fun.










Should You Use A Router Supplied By An Isp?
It's the easy option. You buy a package from an internet service provider and you get a router. So why bother going to the expense of getting an alternative? In most cases, you'll generally be fine with the provided router, but they are usually less secure than the ones which are sold direct. With patches often coming later and with remote support hardwired into them, they can also be more inflexible. So if you want extra security and choice, then you may well want to find your own router.










Steps to Secure Your Wi-Fi
Luckily, there are a few simple steps you can take to get rid of Wi-Fi paranoia. 









Access Your Wireless Router
So what should you do? The first thing you need to know is how to access the settings of your wireless router. This part is easy. Try typing 192.168.0.1 into the address bar of your browser (or check your user guide for the right number combo if this doesn't work), and log in using the username and password for the router. You'll find this within the manual, from your ISP or via a search online since the routers have standard logins which work across the board. Once you're in, it goes without saying that you really ought to be looking at changing the login details to something more secure and unique to you, and you can do this from the page that will appear on screen.
With that done, you can then look at altering the router's IP address as well. It may seem extreme but the router's default IP address can be known by others, so by creating your own bespoke address (as long as the numbers within the dots are between 1 to 254), you will have something unique and known only to you. Just remember, when you log in to access your router settings from that point on, you'll need to input that IP address in the URL bar of your browser rather than the one you started with.
Now take a look at the devices connected to your home network. You should be able to recognize each one of them, and if you can't then you may have an issue with someone piggybacking on your network. Not only will this pose a security threat to your network and zap some of your speed, if you're still on a contract that limits your data, then it could prove quite costly too. So, in order to avoid any such problems, let's take some action in locking down the Wi-Fi even further so that any rogue device finds it more difficult to gain access in the future - effectively chucking it off the system.










Don't Tell SSID
As well as changing the password of your router, take a look at the wireless network name, or SSID. In a lot of cases, this is quite descriptive of the service you use. Sky, for instance, will generally say SKY in the name and list a series of letters, and this is generally the case with a lot of ISPs. The problem with this is that the name gives a stark clue about the equipment you're likely to be using, and that will only help hackers in their endeavours to breach your security.
You can alter this by clicking on the option for changing the wireless network name - but what to choose? It's best to go with something obscure that you will instantly recognize, while ensuring it doesn't give anything away about who you are and what kit you're using. This is mainly good practice rather than a strict method of security but in situations such as this, every little helps. If the name looks weird enough, it may put some people off from trying to gain access for fear that its evidence you've locked down some other settings.










Enable Your Encryption
Your next step is to encrypt the data going back and forth. It is likely that you will already have encryption turned on (if you're asked for a password then it will be), but you have to be 100% sure because an insecure network is going to be far easier to breach. Also, there are different levels of encryption so you'll want to be using the correct one.
It is rather unlikely that your router will be set to WEP encryption. This is a very dated security protocol that was introduced some 20 years or so ago, when the IEEE 802.11 Wi-Fi standard was introduced. Today, it is the least secure form of encryption, and it is generally only used if you're wanting to hook older hardware to your network. It's definitely one to stay clear of, bearing in mind that poor encryption and sloppy configuration are the two key mistakes that allow hackers through.
Far better for modern use is its replacement - WPA - which has been knocking around for 13 years. It makes use of the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol and requires far greater brute force in order to pry it open. Even then there's something better, however: WPA2. This uses the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), and it is far more secure than the other methods, requiring hackers to have a good idea of how the network is being used or to use specific software and tools to do the job. It's worth upgrading your router if it doesn't support WPA2 and ensure that it is checked as the preferred method. You'll likely see this listed as WPA2-PSK, the extra three letters standing for Pre-Shared Key. This refers to a shared secret which is typically your encryption password but if you are offered a choice of WPS2-PSK, go for the one with AES in brackets rather than TKIP. That's because TKIP is no longer considered to be secure, making WPA2-PSK (AES) the safest of bets.










Disable WPS
So what next? Well, you will be able to boost the strength of WPA2's protection by disabling Wi-Fi Protected Setup, or WPS. This security standard was created to produce a secure wireless home network, and it manifests itself in one of two ways: either via a unique PIN or via a physical WPS button on the router. When the button is pressed or the PIN is entered, a link is created between devices. The idea is that to hack it, someone would need to have physical access to your router or be able to guess your eight-digit PIN. Yet, almost perversely, WPS can make your machine more vulnerable to attack. The problem is that while the button-press method is the more secure of the two ways WPS works, the specification of WPS makes it mandatory for the PIN to be supported. All a piece of software has to therefore do is cycle through the combination of numbers and brute force its way into the network. This is also made much, much easier by the fact that the router checks the PIN in a very specific way - by checking it in two blocks of four. The software only needs to check the 10,000 four digit-codes possible in the first block before being able to do the same to the second set. As well as significantly cutting the time it takes a hacker to get in to a system (it can take as little as an hour or as long a day) it isn't actually a hard task to perform. 
There are downloadable programs available for free that allow for such cracking, and the person using the app generally doesn't need any specialist knowledge. The end result is always the same too: once someone is in your system, they are able to change your router or the configuration of the access point.
This makes finding a way to disable WPS useful, yet some routers won't allow you to do it. If you are lucky, then the setting is likely to be an option in your router's WPS settings so you should have a look around the administrative sections. It should be a simple case of unchecking a box.










Turn Off UPnP
Now we'll turn our attention to a set of networking protocols called Universal Plug and Play (UPnP). This allows devices, whether they are computers, printers or Wi-Fi access points, to find each other and create a data-sharing network. Since UPnP devices are able to alter a few of the router settings without needing to be logged in via your browser, it only needs a hacker to introduce a device and exploit your network. For this reason, you may want to turn it off within the settings of your router. That said, doing so could make your life a little harder. The feature automatically forwards ports that are needed for gaming applications. It allows for a reduction in lag and makes for a better experience. You'll have to weigh up whether there is a potential risk for you or whether your entertainment will suffer. Luckily, if you do leave it on there are other things you can do.










Filter MAC Addresses
Everything you connect to Wi-Fi will have its own unique MAC address. Standing for Media Access Control, it is used as an identifier, and it is made up of six pairs of characters, each of which is separated by a colon. By discovering the MAC address of the machines and devices connected to your network, you can restrict your router so that it only works with them. All you need to do is input the MAC addresses into the relevant settings area of your router. But how do you find out what they are? In Windows, this is simple: open the command prompt by right-clicking on the Start button, type ipconfig/all, and press Enter to see your network configuration. By scrolling down to your network adapter, you should see a set of values listed next to Physical Address, and this will be your MAC address.
It's just as easy on an Apple Mac: select System Preferences, click on Network, and click on the connection you use (so select wi-fi), select Advanced, and then click the Hardware tab. The MAC addressed will be displayed. You can also locate the MAC address in Linux by ensuring you're the root user and typing ifconfig -a. You then need to find eth0 and locate the number next to the HWaddr.
This is your Mac address. Of course, you're not just dealing with computers these days. On iOS, you can find MAC addresses by heading to Settings > General > About and looking for the entry next to Wi-Fi Address. In Android, you'll go to Menu > Settings > About Tablet > Status and look for the Wi-Fi MAC address. Inputting a MAC address is not a foolproof method by any means, though, so you should only do it as one of the many lines of defence of locking your network down. The issue here is that there are a few apps around including Nmap which are able to discover the MAC address of any wireless device. Hackers can then use another app to alter their machine's address to match it and gain access but it will take a pretty determined hacker to be going down this path, in which case we're going to have to up the ante a little bit more.










Stifle the Range
One way of doing this is to limit how far your wi-fi signal is extending from your router. If we take the example of the Krankies again, it appears they may have been stung by someone sitting outside their house and accessing their network. It is also possible for neighbours to discover nearby wi-fi and attempt to connect in a similar way - you only have to look at how many wi-fi signals there are in your area, especially if you live in a shared building, to see how strong some of them can be. So is there a way of limiting the range?
You could move your router to the centre of your house. It will have a specific range so there will naturally be certain areas outside your home that will have a stronger, wider signal than elsewhere. Having a router close to an external wall will mean the signal stretching far outside.
You can also reduce the power input on some routers, which will temper the signal, or you can look to get hold of some directional antennae. It's shame you can't just tell the router to limit to, say, 20 feet, but give those two tricks a try anyway










Keep Updated
It is also important that you keep on top of the firmware updates from the router manufacturer. You'll either have to download it yourself and manually install it or simply click - it very much depends on the router you have. Before you do this, make sure that you have a backup of your router settings just in case it is reset to the factory default.
By following these tips, you should be able to rest a little easier knowing you have a more secure network. There are still some other things you can do, though. Some experts would advise that you turn off the setting for your router that broadcasts your network's name - only the hackers with specialist software will be able to find it, leaving it invisible to everyone else (but that also means guests will have to know what to look for). You should also enable the firewall so that it blocks unsolicited incoming traffic and protects the network from the 'wild' internet. Some routers will also allow the blocking of some outgoing traffic. 
You could also get into the habit of turning the router off when you leave the house. If your wi-fi is not needed when you're out and about this would be a surefire way of blocking the hackers. Granted, it won't be as useful if you are starting to hook into the internet of things and you're looking forward to turning the heating on in your house just before your drive home. Neither will turning it off be a good idea if you want to light up your home remotely to make it look like someone is in. However, with attacks becoming more sophisticated, you can't be too careful, and sometimes compromises have to be made. 
A BBC article in February 2016 showed just how easy it can be for hackers to compromise a network and gain access to various devices including cameras, which are often used to spy and eavesdrop. We're only at the start. With more and more devices hooking up online, the number of vulnerabilities is set to rise over the years too. You just never know who may be watching.










Find A Manual For Your Router
If you need to refer to a manual, then you should be able to find details online. Here are some handy links.

Netgear: netgear.com/support
Linksys: linksys.com/us/support
BT Hub: tinyurl.com/zgqbcxo
Sky Hub: sky.com/help/articles/download-sky-broadband-user-manuals
Belkin: belkin.com/us/support
Buffalo Inc.: buffalotech.com/support
D-Link: dlink.com/support
Apple Airport: support.apple.com/manuals/#airport

















