












 Note on the Ebook EditionFor an optimal reading experience, please view large tables and figures in landscape mode.This ebook published in 2015 byKogan Page Limited2nd Floor, 45 Gee StreetLondon EC1V 3RSUKwww.koganpage.com© Peter Cheverton, 1999, 2001, 2004, 2008, 2012, 2015E-ISBN 978 0 7494 6941 2Full imprint details







ContentsAbout the authorForeword by Professor Malcolm McDonaldPrefacePreface to the sixth editionAcknowledgementsAnd it was all going so very well...Part One Definitions and purpose01  The key account approach02  Why Key Account Management?03  The spectrum of KAM ambition04  What is a key account?05  What is Key Account Management?Part Two Analysis: opportunity and value06  Knowing the market, knowing your value07  Knowing the people, knowing your valuePart Three Relationship management08  From 'bow-ties' to 'diamonds'09  Decision mapping and contact strategies10  The good, the bad, the sad and the uglyPart Four Achieving key supplier status11  The purchasing revolution12  Supply chain management: seeking value13  Purchasing organization: rationalization and centralization14  Supplier positioning: managing suppliersPart Five Achieving strategic supplier status15  Being of strategic value16  How do they plan to grow?17  How do they aim to win?18  What drives them?19  A shared future?Part Six The value proposition20  The customer's total business experience21  The customer's activity cycle22  Measuring the value - securing the reward23  Making the proposalPart Seven Planning and joint planning24  The key account plan25  Joint planningPart Eight Targeting26  Customer classification27  Customer distinction28  Global Account ManagementPart Nine Making it happen29  Sins and requirements30  Leadership and organization31  Skills, attitudes and behaviours32  The role of information technology33  Measuring customer profitability34  The implementation plan35  Training and further helpIndex  For free online support material please go to the Kogan Page website:  www.koganpage.com/KAM6







About the AuthorPeter Cheverton is a founding director of INSIGHT Marketing and People, a global training and consultancy firm specializing in Key and Global Key Account Management. He has developed an international reputation as one of the leading experts in this challenging area, working 'hands on' with clients around the world, in industries as diverse as specialty chemicals, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, FMCG, retail, automotive, financial services, IT, packaging, and transport, helping them with the implementation of their tailored KAM strategies.As well as working directly with clients 'in house', Peter regularly presents INSIGHT's Key Account Management Masterclass in cities around the world, including London, Aberdeen, Glasgow, Dublin, Paris, Brussels, Barcelona, Amsterdam, Stockholm, Gothenburg, Oslo, Vienna, Budapest, Prague, Bucharest, Warsaw, Shanghai, Beijing, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Seoul, Tokyo, Melbourne, Cape Town, Johannesburg, San Paulo, Boston, New York and Chicago.He is also the author of Global Account Management, Key Account Management in Financial Services, Key Marketing Skills, The Value Machine, and Understanding the Professional Buyer, books used as standard texts by many international business schools.Prior to establishing INSIGHT in 1991, Peter was the European sales and marketing manager for ICI Dulux Paints.You can contact Peter at peter.cheverton@insight-mp.com







ForewordGood books on Key Account Management are rare. One of the reasons for this lies in the past, in the way that Key Account Management (KAM) has been defined and described. The past 40 years have been characterized by a view that KAM is mainly a selling task, albeit at a high level, and that the responsibility for its implementation rests almost entirely with the sales team.Yet all our research at Cranfield School of Management indicates that, above all else, it is this mentality that prevents the forging of mature, trustworthy and profitable relationships. Key Account Management is not a sales initiative, it is not something you do to customers, and key account strategies will require the full support of the business.Key Account Management is a team effort and, more than that, it is a business-wide effort. Our research has shown repeatedly that major clients want more than a sales-buyer interface and they want more than a traditional salesperson managing the relationship. If suppliers and customers are to forge significant relationships, as businesses, then both sides must look to new ways of managing those relationships.Relationships are at the very heart of KAM. They provide the source of information and understanding that can be built into added-value activities. They also provide the foundations for long-term business based on mutual trust and confidence. If you care about customer retention then you should care about KAM.So let's escape the trap of the last 40 years - KAM is not something we do to customers, it is something we do with customers, and perhaps the greatest single motivation for developing Key Account Strategies is that the customer is looking for new ways of working alongside key suppliers.Purchasing organizations are looking more and more to the techniques of supply chain management as a means of prioritizing and managing relationships with significant suppliers. Those suppliers must respond with customer-sensitive strategies that will touch on everything from the people involved to the systems and processes used, and even to the structure and organization of the supplier's business.Key Account Management provides the strategic base, the processes and the disciplines to handle this situation, alongside those other common challenges - globalization, market maturity and customer power.The purpose is clear: the pursuit of competitive advantage. The days are long gone when major customers would tolerate average, overpriced products and services. Being a 'pimply me too' just won't work anymore.Competitive advantage puts you in a position to succeed, but there is more that you need to do. There is the question of profit. Most companies, if they are honest, are not able to measure the profitability of their key accounts. Many companies, once they determine to measure these things, often find their largest customers to be their least profitable. Very few companies measure the long-term returns of customer retention - annual results are often all that count. Key Account Management should be seen as the route to profitable key supplier status - the challenge of understanding profit must be taken head on. This book will provide the help required.Peter Cheverton has used the Cranfield research to great effect. I have worked closely with him for many years and have respect and admiration for his work as a trainer and consultant with major clients. The task of implementing Key Account Strategies is far from easy, and Peter brings a combination of clarity, experience, enthusiasm and common sense to the task. This book is an excellent distillation of his experience, building on the Cranfield research and producing the essential guide to global best practice.Please be assured that reading this book will be a rewarding experience. Professor Malcolm McDonaldCranfield School of Management







PrefaceThis book is designed as a practical guide to implementing Key Account Management (KAM) strategies. Wherever it has been helpful to do so, real examples of KAM practice have been used to illustrate important points. Many of these examples come from my own experience in working with the clients of INSIGHT Marketing and People, an international training and consultancy firm. Wherever possible the companies involved are openly discussed, but, for reasons that I hope are obvious, this is not always the case. In some of the more anonymous cases, details may have been altered slightly, either to aid clarity, or to protect the not so innocent!I am pleased to be able to say that my training and consulting work brings me in contact with far more examples of good practice than bad, but the purpose of this book has not always permitted such a ratio. I hope that my own clients will forgive me for not filling these pages with more stories of their undoubted excellence in this field.Please regard the examples of good practice, not as obligatory rules (there are very few of those in KAM), but as opportunities to compare and consider your own approach, and the examples of bad practice as warning signs posted along the road towards KAM excellence.







Preface to the sixth editionThe very fact that a sixth edition of this book is necessary tells us something about KAM: it is an evolving task, changing and adapting as new market and customer challenges appear.One of the most significant of these challenges in recent times has been the development by purchasing professionals of Key Supplier Management strategies, often launched to pre-empt their supplier's ambitions to manage them. But what at first sight might look to be conflicting ambitions, turns out, if properly understood and skilfully handled, to be a route to genuine supplier/customer collaboration, one of the goals of this book.Back in 1999 and the 1st edition, KAM was a new concept for many businesses. By now, it is well established as an approach to customer relationships, but the challenges of practical implementation remain, and indeed increase as its ambitions expand beyond those simple beginnings, and most particularly with regard to what we will call the internal challenges. This new edition takes then as its focus the issue of practical implementation and the task of 'making it happen', not just with the customer, but also within the supplier's own organisation.The application exercisesEach chapter now closes with an application exercise designed to help you translate theory and example to the real world of your own KAM challenge.







AcknowledgementsWithout doubt the biggest thanks must go to the excellent clients of my company, INSIGHT Marketing and People, clients with whom I have worked as a trainer and consultant on Key Account Management over the last 25 years. I know for sure that I have learnt as much from their experiences as from any other source.







And it was all going so very well...Ken Reilly is in the chemical business. The products he sells are far from the cheapest, but he knows they are the best. His customers are mostly manufacturers of high-quality goods, and most of them rate his products highly. Ken is new, and he's learning, but sometimes it's the hard way.What makes Ken's products so good is the money they save the customer. They make the customer's process faster, they reduce wastage and they reduce harmful emissions. A dream sell, if you know how to go about it, meaning who to see and what to say.Ken is calling on a new customer - a potential key account. He doesn't know the people at all, but he has managed to make an appointment with one of the buying team. He puts that down to his persuasive skills with PAs and, of course, his natural charm.He's led into a small office; the walls are bare, the carpet is frayed and the desk has been the site of a hundred spilt coffees - but that is not the real problem. The real problem is the buyer, a nice enough man, but the wrong man.Ken has been talking for 10 minutes, and he's getting nowhere. The buyer is writing things down but, for all Ken can tell, it might be the man's shopping list, or a letter to his mother.This is a junior buyer, a very junior buyer. He has been with the company for three months, knows next to nothing about the business, still less about manufacturing, and spends most of his time, or so it seems, meeting salespeople who leave him their brochures.Ken realizes that all this buyer sees is an expensive product -20 per cent higher than their existing suppliers. He also realizes that he should be talking to someone else, perhaps a more senior buyer who would understand the proposition, or maybe someone on the plant who needs his kind of help, but how can he now go past his current contact? He can't just ask to see the boss.The interview is coming to an end, and the buyer makes a suggestion.'Why don't you look me up again, in six months, once I've got my feet under the table a little bit?'Six months! Ken could be out of a job by then.'Perhaps I could see someone on the plant, someone who might...' but Ken's voice tails off as the buyer gets to his feet.'Oh no, they're very busy down there, and we can't have reps running about the place. I'll see you in six months.'And that was final.







Part OneDefinitions and purpose







01The key account approachKey Account Management (KAM) requires rules, but this is not a rule book. What follows will describe the concept, suggest a range of useful tools, and lay out the many choices you will face, illustrated by examples, but the rules are down to you.It is to be hoped that you regard this as a good thing. Those seeking 'off-the-peg' solutions for their key accounts are not taking the task seriously.There is, however, one golden and universal rule (and one that confirms the danger of the off-the-peg solution), and that is:the precise form and nature of any KAM application must depend first and foremost on the nature of the customer.KAM was born and raised in the world of fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) sold through large-scale multiple outlet retailers, but an application that will suit the likes of Tesco, Carrefour, or Walmart is unlikely to match the needs of a supplier in a B2B (business-to-business) environment, still less that of a healthcare or financial services provider. Selling to a bank, or a hospital, or a manufacturing company is very different from selling to a grocery retailer.CASE STUDY  Breaking the golden rule!Many pharmaceutical companies have come only recently to the realization that KAM might be for them, and in their haste to 'catch up' they looked across their own business for examples of existing good practice. Those that had an 'over the counter' part to their business (that is, they had products that could be sold direct to the patient by retailers) found that they already had experience of KAM in that retail environment, and in some cases sought to apply the rules learned there to their other business areas, whether selling to General Practitioners in Primary Care or to the more specialist areas that involve working with the complex networks of influencers in and around hospitals. The results hardly need mentioning, and the lessons were quickly learned.As well as the nature of the customer, there is the nature of your customer portfolio to consider.For some, there might be four or five customers that represent the lion's share of the sales revenue. In such cases it may seem clear which customers represent the key accounts, and why they are important; losing such a customer from the portfolio will be a very painful experience. But be careful not to take this focus on size unthinkingly: what if you lose money in working with one of those big accounts - would you still regard it as key? Or what if, by knowing their size and importance to you, they are able to bully you beyond the point that is good for your health? Is this still a key account?For others, the customer base might be much broader and flatter, with no customers standing out as significantly bigger than others. A pharmaceutical company selling to hospitals may have such a portfolio. Who are the key accounts in such a circumstance, and why? Perhaps the key accounts are those that, while small today, will be big in the future, and represent the greatest opportunity for future growth. A rather different (and more ambitious) answer may be that if it is possible to work very closely with a small number of these customers, so as to learn from them, and then apply that learning for the benefit of all customers, then these KAs are important as 'learning' accounts: a very valuable category.Another business may have some customers that are simply more complex than the rest, and the nature of these customers calls for a different kind of approach. In this instance an important question is raised: are those customers called key accounts more important than the rest, or are they just different?It becomes clear already why only you can set the rules, but whether your customer portfolio demonstrates the 80:20 rule or not, there is one piece of advice that has to come right up front: don't try practising KAM with too many customers. It is far better to be brilliant with a few than mediocre with many, or to put it more bluntly, plain poor with too many.CASE STUDY  Too many key accounts means no key accountsI always recall the phone call from a new client who in answer to my question: 'How many key accounts do you have?', responded smartly with the answer: 'Seventy-five'. OK, there are no rules other than the ones you make for yourself, but I have yet to meet a company that can honestly convince me that they can manage 75 key accounts. Worse was to follow, as when I asked how many key account managers there were in the company, the answer was (and I hope I don't make anyone feel too bad about this): 'Three'. That's 25 each, which is plain absurd, not to say impossible. In truth, this client had no key accounts - how could they when they aimed to spread their resources so thinly? I asked a few more questions: 'How did that label "key account" help them in allocating resources, time, and money?' It didn't. 'How did they behave differently with those 75 customers compared with all the others?' They weren't sure that they did. 'How did those 75 customers see their own business enhanced as a result of this label?' It was this last question that exposed the true problem: my new client's customers were telling them that they didn't see any advantage to them in this 'special' relationship...I can't tell you how many key accounts you should have, but I do know that most people start the journey with ambitions that end up being cut in half, and then some, once the realities set in. The total of the fingers of two hands is not a bad top limit in most cases.CASE STUDY One of the best applications of a KAM strategy with which I have been involved was by a healthcare supplier in the USA, a company called Nutricia, but it all began with something of a worry. From a list of many hundreds of customers they had identified some 40-plus as key accounts. It was a list that was slowing them down. On realizing that it was OK to have just a handful of KAs, particularly if some of them were seen as 'learning' accounts, and then another handful of 'potential' KAs, the brakes were off and the route to KAM Excellence was made clear.Important or different?While for most of us our key accounts will also be our most important customers, this is not a universal truth. The business that views its key accounts as the ones that, while small today, represent the brightest future, might rightly regard today's large customers (the ones that pay the bills and keep the factory running) as more important: perhaps it is a matter of timescales. Whether most important or not, the key accounts will certainly require a different approach to the rest, and will bring different rewards. If that is not the case then there is little point in classifying them as key, and even less point aiming to practise Key Account Management.The recognition that certain customers are sufficiently different to warrant a specific type of attention is what lies at the heart of what we might call the Key Account Approach. Customers are classified based on their mutual attractiveness, that is, not only how attractive they are to you, but also how attractive you are to them. Figure 1.1 suggests four classes of customer that might result from this kind of classification. The methodology behind the process that we call Customer Classification is described in detail in Chapter 26.Figure 1.1 Customer classificationThose customers in the upper two boxes are not necessarily designated as being more important, but they are certainly different, and require a different approach, as do those in the bottom two boxes. This is what we call Customer Distinction and the process involved will be described in full in Chapter 27.Taking these four classes of customers, resources are then applied based on the potential return on investment from each class. Such 'differential resourcing' strategies are vital to the success of KAM. This is a good deal more than a labelling exercise: some customers deserve more time, more people and more investment, and some deserve less, but they all deserve the right level for their status in your portfolio.CASE STUDY  Making the rules to suit your circumstancesOne of my clients has a customer portfolio of remarkable flatness. They sell to hospitals and it would seem that their overall national market share is replicated pretty uniformly in each individual hospital. Ranked by their own sales volume their customer list replicates the ranking of hospital size measured in patient numbers. This is not an unusual scenario in healthcare markets. They are, however, very keen on the idea of key accounts, seeing them as those customers from which they have the most to learn - perhaps because they represent the leading edge of treatment practice - and also those customers that will help them most in influencing others - perhaps because they are staffed by key opinion leaders.I was very impressed by their attitude towards the classification process, and its outcome. First, they put a lot of effort into agreeing the criteria for attractiveness and then ranking the customers accordingly. The result was encouraging; a small number of customers in the top right (a manageable number) and a healthy number top left (from which to select top priority targets). But when they added up the volume and revenue from those 'top box' accounts, it was a small proportion of the whole. As was expected the majority of the volume was in the bottom right.It was at this point that an important 'rule' was instigated - one of those rules that can only be made depending on your own circumstances. The boss was happy to support the ambitious resourcing plan for the key accounts, and even happier to support it for the key development accounts (she was keen on growth), but only once she had been fully satisfied that there was a robust plan for managing the 'maintenance' customers.For this business, key accounts (known by this business as their 'learning accounts') were a very important part of the future, but they were not the most important customers when it came to today. The 'rule' made this clear to all.For a business that has not yet adopted a Key Account Approach it is quite likely that resources will have been shared out equally, or perhaps based on relative scale. In such cases the decision to reduce or perhaps even withdraw resources completely is one of the most necessary but also the most challenging of the choices involved in the Key Account Approach.Strategy and tacticsPut simply, the Key Account Approach asks us to decide how to allocate our time to all customers - who to see more of, and who to see less. After that, the practice of Key Account Management (the management of those customers in the top two boxes of the Classification Matrix) asks us to identify the right people to work with inside the customer's organization, who from our own team to involve, and how we plan to develop, tailor and communicate our value proposition to those people. These questions deal with what we might call the strategic part of selling: Are we in front of the right customer?Are we speaking to the right people in the customer? - and involving the right members of our team?Are we having the right conversation? - and involving the right members of our team?Get this right and the tactical and face-to-face part will come so much easier.Getting the strategy right must always come before the tactics, and with the practice of KAM this is even more important. Top class face-to-face selling skills devoted to the wrong customers will not bring the rewards expected from such brilliance. The most perfect presentation made to the wrong person is a poor presentation - full stop.Despite this being rather obvious, it is surprising how often companies embark on their key account journey without having made those strategic decisions, assuming that the principles of KAM can be applied to any customer in any circumstance. The problem with such a blanket coverage approach is to do with the rewards for the efforts: the rewards of KAM only come from customers carefully chosen for the treatment, the key and key development accounts.The key account approach must be fully focused on rewards, which means measuring the return on the investment. Unfortunately the majority of businesses engaged in KAM fail to measure customer profitability - that is, they cannot produce a profit and loss account for each of their key accounts. This is one of the deadly sins of KAM, and we will return to the issue in Chapters 29 and 33.More worrying still is the number of businesses that embark on this journey without any real agreement as to who the targets are. Try asking your board this question and don't be surprised if the answers are less than crystal clear. Sometimes the directors don't know. Sometimes they turn to the sales director for guidance. Too often they get into an argument, because the marketing director sees the world differently from the operations director, who differs again from the R&D director... Each function in a company might have its own view of who are the most important customers, and act accordingly - and that's a bad way to start the KAM journey.By emphasizing the challenges and the difficulties it is not my intention to depress you. The simple truth is that while the theory of KAM is straightforward enough - good common sense in most cases - its practical application is not so easy. You will require both patience and determination for it to succeed within your own organization, for it is there that the biggest challenges usually lie.The biggest obstacle to KAM is rarely the customer, nor the competition, but most commonly the supplier's own organization. If KAM is a new venture within your company, don't expect the existing structure to be right: most companies are set up in the way they are for good reason - it worked in the past. Even if you have practised KAM for some time it is likely that you have unearthed many an internal issue, many a frustration, many an example of complacency or inertia - two major enemies of successful KAM (for the whole list, see Chapter 29).Some definitionsThe Key Account Approach (KAA)The way in which we choose to differentiate the management of our relationships with distinct customer types, covering the whole customer portfolio, in order to allow a particular focus of resources and effort on to key accounts and potential key accounts.Key Account Management (KAM) A long-term investment of resources into a customer that offers an exceptional return on that investment.The management of a cross-functional business team, with clearly defined goals, roles and obligations.The desire to understand the customer's business, and their challenges, through deep analysis, in order to identify opportunities where we can make a positive impact.The development of truly customer-focused value propositions, designed to achieve key supplier status.The development of a mutually beneficial strategic plan through joint planning with the customer.The measurement and management of the return on this investment.Key Account (KA) and Key Development Account (KDA)A key account is a customer considered to be very attractive to us (so making a good investment) and also where we are regarded as very attractive to the customer (so making for a faster return on that investment (ROI)).A key development account is a customer considered to be very attractive to us (another good investment), but where we have yet to establish ourselves as being very attractive to the customer (so making for a longer term ROI).Key Account Manager (KA Manager)The person responsible for managing our business investment, through the leadership of a key account team, with those accounts classified as key accounts and key development accounts.Key Account Team (KAT)The people from a range of functions that work as a collaborative team in servicing those accounts classified as key accounts and key development accounts.Application exercise Does your existing method of customer classification provide a solid base for the Key Account Approach?Do you have a broad agreement across the different functions in your business on who are the Key Accounts?Do you have any 'learning' accounts?







02Why Key Account Management?KAM is usually described as a business strategy, suggesting that it is a choice, but I have also heard it described by many companies as an inevitability. If the former sounds a positive approach - let's call it an aggressive one, then the latter might appear rather fatalistic, or defensive. In truth, most applications that I have encountered encompass both the aggressive and the defensive, and this is in fact all to the good, as we will see.KAM is a journey, with all the uncertainties that exist at the outset of such, and with a fair share of surprises to be encountered along the way. It is unlikely to be a short or speedy journey, and there will be inevitable setbacks, and welcome surges forward - both experiences requiring a steady hand to manage appropriately. It may even be that the precise destination is not known at the outset; in this sense KAM might be considered as a journey of exploration.In this chapter we will list what are perhaps the 10 most common reasons for businesses to head out on their own KAM journeys. I don't expect that they will all apply to your own circumstances, but I do hope that at least two or three will hit your mark. This is another instance of the need to edit and modify, and come to your own conclusion.Being clear about the reason for your journey is important, even if you cannot be certain about the final destination, as it is in the nature of your reasons that we will find the likely nature of your rewards.The reasonsHere then are those '10 most typical' reasons: Customer consolidation - increasing power and professionalism.Global/regional customers demanding a uniform approach and service.Increasingly complex decision-making processes - further away from the traditional seller/buyer relationship.New purchasing practices.The supplier's own complexity - selling through multiple business units.The growth opportunity requires prioritization of resources.Your products alone no longer provide a source of competitive advantage; relationships matter.The desire to sell solutions.The desire to make a positive impact on the customer's business strategy through truly customer-focused value propositions.The pursuit of abnormal returns for abnormal efforts.Being defensive...?If you were an FMCG (fast-moving consumer goods) supplier in the 1970s and 80s it didn't take a genius to see that the number of supermarket chains was falling fast, through acquisition (point 1 above), and that concentrating more resources on to those who were doing the acquiring, and growing fastest, was a good idea - and so KAM was born.If your customer tells you that from now on you must deliver the same products with the same services (perhaps even at the same prices) wherever they operate (point 2), then you will probably start to coordinate your sales efforts on a regional or global basis - and so KAM (or GAM - Global Account Management) is born.As customers grow in size, so they often grow in complexity. Selling to the likes of a Pfizer, a Walmart or a BP is a challenging pursuit. Decisions get made behind closed doors, through committees, by functions far beyond the purchasing department, at locations hundreds of miles away from your normal points of contact (point 3); new responses must be developed to these increasingly complex decision-making processes - and so KAM is born.If the purchasing professionals you meet are using new sources of information to make your life difficult, or are demanding the likes of open book trading (point 4), then perhaps some new responses are required, responses that arm you against these new pressures, or allow you to accommodate them with confidence - and so KAM is born.If customers are frustrated by having to see four different sales professionals from your company, each representing their own business or product group within the company, each with their own and different story (point 5), then you may need to think about how you can get your act together more effectively - and so KAM is born.These five reasons all suggest that KAM is something forced on a company by external pressures - suppliers are made to do it. The good news about these reasons is that such pressure helps to make things happen, the bad news is that the business moves towards KAM with great reluctance.Being aggressive...?Reasons 6 through 10 express a rather more aggressive set of motivations: setting out on the KAM journey because it will do something for us, give us an edge, give us competitive advantage.Some markets are still blessed with sufficient growth opportunities (point 6) to demand that you prioritize your resources and chase those that will be the best for you - and so KAM is born.Point 7 may sound like a defensive one, but in truth it is not. It simply recognizes that success today calls for more than good products. Too many suppliers, meaning your competitors, have those in as great an abundance as you. What marks out the winner today is the ability to build secure positions through a deep knowledge of the customer's needs and follow that through with pinpoint targeting of the resultant value proposition. This can only result from well managed relationships - and so KAM is born.If you have not yet been urged by your bosses to sell 'solutions' (point 8) rather than 'products', then I can only assume you have been 'away somewhere' these last few years. Selling solutions has become one of the necessary ambitions and claims of any chairman's statement or CEO's address, an ambition that will almost certainly demand some form of KAM practice. To truly sell a solution you must first understand the customer's problem - so much is clear - but then there is more. To sell a solution, and be properly rewarded, you must aim to understand the customer's problem better than they understand it themselves. In many cases you will have to understand it long before they know it themselves! The best practitioners of KAM will even claim that they understand the customer's business, and their market, better than the customer understands it themselves.Does this take us into the realms of fantasy? Not at all - this is the nature and task and aim of KAM. Consider it this way: do you think it possible that a team of people who work for the supplier (and let's make it a cross-functional team, all of whom are involved with the customer), if they choose to pool their knowledge and resources, should be able to understand the customer, their needs, their market and their business, better than any one individual inside the customer? And what if that individual inside the customer is the buyer? We are already a good way towards our objective, and yes, KAM is born.I have elaborated on this point more than the others because in a way this is what we might call the 'holy grail' of KAM - the ultimate achievement - because it is from such a position that all the best rewards of KAM will flow. Which takes us to the final two 'reasons to practise KAM' on our list.You want to be more than 'a supplier': you want to be a 'key supplier', perhaps even a 'strategic supplier'; and to achieve this you have to go one better than delivering good products on time and in full. You have to make an impact on the customer's business (point 9). If you can achieve this, through truly customer-focused value propositions that are communicated to the right people using the right language, and if you can secure the appropriate reward for those efforts, then I think you know what I am about to say - KAM is born.We have said often enough that there are no rules of KAM other than those you decide for yourself, but surely the last of our 10 reasons must be a universal rule? If you are to put abnormal effort into a customer (and KAM will certainly involve that when compared to 'traditional' selling) then you must expect, and bosses should demand, an abnormal return. How that return is manifested, we will come to a little later.Being aggressive and defensiveIt may seem to you that reasons 6 through 10 are the better ones. It always sounds better to be aggressive rather than defensive, proactive rather than reactive, but let's remember the biggest obstacle to KAM - the inertia (or plain unwillingness) of the internal organization. Such optimistic and proactive reasons as these are not always enough to overcome that inertia and so make KAM work successfully. Where a KAM strategy is implemented most speedily and effectively it is often because of some 'shock to the system' - a challenge from outside - one of the reasons listed 1 through 5.What we see then is a need for a combination of both types of reason: the kick up the backside that will get things moving, and the promise of a reward for your efforts.Your own journeyWhat are your own most compelling reasons, and do they represent a defensive or an aggressive approach to KAM?If your reasons fall on the defensive side, then at least take comfort in the fact that you can use those external pressures to drive the internal changes required to make things happen. You might like to assess the level of urgency required, and so arm yourself with the case for your internal campaign (see Chapters 30 and 34 for more on this).If your reasons are more aggressive, then aim to be clear about the nature of the reward you seek for your efforts - just don't expect the organization to change overnight simply because you think it's a great opportunity!Then ask: is our challenge local, national, regional or global? The stakes increase as you rise up the scale, as does the scale of the challenge. Don't give yourself a bigger task than is necessary, so aim to be honest about the true nature of each customer. (For the particular challenges of global account management, which is something a good deal more than 'KAM with time zones', see Chapter 28.)The final action needed to help define your journey is to identify the nature of the opportunity: Do you have an opportunity to win new customers?Do you have an opportunity to grow your business with existing customers?Or do you see your main activities devoted to defending business already won?Each opportunity suggests a different kind of KAM journey. Of course, all three opportunities might exist in the same business, with different customer groups or market segments, and this is one of the reasons why the selection of key accounts is subsidiary to the selection of markets and segments - the nature of the task will be so very different in these different circumstances. There is no rule against practising all three types, but there is very definitely a rule about not taking on the three tasks in the same way!The rewardsHaving discussed the opportunity, this leads us inevitably to the reward. Rewards come in many ways, and salespeople in particular can be guilty of limiting their horizons in this matter. For them, it's all about volume - that is, if they are what we might call 'traditional' salespeople. It's hardly their fault of course, driven as they are by managers with short-term goals, and rewarded by packages tied to the simplest of measures - volume, volume and volume. For some, the horizons have been broadened by the addition of profitability targets. Judging your reward by some form of contribution calculation usually makes more sense than plain volume, bringing into the equation the question of price and margin. This is good, and a step in the right direction, but the key account manager must go further. How about the following rewards from KAM: helping your business to allocate its resources better - in pursuit of greater effectiveness (perhaps even lower costs?) and enhanced profitability;building customer relationships designed to secure greater loyalty and longevity, perhaps through the attainment of key supplier status;helping you develop new capabilities through the experience of working with challenging customers;helping you to understand the true nature of the customer's market, and so their challenges, their ambitions and their needs (and perhaps, with an eye to the 'holy grail' of KAM, understanding this better than the customers do themselves);helping you win competitive advantage through new value propositions, and not just for the key accounts that take you to these new ideas, but for all the customers in your target market segments;helping your business to manage its future through the management of its most important long-term investments - its most important customers.Specialty or commodity?I am often asked if KAM is more appropriate in a specialty supplier than one supplying a commodity. The implication is that it is either unnecessary in a commodity environment, or just not possible. The second of these two suggestions is plain wrong, and the first risks missing a great opportunity.Anyone who works in a commodity, or near commodity arena, knows that you only need a 1 per cent advantage over the competition to win the business. What if the practice of KAM gave you that 1 per cent advantage, over competitors who have concluded that it is neither necessary nor possible?As for the specialty supplier, KAM is almost an essential part of being special; it is hard to see how such a supplier could succeed without it.So, the answer to the original question is simple: it works and it matters in both environments, it's just that the motivations and the rewards might be different.The business managerAt this point an important observation on the status of the KA manager is due. They must almost certainly be more than sales professionals; they must be business managers. It is a very healthy mindset that sees a key account as a business, with its own profit and loss account, and with its own cross-functional business team, working towards long-term business goals that are of relevance to the greater business of which it is a part.It is also healthy to think about opportunities and rewards in their broadest sense, as investments and return on investments, and the job of the KA manager being to manage those investments; as good a definition of the task as I can think of.Do you need KAM in your business? A checklistA positive answer to any one of these five questions will indicate that some form of KAM is either necessary in your business, or will be advantageous. Does your customer portfolio exhibit a tendency towards the 80/20 rule, with a small number of customers accounting for a large proportion of the turnover, such that the loss of any one of those large customers would be very damaging?Do some small number of customers provide a particularly significant future opportunity, perhaps through their own growth, or your ability to gain share, or perhaps that they represent a particularly effective route to your target market?Does the customer have a particularly complex, or lengthy decision-making process?Does the development and delivery of the value proposition require the application of a cross-functional resource?Is it possible to develop an enhanced value proposition through focusing on a small number of customers, and will there be a satisfactory (and measurable) return on that investment from the application of this new value proposition to a wider group of customers?CASE STUDY  Clarity of purpose...We have one client who uses KAM for a very singular purpose. Their business relies on continual technical innovation, which is expensive, and often the benefits are short lived.If they are not careful, these two factors can act as internal brakes: the choice to do nothing can be strangely tempting, with disastrous results in the longer term.They have chosen to identify their key accounts as those customers that will not only force them to innovate but will support them in their efforts. In practice, this usually means customers who will promise to take our client's innovations on board before they have actually begun!It is always a good idea to innovate alongside customers, but this approach has an added benefit: the customer can be used as a kind of battering ram to break down internal inertia and complacency.Application exercise Do you need KAM in your business? - List the three most significant reasons for practising KAM in your own business.Does this represent a reactive or a proactive approach to the market opportunity?Is the challenge: local, regional or global, and what is the implication of that on your KAM challenge?Is the opportunity: winning new customers, growth with existing customers, or defending existing business, and what is the implication of that on your KAM challenge?







03The spectrum of KAM ambitionThe previous chapter introduced one of the choices to be made at the earliest stage when considering our KAM ambitions: what is the nature of the reward we expect from our investment? In this chapter we will expand on this choice, suggesting a range of options placed along what we will call the Spectrum of KAM Ambition (Figure 3.1).Figure 3.1 Spectrum of KAM ambitionWe are looking here at rewards in their broadest sense. This is more than the narrow detail of a percentage increase in price, or an increased share of the customer's business, important though those things might be, it is about what we wish KAM to do for our business. The closing case study in the previous chapter described just such a reward - the business concerned had considered the two simple questions: what will KAM do for our business, and so how far do we need to take it?Consider two options. Is KAM simply a means of managing complex customer relationships, or is it a methodology for developing our whole business? These two options form the two ends of a spectrum, with every shade of application and reward lying in between. See Figure 3.1.Clearly the further right we move the greater the investment required to secure our hoped for reward, and in all likelihood the greater the challenge of the task. This is of course no more than the classic investment/reward calculation that lies beneath every business, and we start to see now why KAM, certainly in its more ambitious applications, is a good deal more than selling; crossing the midpoint as we move rightwards we undoubtedly enter the territory of business management.There is no right or wrong position on the spectrum; those with lesser ambitions may have them not from lack of drive but from lack of need - the nature of their customers does not demand the sophistication of the approaches to the right of the spectrum. Provided they are certain in that, and this is not a case of complacency, then the return on their more modest investment may be very good indeed. Those needing to make more significant investments as they position themselves further right may find this very challenging in the short term, but over time will find the rewards reaped amply justifying their earlier efforts. Whatever your choice, the important thing is to be clear about where you are, know the implications on your KAM strategy, and be sure that everyone involved understands the requirements of the business.The value machineAt the far right of the spectrum we have what is perhaps the most ambitious application of KAM, with rewards that go well beyond issues of price or share; these rewards actually determine the nature of our business. The idea of the value machine is that by working through cross-functional teams with a very carefully selected and small number of customers, the understanding of those customer's challenges and needs becomes a good deal clearer than would be possible in an ordinary sales relationship. That enhanced understanding is then used to develop new value propositions (whether in terms of products, services, or simply the way in which value is communicated and measured) that will bring a greater reward from those customers. Ideally, these new value propositions are developed alongside the customer, with shared investment and shared rewards.By choosing the customers well, which in part means that they are representatives of the market segments in which you wish to operate, these improved value propositions can then be offered to other customers. In the value machine model the investment in key accounts is used as an investment in the whole business. Genuine partnerships are developed with customers that have a positive impact on the internal functions of the supplier, so building new capabilities.The notion of a business operating as a value machine can be illustrated through a simple model, as shown in Figure 3.2.Figure 3.2 The value machineThe model describes the role of the leadership team (the value machine must start at the top of the organization) in ensuring three activities: targeting, matching and aligning.A Value Machine business must know how to target its customers, recognizing that as investments some customers promise a better return than others. 'Returns' can mean many things - volume, revenue, margin, share of business, access to new opportunities (to name but a few) - but are not limited to the customer in question. Some customers are even more important and valuable, being of benefit not just in themselves but to the whole business, even to other customers.A Value Machine business must know how to match its own internal capabilities to the needs of the customer, learning how to enhance those capabilities as required, in pursuit of a unique match between supplier and customer. It does so with a steady eye on the changing nature of the customer's business and market, and an equally steady eye on the 'money-making-logic' of its own business.A Value Machine business must know how to align all the relevant functions behind that targeting, and behind the pursuit of those unique matches. It achieves this through a leadership that is alive to the dynamics of the market, the customer, and their own business. The result is a business that has developed an acute ability to observe and predict the customer's true needs.It is a business where the customer is something more than 'king'. Instead of pretending that the customer is always right (a pretence that we never fully accept, and so rebel against - so negating the whole notion), we can now regard the customer (right and wrong) as the source of our business wisdom; they are our means of ensuring that we are doing the right things.It is a business that knows how to learn, developing its processes and its value propositions through both the rigours of hard experience and the joys of accidental discovery.It is a business that is able to develop its value propositions alongside the customer, through the 'scary' process (scary for some, that is) of customer collaboration.It is a business that knows how to convert the great mass of market and customer data (a mass that sometimes threatens to sink a business in a bog of procrastination) into clear insights from which to form the foundations of its business strategy.It is a business that can take that strategy all the way down to the nitty-gritty actions of 'making it happen' keeping its promises to customers in those famous 'moments of truth'.It is a business that has developed the ability to communicate the strategy of the Value Machine across the breadth of their own business, ensuring that everyone involved develops functional plans focused on creating the value propositions required.It is a business that has done away with the kind of in-fighting between functions that bedevils so many companies.It is a business that some would call 'lucky', but not because of any unusual good fortune, rather, because it has learned to make its own luck.It is a business that demands great leadership. As well as providing a crystal clear strategic vision it must also focus on getting things done - two very different mindsets that the philosophy of the value machine helps bring closer together, and without falling into the trap of 'command and control'. The measure of the leader's true 'greatness' will in fact be found in their ability to 'let go'.This is a daunting list of capabilities, and if you're up to all that, then the Value Machine may be for you. Of course, many of these capabilities will need to be developed and honed over time. There is no reason why a business should not aspire towards the Value Machine model from wherever it starts on the spectrum of KAM ambition, and they can make steady progress towards their ambition provided there is a steady and planned enhancement of their KAM application over time. By such a method the necessary capabilities can be learned en route.'KAM Lite'Turning to the other end of the spectrum, not everyone shares this ambition to have their business 'developed' through customer interactions. Not all businesses have the resources to do this even if they had the ambition. Within an international company where a high level of KAM is applied in some countries, complete with cross- functional 'diamond teams' (see Chapter 8), there will perhaps be other countries where such resources do not exist - the salespeople are 'on their own'. In some markets the nature of even the largest customers is not so complex as to require the kind of KAM approach suggested in this book.In such cases it may be more appropriate to practise what we might call 'KAM Lite', a stripped down version that starts with the same principles but recognizes five realities: The amount of time the account manager has to spend with each customer may be less than the 'ideal' portrayed in the following chapters.The business resource available may not be sufficient to warrant some of the customer interactions suggested in the following chapters.The customer may not require, or permit, a level of relationship beyond a simple seller to buyer one-on-one.The kind of customer analysis and joint planning suggested may be excessive to the task, or unrealistic in certain circumstances.The ability to modify the value proposition for individual customers may be too difficult, or even dangerous in some circumstances.If these kind of realities apply in your circumstance then KAM Lite may be for you. If so, then feel free to edit as you proceed. Remember: you make the rules.Working in the grey areas...Real life is rarely as neat as the options suggested in books. In truth it is quite likely that different shades of account management practice will be carried on within the same business, perhaps even by the same account manager. If we recall the 'golden rule', that the precise nature of the application must depend on the nature of the customer, then this is in fact almost inevitable.Such 'diversity of experience' can either be the cause of confusion, or recognized as the proper outcome of professionally applied account management principles. The confusion comes mostly from the problems with applying labels. At what point does the account manager become a Key Account Manager? The answer may seem obvious - when they are responsible for a customer classified as key - but what if the resources available to that account allow for little more than the normal 1:1 sales relationship? Is a key account manager so called because of the customer they manage, or because of the tools, processes and resources they wield? Either might be the case, and it is to be hoped that the two things 'meet in the middle' more often than not. CASE STUDY  The nature of the customer comes firstA chef, fully skilled in their profession, finds themselves working Monday to Thursday in a roadside cafe, and at the weekend taking responsibility for a one-star Michelin restaurant in the centre of town. They have the same skills, whichever the circumstance, and bring the same professional processes to both, but it is plain that they operate under two different realities.In one, their resources are sparse, but appropriate, while in the other they have everything for which they could ever wish, and equally appropriately.In one, their customers demand simple fare, but prepared to the highest standards, while in the other the clientele seeks elaborations on the elaborations.The fact that they do a splendid job in both circumstances is down to their understanding of the full breadth of possibilities, and the ability to make the appropriate choice based on their own 'golden rule', focused squarely on the nature of the customer.Application exercise Where do your current strategies and processes of customer management lie on the spectrum of KAM ambition?What are the rewards from this approach?Do you wish to move your position, and if so, in which direction, how far, and over what time period?Define the nature of the reward you desire from that new position.Does the improvement in reward justify the level of investment required?What help will you require to effect that change?







04What is a key account?Perhaps you have key accounts already. So how have they come by that name? Are they just the big ones?Are they the ones growing the fastest?Are they the ones that shout the loudest?Are they the ones you mustn't lose?Are they the 'jam tomorrow' customers, the ones that offer future profit?Are they the ones you want your staff to focus on - to look after the very best?Are they the ones where extra effort will bring extra returns?Are they the ones that challenge you and improve you?Are they the most successful players in their own markets?Are they the ones that will bring you kudos with others?Are they the ones that will take your business where you want it to go?Are they the ones you would most like to 'steal' from your competition?Are they the ones that are financially secure (and will pay their bills on time)?This is far from an exhaustive list (Chapter 26 will discuss some means of compiling your own list as part of the key account selection process), and better definitions almost certainly exist, with greater relevance to your own circumstances and aspirations. It is for you to choose the definition, based on the dynamics of your own industry, your own customers and your own business.It is unlikely that you will come up with a single issue definition (though the case with which we closed Chapter 2 perhaps came close), and indeed there are great dangers in doing so. Consider the dangerous limitations of some of these possible definitions: The ones growing fastest - the business world is awash with 'rapid rise and big crash' stories.The ones that shout the loudest - every industry has its loudmouths; does that make them any more important?The ones you mustn't lose - and you'll do anything to keep them, even if it kills you.Jam tomorrow is not to be dismissed - but from where will today's profits come?The ones your staff will focus on - and so do they ignore the rest?Stealing from the competition is always fun - but how do you think they are eyeing up your current portfolio?The financially secure ones are a safe bet - but how safe can you afford to be?And of course, I leave the most dangerous of them all to last - the big ones.The perils of 'sizeism'Consider why your largest customers are the largest - it's all down to the past. It is history that has got them to where they are and, as they say in the advertisements for investment products, 'past performance should not be taken as a guarantee of future potential'. Of far greater importance is to be able to answer the following questions: Will they be big in the future? What is the future potential of this customer?Selecting key accounts on the basis of their size alone is a dangerous course to pursue. The trap of what we might call 'sizeism' is unfortunately one into which it is all too easy to fall. It is the simplest method of selection of all, so simple that armed with nothing but your sales statistics I would be able to show you your key accounts, and without knowing a single other thing about you, or them - and that should worry you sick.CASE STUDY  Picking the winnersI recall how my first sales director took great delight at one annual sales conference in telling us how many of our former top-10 customers (by sales volume), from a list only five years old, had dropped out of that list, and in some cases no longer even existed as businesses. This was said neither out of spite nor out of despair on his part, but simply as a clear message to us that times were changing fast in our industry. And then he went on to remind us of those customers we had defined as key accounts five years before, some of them mere striplings at the time, and to point out how our business prospered with each, and how some of them were likely to head the top-10 list at next year's conference. In a fast-changing market, as ours most certainly was, he saw his job as picking the winners - and he had an excellent record.As well as tying your future to the past, there are other dangers of sizeism (and I make no apology for discussing them at length - this is a problem to be faced head-on). Base your assessments on size alone and it won't be long before your big customers know it, and start demanding the kind of 'attentions' that their size so clearly warrants.Focus on size, chase size, champion size, and you'll end up with big customers, perhaps at the cost of those medium or small customers who may bring all sorts of benefits (not least of all their margins), or may even be your future. If you had been a supplier to the telecommunications industry before the advent of the mobile phone revolution, and were casting around for customers to call 'key' and using size as your criterion, it is very unlikely that you would have given a second thought to Nokia, one of Finland's larger players in the paper industry at the time.Build your business around the largest customers and you grow dependent upon them - someone has to fill those factories that you built.Of course, if you have a business that benefits from economies of scale then big orders from big customers will be very important, but even then, does that make such a customer a key account, or just a big account? This is a question that we will develop more fully in Chapters 26 and 27, dealing with customer 'classification' and 'distinction'; for now, suffice it to say that the best way to handle such providers of scale may be just to milk them.And what if you sell into a market where the customers just are big? How can you be serious as a food manufacturer, or a household goods manufacturer, selling into the consumer market if you don't work with the likes of Tesco or Carrefour, or Walmart? Ask yourself the question: are these customers important because they are big, and send us big orders, or are they important because they give us access to those consumers that we target? There is a world of difference.Perhaps you might claim at least one advantage of sizeism (though I should stress that this hope is on a par with the process of manufacturing silk purses from the ears of domesticated hogs): everyone in the business can see who are the big ones, and understand why you put them on a pedestal - the joy of alignment. But even here there is danger. Look deeper into the eyes of your people from R&D, manufacturing, logistics, finance and customer service, and you might see a range of common concerns: 'They're too big, they bully us, you salespeople let them get away with murder, they must be losing us money...' Don't expect too much enthusiasm and team spirit in a cross-functional account team made up from such beliefs.In Chapter 33 we will look at the vital question of customer profitability, and see how it is all too easy for the largest customers to be the least profitable. No great surprise, you say, surely that is only to be expected? If so (and it doesn't have to be the case by any means), should you be going out of your way to devote even more of your business's valuable resources, not to mention your time, to such accounts?Can a customer be too big? How would you feel (or sleep at nights) if one customer accounted for more than half of your business? Surely this would make it 'key', but must you get yourself into such a position? I know of several very successful (and highly profitable) companies that lay down rules about such things. One rule that always makes me smile is that insisted on by one of my clients, that no customer should be allowed to grow big enough to represent more than 15 per cent of their total turnover. It makes me smile because I always remember them telling me of the shock they dealt to Tesco when they turned down an offer of more business - it would have taken Tesco to over 20 per cent. Both sides understood the reasons, and I'm even more pleased to say that the relationship thrives to this day - at a carefully managed and pleasantly profitable 15 per cent of turnover.Size is part of the equation, of course it is, but try to come to it a little later in the assessment. If five other factors determine the customer to be a key account, and it also happens to be your largest customer, then no problem, but starting with size as the first selection criterion does tend to close (or at least blinker) your eyes to all other factors.This, and other chapters, will I hope serve as an effective curative for what can be a dangerous and business-threatening case of myopia. Of course, just how long-sighted you choose to be, or can be, before the effects of 'wild-blue-yondering' take over, depends on your own market and business circumstances. For some, a year ahead might look like forever, while for others a 10-year plan is quite feasible. Aim to look behind the normal horizons, to stretch the timescales that you traditionally work within. Aim to regard your key accounts, not only as valuable assets today, but also as investments for the future.The investmentWhen asked for a one-word definition of a key account, I have no hesitation with offering this one: a key account is an 'investment', of your time, of your colleagues' time, of your resources, of your assets, and all because you see a good return from that investment. CASE STUDY  Choosing or being chosen - who makes the first move?The UK in the 1970s and the 1980s witnessed an enormous growth in the DIY market. If the Englishman's home was his castle, then the moat was dug on Bank Holiday Monday, and the drawbridge came from B&Q. Throughout these growth years, there were big manufacturers of DIY products - the likes of Dulux and Black & Decker - claiming to have built this DIY boom. But, at the same time, there were big retailers like B&Q, Texas, Homebase and Do-It-All, each making just the same claim. There is no question, after the event, that these retailers were the key accounts of those suppliers, but who chose whom?The truth is that many successful suppliers rode on the back of a retailing revolution - the growth of the out-of-town DIY superstore - and no shame in that, but those who hitched the ride most successfully were those who invested their efforts into these new retailers. Others, who fell by the wayside, failed to make the distinction between the winners and the losers, and failed to make the necessary investment in new ways of working, preferring to stick with those customers who had 'done them proud' in the past - the high-street specialists, the department stores and the supermarkets. Unfortunately for them, these customers were in serious decline, at least in the DIY market, and large amounts of money (subsidies, not investments) were wasted in trying to prop up a fast collapsing edifice. And why? Because they were still big, and had recently been the biggest.This was the market that I cut my sales teeth on, and of which my first sales director (he of the sales conferences) proved such a good crystal-ball reader. He backed the emerging DIY superstores in preference to the future of our then largest customers (supermarkets, high-street specialists and department stores), despite the fact that those were the very customers with which he had built his own career.His judgement was based on how he saw the dynamics of the retail market changing. He understood what the department stores and supermarkets were really saying to us, and to all their suppliers. What they said was: 'If you want to keep our business, you need to cut your prices.' What they meant, in the 'subtext' beneath their words, was: 'We don't see our future in DIY.' We backed those retailers who did.He understood our customers' markets at least as well as they did, and often better, and by achieving that holy grail of KAM secured and sustained a level of brand leadership that others would have killed for. He also taught me some of my most valuable lessons in KAM. He once said to me that the single biggest asset for any sales director was to have a degree in horse racing, and the same might be said of a key account manager.Does everybody know?Knowing, whether it be by the instinct of an old hand or the statistical prowess of a market analyst, is one thing; making sure that everyone else is in agreement with you is quite another. Internal wrangling over such matters is one of the fastest and surest ways to ensure failure. Most importantly of all, agreement on which list of customers represents your key accounts must be clear at the very top of the organization.CASE STUDY  You make the rules, but make sure that your definitions are agreed at the very topI was once asked to convince a management board who were unhappy with the standard of their Key Account Management that they should provide their KA managers with some training. It should be said that they didn't think their folk were all that good, and I was given 30 minutes to convince them that training might help, and would be better than their favoured strategy - firing all the managers and starting again with a new team.So I asked them a few questions. First I asked them to write down who they thought were their key accounts. There were seven directors in the room and guess what - seven different lists. Having seen them fail that test, I moved on to question number two: could they define what a key account might look like? Again, seven different answers: the ones that keep the factory running, said the director in charge of production; the ones with the most predictable order patterns, said the director responsible for logistics; the biggest, said the sales director; but the finance director had the most heart-stopping answer of them all: 'Our key accounts are our largest, and least delinquent debtors...' After a little reflection on the nature of their conversation, they were beginning to see why KAM was failing in their business.Application exercise How would you define and describe a 'key account' appropriately for your own business and market circumstances?What would represent an 'exceptional return' on your investment in such a customer?Who in your organization needs to know and understand this definition?Who in your organization will be required to make changes to their activities, or to their attitudes and behaviours, in order to react positively to this definition?







05What is Key Account Management?What's in a word?Some people object to the word 'account': 'Surely it should be key customer', they say, 'calling them accounts makes it sound like we're a bank.'I justify the use of the word on one ground only, and that is that it represents the customer as an investment made by the supplier in its own future.Key Account Management is about managing those investments, which is something rather different from selling. Put simply: Key Account Management is about managing the future.Managing the futureThis is never easy, though in principle it's all quite straightforward. Figure 5.1 shows the three things that you have to balance if you are to be successful in this pursuit: your objectives, your resources and the market opportunity. The business objectives are concerned with where you are trying to get to - the sort of business you want to have in the future.The market opportunity is a consideration of the forces that will help and hinder. Among the latter are, of course, your competitors. Among the former are those customers that will best help you get to where you want to be.The business resources are those things that will support, or constrain, your progress - your capabilities, production, R&D, logistics, money and, not least, your people.Figure 5.1 Managing the futureSo, a very simple model, on a sheet of paper - but the task itself is not so easy. First of all, the model is not static; one of this trinity is continually changing, and doing so without your control - the market opportunity. Just as you settle on your objectives and get your resources lined up, off it goes again. Second, and this is one of life's challenges, the closer we get to the future, the less it seems to be as we expected and the more our certainties are challenged. Third, and this is the real killer, we too often start out with the wrong one of the three.Where to start?Objectives?Starting with objectives is of course the easiest approach, and might seem logical, but there are too many 'hockey-stick graphs' inserted into business plans projecting sudden and spectacular growth after long periods of no growth or even decline. When you see such graphs ask two questions: What has changed with the market opportunity, and how are you using your resources differently to take advantage of this? If the answers are nothing and we're not, then ignore the projections for growth - why should they happen just because someone writes them down?Resources?Sounds sensible, but here's a thought for you. Your current resources are probably ideal for the opportunity of about two years ago. So why start with what you've got today? This can only restrict your view even before you start your journey.Market opportunity?Of course, but it's not so easy. You are already plunged into the market, already responding to today's demands. Stepping back and viewing the future is not easy, but it is vital. More than that, it is one of the key purposes and one of the most valuable benefits of the KAM approach.The importance of balanceBalance is everything. In the real world resources tend to lag behind the market opportunity, while the objectives surge ahead of it. Is that how it is in your business? It is in most, so don't feel too bad about it, but what can be done to improve things?Is it about persuading the bosses to be more free with the cash for resources? Here's an observation that I have found to be true more often than not, and stands in support of those penny-pinching bosses: most businesses have adequate resources for the task, it's just that they don't have them deployed in the right places. While this might support their penny-pinching, it certainly doesn't support their management skills or judgement!Is it about persuading them to relax their 'stretch targets'? You will need to be silver-tongued indeed for this one!There is an easier way, and that, perhaps not surprisingly, is the practice of Key Account Management. KAM aims to deploy your resources more effectively, by focusing more of them on that small number of customers we call key accounts. It deploys them in such a way to ensure that you learn about the real opportunities in the customer and in the market, by penetrating deeper into the customer's business, by getting a true understanding of their ambitions, challenges and needs, by aiming to understand their business and their market better than they do themselves. KAM aims to ensure that this understanding is communicated back into your own business, so that cross-functional teams can develop truly customer-focused value propositions. It aims to ensure that after all that effort, you get your just reward, by understanding your true value.It's a demanding task, but if done well, we start to enjoy the 'virtuous circle' of managing the future through KAM, where improved knowledge of the opportunity allows better deployment of the resources, which results in yet better understanding of the opportunity... and so it goes on (see Figure 5.2).Figure 5.2 Getting the balance right - the virtuous circleGetting this balance right is important for all sorts of other reasons. Putting the wrong resources in front of the customer will have all sorts of bad outcomes: if the resource is too much, then profitability is going to suffer (only you probably won't know it, as most businesses don't measure such things), and if it's too little, you risk letting the customer down - and we know where that leads.Being realistic about objectives is important, and realism will come from the true understanding of our virtuous circle. Indeed, realism is a vital tenet of KAM, as opposed to the bragging and exaggeration too often found in traditional sales forecasts!Realism shouldn't be seen as any lack of vigour or ambition. Wild hopes may seem brave, but they can be the source of a kind of stress that pulls you and your business apart at the seams. George Soros, the international financier, said that when he was hopeful he didn't sleep at nights - it was worrying that made him feel secure!Finally, it is only in the context of this balance between resources applied and opportunities pursued that you can properly define your key accounts. Consider the following case studies and their choices.CASE STUDY  Chasing the big guys...You are a manufacturer of a food product aimed at a consumer market. If your business objective is to achieve dominant market share, with a standardized, low-cost product (objectives), then you must find customers that will accept standardization and will provide the volume required (market opportunity). If you have the production capacity, and enjoy the economies of scale derived from large orders (business resources), then you might find a happy balance in identifying your key accounts as the major food supermarket chains. Change any of the elements in this analysis and you may need to change your key accounts.CASE STUDY  Chasing the quality guys...The same business but with restrictions on its scale of production (business resources), cannot take full advantage of the economies that come with large orders. Indeed, they become a burden, and the business may choose to avoid the larger customers. And if economies of scale don't apply, then why restrict yourself to low-value sales to the largest buyers? If there are customers that demand greater added value (market opportunity), perhaps you can secure a premium price and greater profits by acting as a quality producer (objectives). Such a supplier might regard specialist or upmarket food retailers as its key accounts.CASE STUDY  Chasing the small guys...Looking at another example and taking a different starting point, let's say you are in the biotech industry and you aspire to a reputation for leading-edge technology, gaining competitive advantage from a highly differentiated product rather than volume and market share (objectives). Let's also say that there are customers in your market that require complex, high-tech, bespoke solutions to very specific problems (market opportunity). If you have an R&D department well placed to work on a wide range of different projects and product applications (business resources), then your key accounts need not be huge; they will be defined more by the value of the projects involved, financially, and in how they enhance your reputation.Guessing, or making the future?John Maynard Keynes was in the business of predicting the future, like any economist, but he was honest enough to express his doubts; there were only two certainties, he said: death and taxes.If KAM is about managing the future, how certain do we need to be about what is in store, and how brave should our predictions be? Can we go even further, to suppose that we might even take a part in making the future happen?Let's just compare two philosophies of 'making-it-happen': two extremes. We might label them the 'Viking' and the 'gently does it'.The 'Viking' philosophy...This one argues that you should row onto the enemy shore, disembark your troops and burn your boats. That way, making things work is your only option. Success in such circumstances is bold, daring and the stuff of legend. Failure is brutal and unsung.The 'gently does it' philosophy...This one argues that you should hold offshore, viewing the enemy through long-range binoculars, looking for signs of weakness, hoping that they might fall into a hole of their own digging, and then creep ashore to take their place. Success is met by praise of your great wisdom and tactical genius. Failure brands you a coward.How soon do we expect the future to arrive?Don't expect KAM to be a quick fix. The essence of KAM, as we will see, is in building relationships, and this takes time. If your sales objectives are short term and call for big volume increases then you might be better placed seeking these from what we might call 'opportunistic customers' (see Chapter 26) rather than key accounts. There is an essential conflict between building relationships based on trust and pressuring the customer for short-term sales volume.Sales growth targets are part of the real world, but don't expect to satisfy them solely through KAM, and certainly don't compromise your future security by 'abusing' your KA relationships.Sanity checksIn Chapter 2 we identified three particular opportunities or objectives that might determine the nature of your KAM journey: winning new customers;growing the business with existing customers;defending existing customers and business.Let's consider each of these objectives in the light of the model for managing the future (Figure 5.1), looking to see whether we can achieve a proper balance. I regard this as a kind of sanity check to our aspirations.Winning new customers The market opportunity. Are your competitors failing any of these target customers? Have you segmented the market to identify the customers with the best combination of attractiveness and accessibility? Have you identified the customers where your value proposition will be of most interest?Your resources. Do you have a unique value proposition good enough to break down the barriers to entry? Do you have the necessary 'hunter' skills to open the doors? ('Hunters' will be fully described in Chapter 8.) Is your support team deployed in the right manner to seize the opportunities?Growing the business with existing customers The market opportunity. Do you know what percentage of their business the customer will grant to any one supplier? Do they have plans for new products or services? Do you understand their ambitions and their worries with regard to those new products or services?Your resources. Do you have the necessary 'farmer' skills to develop new opportunities? ('Farmers' will be fully described in Chapter 8.) Are you able to penetrate their decision-making processes? Is your support team deployed in the right manner to identify new opportunities and project manage the responses?Defending existing customers and business The market opportunity. Will your customers remain loyal to 'key suppliers'? Is it possible to sustain competitive advantage against new entrants? Will your competitors aim to break down the barriers to entry through new business propositions?Your resources. Can you build barriers to entry, through relationships and through tailored solutions? Is your support team sufficiently 'locked-in' with the customer?And you?Take a moment to consider the balance, or imbalance, of objectives, resources and opportunity in your own circumstances. To what sort of 'making-it-happen' philosophy do you adhere? Do the sanity checks find you sane, or dysfunctional? And where should you be putting your effort in order to improve your chances of managing the future as you wish it to happen? (I don't want to prejudice your answer, but for most people extra effort spent on the 'virtuous circle' pays dividends, which is why, of course, KAM is so important.)Developing the definitionIn Chapter 1 we introduced a definition of Key Account Management: A long-term investment of resources into a customer that offers an exceptional return on that investment.The management of a cross-functional business team, with clearly defined goals, roles and obligations.The desire to understand the customer's business, and their challenges, through deep analysis, in order to identify opportunities where we can make a positive impact.The development of truly customer-focused value propositions, designed to achieve key supplier status.The development of a mutually beneficial strategic plan through joint planning with the customer.The measurement and management of the return on this investment.It is now time to tighten up what was of course a very generic statement. This can only be done by you, and in your own words, recognizing your own realities. So, point by point, and for you and in your own circumstances: What does 'long term' mean for you, and how do you define an 'exceptional return'?Which functions beyond sales will you seek to involve, in front of the customer, or providing important support?When analysing a customer's business there is of course a great deal to know - you must be focused. What aspects of the customer's business is it important for you to understand? Is it their strategic direction? Is it their financial picture and imperatives? Is it their operational activities? Is it the nature of their market and their customers? Is it their competition?Is becoming a key supplier a realistic ambition?Is joint planning a realistic ambition - and if so, how far can it be taken?What measurement of return will you use?What KAM is not...It is impossible to write a definition of KAM that will suit all circumstances, and it is quite possible that some of the elements listed above will be discarded by you - but please be sure that they do not apply to you before you wield your blue editing pencil. Perhaps I am on safer ground to add a list of things that KAM is not: KAM is not short term. The implementation of KAM is unlikely to bring any immediate improvement to the bottom line, though it must be able to show what kind of improvements will be made, and to a realistic timescale.KAM is not a sales initiative. Any attempt to implement KAM by sales professionals working alone is almost certainly doomed to failure. It is a cross-business and cross-functional business process.KAM is not for loners. Teamwork is everything, and the qualities of leadership come at a premium.KAM is not a tactical response to customer pressure. If you feel the need to fight with your customers, look for another approach - KAM must be a collaborative activity between supplier and customer.KAM cannot be implemented with large numbers of customers.The KAM modelOur definitions so far have considered KAM on a strategic and business plane. We can now turn to the requirements of the task itself.Figure 5.3 shows five elements to the KAM task. These elements are not wholly distinct from each other, and nor are they strictly sequential. In theory you might identify your targets, then develop a relationship sufficient to conduct customer analysis, from which you formulate a value proposition that is then implemented through joint planning with the customer. In theory.Figure 5.3 The KAM modelIn reality, all of these things happen at once, and repeat themselves through overlapping cycles, but perhaps we can identify the task at the centre of the model - the relationship management task - as the one that is most constant.Relationship management acts as the glue for the whole process, and allows the other tasks to be tackled with confidence.It will be the depth and breadth of our relationship that will allow us to analyse the customer's business effectively.It will be the depth and breadth of our relationship that will allow us to formulate and deliver enhanced value propositions.It will be the depth and breadth of our relationship that will allow us to work alongside the customer, through some form of joint planning process.It will be the depth and breadth of our relationship that will allow us to continually assess the status of the customer. Are they still a key development account? Have they become a full key account? Are they no longer deserving of those titles?Managing the investmentSome of these tasks represent investments: Relationship management and Customer business analysis take time and can eat up people resources. On their own they do not guarantee any return on that investment.Developing an enhanced value proposition is also very likely to require additional investment, perhaps now of money and assets, but it is at this point that we begin to see the potential for a return on these investments. That is, if we keep in our minds the most important aspect of any true value proposition: our reward.Planning and joint planning and targeting should be all about the return on our investments. Targeting is about focusing our investments where the returns are most attractive, while the whole purpose of Planning and joint planning is to ensure that we secure the appropriate rewards for our efforts.Navigating the journeyParts II through VIII of this book will focus on these five tasks, not always sequentially, nor in neat compartments, sometimes leaping from one task to another and back again, replicating in fact the real life experience of any KAM journey.As we proceed you may feel that some of what we cover under one 'task heading' would be better placed under another. If so, then feel free to move it in your own process and working practices. Remember: you make the rules.Application exercise Assess the balance between objectives, resources and market opportunity in your own business: - Where are the 'misfits' or 'inconsistencies'?- What actions are required to remove these 'misfits' or 'inconsistencies'?- How would you define 'Key Account Management' appropriately for your own business, market and customer context?Who in your organization needs to know and understand this definition? - Where are the priorities to ensure understanding?Who in your organization will be required to make changes to their activities, or to their attitudes and behaviours, in order to react positively to this definition? - Where are the priorities for change to occur?- How will you begin the change process?Which parts of the 'KAM Model' will you need to focus most attention on: - Relationship management?- Customer business analysis?- The value proposition?- Planning and joint planning?- Targeting?Given that particular focus, will you be largely in the 'investment' phase, or the 'return on investment' phase of the KAM journey?What are the implications of that for your business?







Part TwoAnalysis: opportunity and value







06Knowing the market, knowing your valueValue mapping - the opportunity chainHindsight is a wonderful thing, making strategic thinkers of us all, but its greatest benefit, if we are wise rather than just 'smart', is that it helps us to learn. In Europe we can all look back and see why those big American agrochemical companies who tried to persuade us to love, and buy, genetically modified foodstuffs failed, and spectacularly. They had great technology, they had a history of success in North America, and they had a caseload of benefits for the farmers who might buy their seeds. But then came the problems, beyond the farmers. Focusing on the benefits of greater crop yield and lower pesticide use, as they did, they all too easily failed to look further down the chain, through to the wholesalers and the food producers, and on to the retailers and the consumers, which was where of course, we now know, their problems lay.Fired up by the press, environmental groups and in some cases the government, consumers were soon showing their wariness of such 'Frankenstein foods', and retailers were quick to seize on a point of competitive advantage by declaring that their shelves were free from such things. And the seed suppliers, all the way back up the chain? All this opposition took them by surprise, and wrecked their plans to the point that they as good as gave up.We all work in a chain - the one we have been discussing is shown in Figure 6.1 - some of us closer to the end user than these seed suppliers, some of us yet further away. The reason I call them 'opportunity chains' is that we have to analyse their dynamics to see where the true opportunities lie, for our proposition, for our value and for our reward.Figure 6.1 The opportunity chainLooking for the hotspotsWhat we must look for are what we will call the 'hotspots', of which there are two principal types: the hotspots where the decision is made to buy or not buy;the hotspots where our value impacts.In the case we have been discussing, and simplifying things a little, we might say that the decision hotspot happened 'down the chain' somewhere between the consumer and the retailer, while the value hotspot was 'up the chain' with the farmer, as shown in Figure 6.2.Figure 6.2 The hotspots in the opportunity chainAnd here we come to the nub of the problem - when these two hotspots are separated, and by such distance in the chain, then it is very likely that the value of the offer will be eroded by the time it reaches the point of decision to buy. In this case, it had more than eroded; it had become negative value.So, what is the moral of this tale? Is it that we must always aim to work at the far end of the chain, with the end user? Not at all, and just as well, as many of us simply don't have that opportunity. The moral is in fact one of the vital tenets of Key Account Management:Aim to identify the hotspots, and so understand the nature of your own value.If the hotspots are with the end user or consumer, then that must be where you focus your attention; this is the case in the world of FMCG (fast-moving consumer goods), but in many B2B (business to business) circumstances the hotspots will be higher up the chain.The following analytical exercise is one well worth doing for the opportunity chain that you occupy with your own key account: Draw out the players in the 'opportunity chain', through to the end user: - Note the main lines in the logistics supply chain (the flow of product).- Note the lines of influence on the final decision.- Are we biased towards the supply chain or the lines of influence?Where is the value created by our offer: - Inside the customer, or beyond?Where are the key decisions, regarding our offer, taken: - Inside the customer, or beyond?Is there a separation between these two 'hotspots', and if so: - What is the impact on our value?- What can be done to protect our value?Where in the chain do we currently have good understanding, and good contacts? - Where in this chain do we need to develop better understanding and better contacts?- At what points in the chain do we need to 'sell', and where will we need to 'influence'?A phrase appears in this exercise that needs explaining further: 'inside the customer, or beyond?' Figure 6.3 illustrates some of the differences between value inside or beyond the customer.Figure 6.3 Value inside, or beyond the customer?It is to be hoped that your product or service gives both kinds, but let me see if I can make you feel just a little guilty for a moment. Which of these two types of value is the more important if you are seeking to develop a long-term relationship with the customer, and wish to be viewed as a key, or strategic supplier? And which of these types of value do you spend most of your time focused on in your discussions with the customer?It is quite common for the answer to the first of these questions to be 'beyond', and the answer to the second to be 'inside'. If that is so, then it is usually for two reasons: because it is easier to measure the value 'inside' and because the people you meet with in the customer (the buyers) focus their attentions there. This is not to say that value 'beyond' cannot be measured, nor that we shouldn't seek out those in the customer that do care about such value (see Chapter 7) - indeed, it is precisely to achieve these two things that we practise Key Account Management.CASE STUDY  Finding the folk that love youShortly after the fall of the Berlin Wall one of the big brand suppliers of sports shoes was looking for distributors in Russia, hoping to take advantage of the new era of 'openness', but was finding it harder work than they expected.The buyers told them they were too expensive and the warehouse managers told them their products would take up too much valuable space.Their sales force was losing heart - they appeared to have little value 'inside' the customer's organization - but a chance meeting came to their assistance.They met with the salespeople of one of the potential distributors, and found that here it was a very different story. Their products were the easiest to sell, they were told, only the distributor's salespeople couldn't get hold of enough of them.Helping the distributor's salespeople pass on that message to the buyers and the warehouse managers was the 'trick' that opened the doors. It was of course the value 'beyond' the customer that mattered, but much work had to be done to communicate this properly to those 'inside' the decision-making process.The team investmentTwo important considerations become evident at this point. The first is that you can hardly do this kind of analysis on your own - you will need the assistance of colleagues from other departments and functions within your own company, and you will need the assistance of the customer. We begin to see why KAM is described as a team activity. The second consideration is that this kind of analysis takes time and effort, and cannot be done for every customer. Here we see an example of the kind of thing that distinguishes a key account from the rest; the amount of analysis that you are prepared to 'invest'.Acting on the analysisAnd after the analysis, we come to the all-important question: what are you able to do about it? One of the reasons for calling a customer a key account is that you are stating your intention to behave differently - to understand them better, to understand your own position better, and to enhance your own value and reward.If we return to the case of the supplier of genetically modified seeds, what would you do? There are two broad choices if you find yourself working in a chain where the two hotspots are separated: change where the decision is made (great if you can, but this is seldom easy, and in the case we are describing, given the dominance of retailers in the market, almost impossible), or change the nature of your value.Rather than looking at improvements in crop yields, you might look to issues such as product quality, or freshness, or product appearance, or extended shelf life, or improved availability, or extended seasons, or health advantages, or absence of pesticides... in other words, value that might impact on the retailer or the consumer. Knowing exactly where to look only comes from knowing the dynamics and the trends of the market, which is why you hear me repeating so often the assertion that KAM is so much more than 'selling'.A combination of consumers demanding 'greener' products and supermarkets seeking competitive advantage by offering products free of anything that could be construed as 'harmful' has led retailers to seek better evidence for the greenness and cleanness of their suppliers' offers, often through the provision of what are called 'food passports' (a record of where the product came from, how it was grown, how it was treated, and how it was processed and transported). A seed supplier wishing to help their customer, the farmer, must understand the pressures farmers are under as a result of such trends, perhaps developing seeds that require lower pesticide application or that leave less residue. Perhaps they might try to influence the consumer's understanding of what 'harmful' means - after all, pesticides help ensure disease-free food. Perhaps they can seek to agree standards with the food industry, including the supermarkets. And this is all a great deal more than 'selling'.Some case studiesAs this is such a vital issue for KAM, it will be worth considering a few more examples. The following case studies explain and explore the need for opportunity chain analysis, each with its own 'angle' on the task.CASE STUDY  Knowing what you sell - paper, or packaging solutions?A company sells different types and grades of paper used in the packaging industry. The immediate customer is the 'converter': the company that takes the paper and other products and turns them into finished packaging, whether it be a humble food carton or a glossy box for an upmarket perfume. Figure 6.4 shows the different markets into which the converter sells - the opportunity chain for the paper supplier.Figure 6.4 The packaging chainI once worked with a paper supplier that denied they had any need to 'independently' understand the market beyond the converter, as the converter would tell them all they needed to know, case by case. If they had meant that they aimed to understand the markets 'in partnership' with the converter, then I would have been happy, but unfortunately they meant that they would simply do as they were told.This was of course a buyers' paradise, for the buyers chose to tell only what they saw as useful in the negotiation. 'Our market is driven by cost,' they said, citing the household goods customers as their example. So much was true, but what they didn't say was the range of other values that mattered to other customers: the food companies requiring high standards of hygiene, the perfume and cosmetic manufacturers concerned principally with image, the toy producers looking for safety above all else, the pharma companies eager to meet regulatory standards.So costs were driven downwards, and the supplier was steadily commoditized. When the buyers had the company lying prostrate on the floor, they delivered their next set of demands: 'We need paper that will improve hygiene levels, allow products to "glow in the dark", be non-toxic, and super tear-resistant...'So the supplier works on those new values but, from their position as a commoditized and downtrodden supplier of paper, they never quite managed to achieve their just rewards as a supplier of packaging solutions, and all because they didn't think they needed to 'independently' understand their customer's markets.CASE STUDY  Clever idea, poor reward...It's fairly easy to have clever ideas, and to come up with novel solutions to problems, but so much harder to get the reward you deserve. The last case considered the plight of a paper supplier; let's turn to the problems of their customer: the manufacturer of those cardboard cartons.The carton supplier was approached by a soup manufacturer looking for an alternative packaging solution to the standard tin - they wanted a cardboard tub.The packaging supplier knew little of their client's challenges, and worse, rather than making enquiries proceeded to make some assumptions on their behalf. Cartons were not as good as tins or bottles: they were less durable, more likely to be damaged in transit, liable to leak, and would have a markedly shorter shelf life. The client could only be looking for a low-cost solution and so the carton supplier cut their costs and margins to oblige.They won the contract and celebrated, only to find, when they saw the customer's product on the supermarket shelf, what an opportunity they had missed. In the supermarket, a carton of soup might sell for as much as four times more than a tin. Why? Because soup in a carton is 'fresh' soup, 'upmarket' soup, 'added-value' soup, 'gourmet soup', and it is all down to the new packaging that enables the supplier to communicate these positions.The supplier underrated their own importance and value because they didn't understand what the customer was really looking for. In this case they could see their error because the result appeared on a very public supermarket shelf. How often have you committed this sin and never been any the wiser?CASE STUDY  Is the customer always the one who pays the bill?Let's turn in this last case to a happier outcome. A company supplies reusable plastic trays and crates for the delivery of fruit and vegetables to supermarkets. While this is a standard item now, in the past there were various methods of getting the tomatoes to the shop floor, mostly involving cardboard boxes that might collapse at vital moments, and that had to be disposed of, with all the problems that might entail. So the plastic tray or crate was a great new idea - saving money, reducing damage and wastage, and significantly more environmentally friendly.The company might have approached the fruit and vegetable suppliers, the people who were going to use the trays and crates, and the people who would therefore receive the supplier's invoices, but there were problems there. For one thing, there were hundreds of these suppliers, and for another, they tended to be traditional and conservative - unlikely to change to this new method of handling their products. So the tray and crate supplier took a different tack, knowing the nature of their value as a result of their analysis of the opportunity chain.They regarded the supermarkets as their key accounts, even though they would receive no payment from them. The supermarkets had plenty to gain from their product - less damage, greater hygiene, easier back door and shop floor handling, and no problem of disposal. If the supermarkets accepted their proposal then they would instruct their own suppliers to make use of these trays and crates, making the sale for the supplier so much easier.Internal opportunity chainsSo far we have considered chains as being made up of separate commercial entities - the customer, the customer's customer, and so on through to the end user - but we might also encounter 'opportunity chains' that exist within the customer itself: the supply chain.Figure 6.5 illustrates one such chain, that of a hospital and the departments concerned with sourcing, managing and using surgical instruments. A particular supplier of surgical instruments, in pursuit of competitive advantage in a market that has become focused on price and where it is hard to argue any kind of 'value' to the buyers, is launching a new product - the 'procedure pack'.Figure 6.5 The hospital 'supply chain'This new item aims to do the customer's thinking for them, delivering a complete pack of all the items required for any particular operation, or 'procedure'. It has several advantages over the old method of selling instruments as individual items, not least the question of safety at the point of use - there being no risk of the surgeons finding themselves without an important instrument at a vital moment.The supplier presents the idea to the buyer, who rejects it. All the buyer sees are premium priced products, gathered together in a box instead of sold individually. It is clear to the supplier that their value 'hotspots' are to be found 'beyond' the buyer, with those who physically move or manage or use the instruments, but that the decision-making 'hotspot' is resolutely stuck in the hands of a 'gate-keeping' buyer. This supplier is up to the challenge however, and sets about fully understanding the nature of their value beyond the buyer, as shown in Figure 6.6.Figure 6.6 The nature of value in the supply chainNow comes the choice; which value to pick on? In theory, the intensity of the supplier's value increases as we move to the right-hand side of the chain - saving lives is 'more valuable' than smoothing the path of the logistics people. But this is 'in theory'. What if there have been no incidents 'in practice' suggesting any kind of problem with the old method of sourcing? What does this theory mean in any case to a buyer expected to save money from a shrinking budget and who is focused on financial measures of performance?The supplier chooses to focus on the value brought to the operating theatre managers - the procedure pack saves them time, often as much as 40 minutes per operation. Now time can be turned into money, and so a value proposition can be put to the buyers in their own language. What the supplier is doing, of course, is bringing those two hotspots (value and decision) closer together. And better still, in the hands of a skilled account manager, it will not be the salesperson that argues the case, but the operating theatre manager, appealing to their own buyer to source this new 'valuable solution', armed of course with the necessary information by the supplier.That the procedure pack has become the norm in this particular market is evidence of the success of the approach, but that success should not lead us to underestimate the effort involved. This was not something that could have been achieved by a sales professional working alone. This called for a cross-functional supplier team, and for an investment of that team's time in analysing the opportunity chain and the nature of their own value inside that chain. It called, in short, for Key Account Management.Complex networksThe examples discussed so far have all described the opportunity chain as a straight line, but the truth of the real world is often more complex than this relative simplicity. Often we find ourselves working inside networks (not to say spider webs) of competing influences and decision makers. This added complexity doesn't alter the principle of opportunity chain analysis, but it certainly does raise the nature of the challenge, and in so doing argues yet more strongly for the importance of conducting such analysis.Figure 6.7 illustrates an astonishingly complex network as mapped out by a supplier of healthcare devices sold through nursing homes. The detail is not important (don't strain your eyes to read it), it is the implications of this complexity that provide the learning.Figure 6.7 A typical healthcare market networkFirst, and perhaps most importantly, this network was mapped out by the supplier working alongside the customer, pooling their joint knowledge. On completion, the customer's comment was: 'We never knew you did so much for us' - a hugely gratifying response!What became clear was that the supplier provided a huge amount of value through the management of information in a customer network where, frankly, the left hand sometimes didn't know what the right hand was doing. Complex networks can be daunting, but mastering them can bring significant competitive advantage.Another realization from the exercise was the importance of the supplier's cross-functional team. No sales professional on earth could hope to comprehend, let alone manage such a network, single-handed. We see here Key Account Management developed to a level sometimes necessary in the complexity of healthcare markets - what we might call 'Key Network Management'.And one last outcome that sealed the value of the exercise: the supplier was awarded sole supplier status as being the only supplier showing both the initiative to examine and understand the customer's situation, and the capability to manage it to the mutual advantage of both supplier and customer. No further vindication of the significant amount of time expended on the exercise was necessary.CASE STUDY  Managing a complex networkOur last case study in this chapter considers the case of a paint supplier, not one concerned with decorative paint such as we use in our homes, but one that supplies the kind of paint used to repair damaged cars, often called 'refinish paint'. Its traditional view of the market chain, and so its 'traditional opportunity', is shown in Figure 6.8.Figure 6.8 The 'traditional' opportunity chainThe paint is sold through distributors to three kinds of body shop, and it is fairly clear who the key accounts will be in this set-up - the all-powerful distributors. All-powerful, and also in control of the main opportunities, managing their paint suppliers as simple providers of products while they (the distributors) come up with the value-added solutions, and the added-value rewards. This was the picture before the supplier started to analyse the opportunity chain more deeply.Figure 6.9 shows the addition of a key group of people, the end users, motorists like ourselves, car hire firms, and the like.Figure 6.9 Adding the end users to the chainBut this is still not the full story. For that, we have to consider the dynamics of this chain in real life. Just consider what you do if you are unlucky enough to damage your car and need to get it repainted. Your first port of call isn't even on this map: it's the insurance company - an 'external' player, but one that will affect the paint supplier's future prospects significantly.If the insurance company sends the motorist to a body shop that stocks the supplier's products then fine, but if not...? In the past, the answer to this issue (always known, but rarely acted on) was to have large sales teams chasing the widest possible distribution, and so hoping the company will win more often than it loses by the insurance company's actions.Such an approach was expensive, and failed to act on the true dynamics of the chain. So, what to do? Perhaps the insurance companies could be influenced in their decisions?Before coming to any fast conclusion we should complete the picture of the network (or market map, as many describe it), by adding the insurance companies, and also the final 'external' player - the motor car manufacturer. This is shown in Figure 6.10.Figure 6.10 The full opportunity networkWe all know that car manufacturers no longer make their money just selling cars (and that too many fail to make any money by selling cars); they look increasingly for their profits from the repair of cars, servicing of cars, the spare parts and so on. It is vital for them that when we crash our car we actually take it to one of their own managed or franchised body shops. Warranties have been the traditional mechanism for ensuring this, but could there be another solution?Now we have the full picture, we can consider the kind of 'solution' the paint supplier might bring to the needs of this complex network. First, they concentrate on those that they see as the 'vital players' in the network. And how do they come to this particular grouping? It is based on their analysis of the 'hotspots' - the value, and the decision-making hotspots.Then, the supplier approaches the motor manufacturer. 'In return for you stocking our product in all your controlled body shops, we have a means of bringing more customers to those body shops,' they say.They also approach the insurance company. 'In return for you sending your clients to the body shops we recommend, you will be paid a commission,' they say. A key part of this proposition is that this commission will be paid, not by the paint supplier, but by the motor manufacturer.They also approach the distributor. 'Please keep delivering the product,' they say.So who is the key account now? Is it any one entity, or is it in fact the network? If it is, then we are looking at the task of Key Network Management, and a challenge well beyond the capacity of any sales professional acting alone.A final thoughtThis has been a long chapter, with several examples, each aiming to stress the same basic point: understand the true nature of your customer's market, and so understand the true nature of your own value. But, on some very rare occasions, we might even go one step further, aiming to break the mould of that market and to establish a whole new dynamic in the opportunity chain.This is what happens when new technologies replace old ones (digital cameras, for instance, or mobile phone technology), when new business models oust old and fusty ones (budget airlines, for instance, or internet shopping). If you have the opportunity to break the mould of your own opportunity chain, then please don't leave it to the sales force. Here, more than in any of the examples used so far, we see the need for a truly cross-functional team, wedding sales with marketing, R&D with manufacturing, and senior management with those that carry out the work at ground level. In other words, Key Account Management.Application exerciseSelect a market segment, and a key account within that segment: Draw out the 'opportunity chain' through to the end user: - Start with the logistics supply chain.- Include the lines of influence.Where is the value created by your offer? - Inside the customer or beyond?Where are the key decisions (the ones that affect your future) taken? - Inside the customer or beyond?Is there any 'misfit' between these points of value and decision? - If so, do you need to change the nature of your value proposition?- Are you able to change the nature of the decision-making process?Where in this chain do we currently have good understanding, and good contacts? - Where in this chain do we need to develop better understanding and better contacts?- Is this about selling, influencing, or understanding?Who from your team will be best placed to develop this?







07Knowing the people, knowing your valueDecision mapping - the 'opportunity snail'The last chapter urged key account managers to invest time in looking beyond the entities with which the traditional sales professionals spend their time - the immediate customers. This chapter urges them to look beyond the people that the traditional sales professional will spend most of their time with - the buyers.It is no great surprise that, without an active plan to do otherwise, customer contacts tend to settle down to a few regular meetings with the same faces. Most commonly these are faces within the purchasing department. The feeling of comfort and stability that this can bring is dangerously illusory: when the face changes so can your fortune. Genuine security is usually the result of deep relationships with as broad a range of contacts as possible.Even when the face remains the same, the supplier is in danger of missing out on the real opportunities. Working with a gatekeeper buyer (what I heard someone once call the 'abominable no-man') can be a very limiting experience. We saw in the last chapter, with the cases of the paper supplier or of the carton supplier or the surgical instruments supplier, how the buyer in each case was not exactly eager to recognize the supplier's true value.If we consider the way that ideas and decisions are generated in the customer's organization, we might begin to see the way to uncovering real opportunities, whether for new business or to add value to existing arrangements.Let's consider, as an example, the way that a particular customer goes about deciding to launch a new product, one to which another company hopes to be a supplier. The customer is an FMCG (fast-moving consumer goods) company, the manufacturer of a number of leading food and confectionery brands, a company like Unilever, Nestlé or Mars. Our supplier in this example supplies food flavours, high-specification products of significant value to the customer. The supplier's principal contact is with the purchasing department, but is this where the real opportunities lie?Figure 7.1 shows an example of what we will call the 'opportunity snail', as it exists in this customer. The snail represents the typical route that a new idea takes as it develops on its journey from 'Wouldn't it be great?' through to a product launch. In our FMCG company, the initiator might typically be the marketing department, the centre of the snail, with a hundred bright ideas a year.Figure 7.1 The opportunity 'snail'Each of these ideas proceeds through a series of checks and developments, often called 'stage gates'. These include: market research, to see if the market is interested in the product; R&D, to see if it can be made; manufacturing, to see if full-scale production is viable; purchasing, to source the raw materials; back to manufacturing to make the product; and then on to sales and distribution to get it into the market. This snail is of course something of a simplification, as in reality there would be a complex series of loops, and loops within loops, but in its simplified form it serves an important purpose, illustrating the serious problem of making contact with the customer only at the outer edge.The limitations of the mediocre interfaceFigure 7.2 shows such a circumstance, the 'mediocrity' of a single interface - sales professional to purchasing professional. I refer to this as a mediocre interface because it is so very clearly not good enough. It may suit normal times, the handling of repeat orders for an established product, but how will it fare with the challenge of a new opportunity or a new obstacle? We should not be satisfied with being mediocre of course; it is hardly an aspiration to be encouraged (who, after all, ever remembers Alexandra the Mediocre?).Figure 7.2 The mediocre interface - sales/purchasingHere are just some of the limitations of this interface. What will the buyer be interested in? Price, price, terms, and perhaps price (though see the chapters in Part IV for an account of a more varied purchasing repertoire). Is this the area where the supplier has the most to offer? If so, then be happy with this interface, but the very fact of your reading this book makes me suspect this is not your own situation. Worse is to follow; chances are that others, further inside the snail, have already made the real decisions on suppliers; specifications are already set and there is little you can do as a supplier to improve your chances other than talking money. Buyers are often the last to know about new initiatives in their company (though again, see the chapters in Part IV for a different view of the 'modern buyer'), often for reasons of security as much as anything else - talking to suppliers is about the fastest way to let your competitors know what you are up to! This means that you are given two weeks to come up with an offer, where two months would have been tight.Penetrating the snailContact with the R&D department could bring a significant advantage. Here you would be talking technical capability, and perhaps this is your real strength? And better still, you are now involved with 'potential products' where decisions are not yet made and there is still an opportunity to influence specifications. Of course, the 'potential products' discussed in the R&D department might not see the light of day, and some would say that these discussions are then a waste of time, and even argue the virtues of the single sales-purchasing interface; that you only discuss real products there, with real orders being imminent. On occasions such a criticism may be right, but this simply highlights the skill required in managing a key account - where and when to invest your time and energy.Of course, the buyer might not allow you immediate access to the R&D people; it may take some time and skill to penetrate the customer's decision-making process. (Some specific techniques for such a penetration are discussed in Chapters 9 and 10; for the moment, we are concerned simply with why such penetration is a good idea.)Should we penetrate further into the snail, beyond R&D, right back to the marketing department? Inevitably there are pros and cons to doing this, and we are back to that essential skill of the key account manager - knowing where and when to invest your time and energy.Some possible reasons in favour of penetrating to the centre: You can discover the real hopes and ambitions of the customer.Early contact allows you to set the criteria so that you are the only viable choice, and price is a very minor issue once the buyer becomes involved.Perhaps you have a particular capability that will help your customer speed development of their new product, or improve its chance of success after launch. If so, and if you can demonstrate this to the marketing people (who, in the FMCG environment we are discussing, typically suffer plenty of internal obstacles that can often kill over 90 per cent of new ideas, and then suffer very high failure rates post-launch) then surely you are en route to being considered a key supplier.Some possible reasons against penetrating to the centre: What does the buyer, or your R&D contacts, make of you talking to marketing? For some this would be tantamount to dealing with the enemy! The key account manager must always be aware of the 'political' realities within the customer (see Chapter 31 for more on the need to be a political entrepreneur).If so many of their ideas 'go nowhere', couldn't this close involvement with marketing lead you horribly astray, perhaps even take you into projects that could pull your own organization apart at the seams?You have nothing to offer them: your proposition has no positive impact on their issues.This will often require a particular capability (in this example, familiarity with the ways of marketing in FMCG) - do you have it?This all takes time - do you have it?Let's just take those last two possible points 'against' penetrating to the centre: lack of capability, and lack of time. If we are discussing a key account, then one of the tasks of the key account manager is to assess the capabilities and the time required for success with the customer - the level of investment required - and then to go about building those capabilities and making that time available. If the organization will not permit such development, then perhaps this is not a key account, or perhaps the organization is not really willing to practise KAM, with all its implications.Some obstacles to penetrationThere are three big ones: The buyer won't let you - don't forget that you may be challenging their power and their desire to control information.The sales professional won't go beyond the buyer - it may not be in their job description, it may not be within their capabilities, it may not be in their budget (what if the buyer is on their sales territory but the R&D department is in another country?).The R&D people (sticking with that particular example) don't want to see a salesperson.The need for a key account teamCan a sales professional do this alone? Are you really sure? The more complex the snail, and the more it involves people in specialist functions, then the less likely it is that sales professionals can do this on their own. Figure 7.3 shows a possible three-person team and their penetration of the opportunity snail.Figure 7.3 The key account team approachEven if the sales professionals can do it alone, even if they do have such a broad set of skills, perhaps it is still best that they don't: Penetrating beyond the buyer is never easy, but if it is someone other than the salesperson doing the penetrating, then that can sometimes ease the way.Can the sales professional really be credible in so many different guises?Wouldn't specialists prefer to speak with someone who 'speaks their language'? If you were selling to a customer in France, and couldn't speak French, that would be a problem, and you would find someone who could speak French (I hope, rather than taking the 'Learn French in two weeks' tapes out of the library).You'll be amazed at what a real expert can uncover when speaking with their opposite number.Where were the sales professionals going to find all this time to do all this penetrating?Do you really want to put your future with a key account into the hands of one individual? People get sick, people leave, people get promoted...Disciplines of penetrationThere are of course some issues about such multi-contact relationships, issues that will be explored in detail in Chapter 8, but let's just note one for the moment. The more people you involve with the customer, the greater the chance for confusion of messages, and especially so if those people are not talking to each other. Penetrating snails is not about throwing people at the customer, like mud against a wall hoping some of it will stick. Penetration should be carefully managed, and strict disciplines of what is being said to the customer must be observed across the penetrating team.How often has a salesperson dropped an R&D or manufacturing colleague into hot water by promising timelines that cannot be met? How often have those technical or operational people dropped the salesperson into just as much hot water by giving things away for free, things that the salesperson had been negotiating hard to sell? It's a cliché I know, but a key account team must always 'sing from the same hymn sheet'.Involving the boss...There is also the question of seniority and status to be considered. Perhaps the sales professional has a relationship with the buyer, but the supplier wishes for a relationship also with the buying director. Who might be better placed to make that contact - the sales professional (needing to go above the buyer's head), or the sales professional's manager (who can match status with status)? There is no absolute answer of course, but the question should always be asked, and key account managers should come fitted with special 'ego-suppressing' devices in their brains to avoid the 'I can do everything' syndrome, when someone else can do it better.CASE STUDY  Snails and your true valueA supplier of printed leaflets and adhesive labels to the pharmaceutical industry (the leaflets and labels that appear in and on pill bottles and packets) had a great idea. Like all great ideas it came from an observed problem. Pharmaceutical companies would like to say a lot of things on those leaflets and labels; indeed, they are obliged by law to say plenty already, but the problem is space. And there is another problem - there is a legal obligation for the pills to be sold with the right leaflets and labels, to ensure that the patient uses those pills correctly, and printed-paper leaflets in particular just have a way of becoming separated. Even if they make it to the patient's home correctly attached, they have a knack (almost a mission) of getting into the wrong bottles and boxes once the pills are in the bathroom cabinet.The great idea was something called the concertina label, to be affixed to the small space on the lid of a pill bottle, but then capable of being unfolded to allow all the information required. Plus, once stuck, it stays stuck.Unfortunately the buyer of labels in the first pharmaceutical company approached with the new product saw only a more expensive label, and said 'No thanks'. Yet more unfortunately for the supplier with the great idea, this rejection was repeated in each and every pharmaceutical company. So, it was obviously not such a great idea, they concluded, and thought about dropping it from their range.Fortunately (and I trust you don't hope to rely on such good fortune in your own business) one of their salespeople happened to bump into the marketing director at one of the larger pharmaceutical companies - perhaps they got lost in the maze of corridors, but whatever the reason for being there, they struck gold. The concertina label was the answer to the marketing director's prayers, and its extra cost was an irrelevance when compared to the costs of not solving the labelling problem, and an even bigger irrelevance in the grand scheme of pharmaceutical company marketing budgets. The label buyer was instructed to source it, no questions asked, and a new sales strategy was born.Putting chains and snails togetherThe aims of this chapter must be combined with those of the last - to understand our true value we must understand the customer and their market, but to do anything about that understanding, to get the reward we deserve, then we must also understand the customer's organization, their people and their decision-making processes.Chains and snails are two pieces of analysis that must be worked on together. It is through their combination that we will begin to approach that holy grail of KAM spoken of in earlier chapters - to be able to say that you understand, as a key account team, the customer's business, the customer's market and the customer's organization better than they do themselves.From that starting point, things will go from good to better. Such a supplier will be able to help their customer in ways that a more reactive supplier cannot hope for. They can speed the process of new product development, they can enhance the success of new product launches, they can provide assistance with market research, they can discuss trends, they can advise, they can consult, they can argue, they can even disagree.It may seem a strange note to close this chapter on, but the ability to say 'No' is not granted to all suppliers. It is a mark of a key supplier that they have this liberty, and it comes less from any balance of power positioning than from the nature of what they know.A significant benefit of KAM is the way in which it enhances such knowledge, through the analytical part of the task. In the next few chapters, making up Part III of this book, we will be looking at how the management of the customer relationship aims to build on that knowledge, while adding another significant benefit of KAM: business security.Application exerciseIdentify a key account, and a decision-making unit within that account: Draw out the customer's decision-making 'snail'.How deep and broad is our current penetration of that 'snail'?What opportunities might a deeper or broader penetration highlight: - beyond the current contacts;- at different levels of seniority?What new entry and contact strategies might be required to take advantage of these opportunities?What problems might be caused within the customer's organization by expanding the points of contact? - So how should you proceed?What problems might be caused within our own organization by expanding the points of contact? - So how should you proceed?







Part ThreeRelationship management







08From 'bow-ties' to 'diamonds'In Chapter 5, relationship management was described as the glue of the whole KAM process. Let's just remind ourselves of its 'central' role in the KAM model, shown at Figure 8.1.Figure 8.1 The central role of relationship managementIt was noted that the task of relationship management can involve a significant investment (often unmeasured); building relationships takes time, it can eat up resources, and in itself it doesn't promise any particular return. Even the best relationships do not in themselves promise additional orders, higher volumes, premium prices, better margins or any of the other sought-after rewards. There must be a purpose to the relationship, a desired outcome, or we are at risk of building it simply for the sake of the thing, which can so easily lead to an escalation in costs and a reduction in our chances of an effective return on that investment.Being liked, or being respected?Too often suppliers seem to regard the definition of a 'good relationship' as being synonymous with 'being liked'. We're all human, and it's nice to be liked, but it's a poor basis for the kind of competitive advantage you should be seeking, and in any case, is 'being liked' even necessary?So, every relationship with a key account must be built with the ends in mind. Those ends should be clearly articulated in the key account plan, and so must the nature of the investment. Such clarity is important if we are to avoid wasting the time of many people on both sides of the relationship. Getting this right will result in something far more important than 'being liked', and that is 'being respected'.Getting it right?So what does getting it right mean? As suppliers and key accounts differ, so will the sought-after goals of the relationship, and so then must the nature of those relationships differ. There is no ideal model; rather, it is a question of choosing the right relationship for the right circumstance, and so there are endless possibilities, all of which could make an already long chapter painfully so.I propose instead to examine four specific relationship models - we will call them the 'bow-tie', the 'one-on-many', the 'duet' and the 'diamond' - each one calling for a different level of resource from the supplier, each one aiming for a different level of breadth and depth with the customer. Any one of these four (and all the nuances in between) could be right for your own circumstances, which include the nature of the opportunity, the range of your ambitions and the receptivity of the customer.If the opportunity is big and your ambitions are high, then is it not likely anything short of a deep relationship through the use of a KA team would be a mistake? Reduce the opportunity, and such a relationship could quickly become inappropriate. And while you make your choices, never forget a vital truth: you can't force any particular relationship onto a customer.Knowing which to pick, knowing how to move between them, and knowing how to 'make it happen' with the customer is undoubtedly the 'art' of KAM.Three approaches to sellingBefore turning to those models, let us go back a step and consider three different approaches to selling, and the kinds of customer relationship they engender. We will call these sales approaches: the 'milk round', the 'hunter' and the 'farmer'.The milk roundGo back no more than 10 to 20 years and this was the standard approach for many, particularly in an established and mature market with little prospect of change. Large teams of field-based sales representatives were armed with weekly journey plans - clover-leaf or whatever - and trained to seek ever more efficient ways to service a territory where all customers are considered equal. And when I say large teams, I mean large, managed by layers of sales management from area to regional to national.Relationships with customers were necessarily 'shallow' as the representatives were encouraged to move on swiftly to their next call - the magic six-a-day being the classic requirement. Deploying any kind of account team was rarely considered as it could only slow work down and damage the sought-after efficiency.In a time when customers were many, and mostly small, such an approach worked; and where we still find such circumstances today we still find examples of the milk round, pharmaceutical companies selling to general practitioners being one of the better known.It is however a rather 'self-fulfilling' philosophy of selling. If all customers are regarded as equal and given the same allocation of time and attention, then the clues that might distinguish greater potential in one over another can easily be missed. Making good investment decisions calls for good knowledge, and that was never the prime objective of the milk round. Moreover, few management teams were willing to hand the choices of where to invest to the sales professionals in the field, preferring to manage through strict call-rate and coverage targets.The milk-round approach is in rapid, perhaps terminal, decline. The nature of the customer base has changed for most, while technology has brought greater efficiencies to selling than a journey plan ever could. The killer blow has been their cost, but even then some have found it difficult to move away from the approach: large field sales teams with multiple layers of management are certainly expensive, but they also come with an awful lot of inertia.From the KAM point of view, it is a decline not to be mourned. Too often such regimes only served to 'dumb-down' the sales professionals, while KAM aims to raise their status to that of a business manager.The hunterThe hunter sees the target, focuses their gaze, and goes in for the kill. It's fast, aggressive, and often very effective.Relationships with customers are to a clear purpose - to make the sale. Key decision makers are targeted and fast-acting propositions are rehearsed. The hunter-killer sales professional might call in colleagues if they are vital to the kill, but in the main the hunter prefers to operate alone.Any supplier in a fast-growing market will be very grateful for hunters, and so will suppliers launching new products (especially if they have short life cycles). Any supplier wanting to penetrate a new market, stealing customers from the competition, will seek hunters for the sales team in preference to all others.Are they right to be so thankful, and so single minded? We will address this question a little later; for the moment, let's continue with the characterization of the hunter. Often young, certainly possessing high energy levels and an endless appetite; it is said that the best hunter is a hungry hunter.Give a hunter a clear target and motivation in the form of a well-designed reward package and it can be a simple case of 'light the blue touch paper...'When the laws regulating the provision of telephone services started to be relaxed across Europe, companies like Mercury and MCI WorldCom made rapid inroads into the territory of established giants such as British Telecom and Belgacom. Customers were hunted with a ruthless energy that left the incumbents standing - and some big commissions were earned. But then BT started to win those customers back ('thousands of customers coming back every week' read the adverts - an intriguing mixture of candour and boastfulness), illustrating one of the potential downsides of the hunter approach - poor levels of customer retention.The farmerThe farmer aims to develop the customer's potential over time. Investment is the name of the game, marshalling resources in pursuit of long-term rewards. Never happy with the status quo, the farmer always wants to improve the business, and will stick with the current client in that pursuit, in preference to chasing business elsewhere.With customer retention as a prime goal, relationships tend towards the broad and the deep, and the farmer will always call on the help of colleagues whose expertise can 'add value'.I don't have to go any further for it to be clear that I am describing a Key Account Management approach, but that is not to suppose that farmers are always given the support they need. Bosses often saddle them with unrealistically short-term targets. Those same bosses (who perhaps grew up in a hunter environment and were hunters themselves) might prefer measures of efficiency over measures of effectiveness, and so manage accordingly. Their staff might be rewarded through inappropriate packages stressing volume and short-term wins, a package more suited to the hunter. Finally, they are often expected to farm far too many customers. In other words, farmers often find themselves stuck in hunter-dominated environments, and so they struggle.Are farmers better than hunters?It is probably fair to say that the majority of sales professionals tend towards a hunter mentality, or philosophy. It is also true to say that where businesses are recruiting for KAM positions, they are increasingly on the lookout for farmer capabilities. In some cases this has even led to the situation where non-salespeople are preferred as KA managers (an idea we will explore further in Chapter 31), arming them with 'hunter-killer' sales professionals as members of their KA team.So, at first glance it may seem that the farmer is to be preferred to the hunter for the KAM task, while the hunters are better suited to the smaller customers, or to the penetration of new customers. Indeed, some businesses will divide their sales resource into two: a hunter team tasked with winning new customers, and a farmer team tasked to develop those same customers after a suitable handover. One might at first glance prefer the farmer, but a more studied examination will soon find that there is a role for both approaches in the KAM task.It is a very rare sales professional that is 100 per cent hunter, 0 per cent farmer, or vice versa. Equally, very few are split 50:50 across the two approaches. Most KA managers (like most sales professionals) are then a mix of the two, which is perhaps just as well, as there are certainly pros and cons of each approach, and there are certainly times to farm and times to hunt.Let's consider some of those pros and cons, bearing in mind that this is of course rather a black and white account, most sales professionals falling somewhere between the two extremes described.Hunters: the pros and the consThe good things about hunters are: they're fast, independent and resilient; they target key decision makers; they're focused on results and quick to change if circumstances change; and they're easy to motivate.The less good things about hunters (in the KAM environment) might be that they prefer to work alone and so make poor team players; they're reluctant to involve others in their customer; they might ignore 'secondary' decision makers; they're short-term - 'investment' is of little consequence to a hunter focused on this month's commission who may not plan to be on the team next year; they go for the easy kill (consider how a lioness chooses her prey); and they might be guilty of 'abandoning' the customer.This point about 'abandoning' the customer requires a little explanation, and is illustrated in Figure 8.2.Figure 8.2 Abandoning the customerThe hunter stalks the customer, coaxing them into wanting more contact, and then pounces, to make the sale. Having got the contract, the hunter leaves, to hunt elsewhere, just at the moment when the customer's need for contact goes up (post-sale worries, questions, problems, etc). The farmer would aim to fill the gap, as of course will the clever hunter, perhaps by bringing in a colleague.Farmers: the pros and the consThe good things about farmers are: they're in it for the long haul, they have patience; they value a team approach; they invest time in analysis and relationships; they penetrate snails; they think strategically and 'politically' (see Chapter 31 for more on the idea of the 'political entrepreneur'); they plan ahead.The less good things about farmers might be: they may suffer from analysis paralysis; there is a danger that it's always 'jam tomorrow'; they can become so committed to the long-term plan that they miss the short-term opportunities, or worse, blind themselves to change. There is a danger that the farmer, as viewed by the hunter, can appear slow, plodding, and lacking in energy and imagination (just as the hunter, viewed by the farmer, can appear slick and facile). The smart farmers will realize this, and aim to manage their style accordingly.The KAM journeySome tasks are eminently predictable and call for a uniform set of skills and capabilities. KAM is not one of those tasks. There will be times when the qualities of the hunter are to be sought, and others when the farmer must come to the fore, and yet other times when approaches yet to be described will be required. This is best understood if we remember the description of KAM as that of a journey.Most salespeople, at some stage in their career, have had to draw up journey plans: where will you be on Thursday at 10 am, have you got your regulation six calls in the day, and did you drive the most efficient route? Such is the prosaic journey plan of the milk round, but KAM is a different kind of journey - a journey of relationships.Figure 8.3 illustrates the possible path of one such journey, along with the four relationship models introduced at the start of this chapter. The foundation of this model is in the relative 'strategic intent' of both supplier and customer: that is to say, the extent to which each side sees value to be gained from putting more effort into the relationship. The higher the strategic intent, or the greater the envisaged reward, so the greater the application of effort. What we mean by 'effort' in this regard might be characterized in two ways. First, an increase in the points of contact (or what some refer to as 'touch-points') between supplier and customer, moving from a simple 1:1 relationship through to a more complex team-on-team based relationship. Second, the nature of that relationship will build from one based on short-term 'transactions' - doing deals - towards one of genuine 'collaboration' - working together towards joint objectives and aspirations.Figure 8.3 The KAM journeySOURCE: Adapted from a model first developed by AF Millman and KJ Wilson (1994)The four models - the 'bow-tie', the 'one-on-many', the 'duet', and the 'diamond' - describe the particular nature of the relationship at four different stages in the journey. At this point we should make some very important observations about the nature of this journey and its attendant models of relationship.The need for management over timeProgress along the path shown does not happen of its own accord. Progress must be sought, consciously and by both sides, and managed with great care and diplomacy. Some businesses have seen this element of the KAM task as so pre-eminently important that they have called those responsible their relationship managers, rather than key account managers.The timescales involved in moving from one 'stage' through to the next can be long, and often longer than senior managers care to wait. We are not speaking of weeks or months, but rather quarters and even years. Not only must the KA manager be a diplomat, but also a counsel of patience.The need for mutualityProgress requires both sides to share the same strategic intent. As has been said before, no particular model of relationship can be forced onto a customer, and in this sense the model you get can only be the model you deserve.This will often call for great patience from the supplier; it is not unusual for their strategic intent to be some way ahead of the customer's. If this is so then they must learn to bide their time, and work on the customer's beliefs and attitudes, coaxing them to progress on a mutual basis. To do anything else will only lead to frustration, and that can be damaging to both parties, even terminal.Avoiding frustrationFigure 8.4 illustrates the peril of stepping outside the boundaries of mutual progression, and slipping in to one of two 'frustration zones': the supplier's, or the customer's. If the supplier attempts to forge a relationship based on a strategic intent that outpaces that of the customer, then it is unlikely to secure any of the gains for which it hopes. At best, the supplier is frustrated. Worse, the supplier will be wasting the customer's time, and their own. Not only can this be hugely damaging to profitability, but it can also result in the rejection of the supplier's advances, and even in the rejection of the whole KAM approach by a supplier too depressed and disillusioned to carry it on.Figure 8.4 The frustration zonesSOURCE: Adapted from a model first developed by AF Millman and KJ Wilson (1994)If the supplier's intent lags behind the customer's, then they cannot be surprised if that supplier should look elsewhere, for someone who will give the time and attention required for the fulfilment of their hopes.Getting the right matchIt would be easy to suppose that the customer will be most demanding at the early stages of the relationship, a sort of 'show us what you're made of' phase. Easy, but quite wrong! The expectations placed on suppliers increase as the customer's strategic intent increases. This should be understood and looked out for; complacency is a great killer of mature relationships (one only has to understand marriage to know the truth of that!).Base your relationship on the expectations of the customer, while also aiming to coax those expectations in a direction that will be to your own advantage. No easy task, but one familiar enough (if I may be old-fashioned enough to use the phrase) to anyone who has courted, or been courted. First, you eye each other up, then you might like to know a little bit more about the other, perhaps you try to meet their friends, then you introduce them to your own friends, and then, presuming your strategic intent is high enough, you introduce them to your family...To put it a little more prosaically, at the outset of the relationship the customer may want little more than a product at a price. As things develop they may look for more, with expectations of their supplier as a problem solver, and that requires the supplier to think harder, to know the customer's needs better, to speak with more people, and perhaps also to involve others from their own side. If that goes well, then the customer's expectations may rise again, looking for the supplier's help not simply as a supplier, but as a genuine business partner, and that will call up another type of relationship again.Reading the signs is crucial to getting it right. I have heard a customer say that a supplier was fired because all they had was good products. I have also heard a customer say that a supplier was fired because they had ideas beyond their station.Knowing when to stopYou don't have to proceed beyond the point that satisfies your intentions and those of the customer. Knowing when to stop is as much the art of KAM as being able to take the relationship to the 'diamond KAM' stage. 'Diamond KAM' is not for every key account, and should not be regarded as 'better' than 'bow-tie KAM', or 'one-on-many KAM' or 'duet KAM' unless the circumstances and the opportunity and the mutuality of intentions demand it.It isn't a race...The idea of KAM as a journey should not be taken to imply that there is a race; it is not about who can get their customer to the end of the path the quickest. If there is any sense of competition at all among account managers, then it is: who did the best job at forging the right relationship for the circumstances?If we remember that relationship management is about managing an investment, then the praise should go to those who secure the best returns on those investments, and the best returns will result from avoiding those damaging 'frustration zones' discussed earlier.There may also be a time for taking the relationship backwards down the path described. This is often a much harder task than building upwards; people get used to high levels and frequency of contact, and a certain inertia can be experienced once complex team-on-team relationships have been formed. Again, if moving backwards is the right thing to do given the circumstances and the opportunity, then such a move should not be considered a failure, but rather a success - the appropriate management of the investment.Charting the courseWe have spoken about 'bow-ties' and 'one-on-many' and 'duets' and 'diamonds', as if their natures were crystal clear, and as that is probably not the case (for which my apologies) it is high time we turned to describing them and what they entail. The models are not intended as templates to be copied slavishly, but as indicators of what things might look like through the journey. The key account manager is charting a course, and it is always helpful to know what the scenery might look like as you pass it by.Each model is marked by its own 'typical' characteristics. Each has its own strengths and weaknesses. Each has its own opportunities, and own health warnings. Each demands its own skills and capabilities, and each its own management style. That being so, a few generalizations about what to expect as the 'steps are climbed' might be useful.Progressing upwards through the four relationship models could see an increase/improvement in each or any of the following 'issues': the complexity of the decision-making process (on both sides);the value (volume, money, share, etc) of those decisions;the level of interdependency between supplier and customer ('lock-in');the level of risk, for both parties (the stakes being higher);the effective management of risk (through collaborative processes);the value to the customer of the supplier's proposition;the supplier's competitive advantage;the supplier reward.A note on the figuresFigures 8.5 through to 8.9 illustrate the models, using as their example a fairly typical B2B circumstance, a manufacturing company selling to another manufacturing company. This is of course only an example, and the functions and departments and job titles used are not intended as any form of template or instruction. Nor do the numbers of contacts between supplier and customer suggest any ideal state - you must of course determine what is right for you in your own circumstance.A note on the use of the word 'key'You will notice that the sections dealing with the 'bow-tie' and the 'one-on-many' models are both headed 'account management'; the word 'key' is omitted. This is deliberate, indicating my view that neither of these two relationships is really appropriate to what we might call 'true' Key Account Management, where a team-sell is involved.They are steps along the way, and worry should set in fast if they are considered to be end points in the journey. If they really are considered to be the appropriate end points, then you must ask whether this customer is truly a key account, or whether your business is practising Key Account Management in truth, or in name only.Bow-tie account managementFigure 8.5 illustrates what is perhaps the most common supplier/customer relationship of them all - the bow-tie relationship.Figure 8.5 Bow-tie account managementSOURCE: Adapted from McDonald, Millman and Rogers (1996)Some typical characteristics of the bow-tie relationship The principal contact is between two people - usually the salesperson and the buyer.The relationship may be competitive, with each seeking to gain advantage; at worst, it may be confrontational.The buyer may see any attempt to gain access to other contacts as a threat to their own position and power.The seller may regard any attempted involvement by others from their own company as unwelcome interference.Both seller and buyer regard the relationship as one that gives them a high degree of 'control'.Price discussions probably dominate.The supplier focuses on increased volume.The sales professional is trained in transactional skills such as negotiation.The focus is on short-term and transactional dealings.Buyers may use performance criteria that are not shared with the supplier.The customer is still assessing alternative suppliers.Disputes can lead to long-term breaks in supply.This is perhaps the archetypal hunter model, with all its strengths and weaknesses as already discussed. Perhaps its biggest attraction for the seller is the sense of control that they have, matched with the sense of achievement when it all goes well. And this hints at its biggest danger, the danger of staying there. Why move on when you are in control, with no distractions from badly informed colleagues, and getting all the praise for success? Add to this, the buyer is happy, for they are just as much in control (only we know that they are more in control really!).We should add a final 'truth' about sales professionals. Too often they have a low regard for their non-sales colleague's capabilities to deal with 'their' customer. I once heard a salesperson say: 'I know what you are trying to make me do Peter, but the only time I have ever lost a customer was when I involved someone from head office.' Was it true, or a case of a seriously swollen ego?I would readily concede that involving colleagues takes time, and often it will be quicker to just 'do it yourself', but this view can consign you to a lifetime of doing it yourself. Perhaps there is a time to make an investment of time in getting others to be just as smart as you are already?Some downsidesWhy move on? Consider some of the potential downsides of this relationship: Because they are not penetrating the snail (see Chapter 7), sellers may be unaware of the true decision-making process, and so be unable to influence it as they would wish.The sellers are probably ignorant of their true value, through lack of knowledge of their impact on the customer's business and market.The supplier is playing into the hands of buyers who wish to restrict information as a basis of increasing their power. This is particularly true for those who sell to the grocery retail trade, a market where restricting the suppliers' knowledge has long been a favoured means of managing large and powerful suppliers.Expertise on both sides is seriously underutilized.The seller and the buyer are expected to be all-round experts - an unlikely scenario.Messages from other functions are mistranslated (and littered with 'Chinese whispers').Projects and activities are held up by the sales/purchasing bottleneck.There is over-reliance on one relationship, and if it breaks (buyers retire, salespeople move on) the whole thing must start again; the future is permanently at risk.Salespeople can become 'kingpins' who cannot be promoted for fear of losing the business - a sad end to a promising career.Of course there are some advantages to this kind of relationship; it's simple, relatively low cost, and controllable; and if you are certain that it gets you what you want, then there may be no need to go beyond it. But take care: be sure that your certainty is not just complacency.What is my best advice to anyone managing a genuine key account through this relationship? Aim to know more by getting to speak with more people.Get beyond the buyer - but always with their approval.Learn to let go - curb your ego and get your colleagues involved.One on-many account managementFigure 8.6 illustrates what many would consider as advanced selling (some might even dignify it by the title of 'strategic selling'). This is where the sales professional breaks out of the restrictions imposed by the 1:1 bow-tie, and establishes direct contact with a range of other people in the customer.Figure 8.6 One-on-many account managementSome typical characteristics of the one-on-many relationship The seller broadens their base of contacts - this may be a reconnaissance, to look for further opportunities, or a recognition of a less transactional relationship.If this is with the buyer's permission, or encouragement, then this is indicative of an increase in the customer's strategic intent, recognizing the supplier's need to understand more about the customer's circumstances and needs, or to manage interactions with a broader range of functions.If this is without the buyer's permission, then caveat vendor (seller beware) must be the strong warning - buyers have a way of getting you back for such cheek.The seller continues to work alone, either through lack of resources in their own business, or through a deliberate desire to maintain control.Price will probably still dominate discussions, but the buyer will perhaps be more open to discussions around 'cost in use', in view of the seller's greater knowledge.Sellers may start to be aware of performance criteria beyond the purchasing department.The seller may be able to develop aspects of 'lock-in', beyond the buyer; however, by restricting the buyer's subsequent freedom to look elsewhere this might in turn make the buyer reluctant to allow such contacts - caveat vendor again.Disputes can sometimes be moderated by people beyond the seller-buyer interface.Perhaps we could think of this model as that of the clever hunter. The sellers are clearly attempting to penetrate the snail (see Chapter 7), and will be enhancing their knowledge. But we should note that this enhancement might often stay inside their own heads, as it is not necessarily shared with their colleagues.If the intention of this approach is a kind of reconnaissance on the part of the seller, to see where opportunities may lie, and to see where value can be added, then this is a thoroughly commendable advance on the bow-tie. The challenge then becomes: what if you spot new opportunities and new means of adding value; can you do anything about it on your own? And if the result of asking that question is to involve others from your own business, so moving the relationship on to the next stage of the KAM journey, then again, this will be thoroughly commendable.Some downsidesUnfortunately, it is too often the case that there is no intention, or possibility, of involving others, and that the sales professional is expected to be like Superman or Superwoman, representing the supplier on an impossibly wide range of issues. If that is so, then all this enhanced knowledge is likely to go to waste. Seeing this model as the endgame carries a risk of consigning your KAM to a suboptimal approach - it isn't in fact about being Superman or Superwoman, it's about being mediocre.So what is my best advice to anyone managing a genuine key account through this relationship? Aim to make this a staging post, not the endgame.If it is the endgame, reclassify the customer as something other than a key account (see Chapter 26 for the options).Use the knowledge you gain to make better use of your resources (the matching process we discussed in Chapter 5, in the section on 'Managing the future').Duet key account managementFigure 8.7 illustrates the point at which the solo sales professional steps over the line from account manager to 'key' account manager, through the utilization of others in their business. We step from being a sales professional to a business manager, from a hunter (straight, or clever) to a farmer.Figure 8.7 Duet Key Account ManagementSome typical characteristics of the duet relationship Direct contacts between supplier and customer functions are established through the auspices of the KA manager, pairing 'specialists' or 'experts' with each other.This might be done in order to facilitate greater mutual understanding, or to implement shared projects.There is an increase in time briefing and coaching colleagues.Internal communications also increase (it is to be hoped!) - with a potential burden of excess information or bureaucracy if this is not managed appropriately.There is improvement in customer awareness and customer focus within the supplier's organization.Knowledge begins to translate into action.There are increasing opportunities for 'lock-in' through genuinely customer-focused value propositions that might speak more about value than price or cost.Increased trust and openness develop with the customer; disputes become things to be resolved through the involvement of the appropriate people (but see next point).It is however at this stage, with the introduction of new people on both sides, that the greatest chance for 'mishaps' occurs; new people can do and say a great number of wrong things. Great care must be taken, but you will be wise to expect occasional setbacks all the same.The role of the KA manager as coach becomes apparent at this stage (for more on this see Chapter 31). The best way to avoid 'mishaps' is to spend time, and plenty of it, briefing and coaching those newly involved. First visits will almost certainly be 'in tandem', and perhaps later visits also - the briefings and the coaching will continue in any case.Some of this coaching may have to deal with what a sales professional would see as very basic issues; how to present yourself to, and work with, a customer. A recent survey of buyers in the UK, asking what they disliked most about the suppliers who came to see them, ranked facial jewellery at number two on their list. That surprised me too, but don't expect your colleagues to know the etiquette, or for that matter to have the same confidence that you do, in working with the customer. This applies to senior members of your team as much as junior - I have known many a head of IT or R&D go to the customer quaking at the prospect of what might be going to happen to them.Of course, none of these pairings are instituted without the buyers' consent, and ideally, their active involvement. If they are not directly involved in the meetings that follow, then make sure they are sent full briefings.Hard work, but well worth the effortFor the KA manager this is without question the 'hard-work' stage. Diamond teams may appear more involved, but they are designed (or should be) to have a strong streak of self-management. Duets are only the start of diamonds, and the workload on the KA manager is consequently high. Great care should be taken not to overload KA managers by expecting them to manage too many customers at this stage of the journey. What constitutes too many? For me, if the customer is at this stage, and the intention is to move on to a true diamond team relationship, then one is quite enough.As well as being the hard-work stage, this is also the true investment stage. You are beginning to commit resources, but it is unlikely that any return benefits will flow for a while. People can get impatient, particularly senior management, and some may start to say that KAM is not bearing fruit, or is not worth the effort. The temptations to go back to the relative comforts of the 'bow-tie' or the 'one-on-many' are many and strong. I can only counsel that you resist!Parallel duetsIn some cases the pairings we are describing may happen individually, in others, the picture may resemble that shown in Figure 8.8 - a series of parallel duets. This is a diamond team in the making (see the next section below). We might ask then, what is the difference between a diamond team and a set of parallel duets? Is a diamond team just a fat duet? Is a duet just a thin diamond team?Figure 8.8 Parallel duetsI have heard it argued that duets might be transitory, while diamond teams are permanent. Often true, but I wouldn't want to make it a rule. In the world of KAM, where the art is to observe change and act upon it through the management of the relationship, diamonds are most certainly not forever.A better distinction is to say that a diamond team is just that, a team, working in concert, whereas the parallel duets may be isolated from each other. This is of course precisely one of the dangers of this stage, and the KA manager must resolve either to proceed towards the control and discipline of a genuine team, or live with the workload (and the frequent frustrations) of juggling so many balls at once.CASE STUDY  'But we might meet someone important...'A key account manager was struggling to make this stage work. The biggest frustration was the limitation that each of the newly introduced people put on themselves. Each one showed great reluctance to be involved any further than achieving their own narrow objectives, which were often less than the KA manager hoped from them. They were certainly not in any sense part of a team with bigger ambitions.During a coaching session, on being asked why they had such reluctance, it became clear that fear lay at the bottom of things. 'When I visit the customer,' they said, 'I get in and
out as quickly as possible.' 'Why is that?' asked the KA manager. 'Well,' came the reply, 'what if I was to meet someone important, and they asked me something difficult?'Easy to laugh, or to be cynical about the capabilities of non-sales professionals, but if you are to make this stage work, or wish to build beyond it, then such fears must be thoroughly overcome.Diamond team key account managementFigure 8.9 illustrates the step beyond parallel duets, where the individuals on the supplier side have formed a genuine team, and work in concert with their opposite numbers who, ideally though not always, also see themselves as a team. Remember, the figure is just an example and there is no requirement for you to mimic the functions involved or the numbers involved - diamond teams can comprise three people, or they can run to a dozen or more.Figure 8.9 Diamond team Key Account ManagementSOURCE: Adapted from McDonald, Millman and Rogers (1996)Some typical characteristics of the diamond team relationship The individuals involved are aware of their role within a team, and operate accordingly.Each member has clarity on their own goals, roles and obligations to the team.Contacts are secured at all levels, from operational to senior management.The KA manager's role is principally one of coordination; managers may even choose to step aside from the day-to-day sales activities, delegating those instead to a sales professional within the diamond team.It is very likely that key supplier status is awarded - few customers will allow such involvement by suppliers with any other than key suppliers.The customer mirrors the KA manager with a key supplier manager whose focus is on developing the supplier's capabilities rather than challenging them.Relationships are based on trust - they have to be for such a relationship to function.The supplier's security of tenure is high, though they must take care not to become complacent.Access to people is facilitated and information is shared, perhaps through shared communication networks (viz intranets).Supplier and customer staff may be trained together, focusing on collaborative teamwork rather than transactional skills (viz negotiation).It is possible that both sides have developed shared business plans.The customer gets the supplier's new ideas first; they may also have an expectation for some measure of exclusivity.Continuous improvement is expected from those suppliers.Clear 'vendor ratings' and 'performance measures' are discussed and agreed. 'Value' is the watchword, sought through integrated business processes (value inside), and/or through a focus on the customer's markets (value beyond).Collaboration speeds the pace of joint activities; new product development can be hugely enhanced through such teams.Longer-term contracts are likely to be more common, including agreements on pricing, which is usually more stable and less transactional; it may even be that the higher levels of trust in this relationship allow for transparent pricing, costings, and margins, from both sides. 'Step-outs' are permitted: that is to say, disagreements are allowed. The supplier does not always have to say yes for the relationship to continue.This is a long list, and taken as a whole such a description would be wildly optimistic; if all of these characteristics were to exist at once then you would have found the holy grail of KAM indeed! Regard them as a list of potential ambitions, or as a checklist against which you can judge to what extent you are still travelling towards a diamond team KAM relationship, or have arrived.Compared with the earlier relationship models, perhaps the most important thing to say is that the diamond team brings you the best possible knowledge, gathers a cross-functional team (not all of whom have to be customer facing) capable of acting on that knowledge to create new propositions and, through the resultant competitive advantage gained, brings an unmatched level of security to the relationship.Some issues with diamond teamsPeople working to 'tangential agendas'One of the benefits of such teams is the way that collaboration speeds the pace of joint activities, but be warned: as things move more quickly, so the risk of saying or doing the wrong things also increases. We saw how KA managers had to take on the role of coach to facilitate the new contacts developed at the duet stage. Well, at the diamond team stage they must not only enhance those skills, to become 'super-coaches', but also take on the additional role of 'super-coordinators'.That highly enthusiastic IT expert that you have brought in might take you down some unwanted paths if left uncoached and unmonitored, as might that young and confident R&D chemist - as indeed might the boss.CASE STUDY  The tale of the CEOThe CEO of a multinational manufacturer was visiting one of their business unit's distributors - a key account. The business unit sold clear plastic sheeting used, among other things, to build all-round-viewing squash courts. The distributor suggested that having such a squash court on their premises would be a great sales aid, much better than the sales brochures. The CEO readily agreed - a free 'sample' would be installed. It was certainly an aid, but unfortunately the CEO had not been aware of two facts.First, he didn't know that the cost ran into tens of thousands of pounds. Second, and in a sense worse, he didn't know that the distributor had been asking that selfsame question for some time, and had been given the selfsame answer by the KA manager: 'Sure, when you pay your bills on time, and stock our new ranges, and employ two new sales reps, and meet the following targets...'So, whose fault was it that a 'free squash court' was given away with nothing gained in return? The CEO should have known better, but the KA manager is equally, if not more, responsible for failing to brief the CEO. KA managers are responsible for all communications, transactions and activities between supplier and customer.I recognize that it's not easy briefing the boss, but nobody said KAM was easy! It's actually one of the toughest challenges going, for reasons that are plain if we consider three truths about diamond teams: Few, if any, of the members work directly for the KA manager.Some may be senior to the KA manager.All (if they are worth their membership) are 'smarter' than the KA manager, with regard to their own speciality.Quite a problem, and rest assured, full consideration will be given to the solutions, to be found in a combination of structural and leadership considerations (see Chapter 30), skills and capabilities (see Chapter 31) and processes (see Chapter 9, and in particular the 'Contact Matrix' and 'GROWs'), but for the moment we will elaborate further on the problem.Figure 8.10 illustrates what we might regard as the worst of all outcomes for a KA relationship, and much worse than all the limitations of a bow-tie. There is no team. Each point of contact is its own bow-tie, each working on its own agenda, each in danger of going off at some inappropriate tangent. We have just seen (in the tale of the CEO) the damage that can be caused by high-level departures from the script.Figure 8.10 The worst of all outcomesSOURCE: Adapted from McDonald, Millman and Rogers (1996)It is not uncommon for this situation to exist with important customers that have not been properly managed (often through lack of authority rather than intention on the part of the KA manager) over a long period of time. Contacts have developed that were not even known about, let alone coordinated.CASE STUDY  Watching the elephant danceI was once the after-dinner speaker at a sales conference of a large pharmaceutical company. The sales team (which ran to over 400) were sat at the regulation round tables, and I had decided to give them a little exercise by asking them to re-seat themselves at tables suitably labelled with the names of their accounts - in this case, the hospital trusts across the United Kingdom. Imagine my surprise to see them shyly shaking hands with their new table companions, the majority of them having not met each other before. They had been selling to the same customer for at least a year, and most of them for many years, and yet they didn't even know each other's names.The absence of an opposite numberWhat if there is no mirror image to the KA manager in the diamond team, no key supplier manager? They don't always exist, and their absence will certainly slow down progress towards a truly integrated team-on-team relationship. I know of at least one KA manager who, aware of this problem, worked hard to build his own main contact up into this position. There was no job title to formalize the arrangement, but more important, the contact behaved as the supplier wished, helping to build the supplier's capabilities, not simply to challenge them.Must diamond teams always be multifunctional?The example used - a manufacturer selling to a manufacturer - calls for a cross-functional team, but it is quite possible that a diamond team would be made up of salespeople, perhaps representing different regions or territories, or perhaps different business units, or being responsible for different product lines. A pharmaceutical company, for example, might deploy such a team, the sales professionals each representing different therapy areas, for a specific hospital trust. As ever with KAM, the team must suit the circumstance and the opportunity.Bureaucracy, bureaucracy, and bureaucracy...Diamond teams can be large, and their management can be daunting. The task of maintaining communications across such diverse groups can become a nightmare. Internal meetings can become so frequent that nobody has time to see the customer anymore. Perhaps I exaggerate, but the warning should be clear. The answer is simply not to allow things to develop in that way.Take meetings for instance. Does the whole KA team have to gather for every meeting? Try to identify what we might call a 'core' team, perhaps of no more than three or four people, perhaps those with the most significant customer contacts and roles. This core team, kept within manageable bounds, should be more able to meet as often as required. The wider team - call them the surround team, or the supporting team - may meet far less frequently, and as a whole group perhaps only once a year, or in some cases not even that.Recognize the true costsDiamond teams don't come for free - but so often the real costs are not considered, or accounted for. People's time costs money, and the KA manager is spending that money by bringing people into the team. And don't expect to establish a diamond team while cutting travel budgets; these relationships require personal contact, particularly in the early days.Does the KA manager not have a customer-facing role?In extreme cases, they may not, but for 99 per cent of the cases of course they will - so why does the model (Figure 8.9) suggest otherwise?The model is drawn to stress the extreme difference in the task between that of the sales professionals in a bow-tie relationship and KA managers in a diamond team. In the former case, they have to be great salespeople. In the latter, they have to be great business managers. In emphasizing this, the figure does appear to exclude the KA manager from customer contact, and that is perhaps a deficiency. Perhaps the picture shown in Figure 8.11 might serve the purpose better?Figure 8.11 The KA manager's customer contactSOURCE: Adapted from McDonald, Millman and Rogers (1996)So why not show it this way in the first place? The main reason is the need to avoid any assumption on the KA managers' part that, once they have put their colleagues in touch with their opposite numbers, then they can go back to their old job of looking after the buyer. As has been said many times, the KA manager in a diamond team may be a salesperson by background, but will have to move well beyond being a salesperson in attitude and behaviour.Yet even Figure 8.11 doesn't represent the full truth, which will have the KA manager involved with a number of those on the customer's side. Let's remember that it is a model that is attempting to represent a concept, not a specific 'map' of the relationship. If I can ask for your patience a little while longer, I promise a tool (The 'Contact Matrix', in Chapter 9) that will cure the problem once and for all.Trust and partnership: real world, or myth?These two words will figure large when aiming for diamond team relationships. You must decide what definition of each is sensible or realistic in your own circumstances. What is regarded as commendable honesty and openness in one business might well be seen as sheer stupidity in another.CASE STUDY  Heads you win, tails I lose?A supplier has found a solution to one of its key account's manufacturing problems. This isn't the cause for celebration that you might imagine, because the solution doesn't involve the customer buying the supplier's product; it involves a tweak to the customer's own manufacturing process that allows them to use a cheaper competitor material.So what does the supplier do: tell the customer or withhold the solution? The former is certainly collaborative, but is it foolhardy? The latter leaves open the awful prospect of being found out: 'So you knew but you didn't tell us'. I leave you to decide.Take care in particular with the word 'partnership'. Wait to hear it on the customer's lips first. Even then, take care. Perhaps your customer will use the lure of 'partnership' as a trap: 'Let's work in partnership,' they say, meaning: 'You give us your cost breakdowns, and then we'll take you to the cleaners...'Is this being unduly cynical? Consider the final 'case study' in this chapter, and this time, it's entirely fictional.CASE STUDY  The tale of the pig and the chickenA pig and a chicken decide to go into partnership together - it was the chicken's idea. They decide to go into the catering business, specializing in traditional English breakfasts, and because it was the chicken's idea the chicken presents its ideas first.'It's a great idea this partnership thing,' it clucks. 'I tell you what, why don't I supply the eggs, and you supply the bacon?...'We will close this long chapter with a final thought on the challenge of successful relationship management. Figure 8.12 shows a line across the projected KAM journey, a line that is surprisingly difficult to cross. This divides 'solo' selling from 'team' selling.Figure 8.12 The challenge of 'crossing the line'We should not expect every sales professional to relish the task of 'team' selling. The born hunter will tend to favour the independence of the solo approach - they might view the involvement of others as something that will 'slow them down'.Nor should we expect every potential member of a KA team to relish the idea of customer contact - some might even fear the prospect (sales professionals should not underestimate the challenge involved for someone new to the 'sharp end' of things).The customer may also have a preference for the simplicity (and control) of their single point of contact.Put simply, one of the toughest KAM challenges is to be found in crossing this line. It will take time, patience, diplomacy, persuasion and coaching skills aplenty. It will also require the good use of the analytical and planning tools described in the next chapter.Application exerciseConsider your own customer portfolio: For what type of customer would the bow-tie relationship be most appropriate?For what type of customer would the diamond team relationship be most appropriate? - For how many customers would something approaching the diamond team relationship be a practical consideration?Do you consider the one-on-many relationship to be a staging post, or the endgame, for any of your key accounts?Who should be responsible for deciding where each customer relationship is to be pitched? - By what criteria will they determine the right level?Consider your own key accounts: Where are your relationships at present?Where would you like them to be, and by when?What actions will be required to take them there?Pick a live key account: Identify the membership of an 'ideal' diamond team. - Start by identifying the members of the decision-making 'snail'.- Who from your own team will be required to match up to these people?The challenge: What help will people require in crossing the line from 'solo' to 'team' selling?







09Decision mapping and contact strategiesRemember Ken Reilly from the opening pages? He was calling on a key account and he had a good story to tell, but he was telling it to the wrong person. His contact strategy appeared to consist of 'sweet talking' receptionists and PAs.The supplier has a daunting task when facing up to a key account: who to talk to in an organization that may positively blossom with departments, functions, sites and ever-changing job titles. The path to the real decision makers can seem like a maze, only most customers will not allow you the luxury of exploration; there are no second chances if you take the wrong turning.And then the customer does you a favour, it seems, by making it easy for you, by supplying someone called a buyer. It gets better: perhaps your salesperson and their buyer get on like a house on fire - same hobbies, common backgrounds. Of course the salesperson has been well trained to work on those kind of leads, and soon relaxes into the comfort of familiar surroundings.Alarm bells should already be ringing. Buyers may suggest that they are all-powerful, and may promise the prospect of a trial, a big order and a glowing future, but is it really in their hands? Except in the simplest of organizations, they are almost certainly only one part of a much larger jigsaw.The buyer may only be the 'front man', held hostage by a variety of people in the organization, each with a different set of interests and influences. Perhaps the manufacturing department has laid down clear rules on what materials they need, and whom they should come from, and the buyer's teasing promises that they might consider a change of supplier are little more than warm air.The buyer may be no more than the puppet of those other interests, a rubber stamp, but how many would admit to such a position? This has ever been the supplier's dilemma: is the buyer the real focus of power, or should that be sought elsewhere - and if so, how, without antagonizing the buyer?Decision mappingThis chapter aims to provide a series of tools that can be used in pursuing the answers to these questions, and others still to come. These tools will help us to analyse the customer's decision-making processes, and identify the key players in that most mysterious of entities - the DMU (decision-making unit).We will call this analysis decision mapping, and it leads us to three vital questions: How do we plan to make the most appropriate contacts between the members of their DMU and our own KA team?What relationship model (see Chapter 8) and sales strategy does that imply?How do we intend to make a positive impact on the customer's decision-making process, in our favour?The customer's decision-making processLet's begin with how customers decide, in the most general sense, what to buy. (This will get a good deal more complex soon enough, but let's keep it simple for now.) A typical buying decision will go through three broad stages: realizing that a need exists;looking at the options;clearing up concerns, and making the final choice.The supplier must work through that process, operating on three broad levels: selling to the business need decision-making process (Parts IV, V and VI of this book will deal with this aspect in some detail);selling to the personal need decision-making process (see Chapter 31);selling to the organizational decision-making process (this chapter).This matching process is represented in Table 9.1. All three levels must be worked on in parallel, which is a significant challenge when dealing with a complex decision in a complex organization. Unfortunately, such complexity tends to lead people towards attempted 'short cuts'.Table 9.1 Matching the decision-making process Selling to the business needsSelling to the personal needsSelling to the organizationA need existsQuestioning strategiesAccessing stylesWho has the need?Looking at the optionsPresenting solutionsMatching stylesWho makes the decision? (the DMU)Clearing up concerns, and final decisionNegotiationBuilding rapportHelping the DMU to decideNew and enthusiastic but inexperienced people, particularly those from a technical or scientific background, often forget that customers are human. They discount the personal needs and head straight for the features and the benefits. By only considering one of the three selling levels, they very often lose the sale.Older, more experienced people often have the personal side of the job sewn up. They know the individual quirks and oddities of the people they have dealt with for years, yet they too can lose the sale by thinking that this is all that matters, forgetting the need to sell on the other levels. This is a condition that some describe as having 'gone native'. At its worst, people start to think that they are being a nuisance by asking their customers to change - and then it is time for a change themselves.The level too often ignored by so many, new or old, is the customer's organizational decision-making process, contained within the DMU.The customer's DMU (decision-making unit)Most decisions, or at least the important ones, are made by decision-making units. In some companies, these may be quite formal - project teams, sourcing teams or the procurement committee. In others, they may be so informal as to be unidentifiable; but they are there all the same, working by inference, by nods of the head and the raising of eyebrows. There are three broad types: authoritarian DMUs;consensus DMUs;consultative DMUs.The authoritarian DMUA single person - perhaps the boss, typically the owner of a smaller business - will take the decision and impose it on their colleagues and staff, sometimes even against the better judgement of the latter.For the seller this is the easiest DMU to influence, if you can identify that individual, gain access to them, and take with you the right message, while all the time taking pains to meet their personal needs. It may be easiest to make the sale - but what about maintaining the business after that first order? It may be that the boss's decision upset others in the organization, and you may be part of the cause, having ignored their views and taken the easy road to the boss. For the unwary, short-term success may be followed by a concerted campaign against them. The wise salesperson will target the key decision maker, but be sure to keep the rest involved.The consensus DMUThis involves some kind of 'democracy'. Perhaps all members of the DMU must agree, or maybe it is a case of a majority vote. Typically, consensus DMUs might be found in cooperatives, institutions, the government and civil service, and voluntary groups.For the sellers this is much harder work, as they must ensure that they meet and persuade at least a majority of members, if not all.Such decisions are often taken in private, with no supplier access to the 'committee'. The problem here is that you don't always know the mechanism and criteria for their decision. You get the order, but if you don't know why, maintaining or developing that business might be difficult. You lose the order, and if you don't know why, then you will be no further forward the next time around.The temptation is to put it down to fortune, whichever way the decision went, but the wise salesperson will spend some time looking for the reasons, and learning from them.The consultative DMUHere there is an appointed decision maker - very often the commercial buyer - who will make a decision based on the views of the key influencers in the DMU. They will consult with those people and decide accordingly. For sellers this can be the toughest one to crack - they need to know so much: Who is the appointed decision maker?Who do they consult with?Who do they listen to more?Which views carry more weight?The DMU toolkitWhen faced with such a daunting range of questions we need some help, provided here in the form of a DMU toolkit. Figure 9.1 shows a range of tools, eight labelled as 'analytical tools' and two labelled as 'action tools', that can be used to develop our contact strategy, all of which will lead to our ultimate purpose: making a positive impact on the customer's decision-making process.Figure 9.1 The DMU toolkitIt should be stressed that there is no need to use all of the analytical tools on any particular occasion - each one suits a different circumstance, and some will be used more often than others. You may choose to ignore some altogether if they do not match your own world. As ever with KAM, it is for you to choose.When it comes to the 'action tools' however, their value is so great and their use so significant to the task of KAM, that I strongly recommend both are used in all cases of early or full KAM practice.The role of the buyerFor all our ambitions to see beyond the buyers, we must not ignore them. More than that, the ideal way to get to people beyond the buyer is through the buyer, with their help and encouragement. We must then begin our understanding of the DMU by establishing the role of the buyer within it.Figure 9.2 The role of the buyerFigure 9.2 shows four potential roles, or types of involvement, based on the level of interest that buyers show in your activities and propositions, and their level of involvement in the decision-making process.The 'lead role' buyerWith both high interest and involvement, expect this buyer to take a leading role. It is very likely that the decision under question will have a direct impact on their own measures of performance, which means that the supplier is about to become a champion, or a sinner. Such buyers may take a positive role in introducing you to others in their organization that can contribute to a positive outcome - a true ally in your ambitions to penetrate the snail.The 'specifier' buyerVery often this position suggests that the decision is to be made elsewhere and that the buyer has been called in to contribute professional expertise, helping to set guidelines for others to work by. This is very much the kind of situation where the suppliers need to get themselves in front of that group of people deeper inside the snail (see Chapter 7). Seek this buyer's advice on how to do that, volunteer the input of your colleagues, and keep the buyer informed of what goes on - a good supplier can become the eyes and ears of a buyer in such circumstances.The 'service' buyerWe might call this the 'reluctant' buyer - performing their role on behalf of someone else, but seeing no real benefit or advantage to themselves. This can be hard going for the supplier, faced with a buyer who doesn't really care. The wise supplier might find ways of volunteering their services to take on some of the buyer's role, but will also take care to demonstrate their ability to be trusted with such involvement.The 'gatekeeper' buyerWhy should a buyer who has no interest in your propositions, and no real involvement in the decision, still refuse you access to others? Surely they will be pleased to let you go past them? Such a buyer, contrary to the folklore of sellers, may actually be doing a good job, protecting their organization from the 'interference' of overzealous salespeople.The problem for suppliers is clear - they just don't know what is going on behind the scenes. They have then a choice: make the buyer more interested, through propositions that are relevant to their own interests, or aim to get past them, with the buyer's permission of course. The latter option requires persistence while avoiding becoming a nuisance, and a good approach may be to suggest that there are others in the supplier's organization better placed to do this - in other words, it isn't the salesperson trying to bypass the buyer.The influencer wheelHaving determined that there are others involved in the decision beyond the buyer (a DMU), then the next step is to list them. Figure 9.3 shows a simple way to do this, as a pie-chart, the graphic nature of the listing having the advantage of being a 'foundation' tool, on to which we will add the information to be culled from the succeeding tools. We can already add, for instance, the characterization of the buyer's role from the analysis shown in Figure 9.2.Figure 9.3 The influencer wheelSome suggest an organization chart for such a list, and if you can get your hands on one that is up to date (which they rarely are!) then this is of course a good start, but it is only a start. If the members of the decision-making unit are conveniently all within a distinct organization then all is well and good, but life is not always that neat.The influencer matrixIf we recall the challenge of the consultative DMU (above), we will see the benefits of the tool shown in Figure 9.4. The supplier needs to know: who is the key (or appointed) decision maker, with whom will that person consult, and which of those views will carry the greater weight? In other words, who influences whom?Figure 9.4 The influencer matrixThis tool is in fact a practical exposition of the concept introduced in Chapter 7, the 'opportunity snail'. By entering the members of that snail down the side and along the top of this grid, we can now map out who influences whom, and by how much (using the asterisks). It goes one better than the snail, which suggested a straight line progression of decision making, by allowing us to consider the real-world complexity of interacting multiple influencers.Many of the 'who influences whom' questions will be answered by the realities of hierarchy and seniority, but it is just as important to consider the role of personal chemistry, inter-departmental rivalries, and politics. The aim is to seek what are called 'positive influence pathways', or in plain English, the best route to particular targets. In the example shown in Figure 9.4 it is clear that John Smith makes a big impression on Barry Monroe, and if Barry Monroe is your ultimate target, then spending time with John Smith will be a sound investment.People who wield significant influence, as does John Smith, tend to attract the alert supplier's attentions, and chances are that plenty of time is already spent with this individual, but what about Sue Rogers? She doesn't pack such a punch with any one individual, but she appears to carry some weight with a broad range of people. Is it worth spending more time with the likes of Sue Rogers?The boxed asterisks on the matrix indicate 'negative' influence. If you plan to impress Sue Rogers, it might be wise to steer clear of Steph Higgins...Completing the matrixWhere will all this knowledge come from, to make it possible to complete such analysis, and isn't it all terribly subjective? The answer to the first part of that question is, from any and all of those who have contact with the customer. The answer to the second part is, yes of course, but if it is the pooled views and observations of the team, and not the solo view of the KA manager, then it has its own value regardless of that subjectivity: it is a vehicle for stimulating debate and discussion, and the sharing and the arguing of views about that all important subject: the customer.User/specifier/economic/sponsorThese terms will be familiar to anyone who has attended Miller Heiman sales training, or read one of their many splendid books (see the section on 'Further reading' in the final chapter). Most decision-making units can be seen to contain people making up the four 'types of involvement' illustrated in Figure 9.5. These 'types of involvement' might exist as separate people, or an individual might have multiple reasons for being involved.Figure 9.5 User/specifier/economic/sponsorThe sponsorThe 'sponsor' (also often called the 'coach') is someone who wishes you to succeed, for whatever reason, and will help you in your task through the provision of information, advice and support. They may be junior or senior, and they might not even be one of the active decision makers - they just happen to wish you well!A key contribution from good sponsors can be the way that they ease your path through the complexity of the customer's organization, perhaps pointing out to you the specifiers, the users and those with the economic interest.The userUsers are people who make use of the product or service (yours or a competitor's), either actively by physical use, or by receipt of its benefits. It is quite likely that they will have strong views on what they want, and on the problems they encounter, and herein lies their importance. The customer's true needs (as opposed to what the buyer tells you) are often to be found by speaking with the users, often, and quite literally, those on the shop floor.The problem for the supplier is that users are not always the easiest people to make contact with, and especially by a salesperson who the buyer chooses to keep at arm's length. Here is where to make full use of colleagues, whether technical service engineers, customer service staff, merchandisers, or anyone else who has good reason to make contact.The specifierThe specifier is the person who lays down the target outcomes and other criteria for the decision. These are the 'brass-tacks' of the decision, and vital to know, but very often they might be set by someone who is at least one step removed from the physical use, and so the reality of the need. We have all been frustrated by such 'theoretical' influencers, people determined to have it their way even though the rest of the organization is crying out for something quite different.The economicAnd so we come to the money interest, the person most interested in, or most influenced by, the financial issues. They are often seen as the most important person in the DMU, and it is certainly true that they can be an ultimate roadblock - however good the case made elsewhere, they may decide it just cannot be afforded.An alternative definition of the economic interest, often encountered, is the person who has the ultimate power to decide, for or against, but that is not to say that this is where the sale should be made.Choosing the points of contactUnderstanding these roles has some very significant advantages to the supplier seeking to navigate a path through a complex DMU: Focusing on the nature of someone's involvement in the decision, through these 'types', can bring far greater clarity than focusing on job titles.It helps identify an order of contacts - who first, and who last. A born 'hunter' (see Chapter 8) might go straight for the economic interest, the jugular you might say, while the 'farmer' (see Chapter 8) might choose to understand their true value by speaking with users and specifiers before taking on the 'Why are you so expensive?' challenge. The arrow in Figure 9.5 gives away my own preference in these matters.It helps you to consider who from the supplier team might be best placed to work with the different people in the customer's DMU.Receptivity, dissatisfaction, or power?You may be able to characterize individual members of a DMU by one of the three attitudes illustrated in Figure 9.6: people who are receptive to your ideas, people who are dissatisfied with the current situation, and people who wish to have power (or control) over the decision.Figure 9.6 Receptivity/dissatisfaction/powerWe all like people who are receptive to our ideas, but are they the most important to us? We are all drawn towards people who want power and control, but are they the most important to us? Surely it's the people with the dissatisfaction that are the real key? These are the people with the problems, and problems mean needs, and needs mean solutions, and solutions mean value.The value of the receptive folk is that they will lead us to the people with the dissatisfaction.And what of those wanting power and control? They perhaps have the authority to decide, may be senior, and may control the purse strings, and so we by no means ignore them. Better than that, we prepare ourselves for them through our true understanding of the people with the dissatisfaction, and so the true value of our solutions.Adopter typesPeople take up new ideas at different rates. Some people like anything new; we might call them 'innovators'. Others might be last in line for change; we might call them 'laggards'. Figure 9.7 illustrates the spectrum of attitudes between these two extremes.Figure 9.7 The adopters' curveThis is a model much used by marketing folk as a means of segmenting markets, targeting effort, and tailoring messages. It is equally applicable for the purpose of targeting effort across different members of a DMU, and tailoring the messages in each case.At the left-hand end of the spectrum, the innovators and early adopters are relatively easy to sell to. They like novelty and the words 'leading edge', 'risk', 'trial', and 'you're the first' are music to their ears.At the right-hand end, the 'late majority' and the 'laggards' are much harder. They want evidence and proof. They want to see a track record of success and to know that somebody else has ironed out all the problems.In the centre, the 'early majority' represent the people who come knocking on your door in floods once the idea or product is fairly well established.Navigating the right pathWho would start their persuasion task with the laggards? They do have one benefit to the supplier - they will give them an exhaustive list of the obstacles to come and the hurdles to be jumped. As an exercise in market research, speaking to laggards has its place.How about the innovators? Easy to sell to, certain to say yes... but won't they be just the same when your competitor comes knocking? The real problem with innovators is what everyone else in the spectrum thinks about them: nutters, crazies, weirdoes, suckers for anything new, and geeks. Not the best platform on which to base your sales approach to the next in line. Sell to innovators by all means, but don't expect them to be the most persuasive influence within their own DMU.Aim to build your case with the good solid early majority, with a bit of help from the early adopters. And make sure you do this by using the right language, and by putting the right people in front of them. People buy most readily from people like themselves - don't send your own laggards to stimulate the customer's innovators, and take care when putting your most enthusiastic innovators in front of the customer's 'good solid' early majority.To use this model in practice will certainly call on the KA manager's skills as a coach, as we discussed in Chapter 8 when speaking of the duet and the diamond team relationship models.Levels of seniorityDon't get stuck at too junior a level, but also don't cause resentment in the ranks by only attending to the bosses. Figure 9.8 suggests (admittedly rather simplified) the roles taken by different levels of seniority in the customer's organization, so suggesting the nature of the contact and relationship you might be seeking with each.Figure 9.8 Levels of seniorityJunior staff have to stick to the rules, while breaking the rules is what makes senior managers senior. Junior staff have targets to meet, while senior managers set those targets. Junior staff are focused on today, while senior management (it is to be hoped) are focused on far beyond tomorrow. Obvious stuff perhaps, but too often suppliers end up having the wrong conversations at the different levels, and all too often because they rely on one person to handle them all - that Superman or Superwoman of a Super-rep working in the one-on-many relationship model (see Chapter 8).An interesting exercise can be to note down some comparisons of the wants and needs of these different levels ('wants' are desires, 'needs' are necessities). What do the junior contacts want and need, compared with the middle managers, compared with the bosses? Do they correspond or do they conflict? What does this tell you about the nature of the customer's organization? Does it suggest that your propositions might be better suited to one level than another?Making it to the topOne of the marks of a key supplier, and of a mature key account diamond team relationship, is that contacts are made at the very top of the customer's organization. It is no surprise then that many a salesperson dreams of finding themselves talking with the customer's CEO - some might even loiter around receptions' lobbies at ludicrously early hours of the day in just such a hope... Perhaps there is a better way of establishing those contacts: get your own CEO involved. If this is a genuine key account then they should be interested enough.Supporters and opponentsBooks on business are often filled with four-box matrices, and this one has its fair share, but this next is one of my own favourites. Figure 9.9 aims to plot the members of the customer's DMU based on two considerations: Do they support your proposition on a business level?Do they have trust and confidence in you as a supplier?Figure 9.9 Supporters and opponentsSome interesting things happen when you get a KA team to plot the people in this way. Sometimes they find themselves in violent disagreement, and so the tool has worked on one level - a vehicle to stimulate debate. Sometimes they find that all the names go into the 'supporter' box, and yet they have less than 20 per cent of the customer's business. So are they fooling themselves, or are they ignoring a whole chunk of people?Avoiding people who neither like your company nor go along with your proposition (opponents) is a very human thing to do, but as a key account team you cannot afford this particular human frailty. Opponents are particularly susceptible to what we might call the 'fester-factor'; at best they sulk and gripe (a peculiarly infectious behaviour when it is rife deep inside a customer), while at worst they may be actively campaigning against you, energetically boosting your competitors (your opponent may very likely be your competitor's coach). Such people cannot be ignored.Aim to discover why they have such low trust and confidence in you: is it history, is it personal chemistry, is it misunderstanding? Then aim to do something about it. Don't try to move opponents upwards in the matrix before you have moved them rightwards: people who don't trust you won't listen to the very finest of propositions (a truth that you may need to spend some coaching time discussing with the technical and scientific members of your key account team).Cautious supporters are a potential risk - they are effectively waiting for a better option to come along, from a 'better-looking' competitor. Again, aim to understand their reservations and act to remove them.Constructive critics can tell you where you are going wrong, which is something that we should be eager to hear, even though they don't agree with our propositions.In short, aim to cover all four groups of people (and it is usual for all four to exist even in the best of relationships), perhaps by deploying your team in a way most likely to effect the movements rightward and upward that you need.Using the DMU toolkit in practiceWe have examined a range of analytical tools and should stress once more that they form a toolkit to be dipped into as suits the particular circumstance. Some work well in concert with others, some might be best used as individual pieces of analysis.I want to close this section by looking at two last examples that are in their different ways a synthesis of much of the analysis we have considered.Who sits around the table?The first is a synthesis in a very general sense of the interactions within a DMU, conceived as a series of round tables around which different people sit. Figure 9.10 shows a central table around which a small number of decision makers sit. They are important, but it is not enough to focus on them alone. A larger table has sitting around it those that we call influencers, the nature of their influence being any mixture of the kinds we have been considering throughout this chapter. A third table has a yet larger group of people sitting around its edge - the implementers.Figure 9.10 Who sits around the table?The arrows remind us that the flow of influences and decisions goes both ways, and it is for the supplier to determine which of those lines they wish to work along, which to develop, and perhaps even which to attempt to remove.In trying to identify the people around each 'table' the supplier will often encounter one or both of two interconnected problems: They don't know the names of the people at all three tables (and if you don't know the names, what hope do you have of making contact?).They have a strong bias towards contacts with one of the three tables (most commonly those at the middle 'table', and most commonly, the professional buyers).What I like about this tool is the way it gets used by a team. Draw it up on a flip chart, issue everyone in the team with pads of that wonderfully half-sticky yellow paper, and ask them to write the names of all their contacts and affix them to the flip chart. Stand back and cue the debate...Putting the tools togetherThe second example shows how one KA team combined three of these analytical tools into a hugely valuable composite analysis, from which they have been able to develop a very successful contact strategy. This is shown in Figure 9.11.Figure 9.11 Putting the tools togetherThe team combined: the opponent/supporter matrix;the user/specifier/economic/sponsor analysis;the information from the influencer matrix.In this case, the economic buyer is clearly a big problem, and there must be a strategy to improve that person's feelings of trust in the supplier - achieved through something of a 'charm offensive' by senior management (after much discussion it was recognized that the economic buyer's low level of trust was due to a long period of inattention by the supplier to an individual clearly motivated by status and recognition).There are allies within the customer's DMU, although the team recognized that they had been putting too much faith in a sponsor who loved them but was not particularly well regarded.The users were very positive about the product they received, but had felt let down by a poor delivery track record - the KA manager quickly secured the help of the logistics people on the team to assess the cause and implement a highly promoted improvement plan.The specifier was in need of a boost to their confidence in the product, and this was achieved by sending them some detailed reports on its efficacy, drawn up by the supplier's technical service team working alongside the users.A repeat analysis was conducted after six months, with the gratifying sight of the circles moving steadily rightward and upward.The action toolsIt has been stressed that the analytical tools in the toolkit (Figure 9.1) are 'optional', depending on the circumstance. They lead us towards the two 'action tools' - the Contact Matrix and GROWs (Figure 9.1) - which are so important, so valuable and so fundamental to the practice of KAM that I would like to suggest you regard them as mandatory. Perhaps this should be one of the very few 'absolute' rules of KAM?Let me go further. Any KA plan that lacks these two tools is in my view deficient. Any KA plan that is made up only of these two tools is a good deal more than half a KA plan.The Contact MatrixThe pure essence of any practical KAM strategy, and any workable KA plan, has to be: who works with whom, and for what purpose. In Chapter 8 we looked at the introduction of colleagues to the customer, whether working through individual 'duet' models, or as a combined 'diamond team'. Those models were either conceptual or idealized, and I promised a tool that would bring them to a practical and real-world life. That tool is the Contact Matrix, shown in Figure 9.12.Figure 9.12 The Contact MatrixThe significance of this simple tool - listing the supplier team along the top and the customer team down the side, and indicating the contacts by some method of XXXs - becomes apparent if we remind ourselves of some of the challenges of diamond teams: Very few if any of the members of a diamond team work directly for the KA manager.Many of the members may be senior to the KA manager.All of them, in their specialist capacity, are 'smarter' than the KA manager.The danger of people following independent agendas was well discussed, and the Contact Matrix, alongside its attendant GROWs, is the means of avoiding those problems.Most CRM (customer relationship management) IT systems should have a capability of creating a Contact Matrix, but I confess I prefer to keep it as a separate document, perhaps using an Excel spreadsheet, that is available not only to everyone in the team, but also to those who sit around the team, and that is referred to regularly, and certainly at every formal meeting of the KA team.Figure 9.13 The Contact Matrix with GROWs (and DMU information)If an Excel spreadsheet is used, the 'comment' facility allows you to add all sorts of information to the matrix, perhaps recording the DMU analysis (as shown in Figure 9.13), and the all-important GROWs (which we will come to in just a moment).What it tells usThe example in Figure 9.12 should shout a few things out loud: There is one member of the customer team that nobody sees. This is not uncommon in a complex situation where everyone thinks that 'someone else is handling that one'. The Contact Matrix brings such mis-assumptions to light.Four people are in contact with one member of the customer's team. Again, not uncommon in a situation where contacts have developed over long periods of time, but is the poor soul being swamped by the supplier, or worse, are the team members speaking at cross purposes? The Contact Matrix alerts us to such issues.If the number of crosses is used to indicate the importance of a particular contact, and if symbols or colours are used to indicate whether those contacts are 'good or bad' (the bad contacts in the example are shown by the crosses within boxes), then there should quickly be some more alarms sounding. First, action needs to be taken with the two 'triple-cross' contacts that are showing as poor. Second, a coaching session is long overdue with the team member who has three points of contact, all bad.The ever-changing sceneWhen working with a complex customer, there may be several DMUs in operation - perhaps separate business units, or locations, or buying processes - and it may become too confusing to try to capture all of this on the one Contact Matrix. Separate matrices are fine, provided you don't lose the big picture - perhaps a grand summary, or 'master matrix' will remain useful.The Contact Matrix is not a static tool, people come and go, and those changes must be captured by regular reviews. Keep it simple, and the reviews will not be a burden; over-complicate the tool and it will fast become a bureaucratic nightmare. Above all else, adapt this tool to suit your own circumstances.The GROWsThe matrix shows the fact of a contact, but what of the purpose of those contacts? They will be many and varied of course: to gather information, to promote your solutions, to secure an order, to solve a problem, to implement a project, to enhance your credibility, to remove a competitor, and so they go on.With such scope and variety, it is vital that everybody involved with the customer knows their own purpose, the purpose of others, and any links or boundaries between those purposes. Without such definition, all the potential perils and pitfalls of the duet and diamond relationships highlighted in Chapter 8 can, and probably will, beset you.So we add to the Contact Matrix our second 'action tool' - the GROW:G = Goal - the overall purpose of the contact.R = Role - the activities to be carried out in pursuit of that goal.O = Obligation - the responsibilities of the team member to the team.W = Work plan - the details of dates and actions.Each contact should have an attached GROW, as shown in Figure 9.13.Who should write the GROWs?Certainly not the KA manager, however tempting it may be. The purpose of the Contact Matrix and GROWs is to establish a team approach, within which are the different elements of expertise and specialism. To do this, aim to follow a few golden rules: Specialists will often know better than the KA manager what they can contribute to the team and the customer.It is the KA manager's job to extract that contribution, through discussion with the team member and through coaching.People will be more motivated to contribute if they feel they have had a hand in deciding their contribution.People, particularly those that don't work for the KA manager and senior to the manager, rarely respond well to being 'told' what to do.As the KA manager, you want the members of your team to develop a level of self-management, to be achieved through the simple discipline of GROWs regularly discussed and updated.What is the timescale of a GROW?Experience shows that making GROWs too short term can lead to problems. If people have to renew them every two weeks, then they won't get renewed after the first occasion. The real answer to this question depends of course on the nature of the task, but in any case, aim to make the 'GRO' portion as long term as possible, leaving the 'W' for the short-term actions.Making a positive impactThe purpose of all these decision mapping and contact planning tools is to discover how we can make a positive impact on the customer's decision-making process, and in our favour. We should never forget that we build relationships in order to persuade - they're not just for fun!Figure 9.14 Making a positive impact on the customer's decision-making processThe tool illustrated in Figure 9.14 is designed to help manage just such a persuasive process. Across the top we have noted six distinct stages in the customer's decision-making process, from the simple awareness of a need right through to commitment to action.Down the left hand side, we have divided the members of the DMU into the three groups identified as 'sitting round the tables' in Figure 9.10: those with the power to make a decision (often senior managers);those who will be involved in researching the options and will have a direct influence on the decision (often the professional buyers);those who will implement the decisions made (often, but not always, more junior).The solid line circles on the chart shown at Figure 9.14 indicate typical positions in the decision-making process - perhaps not involved enough to be of use to us? The dashed ovals indicate the place we need to 'stretch' them to.A key member of the DMU may be aware that a need exists, but may not be interested enough to move on to considering the options - it is our job to 'stretch' that person's involvement: to make them interested enough to want to listen. Similarly, a person may have considered the options but have no desire to make a decision and commit to action - it is our job to 'stretch' their involvement: to make them concerned enough to want something done. Chapter 23 looks at a questioning technique that can be very valuable in these 'stretching' techniques.We may need to speed decisions by building bridges (indicated in Figure 9.14 by the arrows) between people in the customer that are not properly in contact. It is very often the case that a good supplier knows their way around the customer's sites and facilities better than the customer, and can use that knowledge to be a provider of information and a conduit of communication.Application exerciseIdentify a live key account:, and alongside members of your KA team: Work through each of the analytical tools described in this chapter, as they are relevant to your own customer circumstances: - the 'DMU' type;- the role of the buyer;- the influencer wheel;- the influencer matrix;- the 'user/specifier/economic/sponsor' types;- the 'receptivity/dissatisfaction/power' types;- the 'adopter' types;- the levels of seniority;- the supporters/opponents analysis;- the 'who sits round the table' analysis.Based on this analysis, draw up a first draft Contact Matrix. - Write your own GROW.- How will you ensure that the Contact Matrix is populated by a full set of GROWs?How do you plan to make a positive impact on the customer's decision-making process, in your favour: - stretching their involvement?- building bridges?







10The good, the bad, the sad and the uglyThis chapter shares five examples of real experience: two good, one bad, one sad and one ugly. They are all genuine cases, but for reasons that I hope are obvious some details have been changed.It is usually easier to come up with the bad, sad and ugly stories than it is to come up with the good ones. This is not because there are more failures than successes, but because the failures always seem to have more that we can learn from - hence my ratio.Having said that, the 'good stories' are very good, and will be kept till last. The 'bad' is bad because KAM was never considered in a circumstance that cried out for it. The 'sad' is sad because the supplier was trying hard to forge a true diamond relationship, but a few slips in discipline let them down. The 'ugly' is much worse than the bad and the sad put together - it is about an excess of zeal that nearly pulled the business apart.The bad storyA while back, the international community came together to ban a particularly damaging product that had been identified as being a major contributor to global warming: CFCs.Surprisingly, this was particularly good news to one manufacturer of that product, or perhaps not so surprisingly - they had been looking ahead and had developed an alternative product, one that didn't have the same bad effects. Not only that, but for now at least, they were the only supplier with such an alternative.The old product had been used in a range of applications, from refrigerants to air conditioning and aerosol sprays. The manufacturer had simple, but good, relationships with their customers in each of these markets; the bow-tie relationship (see Chapter 8) was the norm.Based on their current sales of the old product, plus a significant growth forecast due to their new competitive advantage, the supplier proceeded to build three new manufacturing plants - this was going to be a big one, and on a global platform.What they didn't do, at least any more than usual, was talk to their customers. Why should they? After all, the old product was banned, they had a replacement, and customers would have to beat a path to their door. All they needed to do was ask their existing contacts, the buyers, how much of the old product they bought (from the manufacturer and the competitors), and use this as a forecast for the new product. Simple, and a task easily accomplished through the existing bow-tie contacts.Unfortunately things didn't go to plan. The buyers had seemed ready to accept the new product, even agreeing to the new premium prices that it carried, but the customers (that collection of people sitting beyond the buyer) resented the 'arrogance' of the supplier in supposing that they had no choice. They actively sought alternatives, and instructed their buyers accordingly.There were no alternative suppliers of the new product, but there were alternative solutions to the problem presented by the CFC ban. Take the aerosol market (which accounted for over half of the manufacturer's sales projections): how many aerosols with propellant gases, banned or otherwise, do you see nowadays? It's all roll-ons or pump-action. Admittedly, they are often inferior in performance to the old aerosols, with a tendency to dribble down the elbow, but they are the choice of the market.The supplier's new manufacturing plants were never filled to capacity, or anything like it, and a technically brilliant product landed up in the 'how do we dispose of this?' file.Moral of the story?A new product, no matter how good, will risk failure if the supplier doesn't talk with the market. The buyer alone is not the market. Indeed, the buyers had seemed happy that the supplier had an answer to their problem - the banning of an existing item. The 'market', or what in Chapter 6 we called the 'opportunity chain', included the customer's manufacturing people (who led the charge in resenting being told what they had to do), the R&D people (who had a dozen better ideas, as they always do), the sales and marketing people (who had no desire to see the price of their products increase), and then beyond that, the customers' customers. It was a situation crying out for a cross-functional team sell.The supplier chose to go it alone. Their value was eroded through their lack of knowledge and understanding. There could have been alternative approaches, but how likely were they to be seen, or acted upon, given the 'hunter-killer' sales approach pursued?In short, if we recall the model for managing the future discussed in Chapter 5 - Figure 5.1, there was a disastrous imbalance between the true market opportunity and the resources applied by the supplier - too big a manufacturing effort (three plants!), too small a sales and marketing effort. Where KAM might have helped, 'selling' was expected to be enough.The sad storyA very capable supplier of ink had been developing a diamond team relationship with its number one customer, a manufacturer of office printers. The supplier had been developing their capability from being a simple 'supplier of products' towards a 'supplier of solutions', and high hopes were held for a newly formed contact between the two R&D functions, what both supplier and customer saw as the effective hub of a new business relationship.At their very first meeting the customer briefed the young chemist sat before them on a new project - the most important they had had to date, they said. The project was to develop what they called 'dry-fasteners', an additive that would make the ink dry faster on the page, and so help them with their number one goal: faster, smudge-free printing. If they succeeded, the supplier would gain significant competitive advantage, and so the young chemist reported back to the R&D boss, and a new project was set up. The project proceeded on target, and on time, and a significant sum of money was invested.After 18 months of work the project was nearly complete when the customer rang to say 'it was all off'. To the supplier's great distress, it transpired that a paper manufacturer had approached the customer with a new type of paper, one that would help ordinary ink to dry faster.The story gets worse, and sadder. The new paper worked just as well with much cheaper grades of ink, so not only did the project fold, but the supplier saw the low-grade ink manufacturers rubbing their hands...The story gets worse, and sadder still. The new paper was only a temporary expedient. The real solution was to be a change to the printer itself - the addition of arms that held the printed paper while it dried - a solution that made it even easier for the printer manufacturer to consider cheaper ink suppliers.Moral of the story?Asking the customer is great. Doing what they tell you is great. Managing successful projects is great. But, if you are really to help the customer, you have to understand the dynamics of the market in which they operate. Were there other solutions to the 'faster, smudge-free printing' problem? Of course there were, and we have seen two of them. Should the supplier have known? Of course, but unfortunately they allowed the R&D contact to drive the whole show.Figure 8.10 (see Chapter 8) illustrated what we called the 'worst outcome' of a supposed diamond team, with individual bow-tie relationships taking on their own agenda. Is this what happened here? And where was the KA manager all of this time?A sharp-witted KA manager, coordinating the team and looking for the broader picture, should have seen that the customer was asking them to develop a 'feature' (dry-fasteners in the ink), while what they should have been discussing was the problem (the aim of faster, smudge-free printing).This particular R&D function responded quickly to the request for a feature - the technical spec was wonderfully clear - and went at it like a racehorse, blinkers applied. Indeed, the KA manager wasn't even informed until after the project had been set up. Not that the manager objected overly much, being busy enough with other things, like doing deals with the buyer.The ugly storyA manufacturer of a fast-selling consumer product, working in a very mature market, saw their salvation in KAM. Developing 'strategic partnerships' with their most important retail customers was to be the route to competitive advantage.Nine key account managers were appointed for 15 key accounts, and were given broad new authority to act. Their first act was to gather about them key account teams, or KATs, representing the company's functions. Everyone was represented. With so many teams and so many members, and with so many meetings, a whole wing of the head office was refurbished as a suite of 'KAT rooms'. This was to be a high-profile 'initiative'.Now the fun began. Teams met, and met, and met. Interminable meetings, badly run, with key account managers imposing their views on team members from functions they but poorly understood.The more ambitious teams went out to meet the customer at the earliest opportunity, and seasoned buyers were pleased of the chance to lecture new faces on past failures. The teams came back eager to get to work on a huge range of corrective projects.But this was KAM out of control, and sin was committed after sin: Teams didn't need representatives from every function. Many members were confused and then frustrated by the whole affair. The functions began to resent the whole idea.Customer service suffered as people met, rather than served.Keen but commercially naïve people were put in front of customers who were only too quick to get commitments to all sorts of promises, most of which could not be kept.As in the Chinese Cultural Revolution, a 'thousand flowers' were encouraged to bloom. Most were badly conceived projects with little or no real customer commitment, doomed to expensive failure.Dominant egos were allowed to run riot and excess followed excess.After a while the customers began to tire of an excessive number of visits, meetings and wordy reports. The supplier was banned from a whole range of contacts, even those that might have been to mutual advantage.Before long, the words 'key account' brought a bad taste to the mouth and those things that should have been done were ignored under an excuse of world-weary cynicism.Moral of the story?KAM is not a 'sales initiative', nor a reckless revolution. It is a serious, cross-functional management process, requiring disciplined management. It takes planning, with clear objectives and outcomes, and a proper balance of resources against the market opportunity.It was excessive zeal that killed KAM: a desire to do everything at once, at fever pitch, involving as many as possible, and all to the same mould and pattern. Even that might have succeeded, had the supplier's zeal been matched by the customer's. In Figure 8.4 (Chapter 8) we considered the 'frustration zones' of KAM that result from a mismatch of strategic intents - and this supplier found themselves firmly and squarely stuck in one such zone, or perhaps we might better call it a frustration mire.Hindsight, or foresight?OK, the telling of such bad, sad and ugly stories is all down to bucket-loads of hindsight. I make no apology for that; in fact I would go as far as saying that KA managers should be fully qualified in the art of hindsight - it teaches us a good deal.They should have even better qualifications in that other great art - foresight. And the solution is at hand; one of the essential strengths of diamond team relationships is that they help to give us foresight, which brings me to the 'good' stories.The good storyA customer decided to ask its supplier for consignment stock, having grown tired of depending on a less than scintillating OTIF (on time in full) performance. What it actually wanted was better OTIF, and consignment stock seemed to the buyer to be the easiest way to get it.That could have been it, and if there had been a simple bow-tie relationship between supplier and customer it almost certainly would have been, but this supplier had a diamond team relationship, and those wider contacts began to alert the team to some pending problems.First of all, there was no physical room on the customer's premises for such a consignment stock. Then it became clear that the client was shifting their production from a small number of standard lines to a far more bespoke offer that would require a wider range of raw materials, often in small or hard-to-forecast quantities. Added to this, there was a long-term plan to spin off much of the manufacturing activity to satellites. Saying yes to consignment stock was going to commit the supplier to three or four separate consignment stocks, each of hard-to-forecast and infrequently used materials.With that in mind the supplier suggested an alternative. Why not use our contacts with your manufacturing logistics and marketing people to help us both prepare better forecasts? The result was the improved OTIF the buyer wanted, and a raft of additional benefits for the supplier in terms of yet greater knowledge.Moral of the story?Knowledge helps you make better choices, and true knowledge comes from a breadth of contacts. The most significant part of this success story is of course the fact that the individual contacts reported back their individual knowledge to the team - a true diamond team.The second good storyThe supplier was in the packaging business, working with the food industry. They were organized into four business units, each specializing in their own product: corrugated card, plastic film, glass and metal cans. Each unit sold to the same customers, but in very different volumes. It seemed that what one business unit regarded as a key account, another might easily regard as a plain nuisance!The customers saw the supplier as four separate entities, with no particular strengths carried over from one to another. The result was a patchwork quilt of relationships and a certain amount of frustration from buyers having to deal with so many different people and four rather different standards of service.One of their larger customers bought cans from the supplier, but nothing else. They were perfectly happy with that supplier, indeed, they were considered a key supplier, but thought nothing of the other products on offer - glass, card and film were purchased from competitors.The customer had a problem, not with the supplier, but with their own packing line in general. Hundreds of thousands of cans and bottles were filled each day and yet the whole line could come to a halt because of shortages of boxes or film at moments of peak volume. It was all down to the problems of forecasting for four different materials, each with its own lead times, and on a line that was pressed for space at the best of times.The key account manager for the can supplier saw the problem, quite by chance when visiting the line, and a solution occurred to her. The supplier had access to the best forecasts available from this customer - cans were important, and as a key supplier they were kept well informed.If they could use that information with their sister businesses, then perhaps a better flow of materials (bottles, card and film, as well as cans) might ensue? Moreover, if they could make coordinated deliveries of all materials, the customer's goods inward bays would be saved the chaos of peak periods and the materials would find their way to the line more speedily.At the end of a long story, all of this was achieved - shared forecasts and coordinated deliveries from all four businesses. Deliveries were made in 'just in time' returnable 'pods' that contained the right mix of all four materials. The crowning glory of the idea was the redesign of the customer's packaging area, using these 'pods' as the basic building blocks. Key supplier status was achieved for all packaging materials, with a significant increase in the security of supply for all concerned.Great stuff, but how did it happen? Well, first of all, not in anything like the time this description might have suggested. This was a three-year project.The toughest challenge was getting the four businesses to work in unison, or even think of working in unison. The breakthrough, one year into the project, was getting an agreement that this was a key account for each of the businesses, despite the very different histories of supply. It took support from the top, it took the appointment of a cross-business key account manager, and it took a lot of communicating and educating.This got the project to the halfway point, a semi-committed supplier with the semblance of a solution. Now came the task of engaging the customer. The supplier, it should be remembered, was only seen as a supplier of cans; the buyer of the cans had no responsibility for other materials and no great interest in the workings of the company's own production line. Their job was to get cans, and they did it well, within those narrow confines.Contacts had to be established with those that used the product, the people on the line, but slowly - the buyer was a conservative type and didn't take kindly to people going behind his back. Then came a piece of luck for the supplier - the line was stopped for half a day due to shortages of the right materials. People were suddenly looking for suggestions and the gates began to open. Six months of patient meetings finally paid off and supply from all four units began on a coordinated basis.Moral of the story?It was all down to a lucky break? Not at all. The beauty of KAM is that it helps suppliers to make their own luck. This supplier was well prepared for the lucky break, and pounced. They were ready because of a long-term effort, a significant investment from the KA manager in the can business, from senior management, and in time, from the other three businesses.Slowly but surely the company's resources were realigned to meet an opportunity. Once the objective of company-wide KAM was accepted, it was only a matter of time before the successes began to roll.Application exerciseConsider the recent history of your own company's interactions with its key accounts: What are your own examples of good outcomes? - What can be learned from these examples, and replicated in the future?What are your own examples of bad, sad, or ugly outcomes? - What can be learned from these examples, and avoided in future?







Part FourAchieving key supplier status







11The purchasing revolutionIn Part I of this book, we described a journey as seen from the perspective of the supplier, and yet we have continually referred to KAM as an activity requiring a certain mutuality of intent between supplier and customer - so what of the customer's view on all this?Why should they let you in? Why should they allow you the access beyond the purchasing function involved in any of the 'one-on-many', 'duet' or 'diamond team' models of relationship? Why should they allow you the kind of knowledge about your true value that can only reduce their ability to use some of the 'sharper' tactics in the professional purchaser's book of tricks?There are indeed a significant number of reasons why they might not allow any of these things: They might regard such relationships as a 'weapon' used by suppliers in order to secure greater power and influence in negotiations (and they may well be right).They might lose the tactical advantage of being able to 'divide and rule' a disorganized supplier (a short-sighted ambition, but often a real one).They might value an individual contact (the salesperson) more than they do the company (a situation that should rightly concern any supplier, and even the salesperson).They might see you as 'muscling in' on their market (which may be precisely your intention).It might not suit the way that they buy (and what if they do just want a straight transaction - a volume for a price?).And the real killer for any supplier's KAM ambitions: We might allow such things with a 'key supplier'... but you're not one of them.The following chapters, making up Part IV of this book, will examine the various ways in which a supplier might hope to gain that status - key supplier (or preferred supplier, or strategic supplier) - beginning with an important observation: buyers have changed.What's in a name?Look in the 'situations vacant' pages these days and you won't see many advertisements for 'buyers'. Companies are looking for 'procurement professionals', 'supply-side managers' and people to head up 'sourcing teams'.Some of this may just be title snobbery, and not so very different from the 'promotion' of the sales representative to the dizzy heights of 'sales executive', 'business development manager' or even, in some sad instances where it is no more than words, 'key account manager'. But most of the time the new titles imply a new position for purchasing in the mechanics of the business.Some comparisons between the 'buyer' of the past and the 'supply-side manager' of the present might help us to understand the changes taking place (with apologies to some buyers of the past, those who were ahead of their time and with whom the rest of the world is only now catching up).Involvement: past and presentThe 'new' buyer likes to remind us, and their own managers, that it was often common for a business engaged in new product development (NPD) that as much as 80 per cent of the spend with suppliers was committed before anyone from purchasing became involved. Buyers, it seemed, were often called in with the specifications already set and the suppliers agreed, their task being to draw up the formal contracts, and perhaps secure an extra 5 per cent discount if they were wily enough!It was supposed that a buyer would not be able to contribute any more than that in the complex world of NPD. It was quite likely that the 'buying office' was situated in a building set apart from the other commercial functions, quite possibly in a Portakabin, and equipped with furniture no longer required by sales and marketing.Modern supply-side managers will be expected to be involved from the outset of any significant new product development and their office is more likely to be within the heart of the business (increasingly they occupy the space most adjacent to the board), though one head of purchasing did confess to me that even now the department still doesn't get the best furniture, but that was a deliberate tactic to convey an air of poverty with which they can taunt their rich suppliers.Strategy or tactics: past and presentI remember being sent, many years ago, on a negotiation skills training workshop that promised to teach me the 'wicked ways' and 'sneaky tactics' of professional buyers. I learned about the 'nibble' and about 'unbundling', and all great fun it was too, but if you are thinking of a training event for your team on the ways of the modern buyer, make sure it's about their purchasing strategy not the tactics.The modern buyer has much the same task of 'managing the future' (see Figure 5.1, Chapter 5) as the modern seller. They must aim to marshal the right resources against the right business opportunities, and all in pursuit of the business objectives. They might consider their resources as their suppliers, and their task one of matching those resources to the right opportunities within their business. They might call this 'supply base optimization' (see Chapter 14).Performance measures: past and presentOld-fashioned buyers were typically measured on their ability to win discounts and their efficiency in handling transactions. The lower the prices they paid and the more transactions they handled, the greater their abilities. Having lots of suppliers was a good way to be regarded as important. Moreover, buyers were not expected to know what happened to the items they bought, beyond their arrival in the company's warehouse. Truly was it said of many such buyers that they were people who 'knew the price of everything and the value of nothing'.Supply-side managers are more likely to be judged on their selection of suppliers, in particular their ability to reduce the number of those suppliers, and so reduce the number of the resultant transactions. Cost reduction through supply chain management (SCM) and the concept of total cost in use (see Chapter 12) may be seen as of much greater value to the business than the lowest prices. 'Value received' is of paramount importance, and that entails a responsibility for the items purchased well down their chain of use, often right to the end customer.Knowledge: past and presentPeople still speak of those legendary buyers who were the world's leading authorities on such things as corrugated card, surfactants, cocoa beans or xanthum gum. Very often they knew more about these items than the companies that supplied them, and some spent more time speaking at international conferences than in their own buying office.There is no criticism implied in that last observation, yet in other areas they were seriously ill informed. Many could not say, with any precision, what they actually spent by category of product or service, or at least, not until the supplier brought in their sales statistics. While this was most often due to poor systems for monitoring and reporting, it also resulted from the fact that plenty of other people in the business made purchases without the buyer's knowledge (such people were of course the natural 'prey' of the hunter-killer salesperson), and in many cases it happened simply because buyers didn't feel they needed to know.To visit a modern purchasing function is to visit one of the most IT-intensive parts of the business. Systems exist to report expenditure by product, by category, by supplier, by site, by region, by business, by manufacturing process and so on, and the information is used to manage both the suppliers (through 'spend maps' and 'positioning matrices' - see Chapter 14) and the business.Supply-side managers talk of 'governance': their desire to control all purchases, whether of products or services - something of a shock in recent times to suppliers of things such as IT or business consultancy - and woe betide any salesperson that tries to subvert the purchasing systems by going direct to an end user!Vendor ratings: past and presentIt was once one of life's games that a salesperson had to try to guess the criteria used by buyers to make their choices. Everyone knew about price of course, but after that the mists might gather. It wasn't the buyer's job to tell suppliers, unless it suited them to do so in the heat of a negotiation. It was the seller's job to find out, and usually through hard experience: failing to match up to an expectation would bring a rare glimpse of what was required.Supply-side managers might take a very different approach. They might look to their better suppliers to set the standards for supply, and ask them to monitor their own performance against those standards. They might talk of 'lead suppliers', or 'category champions', or plain 'key suppliers', implying through these titles that high levels of openness and trust were to be expected.Gatekeepers or facilitators: past and presentIt was easy for old-fashioned buyers to be regarded as gatekeepers by suppliers and as petty bureaucrats by their own R&D or marketing people; from both perspectives they always seemed ready with a reason to slow down the process. No wonder they were brought in only at the last moment!The problem with such a situation was that poor suppliers (that is, those with products that were cheap but didn't add any further value to the business) would often stay on the list because the buyer 'liked them' and might not care that their products were the bane of the production people's lives. Meanwhile good suppliers (that is, ones that did add value, such as speeding the production process, or reducing wastage on the line) might never get a look in because the production people didn't know of their existence.Supply-side managers, in contrast, have a duty to be involved in the whole business chain, involving the right suppliers with the right people in their organization. Their role is to 'add value through the supplier interface', a quote I saw posted behind a supply-side manager's desk, and while the choice of words may be grating, the sentiments are spot on.Qualifications and calibre: past and presentThere was a time when the purchasing department was where you put the old horses out to grass. It was certainly not the place where new graduates fresh out of college would be actively seeking their first placements.All that has changed. Purchasing is regarded as a place where value can be created, and where people who understand value, and can be creative, are in demand. To look at this from another point of view (and one long recognized by sales professionals), it is commonly recognized at senior management levels that more damage can be caused to a business through a poor purchasing decision than by a poor selling decision. No wonder then that the calibre of people coming into the profession has been rising in recent years.Reasons for the purchasing revolutionAll of the changes noted above are part of what can rightly be called a purchasing revolution, and a revolution that has often seen professional purchasers change and improve more significantly and faster than the sales professionals on the other side of the table.There are many reasons for this, some born of bad times and a need to improve efficiency and effectiveness in a function that often lagged behind the 'sexier' functions in the business (sales and marketing or R&D were the more likely homes for 'bright young things'), others the result of new and ambitious objectives: In a mature business, improved purchasing can often provide the most significant opportunity for enhanced profit - greater than chasing new customers or launching new products.In a high-growth, high-tech business, improved purchasing practice can provide a vital key to faster new product development.New information technology allows more sophisticated measurement of suppliers' performance, and the arrival of 'electronic commerce' allows for a wider variety of choice in managing those suppliers.The shifting balance of powerIt has also been about power. For many years there was an equality of power between suppliers and customers, often the result of an equal ignorance of the other's true situation. The purchasing revolution has shifted that balance of power significantly in the favour of the customer, through the medium of the modern buyer and fuelled by their hugely enhanced knowledge of their suppliers.Demands for cost breakdowns used to go unheeded (what could they do if you didn't tell them?), whereas now a demand for open book trading is harder and harder to resist. You might say that this is the result of new competitors eager to enter the market and prepared to offer things the incumbents found distasteful, and while there is some truth in that the key reason is to be found in the modern buyer's greater power through the new mechanisms of knowledge and control.Figure 11.1 KAM and the shifting balance of powerFor many suppliers, the practice of KAM has been seen as a means of redressing this new imbalance, as shown in Figure 11.1.Is the 'revolution' good for me, or bad for me?On balance, the broader view taken by the modern supply-side manager, the focus on value rather than price, and the desire to involve suppliers in their processes - all of this should come as good news to 'good' suppliers and bad news to 'bad'. Moreover, the new approach will often make the task of the key account manager easier; the modern supply-side manager is far more likely than an old-fashioned buyer to take on the role of 'key supplier manager' so important to the full and proper working of a diamond team relationship (see Figure 8.9, Chapter 8).All of that may be true, provided (and here's the rub) that the supplier understands the 'new rules' and their implications, and provided that they are considered a key supplier. If you are still dangled on the end of a piece of string by a tactical buyer using all the old tricks, only enhanced by their access to modern technology, then ask yourself whether one of the following may be true: Perhaps you are dealing with an old-fashioned buyer (they're still about).Perhaps your customer has not taken on the elements of the purchasing revolution.Perhaps they have, but since you are not playing to the new rules of the game, they are sticking with the old ones to keep you company.Perhaps you are not a key supplier.The last point can be a killer to everything we have discussed. Not everyone deserves the treatment and the attention suggested by some aspects of the purchasing revolution - some suppliers might still be best handled by buyers who regard themselves as champions of the last surviving, and still legal, blood sport.Knowing the new rulesThe next three chapters aim to clarify the new rules, and assist your prospects of being considered a key supplier, by looking in more detail at three important aspects of the purchasing revolution: Supply chain management - seeking value.Purchasing organization - centralization and rationalization.Supplier positioning - supplier management.Application exerciseConsider the activities, behaviours and attitudes of the buyers in one of your key accounts: What is the nature of their involvement?How are they measured?What are their vendor ratings?Do they act as 'gatekeepers' or 'facilitators'?Would you regard them as 'traditional' or 'modern' buyers? - Do you identify any movement in their behaviours in either direction?What are the implications of this on your own activities?Where is the balance of power in your relationship? - Why?What can you do to move the balance in your favour?Are you considered a key supplier? - If yes, why?- If no, is such a position possible in your case, and if yes, what actions will be required to ensure that you achieve this status?







12Supply chain management: seeking valueA product of the latter years of the last century, supply chain management (SCM, and see Figure 12.1) came to the attention of most businesses as a means of reducing costs. By removing unnecessary steps from the chain of activities, from procurement through to sales, money could be saved.Figure 12.1 The supply chainAs the sophistication of SCM developed it became clear that the removal of unnecessary steps might also have the added benefit of speeding the chain, and so a second objective was added - smooth and flawless execution, with appropriate performance measures for each function along the chain, and appropriate definitions of 'operational excellence' (see Chapter 18). In more recent times a third objective has become more prominent (perhaps as the main opportunities of meeting the first and second have been exhausted over time) - that of focusing all internal activities on improving the value of the final offer to the customer or consumer.So much for the theory, now to an observation. For most of its history, SCM has been of more interest to buyers than it has been to sellers. Indeed, mentioning SCM to sellers can be rather like raising the European Common Agricultural Policy in conversation at a dinner party.The reasons are fairly clear if we consider the position along the chain of the two professions. The sellers are at the end of the chain and will usually think that they can contribute little to what happens before them. Worse, they might also feel that they have been handicapped by the removal of 'so-called' unnecessary steps in the chain before them - steps that they may feel added value to their own role.I have to say that their thoughts and feelings in this regard are often at fault. In the first place, the provision of accurate and timely forecasts can have a dramatic impact on the efficiency and effectiveness of the functions that precede them, but such things are often 'difficult' for sellers, and not only that, they can become commitments... small wonder then that they are avoided. In the second place, if the value to the customer has been impaired by the removal of anything in the chain, then the seller has done a poor job representing the interests of those customers, usually because sellers take so little interest in the chain in the first place - it is something of a circular issue.As for the buyers, sitting at the other end, they have an obvious interest: it is their job to get the best prices and terms from suppliers, and so set the whole chain off to the best possible start. Such at least was the view of what we might call the 'old-fashioned' (or pre-revolution) buyer. This interest is shown in Figure 12.2.Figure 12.2 The 'old-fashioned' buyer's interestCompared with the seller, buyers are better placed to measure the impact of their actions on that chain, suggesting another reason for their greater enthusiasm. Added to this, the ideas inherent within the purchasing revolution have served to increase their interest yet further, through the realization of the positive impact their role can have at stages all along the chain. By engaging suppliers in the important processes of their business companies can speed new product development, reduce manufacturing costs, improve product quality, raise selling prices, or improve customer satisfaction, and more. This new interest is shown in Figure 12.3.Figure 12.3 The 'new-fashioned' buyer's interestAt this point it should be clear why the supplier must become a good deal more interested in SCM. Rather than seeing it as one of the buyer's 'sticks' with which they can beat us, we should in fact be seeing in SCM the answer to many a sales professional's prayers. That is, if they are 'good' suppliers, ones that do indeed bring value to the chain beyond the buyer, recognize that value, and can articulate it in front of the right people. If they do, and can, then the prospect of key supplier status comes that much closer to reality. If they do not, and cannot find ways to do so, they may have to recognize the truth of their status as ordinary suppliers, and be content with the management style of an unapologetically 'old-fashioned' buyer.Escaping price...embracing valueThere is much more to be said on this subject in Chapters 22 and 23, but for now we should consider one of the significant benefits to the 'good' supplier of the SCM-minded buyer.Buyers negotiate on price because it is simple, because they have the advantage of knowing the range of offers from all competitors (while the individual supplier may only know their own), and because plenty of suppliers, it would seem, are all too ready to offer discounts rather than work harder to discover their true value.One such case of needing to 'work harder' is with the principle of 'cost in use'. This is where the price is regarded as only one element of the costs to the customer; there are also the costs of storage, of physically using the product, of servicing or replacement, and a number of other elements to consider. It is quite common for the supplier with the lowest selling price to cause the customer the highest costs in those other areas, and a calculation of the total 'cost in use' might show them up as not quite the bargain they seemed.But for the premium priced supplier to gain any advantage from this kind of analysis, they have to be able to discover and communicate their own lower cost-in-use calculation - and that is where the extra work comes in.CASE STUDY  Cost in use, not cost to buy...Consider the following scenario. You sell heavy-duty electric pumps, used by a variety of manufacturing companies in a variety of plants. Your price is €40,000 and has been for some time. One of your customers, your most important key account as it happens, has just informed you that there is a new kid on the block with a similar pump, selling at €36,000. So what do you do?First you might ask some questions: Is it the same specification as yours? More or less it seems.Is the new supplier reputable? Very.Do they have similar terms and conditions? Almost exactly.Does their pump use the same amount of electricity? I'm afraid it does - so no 'cost-in-use' advantage there.So do you give up at this point and reduce your price to match? Not if you are able to do a little more homework, using your contacts within the customer's supply chain. Maybe you discover the data shown in Table 12.1, relating to your own product.Table 12.1 Costs in use: the pumpCost itemTotal cost over 5 yearsPurchase price:€40,000Spares:€5,000Installation costs:€40,000Energy consumption:€230,000Maintenance:€35,000Disposal:€4,000Total costs in use€354,000The most significant item by far is the energy consumption - as much as 65 per cent of the total costs over a five-year period. But didn't we discover that the competitor's product had the same energy consumption? We did, but that is to limit yourself to the realm of a salesperson. What if this is a key account, and you are the KA manager?Wouldn't it be worth investing time with your own R&D and manufacturing people to see whether it might be possible to develop a new pump with, let's say, a 10 per cent advantage in energy consumption over the old? They tell you that it is possible, but at a cost. You do some sums. It will cost us more, but if I can sell it for €44,000 then that will see a positive return on the investment in just over two years.But wasn't the competitor down at €36,000- how on earth can you justify raising your price to €44,000? Because a saving of 10 per cent on energy consumption is of far greater value to the customer than the saving of €4,000 (or even €8,000) per pump. That's 'cost in use' talking.Sure there are a dozen things that could wreck such a strategy, here are just a few of them: You have no authority to have this kind of conversation with your own people: - You're still a sales professional in that case, not a KA manager.Your boss demands a return on customer investments within a year: - Your company isn't practising KAM yet.The buyer only buys pumps, not the energy - so why should they care? - If they're an SCM-minded buyer they will, or should...- But if they don't, find the people who
do buy energy.Escaping the limitations of the snailThrough their interest in SCM, the buyers are taking themselves further back into the decision-making process we described in Chapter 7 as the 'snail' (see Figure 7.1), and taking their valued suppliers with them.It is in this way that we see SCM working to the benefit of the supplier wishing for a deeper and broader relationship within a KAM approach. At the same time as gaining this advantage, the supplier takes on new responsibilities - making contacts is one thing, coming up with some substantive value is quite another.There will be some basic tests of any supplier so involved in the customer's supply chain, one of the most basic, yet most important, being: are they easy to do business with? Fail that one and the supplier should not expect their 'penetration' to be long lasting.Sourcing teamsAs the buyer becomes more involved and moves towards the centre of the decision-making process so we might see the development of a 'sourcing team' approach, where a cross-functional team of interested parties works together on the search for appropriate suppliers, the briefing and the negotiation, their selection and their management. Such teams have been shown to bring substantial benefits - greater speed through the removal of bottlenecks, greater precision of specification, better sharing of information, greater creativity in the relationship, and better outcomes 'after the sale'.As before, such a development should be seen as a positive benefit to the 'good' supplier, while for the supplier that wishes to hide from such complexity and win the deal on price alone, all of this can only appear as a threat.Partnering for 'lean supply'SCM-orientated buyers may speak of 'lean supply', the removal of non-value-added activities from the chain. The supplier that is able and willing to work with the buyer in a collaborative partnership in such a pursuit is the supplier moving themselves closer to key supplier status.They may find that the best way for the customer to remove a non-value-added activity is to outsource it to a supplier. The supplier can see this in one of two ways: as an additional burden, or as an opportunity to bind themselves more closely to the customer. If they take the latter view (which, if the customer is a true key account, surely they must) then they will be building barriers to entry for their competitors, working on the principle of 'lock-in' as discussed in Chapter 21. Moreover, this 'lock-in' is customer inspired, not supplier inspired, and so does not come with the attendant 'threats' that an aggressive 'lock-in' approach can sometimes bring.The customer may ask the supplier to share in the costs of improving the efficiency of their supply chain. An example of this might be a joint investment in an EDI (electronic data interface) capability in order to allow efficient electronic purchasing. Again we see the potential for 'lock-in'.Perhaps the greatest significance for the supplier from such partnerships will be the sharing of information. The famous 'beer game' is a much-used training simulation that replicates the flow of information along a 'manufacturer to distributor to retailer to consumer' supply chain. It demonstrates admirably how something as simple as the sharing of forecasts up and down the chain, rather than simply placing orders on the next in line, can lead to significant improvements in supply, and dramatic reductions in costs such as working capital.It can be demonstrated again and again that where information is shared, and that information leads to cost reductions through greater efficiencies in the chain, then the pressure on the supplier's price is reduced. Not removed - to hope for that would be foolishly idealistic - but reduced; and in an era of ever greater price competition from new entrants, that is surely a benefit to be cherished.But only with key suppliers?I mentioned being 'foolishly idealistic', and if some of what we have been discussing sounds that way to you then I can only suppose that you work in an environment where genuine collaborative partnerships between supplier and customer are rare, or perhaps non-existent. Such environments certainly exist, and for some, what we have been discussing here may not bear such tasty fruit. But that is not a reason to ignore it altogether, but rather simply to lower your horizons on how much time and effort you will invest in such collaborations, on the basis of a lowered horizon on the potential returns.Much the same consideration will be going on in the customer's mind. They will not expect to be collaborating with every supplier, only those that they consider worth the effort, perhaps the ones they call their key suppliers.For buyers, information is power, and power in the negotiation. This has always been so, hence their reluctance to share that information. That they might be prepared to be more open with some, is only for three reasons: It's only where they see something in it for them.It's only with some...With the others, the old rules still apply.I once heard a director of purchasing criticize his team for 'leaking like a sieve'. He was telling them that they should be very aware that all this new information gained as a result of the purchasing revolution was to be used to manage their suppliers better, and not simply to give those suppliers a stronger arm at the negotiation table. This was the real world speaking. And what did he mean by managing suppliers 'better'? Well, it rather depended on the type of supplier: to some you would tell nothing, yet with others you might happily be an open book; and for more on that we should turn to Chapter 14.Application exerciseConsider the activities, behaviours and attitudes of the buyers in one of your key accounts: Where in the supply chain are they most interested to make a positive impact? - What effect does this have on their purchasing strategy?- What impact does this have on your role as a supplier?- What activities should you focus on to attain and maintain a key supplier status?







13Purchasing organization: rationalization and centralizationThere are fewer buyers than there used to be. This isn't a clever point about their change of role or title; it's just that there are fewer people involved in the task of buying, procurement, sourcing or whatever else you might like to call it.The reason is simple: 'rationalization and centralization'. In the past every site had its own purchasing team, each often working quite independently of other sites. That was hard work for the seller, but also an opportunity. Today the norm is for the job to be done at one location, perhaps even globally. So why the change? As we have said, you need fewer buyers, so there is a cost saving.More importantly (perhaps), as businesses seek uniformity over their product offer so they must seek uniformity over their purchasing activity.The search for uniformity will almost certainly result in a reduction in supplier numbers (buyers talk of 'supplier rationalization'), and so a reduction in the transactional costs of working with suppliers - another cost saving.Those fewer suppliers will be asked to take on additional responsibilities - another cost saving, this time in the supply chain (see Chapter 12).More importantly still (probably), a central purchase means a bigger purchase, and that means better prices and bigger discounts.Taken as a whole this is a very compelling set of reasons to centralize the purchasing function, and there are very few that have missed the chance to benefit.Supplier rationalizationThe motor car industry started the charge towards supplier rationalization, with high-profile strategies to reduce their supply base to single figure percentages of the original number of suppliers. The knife was applied ruthlessly and implemented alongside a centralization strategy; the companies saved huge amounts of money in lower transactional costs, and secured massive discounts from their substantially fewer, but equally substantially larger, suppliers.One purchasing director, asked how many people there were in the purchasing department, answered: 'I have over 150, but only 30 of them are on my books.' The rest came from the suppliers, many of whom had office space on the customer's premises. Not only does using the supplier's staff to do the work you used to give to your own folk save money, but since they are integrated more closely into the business operations, such objectives as 'just-in-time delivery' or 'vendor-managed inventory' become so much easier to meet.Of course, such rationalization programmes can be carried out badly, creating havoc for all involved, whether 'winners' or 'losers'. The process can be rushed, it can be done without warning, without consultation with the suppliers or the internal customers, or without defining the rules. Trust and confidence can be blown away, and performance can suffer; a nervous or suspicious supplier is rarely the best supplier.There is an analogy with 'personnel downsizing' where staff levels are radically reduced, particularly at middle-management levels. Horror stories abound of cases where key people are removed, essential expertise is lost and basics like customer service begin to crumble. There are also cases where such downsizing can transform a business from near death to prosperity. The difference usually lies in how the exercise is carried out.Getting involvedWhere supplier rationalization has been done well, it is usually because a period of consultation has been worked through, internally and externally, and the 'rules' drawn up to mutual agreement.That being so, there are four things not to do, as a supplier: Don't be afraid to ask questions about the customer's intentions.Don't be afraid to give them your best advice (but be positive).Don't fight it.Don't curl up into a ball hoping it will go away.And three things that it is essential to do, as a supplier: Be very clear about the value you bring to the customer, and how that distinguishes you from other suppliers (see Part V, and Chapters 22 and 23).Make sure that this value is clearly communicated to those in the decision-making process (see Chapters 8 and 9).Raise your status in the buyer's eyes (see Chapter 14).Things you need to know...Here are some questions to ask the customer: Why are you rationalizing? Is it about improving supplier performance, reducing transaction costs, seeking discounts for volume, forging true alliances or something else?What are your targets? Final numbers, specific performance measures, supplier standards, the timetable and so on.What are the 'givens' and what are the 'differentiators'? What must any supplier do to stay on the list? What might make a supplier stand out from the crowd?Will you be 'selecting out', or 'selecting in'? Are you removing the chaff, or picking the winners?How do we stand right now?What must we do to meet your standards?What can we expect in return for meeting those standards?How do you wish us to handle 'local inconsistencies'?Don't limit yourself to the buyer with these questions. Use your diamond team and seek out the widest possible contacts. With skill and subtlety, you might even be able to influence the targets and the standards, to suit, of course, your own performance advantages.Things you might like to discussThere are some additional questions that you might like to discuss with the customer, in order to help them avoid some of the common sins of rationalization, but take care not to sound like an opponent or a prophet of doom: Is this a short-term tactic that you may reverse in a few years' time, or is it for good?Where will all the 'rationalized out' suppliers go - to your competition?What if you kill a supplier? - What if, as times change, you need them back?Are you increasing your risk exposure?With e-commerce reducing transactional cost, do you need to rationalize? (Some businesses have begun to increase their supply base, after a lengthy period of rationalization, precisely for this reason.)Will the remaining suppliers have sufficient capacity, and will they be as capable as they claim?Centralization of purchasingHand in hand with supplier rationalization we usually see some form of centralization of the purchasing function. Figure 13.1 illustrates three of the more popular approaches, as well as the 'multiple site' approach that they might be replacing.Figure 13.1 Centralization of the purchasing organizationThe lead buyerThis is where one site, business or territory takes on the main responsibility for purchasing for a wider group. The chosen lead may be selected for a number of reasons: specific expertise, largest share of purchase value, particular supplier relationship and so on. The other sites, businesses or territories will be expected to fall into line with the lead.Corporate purchasingThis is where a new unit is established - perhaps at head office, perhaps taking some of the staff from the local purchasing teams - charged with making the decisions, managing the relationships and handling the transactions for the whole business.Corporate purchasing serviceThe difference in this set-up compared to the corporate purchasing model is that this new unit does not take the decisions. Individual sites and businesses determine their own requirements and feed them to the 'service' unit to handle the transactions.Other optionsThere are of course other options and variations on the theme, but these three (or something looking very like them) do represent the majority of instances. One other that does perhaps deserve a brief mention is the 'outsourced' purchasing organization. This is where an external body is asked to perform the purchasing role, perhaps in order to gain some particular expertise. A typical example in many larger companies is the purchase of travel services through 'in-house' agencies like Amex or Hogg Robinson, specialists in business travel.Supplier implicationsThe implications for the supplier are huge. Completely different sales, service and contact strategies might be required depending on the customer's choice of organization. One organization might offer an opportunity while another might be seen as a threat, but whichever it is, an appropriate response is required.The particular 'combinations' of their organization and your opportunity are complex enough to make any standard responses dangerous, and so the following comments and cases are intended as thought provokers only; you will of course need to find your own particular responses to suit your own particular circumstances.Avoiding the 'unearned discount' trapDon't be pressured into giving discounts that are not warranted. Suppose for example that a customer used to order from you through five different sites, 50 tons going to one site, 30 to another, and 20 tons to each of the remaining three. They switch to a 'lead buyer' and place one order for 140 tons, demanding a substantial discount for this higher volume. They want the 140-ton price, which must be substantially better, they say, than the 50-ton price, and certainly if compared with the 20-ton price.Should you give them a discount? They are not ordering anything more, simply putting it through one order. Yes, there are some savings for you in that - just the one order to process and just the one invoice to raise - but is that enough to justify the kind of discount that the customer will be demanding?If they asked you to make just the one delivery, to a central location, instead of the five separate deliveries of the previous arrangement, then there is a bigger saving for you there and some justification for a discount, but let's suppose for this example that they don't, they want it delivered as before -50 tons, 30 tons, and three lots of 20 tons.Sadly, history shows that most suppliers have given substantial discounts in such circumstances, with no gain to themselves. Why so stupid?Perhaps they had five different salespeople calling on the customer, at the five different sites. The sales professional calling on the site chosen as the lead buyer is presented with a wonderful opportunity, an increase from 50 to 140 tons, and doesn't hesitate to turn to an entirely new pricing sheet. The lucky winner forgets that each of their four colleagues has seen their order go down to zero - but such is life...Perhaps the customer's other suppliers, eager to steal your business, are prepared to offer big discounts? In such a scenario you are going to be hard pressed to resist, but at least aim to gain something in return that is better than the mere continuation of your existing business. Are there new parts of the customer's business that could be opened up to you, or new product opportunities? Can you agree on some form of 'first access' to new projects?Think hard when presented with these 'opportunities', and do your sums properly. Most importantly, view the customer as a whole; this shouldn't be a matter of one territory's gain and another's loss, it is what happens to the total customer P&L (profit and loss account) that matters. In the case described, the difference is 'very little' and that might be the best advice on any discount proposal.Shock, denial and then what?You have sales to a customer in five locations: the UK, France, Germany, Spain and Italy. Each one has operated independently but they announce an intention to set up a corporate purchasing function, in pursuit of uniformity of supply.You look at your current business. In the UK you are a key supplier and life is great. In France they appear to like you and you get regular business. In Germany things are not so rosy, but the occasional order comes in. In Spain they haven't worked with you for a year, but you don't know why. In Italy they hate you - no ifs and buts, they hate you.You know what's going to happen of course; they announce that the new unit will be based in Italy, staffed predominantly by the people from the Italian unit. What will be your response?The first is very likely to be one of shock, but then sense prevails and you go to see your UK contact who comforts you with the following: 'Don't worry, it's some crazy idea they've had at head office. Italy! I ask you, they don't even speak English. It's never going to work. You just stay close to me and all will be OK.'Heaving a sigh of relief and wiping the sweat from your brow you leave their office, an order for the next three months in your hand.Six months go by, and at last the new unit is up and running in Italy. One of their first acts is to sort out a discrepancy in the UK - an unauthorized supplier (guess who), working through a local buyer who is about to be made redundant. By now, it's all too late.There was only one proper response to be made - find out why they hate you in Italy, and do something about it. The most likely reason they hate you is you have been ignoring them, or sending a UK-based sales professional to see them once a quarter to shout, slowly...Get yourself an Italian key account manager.Helping them get it rightOn hearing that a customer is centralizing their purchasing function, a supplier's first reaction is often to remove their own sales professionals and other contacts. 'Our margin is about to be hit, let's at least reduce our costs,' goes the thinking. Maybe, but a little patience may be wise, to see just how the centralization goes.If the customer opts for the 'corporate purchasing service' model (see Figure 13.1) then you would be wise to retain your contacts, as the important points of influence will remain at the individual locations. Even if they opt for one of the 'lead buyer' or straight 'corporate purchasing' approaches, you may find that your local contacts, and the local knowledge they bring, will stand you in good stead for quite some time to come. It is precisely that knowledge that may protect you from some of the overhasty and poorly considered centralization that often comes at the outset of such projects. Even more importantly, you can use that knowledge to help the customer achieve their ambitions.You can tip them off to those parts of their own business that might have problems, or might even be about to resist their centralizing ambitions. Perhaps you might feel uneasy about being the customer's police force, 'sneaking' on those who were only recently your friends and allies. This may certainly be true for some members of your team, perhaps a salesperson that has been nurturing a local relationship for years only to see it wrenched from them by an e-mail from the customer's head office.So what do you advise? Asking for the customer's advice might be a good first step, asking that question on our list of things we need to know (see above): 'How do you wish us to handle "local inconsistencies"?'These are difficult issues, and will call for one of the most important capabilities in any key account manager: what we might call that of being a 'political entrepreneur'. Chapter 31 will return to a discussion of this capability, but for now, a simple explanation. The 'entrepreneur' part of the capability is about having a business sense - an eye for an opportunity, and the wherewithal to chase and capture it. The 'political' part is about the ability to handle the complexities of organizations, people and motivations. It is fair to say that most salespeople have the entrepreneurial spark, but few have the political sensitivity; the hunter-killer sales professional can often behave rather like a bull in a china shop.There will be people issues to resolve, and there will be product and service issues to resolve. The following case study illustrates how the supplier's local knowledge can help the corporate purchasing function to do a better job.CASE STUDY  Don't get held over a barrel...A manufacturing company with factories at seven different locations had just set up a corporate purchasing group at its head office, a location that was remote from any of the manufacturing sites. One of its first targets was the purchase of 205-litre metal drums, an item that they used in large quantities and that would provide an excellent opportunity to flex the function's negotiating arm.They decided to source from just one supplier (each site had usually dealt with at least two and sometimes three), and the size of the resultant order did in fact bring a handsome discount - a sound purchasing decision, or so it seemed.Unfortunately, the buyer located at head office was not aware that each site had designed its loading bays and warehouse space to hold precise numbers of these 205-litre drums, depending on the height of the drum used. The buyer was also unaware that the drums came in different sizes (height and width) and that the untidiness of history had meant that each site had designed their spaces on the basis of different drum sizes.When the centrally placed order was made, the chosen drum just happened to be the tallest of all the options - two centimetres taller. Not a lot, but stacked four or more high, as was the requirement, all of a sudden six of the manufacturing sites had problems.Nobody made any comment - it was not for them to argue with head office - but a year after the decision was made it became clear that things were going wrong, and a quick study found that the extra costs incurred by the sites in handling the issue came to more than the savings from the discount for that central purchase. So, perhaps not such a smart decision after all.Should we blame the buyer? Rather we should blame the supplier for not seizing the opportunity. Once they knew what was afoot, surely they should have moved to help the buyer make the right choice? There were options - source different sized barrels by location, get the locations to alter their loading bays, source a shorter barrel - and each of them would involve some kind of service, or provision of information, by the supplier. Might such a service be of value, and might it be used to reduce the level of discount for volume expected by the customer?The key supplier is the one that knows the customer's objectives and, using contacts, knowledge, expertise and creativity, helps the customer to achieve those objectives.So don't abandon your local contacts, but you may need to change their nature. Sending in salespeople might be a poor use of that resource; perhaps there are other people in your team, properly briefed, that could provide the same 'eyes and ears'? 'Properly briefed' is the key of course, and I ask you to cast your mind back to two tools introduced in Chapter 9 - the Contact Matrix and the GROW - the use of which will be essential in handling the kind of situation we have been discussing.Rationalization and centralization: is it good for us?In the last chapter it was argued that the move towards SCM (supply chain management) could be seen as a 'good thing' for the 'good' supplier. But what about rationalization and centralization: do we like this part of the purchasing revolution as much?If we are honest, the answer for most of us is: probably no. The old method might have allowed suppliers to divide and rule, or to be 'in' with the parts of a customer they liked, and to keep well 'out' of the others, or to have different sets of prices and terms with the same customer. It also allowed them to sleep easier at night - the risk of being thrown out of a customer, in all locations or for all products, was relatively low. The new method raises the stakes and threatens to reduce the margins.The optimist might argue that centralization opens the door to bigger opportunities, and with a smaller selling resource. The pessimist may argue back that it does just the same for the competition and puts at risk a number of 'nice little earners'.Whether you are an optimist or pessimist, it is not a matter of whether you like it or not; it is a question of whether your customer is doing it. If they are, then you only have one choice: support them, and with enthusiasm. If you do so then your assistance will be welcomed, and that surely can only be good for you? To resist, or even to be neutral about their ambitions, will earn you a bad reputation - after all, there will be quite enough hurdles for the buyer to jump within their own organization without their suppliers getting in the way.CASE STUDY  Seeing the bigger pictureA supplier of a raw material to the paint industry receives an interesting call from a buyer at one of their customer's 'parents', a large chemical manufacturer based in The Netherlands. The parent company buys this same raw material for a number of its other businesses, and is offering the supplier a chance to pitch for that business, to become involved with a number of additional industries and markets, should they be able to provide the appropriate price.The supplier has a choice: stick with what they have, and maintain their price and margin, or go for the new and bigger opportunity, but at a lower price and margin. Some argue for the former - 'and in any case', they say, 'what do we know about these other industries?' - but wiser heads realize that much the same suggestion will be being made to the customer's other suppliers of the same materials: do they want to get into the paint industry?Still wiser heads realize that the customer wishes to rationalize and centralize. What will be their own long-term future if they try to stand aside from that ambition?And the wisest heads of all realize that the corporate buyer may have no experience of the paint industry (they guess correctly), and so they choose to seize the opportunity, bringing to the corporate buyer all their expertise in the paint industry, and receiving in return all the corporate buyer's expertise in the industries that are new to them.Good KAM, good political entrepreneurship.Application exerciseConsider the activities, behaviours and attitudes of the buyers in one of your key accounts: What (if any) are their motivations in centralizing their purchasing operations? - What effect does this have on their purchasing strategy?- What impact does this have on your role as a supplier?What (if any) are their motivations in rationalizing their supply base? - What effect does this have on their purchasing strategy?- What impact does this have on your role as a supplier?- What activities should you focus on to attain a key supplier status?







14Supplier positioning: managing suppliersThe lives of sellers and buyers have a good deal more in common than their traditional adversarial stances might suggest.In a pre-KAM environment, the salesperson might have worked a 'milk round' (see Chapter 8) that viewed all customers as equal, so justifying the same amount of time and attention for each customer.In what we might call a pre-KSM (pre-key supplier management) environment, the buying office would be inundated by a constant stream of representatives, each needing attention, and an equally constant stream of orders and invoices, each needing processing, such that the time spent on the really important suppliers was often little more than the time spent on the rather more ordinary. In effect, as far as time allocation went, all suppliers were equal.Buyers began to wake up to the problems with this situation at much the same time as suppliers were waking up to the problems of their milk rounds. What buyers have done about it however has often been more radical than the actions taken on the sales side of the table.Making time to manage suppliersConsider the implications for the buyer of some of the new ways of thinking we have been discussing (Chapters 11 through 13). If some suppliers are to be more formally engaged in the business supply chain, if there are to be fewer of them (supplier rationalization), and if some of them are to be granted more access and more information, then the chosen few are going to have to live up to some tough standards. It is almost inevitable that not all will meet the grade, and so buyers must now engage in 'supplier improvement' programmes, as well as all their other tasks.From where is all the extra time required for such a task to come? And what of all those other suppliers, the more ordinary ones, still clamouring for the buyer's time?These are of course the very same questions facing the supplier with their desire to allocate their resources more effectively to the most attractive opportunities. From the supplier's perspective the answer has been some form of KAM. In Chapters 26 and 27 we will examine a methodology for identifying and selecting the key accounts, and for resolving the crucial question: how do we manage those customers not considered to be 'key'?Buyers have gone through a very similar process of analysis in pursuit of their 'key suppliers', and in order to resolve their own mirror-image question: how do we manage those suppliers not considered to be 'key'? They will talk about 'supply-base optimization' programmes, and the identification of 'supplier types' through the use of 'supplier positioning' models.Mirror images again of the suppliers' own thoughts, but perhaps it becomes clear at this point why the buyer's responses to much the same issues have been so much more radical than their sales counterparts: sellers may like to think that they choose their customers, but buyers really do choose their suppliers.Supplier positioning modelsThere are a variety of such models, mostly based on a four-box matrix, each using different words, or adding to the confusion by labelling the sides of the matrix in diametrically opposite ways to their fellows, but they mostly come from the same 'parent' - the Kraljic Matrix. The example we will consider, shown in Figure 14.1, is itself a variant of that matrix, being one that I have encountered more often 'in practice' than the 'parent', and having the benefit of using a language more resonant to suppliers.Figure 14.1 The supplier positioning matrixSOURCE: Developed from the Kraljic MatrixYour own customers might use this variant, or another, or the original Kraljic. They might use the model formally, perhaps even sharing the analysis with their suppliers, or it might be something that is considered only inside the buyer's own head. Of course, they might never have heard of the model or its variants, and yet I would be surprised if they were not acting (albeit subconsciously and imprecisely) on some of its conclusions.It is of course the task of the KA team to discover to what extent such models are used, and how their use might impact on their own company's status as a supplier. If you find that your customer uses a different language, then from this point onwards aim to use their words, not mine.Figure 14.1 illustrates the traditional buyer's dilemma, spending the majority of their time with suppliers who are of relatively low significance and with whom their 'purchasing spend' is low - the 80/20 rule applies just as much to purchasing as it does to selling. They would much rather be spending their time with those suppliers who are of greater significance, and represent a much larger proportion of their budget.Defining the axes Relative spend - ranks suppliers on the basis of the level of expenditure.Risk/significance - ranks suppliers on the basis of their relative importance to the customer.The balance of powerThe matrix can be seen as a study of the balance of power between supplier and customer. 'Risk/significance' reflects supplier power (the greater the significance of a supplier, the greater their power, hence the use of the word 'risk'), while 'spend' might indicate potential buyer power (the bigger the order, the bigger the hold over that supplier, although some would argue that the bigger the order the greater the dependence of that customer on the supplier, which increases supplier power). Some versions of the model will use the labels 'supplier power' (vertical) and 'buyer power' (horizontal), perhaps reflecting a hard-nosed, even combative approach to supplier relationships.The use of the word 'risk' in the vertical axis is of great importance as it illustrates a potential misunderstanding between suppliers and customers. Suppliers will like to think that they are significant in the customer's eyes, and the more significant they are, the better their position and the better the subsequent relationship. Seen from the buyer's perspective, significance is risk - 'What if you let me down, what if you go out of business, where does that leave me?' Buyers might therefore have an aversion to too many truly significant suppliers, perhaps seeking to reduce their risk by introducing alternatives, or finding ways to commoditize the offer.Using the analysisThe buyer might aim to use the supplier positioning analysis for any or all of the following: to decide where to spend their time;to decide the nature of the relationship with different 'supplier types' (each box in the matrix contains a different 'supplier type');to determine their expectations from each different 'supplier type';to identify the type of activities to be engaged in with different 'supplier types';to identify where it is necessary to 'develop supplier capabilities';to consider options such as 'open-book trading';to manage risk;to determine the right sort of contract;to identify their 'key suppliers'.Any KA manager wishing to build the relationship, grow the existing business, or find new opportunities, will have to know their positioning, and how the customer intends to use that positioning. It is not an exact science of course; the risk/significance assessment in particular is likely to be rather subjective, and even the spend data can be open to interpretation, and the conclusions from the analysis are unlikely to be as clear-cut as business books and consultants might suggest, but that only argues more for the need to understand the subtleties of your customer's thinking in this regard.Later in this chapter we will look at what buyers might expect from each supplier type, and how they might aim to work with and manage each type. This will guide us on how we might need to respond, but for the moment we need to understand a little more about the nature of the supplier positioning analysis.Why measure spend?A flippant answer might be to say that it's for much the same reason given by people who climb Mount Everest: because it's big and because it's there. Flippant, but often true, and a demonstration of the same kind of 'sizeism' that can afflict the seller (see Chapter 4). There are better reasons, those listed below being among the most common: To indicate where time spent on price negotiation may pay dividends, and what the nature and outcome of that negotiation should involve. Getting a 1 per cent discount from a huge supplier will almost certainly be time better spent than securing a 20 per cent discount from a tiny one.To help with supplier rationalization programmes. What is the impact of concentrating more spend on fewer suppliers?A measure of the impact of suppliers on the customer's own financial performance - cash flow, profitability and the like.Who is doing the measuring?An important question to ask here is, who is doing the ranking? For example, suppose you sell latex gloves to the NHS. In the eyes of the purchasing director of one of the 'purchasing hubs' tasked with buying anything and everything for a number of hospital trusts, you might be quite small, to be found on the left-hand side of the matrix. But if it's the buyer of latex gloves who is assessing you, and you are their largest supplier, then you will of course be positioned on the right-hand side of the matrix.Spend mappingBuyers might use 'spend maps' to prepare the horizontal axis of the supplier positioning matrix. The most common form is a simple ranking of suppliers, for any given product or category of products, displayed as a bar chart, as shown in Figure 14.2.Figure 14.2 The spend mapArmed with the information shown in Figure 14.2, what would you do if you were the buyer? Assuming that there are no great differences between the suppliers other than their size, then a supplier rationalization programme looks on the cards. We might have a three-year plan (and yes, buyers do think that far ahead).Figure 14.3 The Spend Map - Year OneYear one - remove the five smallest suppliers (E to I) and give their business to the remaining four (A to D), as shown in Figure 14.3.We remove the smallest for several reasons: The relative transactional costs of working with small suppliers can be very high.Small suppliers can be very time-consuming.If we remove the big suppliers we might find ourselves deluged with complaints from our own internal customers: 'Why can't I get product B anymore?', and the like.Give the business to the four remaining we said, but how much to which ones? Our aim is to get the biggest discounts possible, and so we might lean towards C and D, the increase to their business being more significant than if we gave it to A or B. What we are saying is that C and D will be hungrier, and so more forthcoming.There is a second reason for giving it to C and D: we want to even up our supply base in preparation for the 'year two' strategy - we want four equal suppliers.Year two is the year of the open tender, asking four equal players to fight it out among themselves, with one loser. Such fights are always keener between equals than if one party feels too small to bother or another is too big to take the contest seriously. Buyers will prepare their suppliers for the battle by a process they call 'supplier conditioning' - repeatedly telling them: 'You do realize that you are one of four equals, you do realize that you are one of four equals, you do realize...' The loser's business is divided up equally, again for a substantial discount, as shown in Figure 14.4.Figure 14.4 The Spend Map - Year TwoIn year three we might decide to reintroduce one of the smaller suppliers rationalized out in the first year of our three-year campaign. We bring back supplier G as a warning to A, B and C: don't get fat and lazy, as shown in Figure 14.5. Of course, supplier G will be eager to return and will almost certainly give us their best prices, best terms, best services - hopefully sufficiently generous to put the three larger players to shame - and so we turn back to those larger suppliers asking for the same kind of package as provided by their much smaller rival.Figure 14.5 The Spend Map - Year ThreeAnd so the 'game' goes on, a game with only one winner, the buyer.Handling the game...How do we avoid such ruthless treatment? Well, if we have no competitive advantage, if we are insignificant in the buyer's eyes, or if there is no difficulty in them swapping us with another, then we probably won't. In other words, the secret lies in the vertical axis of the 'supplier positioning' matrix.Why measure risk/significance?Buyers need to know how dependent they are on their suppliers, and so know how they need to treat them - roughly (common enough), or with kid-gloves (rarely!) - or more importantly, how they must manage them, or potentially even change them.Suppose there is only one supplier for a particular product, a monopoly holder; the significance of that supplier is clearly enormous, so too the level of risk for the buyer. Life without that supplier would be inconceivable. Where there are many alternative suppliers, the risk involved in any one of them letting the buyer down is lower, and so the significance of any individual supplier is lower.This is of course a rather simplistic scenario. In most cases, ranking the suppliers will involve a number of considerations or factors - this is a more complex axis than that of 'relative spend'. Learning the factors used by your own customer will be of huge value to you as not only will you be able to judge your own status, you will also be better placed to predict your customer's concerns, and so their behaviour. Indeed, a fairly good way of learning about their choice of factors is to look out for what seems to bother them most.The following is a general list of the sort of factors (and by no means exhaustive) that might be used: The number of suppliers.Geographic location - distant suppliers might imply greater risk.Dependence on a particular technology or type of solution - are there alternatives?The criticality of their product to our own product/process.Supplier brand names or trademarks used by the customer - Intel® has a great significance to many a PC manufacturer.Patents, copyrights.Are the suppliers also competitors?Do the suppliers work with our competitors?The amount of time required to switch suppliers: if it takes a day, they're not that significant; if it takes a year, then they have a significant hold over us.The supplier's financial stability.Politics - are they the CEO's favourite...?The existence of contracts.Managing suppliersFigure 14.6 shows the kind of labels that might be applied to the four 'supplier types' in the supplier positioning matrix.Figure 14.6 Supplier typesSOURCE: Developed from the Kraljic MatrixExplaining the labels Tactical
Make easy: such suppliers don't deserve much time or attention, and ideally will be largely self-managing (any supplier that proves difficult to work with is a dead supplier).Tactical
Profit: getting the best financial deal is the top (perhaps only) priority with such suppliers (look out for some fairly robust management styles!).Strategic
Security: ensuring security and consistency of supply is crucial (price may be of low importance if a supplier can be 100 per cent reliable, or perhaps they supply a critical ingredient, perhaps a 'brand within a brand': Lycra® to a clothing manufacturer, Intel® to a PC manufacturer).Strategic
Partner: the ones to spend the time with, working on future-oriented projects (the most likely place to find key suppliers and diamond team relationships).Determining the approachFor each supplier type the buyer will have a different answer to the following questions (we have encountered this list before of course): How much time should I spend with them?What type of relationship do I require?How might I use 'e-commerce' technology?How will I behave?What are my expectations?Must I actively manage them to improve?Should I insist on 'open-book' trading?Must I reduce my risk?What sort of contract?Are they key suppliers?Table 14.1 suggests some 'typical' answers and outcomes, though these are of course dependent on specific circumstances.Table 14.1 Possible answers and outcomes Tactical Make EasyTactical ProfitStrategic
SecurityStrategic
PartnerTimeMinimumEnough to secure the best financial dealEnough to ensure security of supplyMaximumRelationshipNone - keep remoteLimit to 'bow-tie' Tough negotiationsDepending on needPossible 'diamond'?'Diamond' most likelyE-commerceReducing supplier 'noise'Doing deals with a broadening supplier baseSharing information TelemetryCollaborative partneringBehaviourExpect independent self-managementCompetitive - rotate suppliers?Collaborative - support suppliersCollaborative - partner with suppliersExpectationsMake it easyBest financial deal100% security Consignment stock?Partnership for future gainManaged improvement'Shape up or ship out...''Shape up or ship out...'Joint improvement projectsJoint investmentOpen-book tradingImportant if considering a sole supplier arrangementA tactic to reduce supplier marginsNot a top priority, unless the supplier has problemsA genuine intention to improve supplier efficiencyRiskAllow sole supplierMaintain rivalsSeek or maintain alternativesSeek or maintain alternativesContractPossibly long-term but with tough penalty clausesShort-termLong-term, with clear clauses on handling problemsLong-term, with a focus on shared responsibilitiesKey supplier statusUnlikelyIf long-term lowest price...?Possibly, if no alternativesProbably, but not for allA good way to understand the dynamics of this matrix is to consider your own position as a buyer. Try to place different items that you spend money on throughout the year in the most appropriate box and then think about how you approach those purchases. Where do you position the house, shoes, petrol, the annual holiday, baked beans, the TV licence, medicine, beer, the car, your family, life insurance, books, milk, newspapers, wine, soap, and so on?How do you go about those expenditures? For myself, I spend a good deal more time (and money!) on books than I do on baked beans, and expect a good deal more in return, from them, and from the bookshop. Running out of soap would be a bad thing, and I'm partial to some particular smells, so there's always plenty of that about the place, and I don't even know the price. There's no point stockpiling petrol, and in any case I buy whichever brand is cheapest at the time because they are all the same.Professional buyers go about this analysis with a little more precision than the average consumer, but never forget that they are human too, and the vertical positioning in particular is often subject to personal likes and dislikes.Time and effortBuyers have aimed to escape the 80/20 rule by forcing the bottom-left quadrant suppliers through easy-to-purchase channels - the use of electronic commerce, or the provision of purchase cards to staff being examples - perhaps even outsourcing the purchasing task to a third party.The freed-up time is given to those suppliers that really matter: predominantly the top-right suppliers, but also to those in the bottom-right if there is a worthwhile price negotiation to be had. Alternatively, the buyer may focus on those in the top left if it's important to get control over what the buyer might refer to as 'bottleneck' items - such as products that can bring the plant to a grinding halt if they're not immediately accessible.RelationshipsIf you are positioned top-right then our discussions regarding diamond team relationships (Chapter 8) are probably already familiar to you - the customer may well have been drawing you into a more complex relationship to suit the nature of their expectations. It is quite likely that a 'key supplier manager' will exist (an issue that we discussed in Chapter 8, observing that without one, building diamond teams is so much harder).Don't expect anything more than a bow-tie in bottom-right; this is how buyers aim to win the arm-wrestling contest over price and volume.Suppliers in the top two boxes can expect greater access to senior management, and will probably be treated with more respect (though don't bank on a personalized parking space and paid lunch on every visit).Using e-commerceFigure 14.7 shows the different nature and intent of e-commerce, depending on the supplier's position. The earliest use of e-commerce was to reduce supplier noise (bottom-left), followed by its use in price and terms negotiation (bottom-right) where it earned itself something of a bad name due to some inappropriate usage by inexperienced buyers (and sellers). An important aspect of its use in 'doing deals' is the way that it has expanded the supplier base after a period of rationalization - the high transactional costs that led to that rationalization are not apparent when using internet tendering and the like.Figure 14.7 Supplier positioning and e-commerceMore recently we see more ambitious use of the technology, for sharing information, for improving forecasting and ordering (telemetry - remote ordering systems such as the use of barcodes in retailers, or capacity sensors in bulk silos) and for building collaborative relationships (top-left and top-right).Managed improvement: developing suppliers' capabilitiesBuyers have always demanded improvements, but in the past their job may have been merely to demand. Today, many buyers have taken on the responsibility of actively managing supplier performance improvements.This is particularly common in the retail industry, where major retailers effectively manage some of their own label suppliers: the customer sets the standards and the specification; they manage the forecasts and so the production schedules; they initiate new product developments; and, perhaps of greatest significance, they manage the suppliers' margins.In the bottom-left quadrant it may be that in pursuit of greater 'ease' the buyer wishes to develop a capable sole supplier. The supplier may need to expand their product range to allow the customer to rationalize their supply base. They may need to help that supplier to integrate their processes, through the development of IT capabilities, perhaps installing an electronic data interchange (EDI) system that allows the supplier direct access to the customer.Security of supply is the name of the game in the top-left quadrant, and this is not easily found with some suppliers in the food industry. In the early days of organic food production the supermarkets often found that their potential suppliers did not have the commercial set-up to cope with their demands. Sainsbury's in particular was very active in improving such suppliers' capabilities, particularly their business processes, offering training and investment through organic supplier 'clubs'.In the top-right quadrant, joint investment in development projects is a common activity. Buyers eager to see a faster flow of new products might help suppliers with the financial investment by providing people, giving guarantees of business, or offering themselves for pilot trials. In return, they will expect some form of special arrangement, perhaps exclusivity.This gets to the very nub of relationships in this box: the supplier has undoubted privileges, but they come with attendant responsibilities. The customer may let you get very close to them, only provided you agree not to supply their competitors. Anyone who works closely with companies such as Coca-Cola or Procter & Gamble will recognize that theme.Through the 1980s and 1990s, Marks & Spencer led the way in the retail trade, managing some of their strategic partners to the point that those suppliers thought, talked and acted like Marks & Spencer - true synergy. Some suppliers became very reliant on Marks & Spencer, put their trust in the customer's judgement, and allowed the customer to determine their ranges, quality standards, service levels, even their margins.Was this good for suppliers? Many benefited enormously, as in the case study below. Others found themselves severely burnt when Marks & Spencer's fortunes were reversed in 1999. The decision to look to cheaper, more varied and more creative suppliers in their clothing lines hit some of their incumbent 'partners' very hard.CASE STUDY  Improving the supplier, instead of punishing themWhen Marks & Spencer introduced a new kitchen product, only to find that the supplier had miscalculated their costs and were making a loss on supplying something that was now a great success and with a price fixed in their catalogue, many a retailer would have called that 'an education' for the supplier. But M&S went about helping their supplier to re-engineer the product to lower costs, while they themselves reduced their margin. The result? A long-term relationship with long-term profitability on both sides.Close management of suppliers, in the way practised by M&S, can gain much in the way of control and efficiency, but it also implies a risk: in this case the risk of losing an 'independent' supplier's flair and innovation. Much of the retailer's woes in those years can be put down to a kind of cloning that went on between customer and supplier. When a customer takes on all the responsibility for things such as their supplier's product development, then they just have to get it right because there isn't anyone else to come up with the ideas. A successful relationship in this box must recognize the potential perils as well as the benefits of such closeness; only then can it guard against them.The bottom-right quadrant may not seem the most fertile ground for trying to develop suppliers' capabilities - strong-arm tactics being the more likely course of action you might think - but even here buyers can be positive in their assistance. Helping a supplier to build greater scale, and so improve efficiency and reduce prices, is an obvious win-win. The buyer might offer a longer-term contract than would normally be expected, with carefully managed increases in volume in return for steadily decreasing prices.Open-book tradingBuyers have always tried to get cost breakdowns from suppliers. This is a very old-fashioned but highly effective way of getting price reductions. The 'trick' was to get the supplier, often through an indiscretion, to disclose the costs of various parts of their package - perhaps the delivery costs, the packaging costs, or even the costs of the salespeople. Then, choose part of the product or service that you can do without and demand a discount for this new 'stripped down' package.Once, this was a buyer's 'trick', now it is increasingly a formal requirement, called 'open-book trading', a sometimes abused, and often misunderstood process of managed supplier improvement.Are they out to get you, or out to help you? Are their enquiries a genuine desire to help you improve your own efficiency and so reduce your own costs, or do they want to reduce your margin? We are clearly in the world of 'it depends', and this scenario calls for every ounce of the KA team's knowledge and sensitivity.Do you refuse to play? What if your competitors are only too happy to oblige? Do you agree, but try to confuse the customer with complex data? This is no more than a stalling tactic, and a none-too-popular one at that. So do you agree to give the breakdowns? Consider the pressure exerted over a merchandising team in the case study below.CASE STUDY  The price of innocence...A supplier of a big brand name consumer product found their back against the wall with their largest customer, a national retailer. The salesperson was being told that they 'never did anything' to help their customer and it was about time things changed.Being in a corner, the salesperson 'broke', protesting: 'But that's not true; just our merchandising team alone costs us over £200,000 a year.'This was correct. Indeed, the merchandising sales team was of high value to the customer - they took orders, stocked shelves, built displays and handled complaints. But that was not the point and, a few weeks later, the salesperson was summoned to a meeting with the buying directors.'We have been considering your services to us,' they began, 'and we have decided that we no longer require your sales team to take orders in our stores. We will do it ourselves, starting next month, and we would like you to compensate us for our extra work, from the £200,000 that we will be saving you.'This was not strictly true as the sales force covered other customers as well and the supplier would see no such savings, but that was not the point. The sales force was removed and a substantial payment made to the retailer.The story gets worse. After a few months, it was clear to the supplier that sales were declining. The retailer was not as diligent in their duties as the supplier's sales team and the salesperson was forced to go back to the directors.'Can we put our sales team back in?' was the plea.'Of course! Start tomorrow,' came the answer, 'but don't expect your money back...'This was trickery - the customer valued the merchandising team almost as much as the supplier did, but were prepared to live without it for a while if they could gain such levels of 'compensation'.The suppliers with the most to fear from open-book trading are those that have high-cost activities that do not give value to the customer. If we were feeling harsh, we might say it was their own fault if they got caught out - and buyers often do feel harsh.If you are an efficient supplier, what do you have to hide? Indeed (as the buyer would argue), you can only shine if you are compared to your competitors. It is rather like the arguments in favour of individuals carrying identity cards; the only people with anything to fear are those who wish to conceal their identity for some 'dissident' purpose. But it is also the case that 'honest' people might object to the notion through feelings of independence, pride or 'honour'. Fine sentiments for independent citizens, but no way to run a KAM relationship.Perhaps a bigger worry is that such 'open books' allow the customer to calculate your margins, and from there on in it can be a downward spiral. Often the best 'defence' to such strategies is to focus on the customer's costs, and to reduce them to such an extent that the buyer sees no point in enquiring into yours. We are back to the 'cost-in-use' arguments introduced in Chapter 12.Managing riskThe management of risk is an increasingly important expectation on modern buyers, and they will make full use of the supplier positioning matrix in determining their best course of action in each supply circumstance.Consider a supplier of a critical ingredient to a big-brand consumer food product. It's a flavour that gives the unique taste so strongly identified with that brand, and it also happens to account for less than half a per cent of total expenditure on the materials for the final product.This is of course a top-left supplier with a vengeance. Margins are good (no buyer is going to risk supply of such a product by switching to another supplier for the sake of a 5 per cent discount), and they have a long-term contract as a sole supplier. In return they give exclusivity, and 100 per cent reliability and consistency are assured.CASE STUDY  The price of failureSuch a situation existed for many years with a particular supplier/customer. From the buyer's perspective this was of course pure risk, to be so dependent in such a critical area (a 'bottleneck' item), but they were stuck with an arrangement that had been established by their R&D colleagues more years ago than anyone could remember.One day, the supplier had problems with their own supply base and failed to deliver. Everyone blamed the buyer for the fact that the production line was halted, and then worse, the next batch, made in a hurry, was out of spec and an emergency product recall was instituted.The supplier made much of the fact that this was the first such instance in over eight years, but the anxious buyer considered once was enough and seized control. There were to be no more sole supplier arrangements, indeed no supplier was to have more than 50 per cent of the business, and the incumbent supplier would have to give their recipe to the new competitors.Another way of reducing risk in the top-left quadrant has been noted in the section above on using e-commerce. Telemetry (remote and automated reordering) can help to smooth the supply of 'bottleneck' items, but here we see the sometimes two-edged sword of such activities; buyers aim to reduce their risk, while suppliers succeed in 'locking-in' the customer through such an automated process, so increasing the 'risk' to the buyers.In a bottom-left 'tactical make easy' situation there may be plenty of fish in the sea - let's say we are looking at stationery suppliers - and the total spend is relatively small. The buyer may grant sole supplier status in such a case, and manage the risk through a contract with tough performance standards and a speedy exit clause if the supplier lets them down.Top-right suppliers present the highest level of risk, and as such the buyer will assess them against a range of performance standards, and as we saw in the previous section may step in to actively manage supplier improvement programmes if anything falls below par. Suppliers in this box are often surprised to hear buyers asking them how they train their staff, or what health and safety measures they have in place. If they knew more about their positioning then they wouldn't be so surprised...Bottom-right suppliers present the least risk and so provide fertile ground for the most 'robust' of tactics (suppliers might use the word 'brutal'). If a supplier lets you down, you fire them. If you feel exposed by having your business with too few suppliers you simply share it out to more - and you don't expect any price increases from the first lot.Removing risk?A number of high-profile cases in recent years have made clear the buyer's role in removing risk from certain situations. It has become increasingly common for companies to take positions on the 'bigger issues' such as health, the environment, fair trade, and social conditions for workers and suppliers around the globe, all of which bring a new responsibility to the buyer's desk. If it is claimed that all suppliers are vetted to ensure good employment practices, then this must be managed with great care - the alternative is an embarrassing headline in the newspapers. If it is discovered that toys made in China contain high levels of lead in their paint, then it is the buyer who will suffer the wrath of the board (and pretty much everyone else's, including the customers).For the buyer, some issues are no longer to be left open to chance, or the hope that suppliers won't let them down. Suppliers must adhere to increasingly stringent guidelines, and those that appear to resent their imposition will find themselves dropped. But here we are often in areas that cannot be managed entirely by buyers' edicts. Suppliers that can demonstrate their ability to self-monitor and manage to high standards, and to remove risk on behalf of the buyer, will be much smiled upon.Key supplier management (KSM)I recall, many years ago now, a professional buyer attending one of my KAM Masterclass training events. He had come, he said, because he wanted to know what his suppliers were planning for him. At the end of the session he told me that while it had all been very enlightening, he didn't much care for it, meaning, he didn't want to be 'managed' by any of his suppliers whether they regarded him as key or not!I didn't blame him, and began to see in many supplier's KAM ambitions a potentially fatal mistake; they were one-way traffic. It was at this same time, the early 1990s, that many like-minded buyers were beginning to interest themselves in the development of Key Supplier Management (KSM) strategies and processes. Put simply, they wanted to get in first, before their suppliers arrived with their fancy ideas of KAM: it was a matter of power and control.KSM strategies and processes are now a regular feature of the professional buyer's life, and a new vocabulary has developed around them. In many ways they replicate the processes found in KAM, simply viewed from the other side of the table. They involve the development of cross-functional teams, they might aim to build supplier relationships that look remarkably like Diamond Teams, and they depend on a deep analysis of the supplier's business, including such things as their growth ambitions and value drivers - terms we will become familiar with in Part V, from the supplier's perspective.Understood properly, KSM processes can be a godsend to the aspiring KA manager, opening doors to new contacts and facilitating joint planning in an environment of collaboration rather than competition. Figure 14.8 shows a typical example of the range of people deployed by the customer in a KSM relationship, in this case that of a pharmaceutical company aiming to develop deeper relations with a supplier of critical ingredients, in pursuit of a long-term development partnership. The detail is not important, it is the number and breadth of people involved that impresses!Figure 14.8 Key supplier management - a typical customer teamPoorly understood, or ignored, or feared, KSM processes will become a problem for the supplier, at best, causing them to miss opportunities, at worst, leading to their exclusion.The tools described throughout the chapters of Part IV apply to many supplier circumstances, but are particularly relevant in the context of KSM, and if the prospect of being a Key Supplier is realistic in your case then it is suggested that you review these tools carefully.Key Suppliers - being appropriateKey Suppliers will of course be most regularly found in the top-right quadrant of the supplier positioning matrix, but not exclusively so. It is entirely possible to be viewed as a key supplier even though positioned outside the 'partnership' box, provided you meet the expectations implicit in those other positionings. The secret to attaining this status is first, recognise how you are positioned, and second, behave appropriately.If you have the lowest price, and can guarantee the same for the next five years, then you might expect to be well courted despite being a bottom-right supplier. To be the sharpest on the block you probably need to have the lowest costs of supply in the business and you will be expected to pass on your efficiencies to the customer.If you can take on the task of ensuring supply across a full category of products, self-managed and dependably, then if those products are bottom-left (office stationery is a typical example) you may well find yourself in a sole supplier situation. Be supremely easy to do business with; install remote ordering systems, communicate through e-mail, don't overburden customers with your presence. Be there when required and keep out of the way when not. Don't try to force complex relationships on the customer, unless they lead to easier transactions. Show willingness to take on those administrative tasks that perhaps traditionally have been the buyer's - think about offering to set, and police, your own standards (but don't be too pushy!).Be 100 per cent reliable in an area where the customer has reason to be nervous (top-left) and although you may be a relatively small supplier you might find yourself very well rewarded. But be warned, 100 per cent reliability is the name of the game in this quadrant - nothing less than perfection will be acceptable (as we saw in the case of the flavour supplier discussed earlier). You might expect to be asked for some form of consignment stock or 'vendor-managed inventory', which can be expensive but can also help to tie you in to the customer.And what is 'appropriate' as a top-right supplier? Let's start with some negatives: never assume your indispensability, don't be arrogant and don't become complacent. All three are common sins, and the longer the relationship continues the more easily are the sins committed. After that, the list of positive requirements may be very long - these relationships require significant investments of time and effort from both parties. Aim to establish contacts at the most senior level, and try to focus on the long term. Bring the customer your new ideas, first. Above all, get the relationship right. A 'tactical make easy' supplier that gets it wrong will be a nuisance, but a 'strategic partner' that gets it wrong will be a disaster.If we consider the nature of the top-right relationship in one particular industry, that of key suppliers to major grocery retailers, we will see the practice of what is called 'category management', where both supplier and retailer join in focusing time and energies on identifying and meeting consumer needs from the broadest standpoint (the whole product category, not just the particular supplier's brand).CASE STUDY  Getting it rightOne of the most highly publicized examples of such a partnership is that between Proctor & Gamble as supplier and Walmart as customer in the United States. Both had reputations as fairly 'confrontational' negotiators, based on the strength of their positions, but in the late 1980s they decided to work things a new way. Walmart began to provide P&G with information on the sales of P&G products, detailed stuff - volumes, returns, profit, regional variations - all of huge value to the supplier. Walmart then allowed P&G to take responsibility for managing their stock, placing orders, determining levels, even allocating space in store. The benefits were huge.For Walmart, the new arrangement removed 'stock-outs', reduced transaction costs and passed such savings on to customers through an 'everyday low price' policy agreed with P&G.For P&G, they got very close to a customer that represented a significant chunk of their total revenue. Hugely improved forecasts allowed them to make significant enhancements to their supply chain, and perhaps of greatest importance, they received a first class education in the challenges and dynamics of the retail industry.Being key is one thing, but life goes on...Suppliers are sometimes surprised when, after being assured that they are a key supplier, and after being shown their top scores against the buyer's vendor ratings, the decision goes against them. This is not necessarily about the buyer breaking their word (and it is rarely a good thing for the supplier to suggest such a thing), rather it might suggest a certain innocence on the part of the supplier.Hewlett Packard is an example of a company that is very open in discussing its vendor ratings with its more significant suppliers: specific and tangible standards are set, regular reviews are held, suppliers are expected to manage their own performance improvement, and everyone knows where they stand. But this is not to say that the top-ranking suppliers are guaranteed the order.Buyers use such rankings as a guide to their management of suppliers, not as a means of making their decisions. To win the business a top-right positioning and a high ranking against the vendor ratings will help, but suppliers should never forget the importance of each individual sale - sometimes buyers get an offer they just cannot refuse.Sometimes the world just changes. A buyer that has treated you as a partner for months or even years appears to turn against you, demanding savage price cuts and radical improvements in services. A betrayal? More likely it is due to a period of poor trading conditions for the customer, or perhaps they have just lost a major deal, or they might have cash-flow problems resulting from an expensive acquisition or investment. Of course, these are the kind of things that any alert KA manager should be fully aware of, and well before the buyer's demands arise, allowing them to consider appropriate palliative actions designed to avert the crisis. Just as for a stand-up- comedian, good timing can be the mark of genius in a KA manager.Behave appropriately, but plan your escapeThe advice earlier in this chapter was to behave appropriately to your positioning if you were aiming to be thought a key supplier, but let's suppose that you are positioned 'below the line' and the 'appropriate' actions required are not attractive to you, or perhaps your business strategy points in other directions. In such a case you have some choices to make. Do we wish to be regarded as a key supplier? Do we need to shift our positioning in order to escape the buyer's 'pigeonholing' of our capabilities? This latter choice is of course possible, by increasing your significance and so 'moving north' in the supplier positioning matrix, but it will almost certainly be something of a long haul.Start the process by remembering one of the eternal truths of business life: the customer's perception of your position is more important than the fact. Where they see you is where you are. Perhaps they place you in the bottom-left quadrant, whereas you know that your unique technology actually places you top-left. Don't expect to be able to just tell them. Take every opportunity, and every potential contact, to slowly drip feed the information required for them to change their view. Wait patiently for the opportunity to demonstrate your incomparability, but then be ready to pounce.CASE STUDY Persistence pays off...Yes, persistence pays off, but never underestimate the bucket loads of energy required for this cliché to be made true, particularly when the obstacles to success are internal rather than external. The KA manager will need both patience and energy in equal measures, a rare combination of opposing elements, and an act especially difficult to pull off with regard to one's own colleagues.I am reminded of a particularly skilled KA manager who spent the best part of 18 months winning the confidence of her customer, building a relationship across a complex network of individuals, and all without the reward of any significant business. Her bosses were growing impatient.Their business was the supply of technically challenging manufacturing services to the pharmaceutical industry, a group of customers known for their conservatism when weighing up potential new suppliers. For any supplier in this market, technical ability is a given, of far greater importance is their ability to demonstrate a long-term commitment to the task. But here was the problem; the supplier in this case was reluctant to make such a commitment to the opportunities unearthed by their KA manager, opportunities that would take them into new areas of manufacturing that they had hitherto thought too challenging. It was becoming clear that if they were unable to demonstrate not only a commitment but an enthusiastic commitment, then their efforts would have been in vain.At this point one might be tempted to criticise the KA manager for chasing a customer where there was no obvious match between needs and capabilities, but their ambitions in this case went beyond 'standard' KAM practice, they were in pursuit of a bigger goal, no less than the holy grail of KAM, a customer whose needs were representative of a wider group of customers, such that an enhancement of capabilities would open up a whole new stream of business well beyond that original customer. But persistence of the most dogged kind was called for, mainly because their own colleagues seemed not to understand the nature of the bigger reward inherent in this Value Machine model (see Chapter 3), arguing that the investment required could not be justified based on the returns offered by this one customer.After 18 months, appeals to technical colleagues had failed, appeals to senior management had failed and it was with a sense of resignation that the KA manager approached the customer for what felt like it would be the last time. In any other circumstance their admission that they could not supply would have been accepted, thanks would no doubt have been given for the efforts made on their behalf, and that would have been that, but now came the rewards of 18 months of relationship-building inside the customer. The customer couldn't understand the supplier's reluctance to supply, and wondered if perhaps it was their own fault in having communicated their needs badly. They suggested just one more meeting, a visit to the supplier's plant, to assess for themselves what might be involved, almost as much on behalf of their Account Manager as their own requirements.The visit turned out to be a revelation. The customer was able to suggest the simplest of modifications that would allow the supplier to meet their needs, the supplier was happy to respond, and the deal was suddenly on.Persistence had certainly paid off, but the best was yet to come. Having at last agreed to commit to a new technology, the doors were opened up to a long string of new customers, all eager to use the supplier's new found capability.A second of business life's eternal truths has already been referred to: don't expect the buyer to take delight in a supplier's increasing significance. Figure 14.9 shows the differing intentions of a typical seller eager to argue their uniqueness and a typical buyer wishing to argue the supplier's proximity to a commodity.Figure 14.9 The differing intentions of sellers and buyersBuyers will not want too many suppliers in those upper two boxes, so demonstrations of your importance to them will need to be handled with care if you are not to make them nervous. Gaining the support of those in the customer that see your true value, arming them with the necessary information, and asking them to brief the buyer, may be a better strategy than telling the buyers yourself.Moving north....Much of the rest of this book is devoted to advice on how to raise your significance; moving north on the supplier positioning matrix. The chapters making up Part V
look at doing this from the perspective of the customer's whole business team, not just through the eyes of the buyer. The chapters making up Part VI will then suggest ways of building and communicating your value proposition in order to raise both your perceived and tangible significance to the customer.Application exerciseConsider the activities, behaviours and attitudes of the buyers in one of your key accounts: How do they position you? - What effect does this have on their purchasing strategy?- What impact does this have on your role as a supplier?What activities should you focus on to attain a key supplier status? - How can you increase your significance to the buyer, without raising their fears?







Part FiveAchieving strategic supplier status







15Being of strategic valueThroughout Part IV we were concerned with making a positive impact on the customer's purchasing strategy, our goal being the achievement of 'key supplier status' as judged by the customer's professional buyers.In the next five chapters it is time to move up a level, to consider our impact on the customer's business strategy, in pursuit now of what we will call 'strategic supplier status'. Many businesses will use the two terms almost as synonyms, but I make a clear distinction; the goal of strategic supplier status will find us dealing with bigger issues and with a wider audience as we will need to consider how we are judged by the customer as a whole (not just the people in the purchasing department), across a range of functions, and in particular at the most senior level.Being a strategic supplier is not necessarily 'better' than being a key supplier, it may come with additional responsibilities or costs that are not welcome, but it will certainly secure you more attention, and open more doors, a situation you can seek to take advantage of, or not, as you choose.Being a strategic supplier should lead to a greater sense of security, based as it is on there being some positive benefit you bring to your customer's business, perhaps giving them some form of advantage over their own competitors, an advantage they may not wish to lose as the result of a falling out across the buyer's negotiating table.Perhaps most importantly of all, being a strategic supplier helps keep your eyes more fixed on the challenges of the future, complete with its mix of opportunities and threats, than on the apparent safety and comfort of past successes.Times changeIsn't it enough then to be top of the professional buyer's league table? Why the need for this higher status? For a supplier providing a simple product or service, and at no great cost to itself, perhaps there is no greater need, but for one wishing to make a long-term investment in a customer, perhaps developing new and tailored products and services, there is a need for a little more security. Buyers can be fickle. Buyers can move on. Buyers are not always in charge of your destiny, despite what they may tell you to the contrary. Purchasing criteria that have served you well for years can be invalidated by some very short-term forces; a few bad months of trading, shifts in supply and demand, the arrival of a new supplier...Competitive advantage can be short lived as the validity of your value changes over time. It hardly seems credible that OTIF (those four little letters that have focused so many suppliers' minds - 'on time in full') should once have been a source of competitive advantage. Today it is so much the standard requirement from ever-vigilant customers that we easily forget how some suppliers were once able to use it as a means of ousting less efficient competition. Indeed, in many markets it was the supplier and not the customer who introduced the measure, as evidence of their competitive superiority.Customers change, often as the result of a merger or acquisition, providing one of the most challenging moments for any supplier; who will be 'in' and who will be 'out' in this new world? Who should we back - our old friends, or our 'new' friends? Will the new entity simply demand bigger discounts on account of their greater size? Will they rationalize their sites, their products, their buyers, their suppliers?Any supplier that has relied on a sales-driven 'bow-tie' relationship may find these kind of questions rather daunting, their lack of 'relationship preparation' finding them caught like a deer in the headlights. Worse, they might make poorly informed guesses based on the views of their current contacts, but what if the current contacts are the people being acquired? Would you expect their views to hold much sway in the new organization?Suppliers that have taken care to build a depth and a breadth of relationship, particularly at a senior level, will find themselves so much better placed when the world changes. They might even find that they are called in for early-day briefings on which way the winds are blowing.In some markets, where mergers and takeovers have become almost the norm, this fact alone may be a justification for a diamond team approach, and yet even having such relationships in place may still not be enough to ensure your position. Nothing can guarantee security of tenure at such times, but the odds will be heavily in favour of those suppliers that can demonstrate their strategic value to the new entity. Note well: you must demonstrate your strategic value to the new entity. It will not be enough to claim that you were a strategic supplier to one or to the other of the merged parties, that is all history now, it will be your ability to make a rapid assessment of the new and emerging business and its strategy, and align your value proposition to ensure a positive impact on that new entity, that will be of greatest importance at such times.CASE STUDY  Don't be a 'when we'....When Rhodesia became Zimbabwe many of the rich white Rhodesians packed their bags and headed for South Africa, but they took more than their physical baggage, they also took memories of their past, a situation that would often make them unpopular with their new hosts. It seems that whenever they encountered something they didn't like in their new home, something that had been better in their old home, a particular form of words would come to them: 'when we were in Rhodesia...'. They became known as the 'when we's'.New organizations, particularly those resulting from acquisitions, don't take kindly to 'when we's'. They acquired, or merged, to form something new, not to be reminded of how things were. The advice to anyone finding themselves on the receiving end of an acquisition has to be: look ahead, not backwards, and that applies even more so to suppliers to the new entity. Quit telling them about your old value proposition, however great it might have been, and start talking about what it will be to the new organization. Most likely this will involve using new words, new terms, a new language, often a challenge as maybe the supplier hasn't yet learned that new language, in which case, make that a top priority.When customers 'snap'...Times change. Laws that once favoured you turn against you; competitors in decline find new leases of life, superior products become ordinary. This last change is one that can easily happen if and when a supplier becomes 'lazy', resting on its laurels, perhaps having enjoyed for too long a position of power and security. In such cases customer dissatisfaction may have been developing for some time, unnoticed by the supplier, or simply ignored, a dangerous situation not unlike a time bomb ticking away, out of sight, out of mind.CASE STUDY  Who needs to listen to customers, if you're the best?There was once a hugely successful company making slide rules (for those of you too young to remember, slide rules were calculating 'machines' using logarithmic scales and highly engineered sliding parts, before the days of electronic calculators), and as there were not too many alternative tools for calculation (logarithmic tables and the abacus being about it), they effectively held their customers to ransom.Retailers were obliged to stock this leading brand and schools were obliged to buy them for their pupils, who were put through the agonies of learning how to use them despite the fact that they, like everybody, hankered for something better, something easier to use. Some customers said as much to the slide rule manufacturer, but the letters and the phone calls never made it down to the R&D department. There, they spent their time working on making even better slide rules, with 'slidier' slidy bits, clearer printing, a smarter case - and steadfastly refused to listen. Who needed to listen to customers when you made the best slide rules in the world?Change came in the guise of the electronic pocket calculator and customers were only too happy to jump ship - they 'snapped'. Seen any slide rules lately?When there is very little competition among suppliers, and customers have few options for change, dissatisfaction usually has to be quite high before the customer will put in the effort to find an alternative. There is inertia in the market, as shown by the low competition curve in Figure 15.1.Figure 15.1 When customers 'snap'Add competition - new suppliers eager to win new customers - and the picture changes. Now, small lapses in a supplier's performance can result in the loss of the business. Relatively small increases in customers' dissatisfaction can cause them to 'snap'. The market has become fluid.If, before the arrival of a new supplier, there has been a long period of low competition among suppliers, perhaps even a monopoly, and worse, an arrogant incumbent supplier, then you might expect to find customers at their most twitchy, and most ready to 'snap'.CASE STUDY  One leak British Gas found hard to fixBefore the deregulation of the energy supply industry in the UK, British Gas had a virtual monopoly of industrial customers. Within months of deregulation industrial customers were starting to leave, but there were few plans in place to keep them from departing, and still fewer for winning them back. The notion of customers 'snapping' was just too foreign to a supplier that had enjoyed such forced 'loyalty' for so long.More recently, with the consumer market up for grabs, we can see the gas suppliers behaving a lot more aggressively to retain customers, and win new ones, and well beyond the bounds of the gas industry itself.Such things can happen to key suppliers, if the appellation key is simply the result of there having been no alternatives. It should never happen to a strategic supplier, not if the appellation strategic is the result of the supplier having a deep-seated and positive impact on the customer's business strategy, not if they are of genuine strategic value.Being of strategic valueIt should be the task of any good KA Team to be constantly assessing and reassessing the nature of its strategic value, defined as the positive impact they have on the customer's business strategy and competitive position, questions that should take them well beyond the purchasing department.CASE STUDY  The tale of two hospitals...Two competitors are each trying to sell an X-ray machine to a US-based private hospital. One costs $400,000, the other $550,000, and they apparently do much the same job.The buyer, an old-fashioned type with no time for supplier positioning models, calls it a 'no brainer' and goes for the cheaper machine, feeling happy with a good day's work that saved the hospital $150,000.Over the next two years the X-ray machine is serviced eight times, each time at a cost of $10,000, and required a major overhaul costing $20,000. Oddly enough, the buyer doesn't care; servicing costs come out of the radiology department's budget and are not the buying department's responsibility.The machine has broken down on two occasions, resulting in major patient logjams, a lot of ill will towards the hospital and one very expensive court case for negligence. Oddly enough, the buyer doesn't care; again their department is not responsible for patient-processing targets and its staff rarely go to court or read the newspapers.A competing hospital in the next town bought the more expensive X-ray machine. The service contract requires only two services a year, each at $5,000, and the machine has never broken down. The hospital has no patient logjams, and no bad press.They are doing well, and stealing customers from the hospital with the cheaper machine and the PR problems. Not surprisingly, people want to go to the hospital that isn't in the newspapers for the wrong reasons.This tale of two hospitals is all about value, but involves two very different types. The first is the type of value that saved money, the lower servicing costs, which over time will make the more expensive machine the better buy. Such value is relatively easy to identify, to describe, and to quantify: it probably makes it to the head of the more expensive supplier's agenda.The second type of value is about defending the hospital's reputation. It is harder to get to grips with, harder to describe, very difficult to quantify, but almost certainly of more importance. Any supplier that helps its customer build trust with its public will have an excellent chance of being regarded as a strategic supplier. I once heard a hospital manager say: 'If the customers feel they can trust us then they don't begrudge having more expensive coffee in the waiting room. They don't even mind if they have to pay for things that other hospitals do for free - but do badly.'Boosting the customer's competitive positionThis ambition starts with a question: what are they up against? Michael Porter has provided us with a robust model for assessing the nature of the competitive challenges faced by any business, your own or a customer's. His famous 'five forces' are shown in Figure 15.2.Figure 15.2 Michael Porter's 'five forces'Porter argues that a business operates within the ferment and flux of five different forces that combine to determine its profitability. The KA team must understand how each one of these impacts on their customer, and then how they might be able to help that customer build a more competitive position against each force: How might they help their customer gain advantage against the existing players in the market?How might they help their customer prevent new entrants to the market?How might they help their customer prevent the development of substitute products?How might they help their customer reduce the power of the buyers in their market?How might they help their customer reduce the power of the suppliers in their market?If these questions seem to you to be outside your remit, then it is possible that you are still operating in the realm of selling, not KAM, for it is precisely the consideration of such questions that distinguishes the two approaches.The last one may seem a peculiar goal for the supplier, but it is perhaps the one most fully within their power, involving them in subtle issues such as tone of voice, attitude and demeanour.Not all of the forces may be important for any particular customer, the next step is to discover which of them really do matter: which are the ones that keep them awake at nights? It may be a cliché, but the ability of a supplier to promise a good night's sleep to their customer will be of great significance in their pursuit of strategic supplier status.CASE STUDY  How could you help?Consider the forces impacting on a UK grocery retail chain (imagine this to be your customer), and ask yourself what kind of strategy you might be able to follow in order to boost the customer's competitive position in the face of each force.Current competitor rivalryNowhere is there a more heated 'battle of the giants' than between the big players in this market. The fallout manifests itself in price wars, ever more generous loyalty schemes, and a race to launch new products and services, all of which can take a heavy toll on margins.The threat of new entrantsNew forces are continually hovering, spotting gaps in the market left by the ever-repositioning major players. In recent years we have seen the likes of Aldi, Netto and Lidl reshape the UK market, whether in the direction of a no-frills offer or in providing an alternative to the traditional big brand and own label offer.The threat of substitute products or servicesWill it or won't it? Will the internet and home shopping replace the supermarket as we know it?The bargaining power of buyersConsumer pressure grows daily, fanned by the media, demanding more ecologically sound products, no GM ingredients, fairer trade with Third World suppliers, healthier food, better-labelled products, tastier food and cheaper food.The bargaining power of suppliersAt the other end of the supply chain, major suppliers can wield enormous power, whether through brand names (who could envisage a major supermarket without Coca-Cola or Heinz?) or simply through the scale of their operations.So, in each of these cases, what kind of value proposition might be required to have you be considered a strategic supplier?Aiding the customer's business strategyThis is no easy task, often because the elements that make up the customer's business strategy may not be easy to identify, may be in the process of change, or may even be disputed between different functions within the customer's business. Even when it is clearly stated, let's say at board level, there can be significant time lags between those stated ambitions and the practical actions of those charged with implementation.Faced with such challenges I offer the KA Manager and their team a diagnostic toolkit designed to cut through as much of the complexity as possible, focusing on three target areas: How do they plan to grow, or, what risks are they taking?How do they aim to win, or, what is the source of their competitive advantage?What drives them, or, what are their operational values?These three focus areas will be developed over the next three chapters, asking you to consider in each case the nature of the impact you already have, or could have on your customer's strategy. Part V will then conclude by helping you to assess, in the light of all this, the likelihood of there being a 'shared future' between you and your customer on a strategic level.Application exerciseConduct Porter's analysis for one of your own key accounts, seeking to identify the key issues that impact on their competitive position: the current competitor rivalry;the threat of new entrants;the threat of substitutes;the bargaining power of buyers;the bargaining power of suppliers.In each case, how can you best help them to combat those forces? What value do you bring to their business by doing so?Can you use this value to move your status towards that of a strategic supplier?What reward do you expect for your efforts?







16How do they plan to grow?Growth is the number one imperative of today's business environment, driven by the demands of shareholders and urged on by targets and stretch targets set by ever anxious senior managers. It is a rare business that aims to stand still, indeed as an objective, not to grow is said to be one of the hardest ambitions in the whole catalogue of business strategies.Any supplier that can help its customer to grow will be more than welcome, and the more obvious the link between supplier input and customer growth the more likely they will be considered a strategic supplier. Strange then that so many suppliers think more seriously about their own growth prospects than they do those of their customers, and stranger still that some salespeople will consider their customer's growth ambitions to be outside their remit - none of our business. The message for any KA manager is clear: this is your business, and should be a top priority in your KA plan.We must begin with a thorough understanding of the choices available to the customer in pursuit of growth. The Ansoff Matrix (Figure 16.1) suggests that there are four, resulting from the combination of the customer's products and their markets.Figure 16.1 The Ansoff matrixThe options are: Market penetration: sell more of existing products into existing markets.Market
extension: sell existing products into new markets.New
product
development
(NPD): sell new products into existing markets.Diversification: sell new products into new markets.Remember, and it is surprisingly easy to forget, it is the customer's products and markets that are under consideration here, not your own as the supplier. By all means aim to understand your own growth strategy by use of the Ansoff Matrix, it is perhaps a wise place to start, but once done, put that out of your mind and focus on the choices open to the customer.Growth and riskThe purpose of the matrix is to demonstrate the different levels of risk involved with each growth strategy; the percentage figures in each box indicating the likely level of success of the strategy. In other words, risk increases as we move around the matrix from top left to bottom right.Provided that there is more business to be had in their existing market (they do not already 'own' 100 per cent) then a 'penetration' strategy is usually the safest option: they already have a presence, they know the requirements, and they can plan their activities with the confidence of experience.As the chosen growth strategy moves around the matrix, from penetration to 'market extension', to 'new product development' (NPD) and finally to 'diversification', the chances of success go down (or the risk of failure increases, whichever way you prefer to regard it). The reasons for this are many, but in essence it is as simple as this: the top-left box is 'home' (the customer's existing market and their existing products), and with each step away from home (into new markets, and then new products, and then both new products and new markets) they are moving further into the unknown.For the supplier in pursuit of strategic supplier status the use of this analysis is twofold. First, to identify the nature of the customer's growth strategy, and so understand the nature and extent of the risks they are taking. Such an understanding will tell us a lot about their likely needs, their priorities, and their probable attitudes and behaviours with regard to suppliers. Second, and even more importantly, it will help us to assess our own potential for making a positive contribution to that growth strategy, and in particular the extent to which we can help the customer reduce their risk and so improve their chances of success.Reducing the customer's riskWhat sort of customer do you prefer? The sort who grows through penetration and so, according to Ansoff's percentages, is most likely to succeed, or the sort who might be taking more ambitious steps in the areas of market extension, NPD, or diversification, and who are more likely, according once again to Ansoff's percentages, to fail in their ambitions? These more 'adventurous' customers might just take you with them in their failure, wasting your time and your resources. So, do we instead choose for the safer bet of the penetrators? But there is a different kind of problem here; the demands placed on suppliers by a customer growing by penetration, where by definition they have greater control over their own future, might fall into a rather narrow and very predictable range: lower prices, lower prices and lower prices... Those more 'adventurous' customers might just be looking for something more from their suppliers in their efforts to manage and reduce their risk, and that may open the door to a genuine 'value sell'.It's the classic trade-off, low risk and low reward, or higher risk and higher reward. Perhaps the best answer to 'who you prefer' is to aim for a balanced portfolio, some customers promising certainty, with others suggesting a more challenging investment. Then ask: who might be most likely to regard us as a strategic supplier -the safe bet, or the risk taker?Consider the customer's perspective. Some form of risk is necessary if they wish to grow, but any sensible business will always seek to manage or contain that risk. There are many things that can be done to manage risk: market research;market testing;joint ventures with experienced partners;taking on experienced staff, or training;seeking help from the suppliers.This last point gives us our clue of course; perhaps it is with those customers taking risk that we have the most opportunity to 'shine' as a strategic supplier. What that involves will of course differ depending on their precise method of growth.The customer looking at new markets for their existing products (market extension) will be seeking suppliers that have knowledge and experience in those places - 'guides and consultants' as well as suppliers.The customer looking towards NPD will want suppliers that can be trusted with confidential information, that offer relevant innovation, perhaps financial support, but most importantly of all, suppliers that will be fast. The secret of NPD is increasingly 'speed to market' and any supplier that slows their customer down will be frowned upon. Imagine a customer dealing with a supplier through a bow-tie relationship, as described in Chapter 8; how do they view their supplier in terms of their speed? Figure 16.2 suggests the answer.Figure 16.2 The 'sand-timer' or 'logjam' relationshipThe bow-tie can look to them like an old style sand-timer, the fact that everything must be channelled through one contact point often resulting in frustrating logjams, and for both parties. The diamond relationship however is far more likely to assure the customer that they have proper access to the right people, the people that can make things happen for them, and most importantly, speedily.Those customers looking at diversification will want the most of all from their suppliers, and as a result might prove to be the most valuable of your customers, if you can help them succeed. They might be seeking any combination of speed, agility, flexibility, market knowledge, risk sharing, financial support, and plenty more besides, the importance of matching the customer's aspirations with precision is paramount in this scenario. If you bore them with your ability to deliver three times a week, and offer them extended credit provided they don't ask for any short-notice services, then don't be too surprised if you are shown the door.Sharing the riskAny supplier that offers to share their customer's risk must be an expert in risk analysis, anything less is gambling, and the Ansoff Matrix is an excellent starting point, but be sure to heed the advice from earlier in this chapter, the focus should be as much on the customer's risk as it is on your own, and should be seen through the customer's eyes. In determining whether they are, for instance, targeting a new market, the question must be: is the target market new for them? You as the supplier might know it intimately, you may have been involved in it for years, and that will be all to the good in your role as risk reducer for the customer, but don't confuse that position with the question of whether the market is new to the customer. The same goes for the products in the matrix; this is not about your products, it is about theirs.CASE STUDY Reducing your own risk depends on your ability to assess the customer's level of riskConsider a supplier of complex molecular raw materials to the pharmaceutical industry. One of their greatest challenges is knowing how much effort to put into a piece of work for a customer setting out on a new drug development. Will the customer's drug succeed? There are mountains of tests, regulatory approvals and efficacy trials to get through. It could be years before any appreciable volume of business is established. 'Jam tomorrow' is a common hope.Much of the success of such a supplier will be based on their ability to make complex assessments, assessments that will require the supplier to know their customer as well as the customer knows themselves. The questions that need answering are hardly the sort that can be discussed by a seller and buyer across a negotiating table. The supplier will almost certainly need to have a thorough and deep diamond relationship, which itself will only be granted as a result of achieving some kind of key or strategic supplier status. We are of course in the realm of the chicken and the egg... CASE STUDY Be advised by a master of diversificationSir Richard Branson gives some very clear advice to the company pursuing the diversification course, and he should know, having taken Virgin through more diversifications than most (record label to airline to cola manufacturer to personal equity plan seller to mobile phones... and so on), and with significantly more success than Ansoff's analysis would suggest. The secret? Do more market research than anyone thinks is necessary.Have a brand that acts as a 'halo' around each new activity.Seek help from expert suppliers.Partnerships are key to Virgin. Virgin brings its brand name, and usually some new twist to its approach to the market; the chosen supplier brings some kind of existing expertise. It is the dependability of a solid supplier that is often the key to Virgin's success, alongside that supplier's preparedness to share the risks with their customer.One of the best examples of this was how some aircraft suppliers were more prepared to support the newly formed Virgin Atlantic, by considering the leasing of aircraft rather than their purchase. By reducing Virgin's financial risk in a market scenario where success was far from certain, the aircraft supplier was the hero of the day. It is also well to remember that the customer was not exactly a safe bet: Richard Branson at this stage of his career was just emerging from being the boss of a punk rock record label, hardly the most convincing of track records!Growth and the product life cycle (PLC)Once the supplier has understood the nature of the customer's risk, their next step, in pursuit of strategic supplier status, is to understand the specific requirements arising as the customer's product or service moves through its life cycle. Figure 16.3 shows a standard PLC, with introduction followed by growth, moving into maturity and then into saturation and decline.Figure 16.3 The product life cycleEach stage calls for specific management tasks within the customer's organization, often seeing a change in the lead function as the product moves through the cycle, and so by implication leading to changing demands on their suppliers. Figure 16.4 suggests some typical examples of such requirements.Figure 16.4 The customer's changing requirements through the PLCIntroductionAt this stage the customer depends on suppliers to keep their promises - any failure can be very expensive indeed. Consider a food manufacturer launching a new product. Their retail customers may only give them two weeks in which to prove themselves, and then the product is removed from the shelves. Imagine the catastrophe caused should one of that manufacturer's suppliers hold their launch up by just two days: 'What's two days?' asks the supplier. Possibly the difference between success and failure. At no other stage is 'on time in full' so important.GrowthAs the customer's product moves into the growth phase, the biggest problem can sometimes be dealing with unexpected success. Forecasting is one thing, but nobody wants to hold back a runaway success just because the forecast was for less. Suppliers are chosen on the basis of their ability to keep pace with growth and those that frown and complain when forecasts are exceeded will not be doing themselves any favours in the strategic supplier stakes.MaturityMaturity often sees the professional buyer enter the scene in earnest. The customer is in search of increased efficiency and cost control. Supply chain management (see Chapter 12) will be much in evidence. The buyer may just ask for price reductions, and the unthinking supplier may just oblige. The more aware supplier will realize that at this point in the customer's PLC, cost reductions can be of greater value than price reduction. The difference? Perhaps the supplier can provide a service, or a quality of product, that reduces the customer's costs, a product enhancement that reduces customer downtime in their production, or reduces wastage, or speeds the process in some other way. The switched on supplier might perhaps even be able to sell such a 'solution' at a premium.Avoiding maturityOf course, products don't have to mature, they can be rejuvenated, relaunched, repackaged, enhanced, even replaced. This raises three important issues for the supplier: Should they be pressing the customer into these actions?If so, who should they be pressing?When is the right time?The answers will, of course, depend on a host of factors, but more often than not they will be: 1) yes; 2) marketing; and 3) as early as possible. A true strategic supplier will not wait for their customer's product to reach maturity before suggesting the means to give it a new lease of life. Strategic suppliers should always be looking ahead, and should not be waiting for the buyer to contact them with a demand for price reductions.Saturation and declineWhen the writing is on the wall for a product the buyer will be looking to reduce costs by the most straightforward of means - price. The future value in the product is not sufficient to justify more complex solutions that might involve new investment. The supplier that can guarantee price cuts projected into the future will be given a lot of airtime.As decline truly sets in and volumes start to reduce, some suppliers may be of a mind to raise prices. They may succeed, and may gain some short-term reward, but it is unlikely that they will be considered in any way as strategic suppliers.Why should you care, if the customer's product is on the way out? Well, perhaps the customer has other products at earlier stages of their PLCs, and the supplier would hope to be rewarded for their loyalty and assistance by a generous share of those more interesting projects. It all depends on the relationship.Matching the value propositionThe skilled observer of the customer's PLC will begin to finesse their value proposition so that it matches each stage, and each lead function.For customers at the introduction and growth stage, the supplier might offer truly tailored and innovative solutions, being prepared to invest in anticipation of a long-term return.For customers moving towards maturity, if it is not possible to help them escape maturity, more cost-effective solutions may be required. Perhaps the supplier will aim to offer already proven solutions, so reducing their own investment and costs, perhaps sharing those reductions with the customer through lower prices. Perhaps they can offer additional services that reduce the customer's costs.For customers fully into maturity and heading for saturation and decline the options may be more limited. The offer of value solutions may not be attractive to the customer, and the supplier will be keen to restrict their investment at this late stage. A possible option is to offer the customer an alternative lower-priced range, perhaps a 'fighting brand', with limited or no services. The key to success for the supplier using such a fighting brand is to keep very tight discipline on what is offered. Stripped down must mean stripped down, all additional services must be paid for, and the pursuit of ever lower costs through scale and operational excellence will be key targets.Reading the PLCDrawing out the curve of a PLC after the event, once the product is dead and gone, is easy; but how about knowing where it is while it is still active? What events tell you that it has moved from introduction to growth, or that it is approaching maturity? It is a jigsaw of clues that the KA team must put together: What do the sales statistics tell you?What do the customer's demands tell you?What do your different customer contacts tell you?What does the customer's market tell you?The sales statistics tend to lag behind the event itself, but they are just one clue among many. The customer's demands might similarly lag behind the event, which is why they often appear to be borne out of crisis and emergency. More up to the moment clues may come from your breadth of contacts (assuming you are maintaining a diamond team approach) and the customer's market.Before introduction your main contacts may be with marketing or R&D. As the growth stage is entered you might find yourself more in contact with the customer's operations departments, production and distribution, but don't abandon your marketing and R&D contacts, they may still have news for you. As maturity closes in, expect more contact with the buyer, and the same advice applies even more at this point; maintain your earlier contacts, they will all have something to say about the position of their product in its life cycle.Perhaps the most helpful clues in putting together this jigsaw are to be found in the customer's market; how are their products performing, how are their customers behaving? These are of course sometimes the hardest to spot, without a good deal of effort, but contacts maintained with those people in the customer responsible for their markets - sales and marketing in particular - will pay dividends at this stage.Those who sell to fast-moving consumer goods manufacturers have it easier than most in this regard, a visit to the supermarket often being enough. If the customer's product is at eye-level on the shelf, it is still in growth, if it has been moved to the top or bottom shelf, it's heading into maturity.Avoiding the lowest common denominatorThere is a particular challenge for a supplier that does business with a customer that has different products at all stages of the PLC. It is very easy to lose focus on the different circumstances and needs, and to then succumb to the lowest common denominator - price pressure.If a buyer wins a price concession from you on a product at saturation or decline, then why shouldn't they chance their arm at one for a product in the growth stage? Your being a strategic supplier doesn't mean they won't try such a tactic, but it is to be hoped that being a strategic supplier will mean that both you and the customer are properly aware of the true value of your contributions, at each separate stage of the PLC.Application exerciseUsing the Ansoff matrix, consider the growth strategy of one of your key accounts: What is the nature of that growth strategy, and what level of risk does it imply?How can you act to reduce or mitigate that risk, and so move towards strategic supplier status?Who from your team needs to be involved with whom from their team in order to make this positive impact?What reward do you expect for your efforts?Where is your customer's business/product in their PLC? What needs from suppliers does that position imply?What actions should you focus on to move towards strategic supplier status?Who from your team needs to be involved with whom from their team in order to make this positive impact?What reward do you expect for your efforts?







17How do they aim to win?Porter and competitive advantageChapter 15 introduced us to Michael Porter's 'five forces', a means of assessing the range of external factors that impact on a business, affecting its competitive position and its profitability. Here we will consider the responses that Porter suggests can be made to those forces, and consider how a supplier can assist their customer with those responses, in pursuit of strategic supplier status.The choice may appear limited, but there is much scope for variation within each of the two principal strategies, both described as a potential source of competitive advantage: being the lowest-cost supplier;being a differentiated supplier.Success is not necessarily the result of the choice itself - either strategy can work in a variety of circumstances - rather it is the result of the ability to focus the whole business on whichever route is chosen. Failure usually comes when a business vacillates between the two, becoming in Porter's words an 'in-betweeny', often the result of functions or departments working in opposition to each other.The implications for the budding strategic supplier and their activities are clear: aim to support the customer's chosen strategy, and try to avoid becoming entrapped in any internal disputes over direction or priorities. As with many of these strategic supplier ambitions, that is no easy task: the politics of your customer's internal workings can be a dangerous area and, while the traditional salesperson might be well advised to keep clear, the KA manager must be prepared to enter within, a task requiring the skills of the political entrepreneur, as described in Chapter 31.Being the lowest-cost supplierDon't confuse this with being the lowest priced. An expert practitioner of this strategy once said to me: 'The trick is to be the lowest-cost supplier, but not to let the market know!', advice ignored by many a CEO who chooses to boast publicly of their lowest-cost position while the salespeople take cover under a fusillade of demands for price cuts from all too delighted buyers.Getting the operational costs down, all along the supply chain from R&D to procurement, through manufacturing and on to sales and distribution will improve margins when times are good, protect margins when times are bad, and allows the use of a low-price weapon as and when times call for competitive aggression; a great way of discouraging potential new entrants.Nor should you confuse this strategy with being 'cheap', or tardy, or following a course of disinvestment, though sometimes it must be admitted those are the sub-optimal routes chosen, but perhaps it is unlikely that such a customer would be ranked among your key accounts. Many cost-reducing strategies, and particularly the long-lasting ones, involve significant levels of investment, especially in new cost-saving technologies. Walmart was one of the first to develop and use the IT systems that used product barcodes swiped through the supermarket checkout scanner to automate the replenishment process - a huge investment, but long since repaid many times over. Dell Computers rose to fame through their ability to take huge costs out of the supply of computer hardware as a result of their use of the internet as a sales medium; one of the first. In the airline business, the likes of EasyJet and Ryanair took out the expensive middlemen by developing online ticket purchasing, another example of huge investment in pursuit of a lowest-cost capability.In each of these cases the requirements placed on the IT suppliers was not for them to reduce prices, indeed the customer was more than prepared to pay a premium if working with the best supplier helped them achieve their lowest-cost supplier goals. This is absolutely vital to remember: a business pursuing a lowest-cost strategy is looking for suppliers that will help them achieve that goal, and that may not necessarily mean looking for the cheapest. If the supplier has nothing to offer but low prices then so be it, low prices it will be, but a truly strategic supplier will be able, and expected, to offer something rather more ambitious.There are plenty of myths about why Chinese manufacturing is so low cost, mostly to do with wage levels. While this may have been true in the early days, it is rarely so now. Take the Chinese textile industry, one of the lowest cost of them all. Tour a modern Chinese textiles factory and the first thing you will notice is the low level of staffing; these are highly automated concerns, using mechanization on the largest scale, and the latest technologies throughout. Compare this to the often shabby state of a 'Western' textiles factory (such as still survive) and you have the real answer.Lowest cost is more often achieved through investment than disinvestment, and even more so if it is to be sustainable lowest cost. Any fool can hire the kind of consultant that will remove huge swathes of staff and many do, but where does it lead? I have known several pharmaceutical companies who have 'cut costs' by firing large proportions of the sales force, only to spend more on employing contract sales teams. If this was in pursuit of greater agility then fine, but take care not to confuse it with a lowest-cost strategy.Where investment is required to reduce costs strategic suppliers will be well to the fore, helping their customers reduce costs through the provision of products and services that achieve superior performance, reduce wastage, speed processes, etc. That is not to say that suppliers offering lower prices are not welcome, but they will often struggle when pitched against the genuine cost reducers.One of the challenges for the truly strategic supplier is to avoid the theatrical posturing of the buyer who says it's all about price. I have heard buyers call their suppliers the 'soft underbelly' of the market, someone you can poke with a sharp stick when times are hard and bosses are looking for cost reductions. Poor suppliers will easily succumb to such poking; indeed they have little alternative, with nothing to offer beyond price and terms. A strategic supplier faced by such buyer behaviour will seek to reduce their customers' costs by more creative means.One problem of this approach is of course that such 'creative' means can take time, and the customer may be in a hurry. Of course, any supplier that waits for the buyer to demand lower prices before developing true cost-saving propositions is asking for trouble; the truly strategic supplier must always be looking ahead, anticipating and being proactive, not reacting to surprise demands.There are of course cases where a customer's lowest-cost strategy will come principally from economies of scale, large volumes matched by low prices. This does not negate the idea of a strategic supplier, but simply changes what they look like. Suppliers that can best help in such a scenario are those that keep pace with the volumes required, can take on the responsibility for large shares of the total supply, and can also meet the necessary price levels.Being a differentiated supplierThere are three very important letters in the words 'lowest-cost supplier': 'est'. It is not enough to be a low-cost supplier to win with this strategy; you have to be the lowest. There can only be one genuine victor in the battle. The ambition to be a differentiated supplier provides much greater scope and choice. For this reason as much as any other it is perhaps more often the one pursued.The customer may choose to differentiate itself through the quality of its product, the breadth of its offer, the expertise of its staff, the sophistication of its technology, the strength of its brand, the range of its distribution, the frequency of its new product development, and so the list goes on. The supplier to such a customer must choose carefully the nature of its value proposition if it is to make the right kind of impact to warrant the status of a strategic supplier.Perhaps the most important point is that the customer is seeking competitive advantage by being different to its fellows, the implication on its suppliers being that it will appreciate a privileged offer, an exclusive offer, a tailored offer.Consider a company that wishes to develop a Key Account Management approach as a key ingredient in its differentiation strategy, seeking to build diamond relationships that will bring knowledge, security and competitive advantage. The company is seeking help from a training provider. Will it choose a provider that suggests the use of an off-the-shelf training package because it will cut development costs? Does it choose a supplier that proposes an online training package because it will cut the costs of travel associated with sales training? Or will it choose a provider that will work closely with it to tailor the training to the specific needs? My own company knows the answer to that one.Matching or mixing?Do likes attract? It is an interesting observation that rather than seeking suppliers like themselves, those customer following clear Porter strategies will often favour suppliers from the 'other side': the customer pursuing a lowest-cost strategy seeking out suppliers whose differentiation provides the means to their end, while the customer seeking differentiation might be looking for suppliers who can provide the lowest prices through their own lowest-cost base. In fact, one of the potential problems with such customers can be that the more unique their differentiated position, the more they feel that they are in sole charge of their destiny and 'help' from suppliers is defined as standardization of offers alongside the related price reductions. I have heard one buyer from a major consumer brand say: 'We just want our suppliers to give us the basics, then we will sprinkle the pixie dust'.The customer's money-making logicIt may sound obvious, but knowing how the customer aims to make their money is vital. Obvious, but how confident are you concerning the essence of your customer's 'money-making logic'? Alvin Toffler, author of Future Shock, put it this way: 'Profits, like sausages, are esteemed most by those who know least about what goes into them.'Figure 17.1 suggests part of the problem; there are just so many options for improving profitability, and this figure only considers two broad starting points.Figure 17.1 Choices for improving profitabilityWhen suppliers fail to understand their customer's money-making logic it is often the fault of a buyer who prefers to play games rather than seek help. They might suggest that the source of their profitability is low purchase prices when in fact it is high levels of operational efficiency. That such subterfuge does not ultimately help the customer, nor the supplier, is something that has frustrated sales professionals for as long as there have been sales professionals, but such is life when the customer is in pursuit of a short-term gain. Discovering the real truth will usually require a broad range of contacts, and a thorough understanding of the customer's markets and business operations.CASE STUDY  The tale of the zero marginsMy first sales job was selling decorative paint to retailers in the UK. For the most part identifying their money-making logic was easy; there were those who aimed to pile it high and sell it cheap, and those who aimed for higher margins by offering range and service, with a range of subtle distinctions in between. I had one customer, however, a cash-and-carry, that seemed to use neither of these standard approaches.One day, on inspecting their selling prices I was horrified to find that they were selling at zero margins, which meant that, considering their costs of handling, they were losing money on every sale. I was convinced there must be some mistake, but didn't want to cause a potential crisis by raising the point, so made subtle enquiries. The result: there was no mistake - the prices were as they intended. And so I saw the disaster looming; before long they would discover their losses and drop my products like hot bricks.I resolved to do something about it by persuading them to alter their range. They majored on white paint, the highest volume seller but also the part of the paint range permitting the lowest margins due to fierce competition. If I could get them to take on a range of colours, surely they would start to make real profits?For six months I cajoled, badgered, nagged and bullied, all to no avail. I even suggested a trial of colours on sale-or-return and was astonished by their rejection of my generosity.Finally they took me aside and gave me a little education. I was reminded that they had negotiated particularly long payment terms -90 days instead of the normal 30- and that as a cash-and-carry they offered no form of credit. White paint had a fast rate of stock-turn, faster than the arrival of the invoice, meaning that my product gave them a very nice cash generator. If I cared to look at their other ranges, they said, continuing my education, I would note that they did much the same on all lines, zero margins were the norm.Their money-making logic was the generation of cash that they put to other, more remunerative uses, in other parts of their business empire.My efforts to get them to stock slow-moving colours were entirely counter to that logic, so I could hardly be surprised by their rejection of my proposals.Once I knew the truth of the matter we proceeded from strength to strength, majoring on fast-selling lines purchased in bulk to maximise discounts - all very simple.The lessons learned were obvious ones. Don't make assumptions about the customer's money-making logic based on what other customers might do. Ask the customer what makes them different from the norm. Don't waste time on inappropriate value propositions. Be happy with simplicity.Application exerciseUsing Porter's analysis, consider the nature of the competitive advantage sought by one of your key accounts: How do they aim to win: - lowest-cost supplier?- differentiated supplier?How can you best contribute towards their ambitions, and so move towards strategic supplier status?Who from your team needs to be involved with whom from their team in order to make this positive impact?What reward do you expect for your efforts?Consider the nature of the profitability of one of your key accounts: What is the basis of their money-making logic?How can you best contribute towards their ambitions, and so move towards strategic supplier status?Who from your team needs to be involved with whom from their team in order to make this positive impact?What reward do you expect for your efforts?







18What drives them?In the last three chapters we have stressed that the route towards strategic supplier status involves finding a close and burning relevance to the customer's sense of value, to their ambitions for growth, and to their means of gaining competitive advantage. Never was this idea of matching and contributing more important than in the matter of this chapter: what drives them?Value driversHere we aim to get to grips with the customer's essential business values, what we might also call their business culture. As ever our purpose is to make sure we come down on the right side of relevant or irrelevant, because in this matter of 'value drivers' the difference between getting it right or wrong can be likened to the difference between being a friend or a stranger, a fellow countryman or an alien.So, what makes their business hum? The answer to this question will touch on every aspect of your relationship; knowing what values distinguish and drive the customer's business will help us to understand how their people decide what to do each day, and why.Treacy and Wiersema, in their book The Discipline of Market Leaders, identify three key 'business' or 'value' drivers. All may be present in any successful business, but in really successful businesses, one or other of these drivers tends to stand out, distinguishing the business for their staff, their investors and their customers: operational excellence;product leadership;customer intimacy.Operational ExcellenceOperational Excellence is about doing the mechanics of what you do well. It is about smooth and effective processes, it is about the efficiency with which products or services are designed, developed, and brought to market. Economies of scale, uniformity and conformance, accurate forecasting, slick distribution, fast response - these are the sort of things that might be important to a business that is seeking operational excellence as its lead driver. Such 'excellence' can bring significant competitive advantage in a market where reliability is important or price is competitive.Businesses in commodity markets are usually obliged to take this route, closely related as it is to the ambitions of a lowest-cost supplier strategy, though by doing so they may tend to confirm their status as commodity suppliers, rather than attempting to escape from that position.Businesses operating in mass consumer markets, if choosing to take the no-frills and low prices route, will very often be driven by this value.Businesses that propose to provide a similar offer worldwide will also tend to be driven by this value.CASE STUDY  One size fits all...IKEA achieves huge efficiencies through their logistics chain, all the way from carefully partnered manufacture to their unique in-store formula of self-selection and self-collection. The result is manifested in excellent value for customers, and significant customer loyalty over a long period of time.International uniformity (Swedish product names like Gutvik and Sprallig make it all the way to Australia), modular ranges and a surprisingly narrow stock list (carefully presented to look a good deal wider) are some of the operating watchwords.Product LeadershipProduct Leadership is about producing the best, leading-edge or market-dominant products. Businesses with high rates of innovation and patent application often have this value at their heart. It is hard to imagine a successful pharmaceuticals company (branded as opposed to generic) that is not driven by this value. Investment in successful NPD is the key to success; the market for 'nearly there' or 'almost as good as the best one' drugs is rarely good.One of the biggest threats for a business driven by this value is that of falling behind; it is necessary to continually push the boundaries of performance - and be seen to be doing so.CASE STUDY  Push the boundaries...3M have long been famous for their policy of allowing employees significant periods of 'free time', and access to significant resources, in pursuit of new ideas and new products. NPD is their lifeblood, and indeed they claim that the lion's share of their profits in only five years' time will come from products still only in development (or not even yet imagined) today.Customer IntimacyCustomer Intimacy is the ability to identify with specific customer needs and match products and services accordingly. What distinguishes the customer-intimate business is their stated determination to develop close customer relationships and to act on the resultant knowledge at all levels of their operation. They will probably have a wide menu of products and services and the ability to mix and match these to suit individual customer requirements - or perhaps they will go further than this and offer a totally bespoke service.There is a limit to how many customers this can be done for and a customer-intimate business will have to think carefully about segmentation and key account identification.Something else that often distinguishes a business driven by customer intimacy is their willingness to share risks with their customers and to expect a concomitant share of the rewards.CASE STUDY  Truly tailor-made...A supplier of fragrances to the perfume industry will deal with some very demanding and very particular customers. Each of the customer's products is unique, and the fragrance within is equally unique. The base materials may be standard, but when it comes to the essence, the fragrance, there are very few, if any, off-the-shelf solutions.The perfumer's art is as much one of black magic as chemistry and the supplier must be able to identify with this. Customer intimacy is essential for success; absolute identification with the customer's needs and the ability to focus the whole organization on meeting them.The customers within the perfume industry may themselves be driven by product leadership - this is a market where branding is vital - and suppliers have to demonstrate an intimacy with the demands created by that situation. Truly customer-intimate suppliers must be able to identify with value drivers in their customers that may be quite different from their own.Choosing the leaderThe theory goes that any business may be driven by any mix of these drivers, but that in most cases a choice must be made as to which is the 'lead' driver. There is no right answer in the choice, but there is a right way to go about the activities resulting from the choice - consistently across the whole business.Implications for the would-be strategic supplierThe supplier with an ability to make a positive contribution will be highly valued, provided their contribution is relevant and appropriately targeted.Businesses driven by operational excellence will be looking for ideas that impact positively on their own supply chain. You might expect an emphasis on systems, logistics, inventory management and e-commerce.Those driven by product leadership will be focused more on ideas that make a positive impact on their own products. Look for their interest in joint NPD through supplier partnerships, and a focus on lead times. Expect them to ask about your innovation capability, and to want to spend time with your own R&D people.Finally, you might expect a business driven by customer intimacy to be interested in ideas that have an impact on their customers, or improve their own ability to have a positive impact on their customers. They may be looking for responsive and flexible suppliers that can demonstrate their expertise in particular markets, through to the end users.These are of course generalizations, but here is an unfailing rule: 'good ideas' from suppliers that ignore the customer's drivers are in fact 'bad ideas'.CASE STUDY  The tale of the burger...A friend of mine once worked behind the counter at McDonald's, perhaps the supreme example of a company driven by operational excellence. Their ability to replicate the product unfailingly, on every continent of the world, is a remarkable achievement. My friend was young and keen to make a good impression so, one morning, as a sign of his initiative, he took a bottle of his mother's best home-made pickle in and placed it on the counter. Customers were offered a free scoop from the jar to add to their burgers.My friend did not last long with McDonald's. This was the wrong kind of initiative. Now, if he had found a way to fry the fries five seconds faster, and followed that up with similar acts of genius once every week, then perhaps he would now be on their board....Selling to McDonald's, driven by operational excellence, is a different experience from selling to Subway, driven more by customer intimacy, despite the fact that they are apparently in the same market. What represents a 'good idea' will be different, the value hotspots will be different, and the resultant value propositions should be different.Identifying the driversIt's easy to be relevant, once you know what to match up to, but sometimes the clues are not all that clear. You want to know what drives them, so you ask the buyers. Do they know? Do they tell you the whole truth and nothing but the truth? So you ask the production people, and they tell you it's operational excellence. You ask the R&D people, and they tell you it's product leadership. You ask the salespeople, and they tell you it's customer intimacy. So which one is it?The point is that each function has its own mix of drivers; manufacturing folk are likely to be keener on operational excellence, something that they can measure, than customer intimacy, which will seem vague and a long way away from them. If we deal with only one function then the lead driver may seem clear, but if our value proposition impacts across a number of functions (and for true strategic suppliers this is very likely to be the case), then the task of identification gets harder.In the end, it's another jigsaw puzzle, and the more points of contact you have, the more cross-functional your relationship, and the more you discuss these issues within your own KA team, the more chance you have of completing the puzzle.Handling the clashesAs a supplier gets closer to the heart of their customer so they find themselves drawn into internal debates, arguments and cross-functional clashes. We discussed the problem when speaking of penetrating the customer's decision-making process, and talked of the need for a 'political' sensitivity in the KA team. The same applies here.Working with a customer that has a clear business strategy, and one that is translated into these drivers, is always so much easier. Those businesses that are less able to define where they are headed, and how they will get there, will probably also exhibit a vague mixture of these values, often to their own cost. Suppliers are often able to see the resultant clashes more readily than the customer. They can see that the customer-intimate sales force is promising product and service variations that are in open conflict with the folk in production and distribution, driven by operational excellence.An understanding of these drivers may enable you, as the supplier, to help. You know that the fault does not lie in the people concerned, but in the different values, and how those translate into performance targets. If the business truly wishes to be customer intimate, then the measures used to assess the contribution of the production folk will have to change, perhaps focusing on their flexibility rather than their occupacity (the measure of how near the plant is to full capacity). Equally, if they wish to be operationally excellent, then perhaps it is the sales team chasing the wrong orders, which is probably down to how they are targeted and rewarded.Making the choice does not mean that you throw the other values out of the window, but rather that you aim to make them more appropriate to the main driver. Basketball teams talk of measuring 'the assists', meaning taking account of who contributed to getting the ball through the hoop, not just the scorer. The same approach might work well in handling the clashes between drivers within a business team.The toughest task is dealing with the internal compromises; compromises that you know will lead to a sub-optimal outcome. Patience will be a virtue, and help in finding the opportunity to discuss these compromises at a senior level, with ideas as to how they could be averted, perhaps through changes to performance measures as discussed.This is not to say that it is impossible to achieve top performance against more than one driver. The theory of 'mass customization' would be argued in defence of this aim.CASE STUDY  Mass customizationA manufacturer of bathroom sealants knows that the customer wants a broad range of colours, but many of those colours will only ever be sold in small quantities, and each additional colour required has a significant negative impact on the plant's operational excellence. A combination of the purchasing, marketing and production teams comes up with a solution whereby almost the whole manufacturing process focuses on the production of just one colour, with the addition of the different pigments actioned right at the end of the process to achieve the required colour range. And what did this have to do with the purchasing team? The solution came from a supplier of pigments that was aware of the issue, understood the drivers, and developed an appropriate technology: achieving a strategic supplier status.Does it matter what you are?Might your own driver clash with the customer's? Only if you are unaware of the possibility. Successful supplier-customer relationships can be formed by any mixture of drivers, provided the focus in the relationship remains on the customer's. The danger is for those suppliers who become too obsessed with their own drivers.CASE STUDY Getting carried away... but learning the lessonFor some time now GE has positioned itself as a corporate leader in addressing climate change, a perfectly acceptable stand; but at times it seemed they would talk about nothing else. A few years ago their chairman, Jeffrey Immelt, had cause to reflect on how their chosen values impacted on everyday customer relationships.Some of their customers, he said, have been making it plain that they are growing tired of GE's 'lectures'. 'Can't you just shut up and sell us stuff?' they said to Immelt, and he goes on: 'That would be a paraphrase, maybe with a few blanks in between.'Value drivers and KAMMight your own choice of lead driver have an implication for the nature of your KAM activities? Of course, and if it didn't it would only show that your choice had not taken effect throughout the organization. It might seem that the principles and disciplines of KAM tend towards a customer-intimate driver, and while that would certainly add force to the KAM ambitions, it is entirely possible for KAM to exist and thrive in a business driven by operational excellence or product leadership, it will just look and feel a little different.If you recall the value machine model from Chapter 3, and the need to match the opportunities provided by key customers with the appropriate internal capabilities, then we can see how different value drivers might influence the direction of flow in that matching process. The business driven by operational excellence will tend to seek customers where that operational excellence will be seen as a benefit. The business driven by customer intimacy will tend to spend more time considering modifications to their own internal capabilities in light of different customer opportunities, while aiming to be as operationally excellent as they can in the circumstances. The challenge is perhaps greatest for the business driven by product leadership, there is always the danger of complacency, the false confidence of being the best, even arrogance. If that might indeed be a problem, then the practice of KAM will provide an excellent antidote.The cultural matchTo be regarded as a strategic supplier, must the supplier be in the same 'mould' as the customer; must they be alike on a cultural level? In matters of love we know that opposites can attract, but does that work in business? There are plenty of successful business relationships that exist across every kind of cultural difference, between absolute opposites; and yet anyone who has taken part in such a situation will know that they can have their moments of doubt, and of discomfort. There are times when both sides might wish for something more than that well measured and very tangible demonstration of business value; when the people involved want to feel they are working with 'like souls'. The preference to work with suppliers from the customer's home country rather than from abroad is in this sense often more than a simple matter of the efficiencies of geographic proximity.To be viewed as a truly strategic supplier it may be necessary to practise some level of 'cultural mirroring'. If this is not possible or desirable on the supplier's part then it may be necessary to review how far this particular relationship can develop.By understanding the customer's business strategy and acting to make a positive impact on it, the supplier will in some way already have developed a closer 'cultural match'. But culture goes beyond business strategy, being sometimes substantial and deep-seated as in the case of organizational or national culture, sometimes a matter of surface details such as dress codes.Some factors are clearly going to be easier to match than others, and some are more deserving of the attempt than others. Remembering to dress up or down when visiting the customer is simple enough (and the way to avoid much discomfort), while changing your organization's structure to mirror the customer's is a much bigger throw (and may not even be necessary).The following list suggests the kind of areas that you might need to examine (with some inevitably vague definitions against a notional spectrum in each case), first to understand the customer's culture, and then to assess the likelihood or desirability of a match. How far you go will be entirely down to your own circumstances, capabilities and ambitions. There is no golden rule, other than to observe and understand - once that is done, the necessary actions become much clearer: Dress code: informal - formal - uniform.Entertainment: none - internal only - supplier provided.Meeting venues: the customer's - neutral - the supplier's.Meeting style: 1:1- ad hoc - teams.Language: our own - international - the supplier's.Organizational structure: hierarchies - teams - flat.Management control: open - federal - centralized.Management style: empowered - process led - individualistic.Internal communications: informal - ad hoc - formal.Globality: local first - 'plain international' - global.Career development: ad hoc - fluid - structured.Gender: male dominated - mixed - 'positive' discrimination.Time horizons: short - medium - long.Attitude to risk: averse - shared with suppliers - entrepreneurial.Growth aspirations: low - medium - high.Growth methodology: organic - mixed - acquisition.Ethics: strong - pragmatic - weak.Trust: vital - pragmatic - unnecessary.Personal rewards: financial - mixed - psychological.Secrecy: open - pragmatic - closed.CASE STUDY To mirror, or not to mirror...You are the Global Sales Director. One of your most important key accounts is a customer based in Korea. Your KA manager for this customer is based in Poland, and is a lady. The customer has a manufacturing site in Poland, and it is here that you do most of your business, but occasionally it is necessary to speak with the people in Korea. The customer has made it clear over time that while in Poland this is not such an issue, in Korea they prefer to meet and deal with men, there have even been occasions when meetings have been cancelled because the KA manager was a lady, though other reasons were given at the time.You are doing well in Poland but to do even better, and to translate this success to other sites in other countries, it will be necessary to have more contact with the bosses in Korea. Your KA manager is unquestionably your most competent person, your most globally experienced person, and in any other circumstances you're automatic first choice for the task; but what would you do in this case?Application exerciseUsing Wiersema's model, consider the nature of the value drivers of one of your key accounts: What is their lead value driver?How can you ensure that your own value proposition enhances that driver, and so move towards strategic supplier status?Who from your team needs to be involved with whom from their team in order to make this positive impact?What reward do you expect for your efforts?Consider the nature of your customer's business culture, and how it compares to your own: What (if any) are the mismatches between theirs and yours? - Does this matter?- If so, what actions must you take to build a closer match?







19A shared future?Customers have plenty of suppliers to choose from; only the best will be recognized as strategic suppliers, and only the very best will be regarded in that way over a long period of time. Achieving such a position may sound great, but don't imagine it doesn't come at a cost. The cost can be in time, energy, investment in continual improvement and renewal, and of course, just plain money. It will be for you to decide whether the rewards are justification enough. I did hear one KA manager say to their customer, on being appointed as the customer's number one supplier: 'Well, that's very good to hear, but I guess that this is where it starts to get expensive...'If you feel that you will be unable to make the kind of impact we have been discussing, or that the cost of doing so will be too high, then you might just decide to stay as an ordinary supplier; there's no sin in that, and a good living can be made. The only sin is in failing to achieve what you might have been able to achieve.The purpose of this chapter is to help you in your assessment of what is possible, and how much you may need to change to achieve what we will call a 'shared future' with the customer on a long-term strategic level.The shared-future analysisThe analysis is completed using the chart shown in Figure 19.1.Figure 19.1 The shared-future analysisThis is a kind of a SWOT analysis, but one demanding a good deal more analytical rigour than the usual SWOT (which too often tends towards wishful thinking and an internal focus), forcing us to make the link between the customer's opportunities and threats (the external focus) and our own strengths and weaknesses as they are perceived by the customer (the true reality).Their opportunities and threatsStart by putting your own business out of your mind and putting yourself entirely in the customer's shoes. This is vital. Now try to identify the things that excite the customer about their future, their opportunities, their ambitions, their hopes. Remember, keep your own business out of your thoughts; these are the customer's own ambitions, not yours, and nor are they the ambitions you would like them to have because they might suit your own!Next step: what are the things that concern them about their future, the threats to their business, the things that they worry about, that they might be losing sleep over?It is quite possible that you will not know the answers to these questions, and if that is so your next course of action is very clear: find out. Ask the customer, and have all the members of the KA team do the same. Read the customer's annual report and their in-house newspapers; these can be goldmines for learning about their current ambitions and fixations.To some degree this analysis summarizes many of the questions we have been asking throughout the last few chapters; what forces are impacting on their competitive position, how do they aim to respond, how do they aim to grow, how mature is their product offer, how do they wish to drive their business? As such, the tool is an excellent one to consolidate a good deal of complex analysis already undertaken.Your strengths and weaknesses - in their eyesNow turn to your own company, but keep yourself in the customer's shoes. What do they like about you? What are your strengths? Equally, what do they not like about you? What are your weaknesses?Again, there is no substitute for talking with the customer, but this takes some subtlety. The aim is not to get them focused on a long list of complaints and insecurities!Before moving to the next step, stop for a bout of honest reflection. Are these really their perceptions of you? What would they say when you were out of the room? We are about to use this analysis to determine our direction for the foreseeable future - it will be as well to have it right.A shared future?Now consider each vertical column (their opportunities, their threats) in turn, working down through your own capabilities (strengths and weaknesses). At each junction indicate with a plus sign where your strength makes a positive contribution to their opportunity or ambition, or where your strength helps to reduce a threat or relieve them of a worry (use a scale of one to three plus signs to represent the size of the contribution). Do the same with minus signs where your weakness either detracts from an ambition or makes worse something that worries the customer already.So, to the all-important question: do you help or hinder their progress? Do you reduce or exacerbate their concerns?Where you show minuses, you must ask whether these can be resolved, and at what cost. It is one of the facts of life in business that no amount of plusses will work in your favour so long as there is one significant minus blotting your copybook. The actions required will involve correcting the weakness, but just as importantly you must give time to letting the customer know the weakness has been corrected. This is an area where perceptions can be more important than fact, and memories of bad performance are long.Where you show plusses, aim to talk these up. Plusses where you help them with their ambitions are obviously good news, plusses where you relieve them of worries can be even better news; it is much the same principle as regards blots on copybooks.In the final analysis, does the balance of plusses and minuses argue for a shared future based on mutual respect and partnership, or does it suggest a long battle over shortcomings? We have been thinking of KAM as an investment, and this analysis will help make plain the size and nature of the investment required. You will wish to invest in customers where there is a good potential future, but you may also need to invest in the rectification of weaknesses. There are no easy choices here, but the analysis will help you to identify them, and to establish some priorities for action.CASE STUDY  Finding the right propositionA French-based food manufacturer was looking to expand their operation into the UK. This was a very clear and publicly stated ambition, but they also had a major concern, and one that they didn't shout from the rooftops. They were worried by what they saw as a continual series of food scares in the UK market, and worried that becoming involved in any such scares might have a negative impact on their reputation at home.They were looking for a UK supplier of some vital materials and services, and arranged a number of supplier presentations. One of these potential suppliers also had some business with the customer in France, and so was able to learn something of the customer's concerns from their French colleagues.The UK supplier assessed their strengths and weaknesses, as they would be seen through the customer's eyes. High on the debit side was their price: they had a reputation for being the most expensive in the market. High on the credit side was their own track record on health and safety: they were spotless. Their analysis of the correlations between their own various strengths and weaknesses and the customer's ambitions and worries encouraged them to major in their presentation on their health and safety record as being the most relevant to the customer's biggest concern. Needless to say, they won the contract.Should we be aiming to make one customer more competitive than others?In assessing our contribution to their ambitions, a common question arises: is it the purpose of KAM to help certain customers to prevail over others? Consider the implications of saying yes to this: you actively intend to make some of your other customers less competitive. If you are very confident in the identification of your key accounts, perhaps based on the criterion 'who will be the winners in this market?' then maybe the answer is yes. But take care: how many 'winners' can there be? Must we be fair to all, or are some customers more equal than others?In some industries this is an area where large customers, those with dominant market positions, will try to influence their suppliers to help them, to their competitors' loss, through persuasion and pressure. Suppliers to the likes of Coca-Cola, Procter & Gamble, Kellogg's or Hewlett-Packard will know how difficult it is to be a strategic supplier while also actively chasing the customers' competitors.Managing business review sessionsThe shared-future analysis presents an excellent summary of the relative positions between supplier and customer, and as such can be used very effectively to prepare for those difficult customer sessions - the business reviews. Indeed, if you were a true strategic supplier, then such an analysis would be an open discussion between both parties. To go further, any supplier that feels the need to hide such analysis from the customer's eyes is probably heading for a fall.The competitionIt is one of business life's ironies that the more confident we are in the strength of our own position, the less we think about our competitors, sometimes to the point of wilful negligence. One of my all-time favourite comedy shows is that eternal classic, Dad's Army. I am reminded of a scene from one of the earliest episodes where Captain Mainwaring is lecturing his platoon on how to deal with an enemy tank, using the slim resources they have to hand. He briefs them on how they can decoy the tank, how they can obscure its view with a burning blanket, how they can use a crowbar to prise off the turret entrance hatch, and how they can deliver a deadly Molotov cocktail through the opening. It is the supreme confidence of Mainwaring and the reaction of Private Walker that brings it to mind: 'While we're doing all that,' Walker asks, 'what will the tank be doing?'While you are doing all your analysis, and making all those positive impacts, what will the competition be doing? Probably much the same, and perhaps better, which can of course negate all of your good (and expensive) efforts at a stroke.To avoid such negligence, as well as completing the shared-future analysis for your own position you should aim to complete it for the competition, using the same customer opportunities and threats of course, but now assessing the competition's strengths and weaknesses.Figure 19.2 shows an expanded version of the shared-future analysis, incorporating the competitor's position.Figure 19.2 The competitive viewNow answer three key questions: How do you compare?What can you do about it?Will it be worth the effort?Application exerciseConsider the overall business strategy of one of your key accounts: Do we know what excites them about their future - their ambitions?Do we know what worries them about their future - their fears?Do we know how they regard us - good or poor?Do we understand how we contribute (or not) to their ambitions?Do we understand how we help to mitigate (or not) their fears?Complete the shared-future matrix: What does it indicate should be your priority activities?How can you use this analysis to develop your value proposition?







Part Six The value proposition







20The customer's total business experienceThe following four chapters (making up Part VI) will deal with what is, or should be, the culmination of all the efforts of KAM described so far: the value proposition.All the efforts taken to build a deep and broad relationship, to understand the customer's market and business, to identify and match their values and their drivers, all of this is to help us develop a better, a more appropriate, and a more rewarding value proposition.I will remind you of the three questions introduced in Chapter 1 that are designed to help keep our KAM approach on track: Are we in front of the right customer?Are we speaking to the right people in the customer? - and involving the right members of our team?Are we having the right conversation? - and involving the right members of our team?All that good work is ensuring that we are in front of the right people in the right customer will be of little value if we are not saying the right things. Having made that investment in time and effort, wouldn't it be tragic if we were just to trot out the same words, the same value proposition that we had rehearsed back in the days of a bow-tie relationship and the limited knowledge and understanding that went with it?Value propositions will be seen to improve over time, provided they are permitted one vital ingredient: customer involvement. At their outset, perhaps as they leave the R&D building, they tend to be heavy with 'features', those 'facts' about the product beloved of the technical folk and the specification sheet, or perhaps they are expressed in the rarefied tones of the marketing department, a language that can often grate with the customer. (I realize that I am once more in the world of the stereotype, so feel free to soften the edges of my description if your own circumstances are better than this).Features are unbending, but perhaps this was of no concern to the technical people as they make up a proposition intended to meet the needs of all customers. Marketing messages designed for the whole market are likely to sound a little strained to the ears of an individual customer. We might call this stage of the value proposition's development the 'take it or leave it' stage.One of the key purposes of the KAM approach is to help us refine that proposition. Let's consider an example. The 'take it or leave it' proposition is for a bag of fertilizer sold to commercial farmers, the main 'feature' of this product being one of those chemicals with a name impossible to remember or spell, so it has been called (and noted as the magic ingredient): 'Oomph'.The marketing team has done more than give the magic ingredient its name, they have considered what it actually does for the customer, translating the feature into 'benefits'. Those benefits can of course differ dependent on the farmer in mind, and so we have the beginnings of a market segmentation strategy (we will return to this at the close of this chapter). Perhaps after a little more work courtesy of the technical team we find that 'Oomph' has moved on a stage, reformulated to be of particular benefit to wheat farmers. Perhaps it is now called 'Oomph plus'.As the sales team becomes more involved, knowledge of the customer's circumstances develops further. The more enquiring of the sales professionals might uncover deeper and more specific needs among the variety of wheat farmers, what we might call sub-segments of the market. Some of those wheat farmers wish to reduce their use of fertilizers and would smile on a low-application formulation of 'Oomph plus'. The sales team talks to their marketing and technical colleagues, urging the development of a 'tailored solution' for this particular group of customers.Throughout this process the value proposition has developed, from a simple take it or leave it 'feature', through to a specific 'benefit', and then on to a 'tailored solution', but what is not yet clear is whether the subsequent rewards will be worth all this extra effort. There is an oft forgotten stage in the development of any value proposition, and yet it is such a very important one; the nature of the supplier's reward. We will return to this stage in Chapter 22.Identifying the customer's total business experience (TBE)The ultimate stage of the value proposition is one beyond both features and benefits, and is one with much greater customer impact and significantly enhanced potential for supplier reward. This is the stage of the tailored solution that impacts directly on the customer's own business experience. I call this stage impacting on the customer's 'total business experience' (TBE).To get here will require the kind of KAM processes described so far. Our managed relationships will help us to understand the nature of the customer's market, their operations, and their problems, and if possible, in a manner that goes beyond the customer's own understanding. The development and implementation of relevant solutions to those problems may very likely require a cross-functional team effort, as will the determination to receive an appropriate reward for our efforts.Returning to our fertilizer example; your work with a small number of key accounts helps you to understand their true attitudes, and needs (the basis of any good segmentation strategy). Fertilizer, it seems, is boring, and no amount of 'Oomph' will ever make it anything else. Furthermore, the task of applying the fertilizer is even duller, hugely time-consuming, and a very low-grade task in the grand scheme of the farmer's life. Little wonder that fertilizer suppliers have never been regarded as people of any great significance. In fact, your efforts with 'Oomph plus' have made things worse as these more 'sophisticated' products can make it harder for the farmer to pass the application task on to a jobbing contractor.In short, the customer's 'total business experience' of your product is not a good one, but it is about to be made a good deal better now that the supplier understands the full picture.There is no more talk about 'Oomph' or 'Oomph plus'; indeed, you rarely mention the product at all, for now your business is using technology of a different kind to deliver a brand new value proposition. With the aid of satellite-controlled GPS navigation (a new challenge for your technical community!) you are able to map the farmer's fields in order to help them deliver precise amounts of fertilizer for each square metre. Some parts of the field require double or triple doses, some none at all. The result of this precision application is greatly improved crop yield and very often with less fertilizer used in total. You now charge by measured results and not by the volume of material sold. Your joint aspiration to use less fertilizer and improve performance leads to the continual development of better (meaning more relevant) formulations and application techniques.By working closely with our key accounts and our own cross-functional team the value proposition has reached its full potential and we receive one very important additional reward, indeed what we have called the holy grail of KAM, the development of value propositions that can be of benefit of all customers.Building your significanceSo, how does a 'TBE generated' solution differ from a 'plain' solution? Let's first go back a step or two. The divide between a feature and a benefit is bridged once the customer's interests come into the picture; we talk less about products and more about positive effects. Similarly, the divide between a benefit and a solution is bridged when we start to consider the customer's problems; we talk less about general effects (however positive they might be) and focus on a specific requirement.The divide between a 'plain' solution and one generated by an understanding of the customer's TBE is more subtle, but no less important. The conversation will need to go deeper into the customer's activities, and the motivations for those activities, identifying issues not yet articulated, perhaps not yet anticipated. We are still looking for problems in the customer's activities (Chapter 21 will introduce a tool designed for the purpose), but our search goes further afield and we speak less about solving individual problems and more about how our interactions across a wide range of activities improve the customer's total business experience of working together.By entering this new territory the supplier will certainly be enhancing their significance, which takes us back to an ambition noted in Chapter 14 where we considered the way in which the professional purchaser positions their suppliers. It will be worth a quick recap.Figure 20.1 shows the purchaser's 'positioning matrix', and we are reminded of the supplier's ambition to raise their significance (to move north) in order to attain a more strategic position.Figure 20.1 Supplier positioning: the differing intentions of sellers and buyersLet us suppose that you are positioned in the bottom-right but aspire to be in the top-right. I am your customer and you are selling me petrol for my car. I spend a lot on petrol (hence placing it to the right) but have no belief that any one brand of petrol is better than any other - they are all of equal insignificance as far as I can judge (hence my placing it towards the bottom).You try to increase your significance to me by several means, and we can see what these might have been, developing over time: a man in white overalls works the pump and cleans my windscreen, but then everyone does that so you give me 'Green Shield Stamps' (for those who can remember back that far), but then everyone does that. You claim that certain additives will enhance my engine performance; claims mostly ignored, except by a very few 'techno-cognoscenti'. You give me free glasses (an icon of the 1970s), and introduce an on-site shop selling oil, newspapers and cigarettes. Then come the loyalty cards, the small shop turns into a convenience store, a coffee shop is added, the store becomes a Tesco or Marks & Spencer, there is now a cash-dispensing machine, clean toilets, and so it goes on.Some of these things grab me, some of them don't. I have never gone for loyalty cards but the cash machine works for me, as does the Marks & Spencer - I buy my petrol where I can get my money more conveniently, and where I can spend it as quickly!The ones that work (for me) are the ones that have a positive impact on my total business experience of the petrol station - influencing the reason I stopped there in the first place, and offering me a reason for lingering there. The supplier with the right package (and solutions of this nature tend to be packages rather than individual benefit/solutions) now find themselves placed top-right in my supplier positioning matrix. Figure 20.2 expresses this developing value proposition as a series of concentric rings.Figure 20.2 Developing the value propositionOf course, market circumstances and events can influence my view. When a recent scare over contaminants in petrol hit the petrol stations attached to a particular supermarket chain, I, like many others, suddenly raised the significance of those suppliers offering premium brands distinguished by their product formulations - though the shift was relatively short lived for most.The key question is: what do those things on the outer edge of Figure 20.2 have to do with petrol? The answer is: nothing. What they have everything to do with is the nature of the customer's experience while selecting, purchasing and using that petrol: their TBE.Developing a broader capabilityThe pursuit of a positive impact on the customer's TBE often tends towards the development of packages and skills that enhance the supplier's overall capability. There are two very obvious benefits of this: the option to offer this enhanced capability to others;the creation of a competitive advantage based on the supplier's broader capabilities, not the individual product.CASE STUDY  Beyond oil...Let's move on from petrol supplied to individual drivers to oil supplied to commercial enterprises.Once upon a time oil companies just supplied oil, but as their processes became more sophisticated, and as their involvement on the customer's site deepened, so some of them found that they had developed a new and broader expertise: managing fluid supplies on a customer's site. For their key accounts, BP will offer to manage the customer's total 'fluid requirements'.This will almost certainly involve taking responsibility for the supply of products outside their own portfolio, perhaps in some cases even working with a competitor's products. The focus moves to reducing the volumes of product required and improving efficiencies of use; to providing value rather than lowest prices. Indeed, the price of the product itself becomes of less and less relevance as the broader services are charged for in more creative, more holistic ways.Failing to see the wood for the treesSuppliers that focus on their own products and benefits can find themselves staring at lots of individual 'trees' while failing to see the 'wood' of the customer's broader needs. That's why we do market research, but all too often if its scope is too narrow, it just leaves us looking even harder at those individual trees.Suppose you were in the automobile business and were thinking of launching an 'off-road' vehicle. You commission an agency to find out how many people need to drive 'off road' and how often. The answers come back: almost none, and hardly at all (which happens to be the truth of the matter). So you abandon your idea and miss one of the biggest growth sectors of the car market in recent years.In the early years of the 20th century, Benz conducted one of the first market research studies into the potential car market in the UK. They concluded that the total sales of all cars would never exceed 1,000. The reason? A shortage of chauffeurs.The questions are too precise, the scope too limited, and all because of the wrong focus. A few years back many suppliers of fresh produce to supermarkets were guilty of such lack of scope, as the case study below indicates.CASE STUDY  Going back beyond the supplier...Retailers would often complain about the receipt of damaged goods, a particular problem with soft fruit, while the suppliers would argue that the customers' demands for ready-to-eat freshness almost mandated a certain amount of damage. The suppliers concentrated on the freshness issue, and the complaints went on.No surprise that the retailers took the problem into their own hands, going above the heads of their suppliers, and approaching a supplier of plastic crates. They insisted that their fresh produce suppliers should purchase and use these crates in the delivery of their products, reducing damage dramatically, and also ensuring a uniform method of supply at their backdoors. The solution was imposed by a customer frustrated by their suppliers' inability to understand their TBE. No surprise either that the solution was entirely a cost to the suppliers and with no prospect of being rewarded for what was now their newly enhanced performance.Knowing the customer's problem better than they know it themselvesThis is not something to be achieved simply by asking the customer what they want. So often customers don't always know what they want, or what might be possible, and even if they do they might not articulate their real problems, particularly if doing so might make them seem shallow, or put them on the defensive. The ability to know the customer's problem better than they know it themselves comes from a proper investigation of the customer's total business experience.CASE STUDY  Getting to the truthMy own company (INSIGHT Marketing and People, a global provider of KAM training) once commissioned a piece of research to see why training managers chose particular training suppliers. The answers seemed very worthy; value for money, value for time, leading edge provider, and all the rest, only we knew that this wasn't the whole truth, at least not the truth that went to the root of their desired TBE. Many training managers in fact chose the supplier least likely to make them look foolish. See it from their standpoint: they arrange an event, they commit people's time, it's their reputation that's on the line if the trainer turns out to be an embarrassment. They want to look good, and the right training supplier is the one that will do that for them. Would they say this if you asked them? Might this even be a need only to be found at their subconscious level?SegmentationThe aim of investigating the customer's TBE is to provide an offer that 'resonates' with them, or to put it another way, appears to be in harmony with the customer's own thoughts. This is an ambition that will involve all the skills and techniques of KAM, to which we must now add one more; the process of market segmentation.This is a big topic, worthy in fact of its own book, so I propose to deal with it here only in so far as it helps with the development of the value proposition within the KAM approach. (More will be said about its role in the key account selection process, in Chapter 26.)Life would be easy if it was possible to have just the one value proposition for all customers, a one-size-fits-all solution. There are still those, who in pursuit of efficiency and internal order, would argue they can do this, and of course they can, provided they are happy to ignore the customer's voice, and perhaps also that of their own salespeople.Life would be impossible if every customer had their own unique value proposition, a bedlam of variations that would threaten to tear the supplier's organization apart at the seams, and by so doing would do no favours to the customers to whom they were trying to be so very precisely relevant.These are of course two extremes - one size fits all, and the free for all - and somewhere in-between there is a compromise to be found, and the way to find it is through the process of segmentation.A market segment is a group of customers within a particular market who share the same needs, attitudes, and behaviours, not perhaps exactly, but broadly enough for the supplier to be able to develop a value proposition that would suit them all.By dividing the market into such segments the aim is to reduce the number of variations in value propositions, while securing sufficient precision for them to 'resonate'. It becomes clear at this point that segmentation is then as much an art as it is a science, and a successful outcome might involve a good deal of trial and error.A few warnings: Your own products are almost certainly not your market segments.Your own technologies are almost certainly not your market segments.Your customer's products might be your segments, but take care: do products really have attitudes and behaviours as well as needs?Your customer's applications might be your segments, but the same test question applies.Don't forget the people factor in your segmentation - it is people who have attitudes and behaviours...If we return to our example of the fertilizer supplier introduced earlier in this chapter, a real case, we can in fact list some bases for segmentation as they were suggested by a project team charged with the task of segmenting the market: type of chemical composition;physical form (liquid, powder, and etc);crop type;soil type;climate type (high rainfall, low rainfall, and etc);application method (spray, powder, and etc).What do you think?The first two ignore the warnings of what a segment is not; the supplier's own products and technologies. The next three are a little better, focused at least on the challenges of the product in use, and the last is the best of them, segmentation based on the way in which the customer uses the product, but it still does not go far enough to be really useful. I recall sitting in on the report from this project team, very many years ago now, and will never forget the question asked by the consultant brought in to evaluate the report: 'Tell me,' he said, and with obvious frustration, 'do you ever speak with wheat? Has light sandy soil ever sent you an order?' Silence, and he continued: 'Are there no people in your markets?'The real segments were to be found, of course, in the types of farmer who used the fertilizer, because it was only there that one could identify real needs, attitudes and behaviours. Here were some of the possible segments that then began to emerge: Farmers who are traditionalists.Farmers who want to do volume for price deals.Farmers interested in the application of scientific method.Farmers who want to use less fertilizer.Farmers who wish to invest in yield improvement.Farmers who want an easy life.Farmers who want to be relieved of a tiresome task.A few questions then follow, to narrow down the field, questions applied to each potential segment: Are the customers' needs, attitudes and behaviours in this potential segment similar enough to be aggregated together?Is it large enough to be practical?Do we have the capability to reach it efficiently?Will it be profitable enough?Are we able to develop an appropriate value proposition?The last is the one most important to our current interest, there being no point in chasing a segment, however attractive by other criteria, for which your offer is not suited. In the end, as the example from earlier in the chapter explained, the final match was achieved through the use of new technology targeted at those who combined an interest in the application of science, the desire to use less fertilizer, and a willingness to invest in yield improvement.Segmentation based on the customer's products and applicationsThese might be a basis for segmentation, depending on the nature of the market, the customers, and those products and applications. I will give one example of a successful segmentation strategy that used this basis, but take care, there are plenty that arrive at sub-optimal outcomes by only going this far.The happy case involves a supplier to the packaging industry, a specialist in devices that allow us to open and close that packaging, one of their products being, as an example, the tear-strip. They have sliced their market into four segments based on the precise benefits required from the opening device within the packaging: ease of opening;ease of closing (for reuse);security;a means of branding.Segmentation based on customer productivityThere are many novel ways to segment a market, we will close with just one example; segmentation based on the kind of productivity desired by the customer.Imagine that we have developed a robot line painter, programmable to paint yellow lines on roads, or white lines on football pitches. We wish to sell it to people who contract for such work, but they are many and varied, so where do we focus?By investigating how the different customers would use the robot line painter to manage their productivity, we narrow the field to three target segments: Those who would use the product to reduce the number of people employed - we will call these the 'cost cutters'.Those who would use the product to take on more work - we will call these the 'expanders'.Those who would use the product to develop new kinds of work - we will call these the 'entrepreneurs'.Some quantitative market research tell us that the 'cost cutters' are by far the most numerous, but does that make them the most attractive of the three segments? We also know that they will pay the least.The same research tells us that while the 'entrepreneurs' are few in number, they will pay a good premium to achieve their ambitious goals, such as being able to paint a football team's logo in the middle of their pitch.Two last considerations help us to decide on our top priority segment. It is not easy to make large numbers of these machines, and even if we did, the costs of production do not show great economies of scale - so what would be the point in chasing the big volume segment at low prices? In any case, the real profits are to be made from the sale of software and add on services, something more likely to be of interest to the 'entrepreneurs', who are of course now clearly our proper target. The only remaining question is: 'Who might be the key accounts in that segment?', a question to which we will return in Chapter 26.Application exercise Identify the total business experience desired by one of your key accounts. - What needs and issues does this highlight?How close is your current value proposition to matching their requirements? - What problems do you resolve for them?- What value does that deliver?- What reward do you receive?- Is that reward sufficient for your efforts?What additional impact could you make? - What additional value would that deliver?- What capabilities might you need to develop in order to make that additional impact?- What additional reward would you expect to receive?Do you segment your market in a manner that helps the development of your value propositions? - If not, how might you segment the market?







21The customer's activity cycleHaving discussed the importance of understanding the customer's TBE we will now introduce a practical tool that will help us to get into the detail. Of all the many KAM tools, this one (alongside the Contact Matrix, Chapter 9), has been proven to make the most practical contribution to the KAM task.It takes us back to problems, helping us to answer three questions on behalf of the customer: Do they have problems with the way they buy from us?Do they have problems with the way they receive and use our products?Do they have problems when selling their own products in their own markets?We are in search of a value proposition based on solutions, and there is no solution without a problem - something known by every sales professional who has ever been sent out to sell the latest 'cure for a disease the customer didn't even know they had'.Figure 21.1 illustrates the tool that we will use to seek out those problems: the 'customer's activity cycle'. The small crosses around the circle (or repeating cycle) represent the individual activities performed by the customer in doing business with us, their supplier. It is important to note these activities in as much detail as possible, it is often among the minutiae of business transactions that the gold dust of added-value solutions is to be found.Figure 21.1 The customer's activity cycleThe cycle is divided into three sections - 'before', 'during' and 'after' - separating out the three questions asked above. The precise dividing points are fluid, and for you to decide with your own customer in mind, but in general they might represent: Before: all the steps and activities taken by the customer with regard to their supplier's products and services, up to the placing of an order on the supplier. These include, for example, their generation of ideas, identification of needs, supplier selection process, setting of vendor ratings, trials and supplier negotiations.During: all the subsequent steps and activities taken by the customer with regard to their supplier's products and services, up to the completion of their own product. These include, for example, the receipt of goods, quality-control checks, storage and manufacturing.After: all the steps and activities taken by the customer with regard to their supplier's products and services, in selling their own product in their own market.Please note: these are the customer's activities, not your own. It may seem pedantic, but you are not noting, at the start of the 'during' for instance, that you make a delivery, rather that they receive a delivery. Stick to this simple rule and the tool will begin to pay dividends by taking you deeper and deeper into their TBE.Many people will say that they have no interaction with the customer in the 'after' portion of this cycle. Think more broadly: if you have supplied a raw material, then you are intimately involved in the customer's 'after' - your product is inside their product, and is either contributing to that product's success, or is instrumental in its failure.Through the process of completing this analysis it soon becomes very clear just how well you understand the customer's TBE, or for that matter, how poorly. A typical outcome is shown in Figure 21.2.Figure 21.2 Limited knowledge = limited impactIt is quite common for the customer's activities at the 'late before' and the 'early during' to be quite apparent to the supplier - this is the stuff of your daily transactions - but for the picture to become less clear as we move either backwards or forwards around the activity cycle. This is a problem, and for several reasons.This 'late before/early during' part of the customer's activity cycle is where everybody tends to focus, you and your competitors, so finding competitive advantage here is increasingly difficult.It is also where you have very likely already done what there is to do to solve problems and smooth the path between supplier and customer; not too many more bright ideas remain to be found.It is also here, where the 'familiarity' of these activities can lead the customer to reduce your existing added-value contributions to a list of 'givens'; familiarity in this regard breeds not so much contempt as commoditization.If your own knowledge is limited to this narrow band in the cycle, the task is to broaden your understanding, in search of possible points of interaction where substantial new value can be delivered, and done so uniquely, so bringing you competitive advantage.Figure 21.3 illustrates the kind of 'cradle to grave' impacts that might result, the arrows indicating the points in the customer's activity cycle where you make a positive contribution. A short warning however: don't assume that a strategic supplier simply has more arrows, more important than the number of interactions is their quality, and quality is judged by the customer: do they resonate with them, do they enhance their TBE?Figure 21.3 A 'cradle to grave' of positive impactsCompleting the exerciseWe are however getting a little ahead of ourselves. The key to making this tool work for you is to take it in single disciplined steps. Resist the temptation to leap at 'bright ideas' (the arrows) before you have properly mapped out the full cycle, step by step (the crosses), detail by detail. There are in fact 10 distinct steps to completing this exercise: Select a customer, a product and a circumstance, and then map out the full cycle of the customer's activities, in as much detail as possible. The focus on a specific product is important - mapping out your whole relationship across a range of products could get too complicated for any meaningful results.Identify the gaps in your knowledge and take steps to fill them. This will involve conversations with members of your own team, and of course the customer.Identify the points in the cycle where the customer experiences problems of some kind, whether they be little niggles or major calamities. This is a vital step, and should not be rushed.Consider what things you already do to address those problems: - How successful are they?- What value do you add?- Do you get an appropriate reward?- Also consider your competitor's position against these problems: do they do a better or worse job than you?Then, and only then, move on to consider the range of new ideas and actions that could be taken, to make new positive impacts on the customer's problems.Assess and screen the different ideas, answering as many of the following questions as possible: - What are the costs to you of doing this?- Do you have the right capabilities?- If not, can they be developed?- Is there a partner to work with?- Might that in fact be the customer?- What is the value given to the customer:- Does it remove a problem?- Does it reduce their risk?- Does it extend their life cycle?- Does it impact on their value drivers?- Does it make a positive impact on their business strategy?- Does it 'resonate' with the customer?- What is your likely reward?- How sustainable is this against a competitor response?- Does it give you 'lock-in' (see below)?- Will the idea be usable with other customers, so expanding your wider capability?Identify the actions (the package) that will represent your value proposition.Assess the nature of the impact this package will make on the customer's total business experience.Determine the reward due for all your hard work.Implement, at which point a whole new series of steps begins, to include: ensure the right customer contacts - communicate to the customer - manage the delivery team - secure the reward.Problems, problems, problems...Step 3 is without doubt the most critical: the identification of problems. We have spoken before about the sin of curing diseases the customer doesn't know they have, and for that matter might never have; observing the discipline of step 3 will help you to avoid this sin.It is a sin particularly apparent in 'clever' companies, those with plenty of 'bright ideas'. I was on a long-haul flight recently, and was amazed by the technology of a passenger entertainment system that allowed me to watch, simultaneously, a huge number of movies. By simultaneously I mean, five minutes of one, freeze it, 10 minutes of another, freeze it, back to the first for another burst, open up a third, and so on. Brilliant technology, but what problem was it aiming to solve? Rather than enhancing my flight its complexity bamboozled me and simply made me feel inadequate. Perhaps it was aimed at teenagers, and if so it was no better an idea - there are not so many teenagers travelling business class on long-haul flights.Figure 21.4 illustrates an activity cycle with the problems highlighted. This is where to put your effort, curing diseases that most certainly do afflict the customer.Figure 21.4 The problems in the customer's activity cycleLock-inOne of the questions in the screening of possible ideas was: 'Does it give you lock-in'? Most suppliers can come up with ideas that will be of value to the customer, but how many can do so in a way that ensures sustainable competitive advantage? Providing extended credit is certainly of value to a customer, but it is very easy for a competitor to match the deal, or better it. Such added value can be short-lived, the competitive advantage is hard to sustain, and worst of all, it can start a process that will spiral out of control as competing suppliers vie to improve on the last offer. The idea gave no 'lock-in'.Sustainable competitive advantage comes from activities that encourage loyalty and that competitors are not able to match without costly effort. Buying loyalty rarely works. Frequent-flyer miles are said to be about loyalty, but they are very often false loyalty; the customer goes elsewhere as soon as the scheme is stopped. Worse, everyone can offer them.The secret of 'lock-in' is to find an activity or service that customers value, that they would rather not perform themselves, that no competitor offers, and that doesn't involve handing the supplier too much power. It's quite a list of demands, and it is a delicate balance; 'lock-in' implies supplier power, and suppliers should tread carefully.CASE STUDY  Locking yourself out?One of the most famous examples of a misplaced attempt at lock-in was that of Apple in their early days. Apple had a truly splendid operating system but they wanted to hang on to it and use its strength to sell their own machines; in other words, you could only have it if you bought an Apple computer. This effectively restricted the value that customers could receive, and when Microsoft allowed MS DOS to be put on any machine you liked, they won the day, and many more days thereafter.Lock-in can be unpopular if it is used for obviously selfish ends. Much of the complaint against the development of genetically modified seeds in the early days was that they were designed to force a link to the use of the seed supplier's own pesticides and herbicides. The infamous 'terminator gene' was perhaps the most extreme example, being a genetically modified seed that would prevent the crop from producing new seeds. Consider the sale of this product in the Third World and it is easy to see why that particular attempt at lock-in was so unpopular.A good lock-in strategy must involve a strong benefit or advantage for the customer. Suppose you deliver a raw material to them in liquid form, stored on the customer's premises in a silo-tank. The competitor's product, which has the same specification as yours, can be stored in the same tank, safely mixed with yours. As prices are not so very different, sometimes you get the order, sometimes you don't, the only way, at least historically, of ensuring it's yours being to enter into a price war. You have made some enquiries and have found that the product is absolutely vital to the customer's process, they must never run out, and so they tend to keep a good deal more 'in stock' than they really need.You propose the following. You will install a gauge in the tank that monitors its level, and on reaching a particular level will automatically send an order to you for replenishment. In order to place an order with your competitor the customer will need to turn this system off. Provided the arrangements with you go smoothly enough they may be increasingly disinclined to do that, becoming increasingly dependent (locked-in) on your service. They benefit in many ways; they no longer need to keep an eye on stock levels, they don't need to place orders, they keep less product on site, they deal with fewer suppliers. Against this, they might feel they have lost some edge on price negotiation, and there lies the balancing act to be performed by any supplier intent on securing 'lock-in'.Involving the teamThe best way to approach the customer activity cycle exercise is with a team, and of course the KA team is the ideal. Each member will have a different angle and view. You may be pleasantly surprised by the 'corporate knowledge' of the team, and what better way to pool such knowledge, and to demonstrate a common purpose? Aim to promote debates and encourage others to go away to fill in the gaps. Go beyond the immediate 'core' team; if you don't know what happens right at the start of the cycle, the very early 'before', think about asking your own buyers - what would they be doing at such a stage of a potential purchase?Involving the customerOnce you have made progress as a team, by far the best way to ensure the relevance and resonance of your thinking is to involve the customer. This is something that requires careful consideration; timing is important, as is whom you involve, and most of all, the importance of managing their expectations.First of all, the timing. Don't involve the customer before you yourself have command of both the process and the content. You can look very foolish not knowing 'what happens next' in the customer's order of events. Don't involve the customer if you have no intention of acting on any of the ideas for some time to come - that would certainly be an excellent way to disappoint them!As for whom to involve, the ideal would be the combined diamond team, but if you manage to gather such a group, be sure not to waste their time by turning the exercise into a sales pitch. This is an opportunity, perhaps one of the best you will have, to understand each other. I have facilitated such sessions, and am no longer surprised at the frequency of the comment, voiced on both sides, 'Well, we never knew you did that...' Think about using an external facilitator, and avoid at all costs being seen to take over the session, or seen to be attempting to manipulate the customer's thoughts or views.A good session will come up with plenty of new ideas, and it is fairly certain that you will have no intention of pursuing them all. So manage the customer's expectations before you begin. This is an exploratory session, not a promise to action everything that is said. A good way to proceed might be to agree beforehand how you will deal with the hoped-for list of ideas. Are they just ideas? Should they be evaluated? What are the criteria for that evaluation? How will you define value received? Is the customer more interested in the 'before', the 'during' or the 'after'? Must they be possible from current capabilities, or will the supplier consider investing in new capabilities? Should there be joint development of ideas? This conversation alone will be of huge value in developing a mutual understanding.The customer's activity cycle in practiceEach application of this tool will be unique, as unique as the customer concerned and the problems highlighted. The purpose of the following examples is not to establish any kind of blueprint for your own exercise, but simply to illustrate the kind of things that it can achieve.Flying the AtlanticYou're travelling on business - what might be your problems? Wasting hours getting through the complexity of airport car parks and shuttle buses? Hanging around in an airport environment where it is impossible to work? Not enough space to work on the plane? A flat battery in your laptop after only an hour on the plane? Eight hours without e-mails? Arriving too tired to do a good job?Airlines have analysed the activity cycles of such passengers and the result has been a range of services from home pick-ups to business lounges, from on-board seating plans with workspace and hook-ups for laptops to pyjamas and eiderdowns.But what if you are travelling on holiday; is any of that stuff of interest to you? Probably not, and the airline will conduct another activity cycle to identify the right package for such travellers. A particular favourite of mine was the facility provided by Virgin Atlantic to check in for your return flight from Orlando, Florida, inside the Disney Parks. The problem identified was the last day of the holiday, which was not part of the holiday at all. Now you can have another day with Mickey Mouse, an extra day's holiday, free.And what if your real issue is that you are a diabetic, and long-haul flights are a major problem for taking your insulin? Insulin needs to be taken at particular times, often relative to when you eat, but airlines make you eat when they want you to eat. That is no problem on some airlines, those that allow you to choose the time of your meal, and so secure the loyalty of such passengers.All of the above might be going on around the same flight, but the value proposition can be skilfully modified to suit different segments among the passengers, using this simple problem-seeking analysis and recognizing that value is entirely in the eye of the beholder.Crossing the Irish SeaThe ferries from Eire to the UK see a lot of racehorse traffic, and in the past a lot of worried-looking stable lads. Consider their problem. They're responsible for horses valued in hundreds of thousands, even millions, and they have to leave their charges down in the hold while they fret upstairs, worrying about what they might be doing to themselves.The solution, developed by Stena Sealink and identified after a careful analysis of what such travellers went through on their trips, was the provision of a video camera to put in the horsebox, linked to viewers in specially equipped lounges for the stable lads.Learning over timeThe dramatic, some would say insidious, penetration of the digital camera into our lives, whether as a camera, on a tablet, or as part of a mobile phone, illustrates how a value proposition can develop over time, features replaced by benefits, and those early benefits being upstaged by later solutions.At its first appearance the talk was about the new technology inside the camera - classic features. Before long new benefits were being promoted: smaller and lighter cameras for one. Then the discussion moved on to the way that photographs could be instantly viewed, like an ultra-high-speed Polaroid, and without the attendant complexity. Another benefit was the way in which you could now take dozens of pictures, without fear of huge processing costs, and simply delete the ones you didn't like. But their real breakthrough came when people began to realize that the new technology provided a solution to a sometimes unexpressed need; the desire to make and keep memories, and to share those memories with others. Nobody predicted the world of social media when the digital camera was invented, but it has certainly led us there, step by step.Category managementMost food suppliers to the retail industry will practise some form of market segmentation, usually based on the consumers, using a variety of demographic or behavioural methodologies, but translating these to the retailer's in-store environment has often been a problem, their products are mixed in with everyone else's, and the subtlety of the segmentation is destroyed.Suppliers to the retail industry now talk of 'category management', the idea that they should base their value propositions on a combination of the retailer's and the consumer's perceptions of value received. A good category manager is interested in the total health of the retailer's category, not just their own product within that category. The activity cycle is a great way to understand the sometimes complex issues that can arise from this seemingly simple notion.A switched-on food supplier will combine their knowledge of the consumer with their knowledge of the retailer, all expressed in one continuous activity cycle, to deliver a high-value proposition to both parties.Kraft was one of the first suppliers to go down this route, developing market segments that could be expressed and targeted both in-store and outside. The secret was to base their segmentation on shopping behaviours, as well as the more typical consumption behaviours. Initially, six segments were identified and working with the retailer an assessment was made of what balance of these six segments shopped in each of the retailer's stores, and plans were drawn up for each store's range and layout accordingly.Securing and sharing the value in the chainMany suppliers are frightened of the challenges involved in expressing value delivered in the 'after' stage of the customer's activity cycle. This is where the customer is selling to their own customers, and some suppliers might feel that this is not their concern, or even if it is, they are unable to measure the nature of their impact. For sure it is hard to measure such things, but if you do make an impact, and wish to secure your just reward, then the effort involved in doing so may be justified. And guess what, it will almost certainly involve the skills and processes of the KAM approach.Companies with an excellent track record of gaining a fair share of the value put into the chain beyond their immediate customers, despite being positioned some way from the end consumer, include the US chemical giant DuPont, with materials such as Teflon and Lycra, and perhaps the most notable example, Intel, with their ubiquitous 'Intel Inside' stickers.The use of brand names can of course be an important element in making a positive impact on the customer's customers, but this is a long-term strategy, with long-term payoffs. There are plenty of other strategies that can bring faster results.When Toyota launched the Lexus car in the United States, they wanted dealers to offer levels of customer service that would leave competitors standing. They knew this would mean the dealers having to invest in new systems, new skills, new training and so on. Their solution was to allow dealers a substantially higher margin on selling the Lexus than was the industry norm, with the proviso that this margin went towards customer service improvements that reflected well on all parties concerned.Gaining advantage, or avoiding disadvantage?So far we have discussed this exercise as a means of gaining advantage; finding things that are unique to you: what we might call the 'differentiators' of your value proposition. But we should also consider its use in ensuring that we don't suffer disadvantage, by identifying those things that must be in place: what we might call the 'givens' of the proposition.Avoiding disadvantage is just as important as gaining advantage, and may well involve attention to a more mundane list of activities, the sort of things that often get delegated to junior staff because they are 'administrative', 'clerical' or even, if we're honest, plain 'dull'.Making sure, for instance, that invoices are raised in a way that corresponds to the customer's requirements will rarely win you the business, but failing to do so will certainly lead to your disadvantage against those who can.There is no problem with junior staff looking after these things, they are vital members of the KA teams, often more important than the senior managers, the problem arises only when those in more senior positions, KA managers in particular, disregard these kind of activities as being unimportant, or worse, consider problems with these activities to be someone else's concern.A good deal of the already short time available for communication between seller and buyer can be occupied by discussion of shortcomings in 'mundane' areas. Worse than the time spent, such shortcomings can close the customer's eyes and ears to any claims on the supplier's part to be delivering added value. Who hasn't heard a customer tell them to 'get your day-to-day act together before attempting anything clever'?Avoiding disadvantage frees up time for gaining advantage. Making it easy for the customer to do business with you on the day-to-day issues is therefore a vitally important part of developing and implementing a more ambitious value proposition, and the customer activity cycle tool can be an excellent way of mapping out the critical points in that day-to-day process, as well as reminding ourselves of their importance.Application exerciseThis is a significant exercise, best completed by the account team, working on a specific customer product or issue. Draw out the customer's activity cycle: - Identify the gaps in your knowledge.- How do you plan to fill these gaps?Where do they experience problems? - Do your existing activities impact on those problems?- Do your existing activities add value?- What reward do you get for these activities?What activities could add further value? - Try to identify at least one new activity for each stage: before/during/after.How will you decide which of these activities to take forward? - Do you have the necessary knowledge to make these happen?- Do you have the necessary contacts and influence to make these happen?What benefits would be gained by working this exercise through with the customer? - Who would you like to involve?- How can you make this happen?How will you avoid the risk of building false expectations?







22Measuring the value - securing the rewardIf you are going to be as brilliant in your development of value propositions as the last two chapters are intended to make you, then be absolutely certain that you get the right reward for that brilliance. No value proposition is complete without its attendant reward. Too often I will hear a KA manager explain the efforts put into developing a new value proposition and then tell me the reward: 'We won the business'. Great, but might you have won it anyway, with much less effort and investment? Did you win the business at an appropriate premium? Did you gain some additional benefits?The secret to getting the right reward for a value proposition is not to be found at the negotiating table, it is to be found in knowledge: knowledge of who receives your value, knowledge of what benefits and advantages it gives them, knowledge of the priority they put on it, and knowledge of the way they measure all of these things.Most professional buyers will concede, if pressed, that value received is more important than the absolute price, so why do they persist in using price as the mainstay of their arguments? 'Because they can', is one answer, and 'because the supplier lets them' is another. The first answer reflects a deliberate tactic, but the second is too often a failing on the part of the supplier, insufficiently prepared to discuss their own value, and naïvely expecting the buyer to raise the issue for them.Can you really expect a busy buyer to measure the value received from your proposition? They might not have the time, or the means, and some will not even have the inclination. For many, establishing the kind of spend data used in the Kraljic matrix style of supplier positioning analysis discussed in Chapter 14, and comparing competitor prices, is effort enough.'Value' can in fact be a very complex thing to pin down. We have said often enough that value is in the eye of the beholder, and the buyer does their job on behalf of many different 'beholders'. Measuring value is something you will need to help them with, and perhaps even do for them.The argument in favour of measuring value is a strong one, and it is one I learned from my mother. She gave me some sound advice when the time came to leave home: 'Son', she said, 'always buy a good pair of shoes and a good bed; you'll spend half your life in one and half in the other.'Well, she got the ratio wrong, but the principle was right - never skimp on the essentials; it will always catch up with you in the end. That cheap pair of shoes, the ones that split at the vital moment causing me to trip and drop the priceless vase I was carrying, would be pretty poor value, all things considered. The cheap bed that loses me sleep, gives me backache, makes me grumpy and then argumentative, and loses me my job, would be fairly disastrous value.Yes, the argument is a strong one, and modern buyers (or supply side managers) will have it in their remit to look at the impact of their purchases on the whole supply chain, but more often than not it is still up to the supplier to provide the evidence.Using the right languageThe first step towards measuring your value is to make sure that you will be doing it in the customer's terms; you must learn to speak their language.It is not so very long ago that breweries would go to their retail customers with something like the following message:'Good news,' says the salesperson, 'last month you purchased 5,000 more barrels of our beer than in the same month last year.''No we didn't,' came the reply from the customer.'Sorry, I don't understand,' says the salesperson, 'here's the evidence in my sales statistics - look, 5,000 barrels more.'Once again came the same reply, 'No we didn't'.The salesperson was getting restive at this point at what seemed to be a breakdown in trust, but before they could put their foot in things any further the buyer came to their rescue: 'I don't recall a single one of your barrels coming into a single one of our stores. We bought cans, and bottles and four-packs, but no barrels. That's how you brewers measure your volume, but we're in a different business, we measure what we sell.'The lesson was well learned; how could you hope to measure and communicate something as subtle as value if you were not even using the same measures of unit size?Touching the hotspotsVague expressions of value are not going to hold much authority, they have to hit the customer's hotspots. This is another form of using the right language, Wiersema's value driver model (Chapter 18) providing us with as useful a guide as any to finding the right focus. If a customer is seeking operational excellence, and you have nothing to offer them in that area, then choosing instead to stress the enhancements made to their product quality is almost worse than saying nothing at all; it can be like speaking to someone in a foreign language but shouting to make yourself better understood!Understanding the cost in usePrice is a very blunt instrument, which is why it can make such a good club with which to beat suppliers. Suppliers should counter by discussing value, and one very valuable form is that of 'cost in use'.'It's not my selling price that matters; it's what this product will save you over its lifetime.' This is the claim of every premium-priced sales professional, but there has to be tangible evidence to back up the claim, expressed in the customer's terms. Consider the market for office printers.Figure 22.1 shows the reason why 'Model C' dominates the 'heavy-user' market segment despite being the second highest-priced printer. Its superior efficiency in using toner makes it an excellent cost-in-use proposition, if you are a heavy user, but the real secret of its success is the way in which the supplier of Model C has made it easy for its customers to recognize that value, and to be able to compare it to all comers.Figure 22.1 The measured value of a printerModel C doesn't talk about its selling price, nor even the lower cost of toner used. It has a much simpler message, shown by figures in the right-hand column: what it costs to print a page of paper. It's a great measure of value received simply because it is expressed in the customer's terms. From this one figure the buyer can make some relatively simple calculations based on their own usage, to determine the real value of the printer in different circumstances.Could you do something similar for your customers? If your answer is yes, but only with a great deal of effort, then surely that is why you have key accounts; those being the customers where such efforts are justified. Don't try and calculate this kind of value received for every customer, but do it for your key accounts, and perhaps the results will not be so very different for other customers in the same market segment? One of the rewards of KAM is of course the fact that the learning gained from investing time in some customers can reap benefits with other customers.If you have something in mind that is similar to the example in Figure 22.1, use the following questions to assess its true worth and practicability: Is it measurable and quantifiable?Can it be presented to the customer using their terms?Is it something that matters to the customer - is it a hotspot?Are we in contact with the right people in the customer in order to demonstrate our value?Are we using the right people from our own KA team to demonstrate the value?Does it give us a sustainable competitive advantage - might it even give us some form of lock-in?Will we be able to secure an appropriate reward?Securing the rewardRewards come in many ways, tangible and intangible, business and personal, short- and long-term, and combined they all make up an important package. In the grand scheme of things the package is probably more important than any individual element, but in the heat of the moment, at the point of celebration, certain individual elements tend to dominate, the most obvious being the volume, the price, and the margin.These are very important, but don't ignore the rest, as it is entirely possible that one of the more intangible rewards, such as enhancing customer loyalty, might pay dividends over time that outweigh any short-term gain on price. They might even (though take care not to make excuses here) justify a short-term loss on price...The following lists just some of the measures of rewards that should be considered by any KA team, divided into sections that suggest some broad categories of reward, some more tangible and measurable than others: A premium price.A big volume order (only a reward of course if your plant is actually seeking big volume orders).Improved margins.Improves our efficiency - reduces our cost to serve.Increased share of the customer's business.Extension into new areas within the customer's business - new product areas, new locations, new businesses.Greater supplier security.Recognized as first choice to hear about new opportunities.Enhanced supplier status.Key or strategic supplier status.Enhanced customer loyalty.Broader and deeper access to people within the customer.A reference point for other customers - the customer as an ambassador.Learning from the customer that can be applied to other customers.Don't undervalue the rewards that are harder to measure. A famous dictum from the annals of business history goes as follows: 'If you can't measure it, you can't manage it'. I might dispute that claim, if space allowed, but instead will sound a warning to those who have put a most unfortunate spin on the dictum: 'If you can't measure it, it doesn't matter'. I'm not sure that I would advise anybody to spend too much time trying to measure the extent to which a customer acts as an ambassador on their behalf, or trying to rate different customers in this regard against some kind of scale, but when it happens, you know it's important!Application exerciseConsider the nature of your value to the customer, and your ability to demonstrate and measure its impact, and so determine your proper reward: What 'features' of your offer can you use to demonstrate value received by the customer: - that are measurable and quantifiable;- that matter to the customer (ie these features are genuine benefits);- where you have a competitive advantage;- where you will get an appropriate reward?Who from your team needs to be in contact with whom from their team, in order to demonstrate your value, and to secure the appropriate reward?Do you speak the customer's language?Is value expressed in their terms, as value received?What package of rewards do you seek?







23Making the proposalProposals are opportunities to show that you have listened, and that you have understood. Management consultants are often criticized for simply playing back to their clients what they were told at the briefing stage. If that is all they do then the criticism is fully justified, but if this is their 'opening', before the meat of their report, designed to show that they have listened and understood, then there is no problem.This is however something that requires a certain finesse. A well regarded technique is to use the customer's words, their examples, their three letter acronyms, even their presentation style, all as a means to establish a rapport that says: we think alike. It's also a great way to avoid one of the sins of making proposals, the temptation to boast, which if taken too far can easily turn into arrogance. Fancy presentations that parade the supplier's logo in front of the customer can look like boasting. Using examples from outside the customer's experience can look like boasting. Using language that talks down to the customer can not only look like arrogance, it is arrogance. Talk their language and there is no need to boast.Managing changeMost sales propositions involve some form of change for the customer: buy more of my product, stop buying so much of my competitor's, upgrade to an improved product, pay me more, and etc. Some sales professionals feel that in order to get the customer to change they must boast, at least to some extent. How else can customers be made to recognize our superiority?There is a better way. Selling is about managing change, and managing change is about converting negative thoughts to positive ones. Let's start with the negative thoughts, from the customer's perspective: dissatisfaction with what they have at present, with what we might call the status quo. If that's where your customer is, then great: you already have the first part of the 'change equation' in place.Figure 23.1 shows the 'change equation', expressing the fact that people will change, from one supplier to another, from a lower price to a higher, from one product to another, only if a sequence of thoughts is in place. First, they must be dissatisfied with what they have already. People don't buy beds simply because they see a good price in a bed shop window. They buy a bed because their existing one is too small, too uncomfortable, too squeaky: bed sellers describe it as a 'distress purchase'.Figure 23.1 The change equationThe sales professional's job begins with sowing seeds of dissatisfaction, in much the same way that advertisers persuade us that we are too fat, too old, too tired, but if that was all they did then they would be unpopular folk indeed. Sellers and advertisers alike must move swiftly on to the next part of the change equation: establishing a shared vision of a possible future. How could things be? Wouldn't it be great if you were 12 pounds lighter, looked five years younger, had blacker hair? Wouldn't it be great if you had a bed three times the size? It might not seem attainable at this point, but no matter, this is a 'vision' of what could be.The key word here is 'shared'. You know what you want them to want, but do they?CASE STUDY  Getting ahead of your customer...When Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone, he toured the United States showing it off to what he hoped would be interested businessmen. After one such session, he was approached by an apparent enthusiast: 'Mr Bell, I really like your new toy,' said the man, 'It's my daughter's birthday party tomorrow and I would be very grateful if you would come along to show it off to her friends.'Well, the great man was incensed: 'It is not a toy!' he exploded. 'Don't you realize that this will revolutionize communications and your business? Just think, with one of these you can talk to a customer 300 miles away.'The businessman thought for a moment and then answered: 'But, Mr Bell, I don't have any customers 300 miles away...'Alexander Graham Bell was ahead of his customers, much too far ahead, and this slowed him down. He needed to look at the world through their eyes, not his own, and that can be hard for an inventor or a visionary. The needs were there, deep inside, but they were what we might call latent needs. A little later in this chapter we will look how such needs can be coaxed out of the customer, through skilful questioning.Once the shared vision is established, and this might take time, so be patient, next comes the 'first practical steps' stage of the change equation. Change can be daunting, so why not make it easier for the customer by providing a lower entry point? Don't ask them to buy here and now, ask them to trial. Don't ask them to commit, ask them to read about it. Don't ask them to devote hours of their time, ask for a five-minute conversation.All of this - the dissatisfaction, the shared vision, and the first practical steps - must add up to something greater than the cost of change. The cost might be money, or it might be ego, or a dozen other things. The mathematicians among you will have spotted that this isn't in fact an equation, but an inequality - one side has to be greater than the other for it to work - and that suggests the options open to the persuader. First choice; reduce the cost of change: a lower price perhaps? Or second choice; increase the other side of the inequality: more dissatisfaction, a more splendid vision, or an easier first step...The way to do this is through a questioning strategy, but before we look at what that involves we must conduct another piece of analysis: how do you stack up against the competition?The proposal analysisThe change equation will help you assess how your proposal may be received compared to the buyer's simplest option: doing nothing. But what if you are up against another kind of alternative, a competitive offer?Do you have a competitive advantage, in the customer's eyes? Figure 23.2 illustrates a tool that can be helpful in answering this question in a measured and logical way, rather than through the kind of sales bravado that simply asserts that of course we do!Figure 23.2 The proposal analysisThe tool asks us to compare our proposal to that of a competitor, as viewed by the customer. In this case the customer is a training company, we are trying to sell them a flip chart stand, and our competitor is hoping to have them purchase an overhead projector instead. (Yes, this is an ancient example, overhead projectors are only found today in antique shops, but I defend it on the grounds of nostalgia!)First, list the customer's needs, as you understand them, down the left-hand side. By dividing them into performance needs, financial needs and 'other needs' that represent important elements of their TBE (total business experience, see Chapter 20), we help ensure a broad approach, rather than listing the ones we think our proposal will stack up well against! Be sure to include both tangible and intangible, quantifiable and qualitative, business and personal, concrete and psychological.Once the customer's needs are listed (and if you are not sure how close you are to the truth, find a way of asking them before proceeding) you must score your proposal in comparison to the competitor's, with a score of 2 meaning the proposal meets the need well, a score of 1 meaning it is OK, and a score of 0 meaning that it is poor, or doesn't meet the need at all.Adding up the scores you may find yourself in a losing position, but all is not lost! Next you should consider the members of the DMU (decision-making unit), added to the right hand columns. Might there be differences of need or opinion? In our example, two members of the DMU are considered - the trainer who will use the equipment (and is eager to please their audience), and an imaginary delegate at a training event (who does not want to be bored rigid), who will experience the output of the tool used. Note any particular interest with an X, or XX for a very significant interest.Let's look at what we have. So far, it isn't looking too good for the flip chart business. If the buyer were a computer, you would have lost on points. Fortunately, the buyer is human and you have some choices: Argue with the customer's assessment: 'But you're wrong, it is
very
easy to prepare!' Rarely a good idea.Downgrade the competitor's offer: 'But have you seen the price of bulbs?'
An even worse idea - this just gets the customer defending the competitor.Raise the importance of those needs where your offer shows a clear strength. The best plan by far.There are many ways to do this, but let's consider two: finding 'coalitions' of interest in the DMU;the 'CICS' questioning strategy.First, the 'coalition of interests' approach. Are there any issues or needs where your offer can satisfy all, or most, of the important members of the DMU? Are there points in your offer that provide a compromise for different members of that DMU?In our example, the issue of being able to use the presentation tool in a variety of environments might just be the answer. Delegates at an event don't want to be victims of a one-way lecture from someone armed with a folder full of slides. And what if the weather was so wonderful that they wanted to take the course outside? Your proposal would allow the trainer greater flexibility and the delegates a more enjoyable experience - grounds for a good coalition of interests.The CICS questioning strategyQuestioning is a skill, to be learned through practice and feedback; it is not enough simply to know the mechanical process, and the skills required can certainly not be learned from a book. With this health warning in mind, the following deals only with the mechanical process and is intended as no more than the start of a discussion to be had within your own KA team.The best proposals are never lectures. Questions lie at the heart of persuasion and are a vital part of building genuine partnerships. We need to prepare a questioning strategy that will help raise the importance, in the customer's view, of those needs where your proposal makes the strongest case (as learned from the proposal analysis).This is a four-part questioning strategy (the acronym CICS refers to the four key words highlighted below), illustrated by the type of questions we might ask the trainer in the training company of our flipchart/OHP example: Identify the customer's current Circumstances. Such questions should be simple and not take up too much time - do as much research as possible in advance and use the questions to confirm that research, and set the conversation in the desired direction.• In what circumstances will you be using this tool?• What do you hope to achieve through its use?• Is it for presentation, the recording of comments, to stimulate and manage discussion, or all three?Uncover existing or potential Issues in the customer's mind. These questions are a little more searching, and should be asked in a way that encourages the customer to expand rather than simply respond with a series of yes and no answers.• What kind of problems do you experience when running training events?• What can you do when attention is flagging?• How do delegates feel about being on the receiving end of a lecture?What might be the future Consequence of these issues? This the vital stage, as here we hope to build sufficient dissatisfaction along the lines advised by the change equation.• What happens to the learning experience once attention has wandered?• How do you feel about 'losing control'?• What might they think of you?Explore the possible Solutions. These must remain questions, not assertions by the seller; we want the customer to express the solution for themselves.• How might a flipchart presentation help you to regain attention and take control?• How could the use of a flipchart make you popular into the bargain?This is of course a huge simplification of a questioning process that might take some time. CICS is not a slick mechanical process, but an aid to your thinking. It is as much a planning tool as an actual order of events. Increase the complexity of the sale, and such a questioning strategy could extend over several meetings.Take great care not to use such a questioning strategy as a means of 'laying traps', the 'now I've got you' school of selling. Nothing will stop the customer from answering your questions faster than making them think you are walking them out on to a branch of a tree, in preparation for sawing it off at the trunk!It is also a strategy that must involve the whole KA team. Every customer interaction is to some extent a part of this strategy, whether identifying the circumstances, uncovering the issues, elaborating on the possible consequences or exploring the solutions.The elevator pitchAsking questions is without doubt the most effective approach when promoting change, but from time to time it is also necessary to make a clear statement of your value proposition, otherwise it might just seem you don't have one! Sometimes there isn't time for questions, sometimes the customer simply asks you to say what it is you can do for them.Your value proposition might be complex, and need some explaining, but however complex it remains a good discipline to see if you can get it down to one or two sentences. The idea of the elevator pitch is useful in this regard.Imagine you are calling on a customer and are waiting for the elevator to take you to the buyer's office on the 36th floor. As you step in, the customer's CEO steps in beside you, and seeing your visitor's badge, asks: 'So, what are you here for?'You have between floor zero and floor 36 to say something useful, something helpful, something impactful enough so that when the elevator arrives at your floor the CEO says: 'Interesting, come and see me on the 39th floor when you are done.'What would you say? Hopefully not anything like: 'Well, I'm from ABC
Mouldings, we're based in Birmingham, and we specialize in...', as you'll arrive before saying anything of value whatsoever. The elevator pitch has to be about them; what value do you bring to their products, their costs, their growth plans, their markets, their customers, their business.I like the idea of the elevator pitch for several reasons: it forces you to be succinct;it obliges you to think about your positive impact on the customer;it encourages you to voice your value proposition in their language;it encourages you to think about the issues that weigh on their minds right now.One last point: it is an idea, not an actual strategy! I neither encourage you to loiter in elevator lobbies waiting to spot senior managers, nor seek out customers who live in tall buildings where you have the chance to say enough...Application exerciseConsider the value proposition to one of your key accounts: Do you have all the elements of the change equation? - Which elements are missing?- Which elements need enhancing?Draw up a benefit analysis: - Where are your strengths?- Where are the competitor's strengths?- Do you need to change your value proposition, or can you target your existing proposition more effectively?- How can you raise the level of importance of those aspects of the customer's needs that will play to your strengths?Prepare an appropriate CICS sales/questioning strategy.What is your elevator pitch?







Part SevenPlanning and joint planning







24The key account planThere are KA managers who enjoy rising to the challenge of customer business analysis, there are KA managers who get a buzz from the matchmaking of relationship management, and there are KA managers who gain deep satisfaction from the development and delivery of a compelling value proposition, but I am yet to meet the KA manager who honestly enjoys writing key account plans. It is fair to say that this is the least loved part of the whole KAM process.It is no surprise that the 'hunter' postpones the task for as long as possible, but even the 'farmer' needs encouragement to get the task done. So how about this for a reason to get the task completed: writing a KA plan is about making a 'contract' with your boss. The plan shows that you know what you are doing, and evidences how you and your team will go about doing it, including any help required, and in return
your boss will ensure that the help is forthcoming, and will grant you the authority and freedom of action necessary to carry it out. No more micro-management. No more endless reporting of your movements and actions in order to justify them. A dream world? No, simply the world of good KAM practice.If there is no written plan, then expect to be micro-managed, expect to have you're activities monitored, questioned and checked up on, and don't expect to be given the support you need. It's a simple enough reason to write a plan.So why the great reluctance to consign plans to paper? Sometimes it is the fear of nailing forecasts to the wall, of making what amount to promises in a fickle world. Sometimes it is the sales professional's preference for living by their wits rather than operating within the restrictions of management templates (a reason that I have much sympathy for, particularly if those templates are poorly conceived). Sometimes it is as simple as not knowing how to go about the task (a reason that will no longer be on the list by the end of this chapter), and sometimes, perhaps most often in fact, it is because the KA manager sees no purpose in it, that is; no benefit to them, and no benefit to the customer.The purpose of the KA planSo why write a KA plan? Here are 10 of the most common reasons that I have heard down the years: It is a requirement set by senior management.It allows sales management to monitor performance, and compare progress across different customers.The KA plan is where we go to access our knowledge about the customer.The planning process helps us to get our thoughts and actions together.The plan helps us to communicate the importance of the customer to people within our own business.The plan helps us to communicate objectives and actions to the members of the KA team.A good plan can be shared with the customer, as a means of showing our ambitions and securing our rewards.A written plan is the best way of tracking progress against targets and so determining the success of our efforts and the return on our KAM investment.A KA plan is a means of ensuring that the appropriate value proposition is developed, communicated, and rewarded.The plan is an agreement between the KA team and senior management on what help and investment is required, and clarifies any senior management role in making that happen.The first four reasons are so poor as to hardly need comment, but here goes anyway: Of course it is a requirement set by senior management (why wouldn't it be?), but if that's the best you can come up with I for one would not play ball.As for helping my bosses to monitor me, don't be surprised if I put as little effort as possible into that, and do expect me to approach the task with the number one objective of making myself appear in a good light.The KA plan is not a repository of all knowledge about the customer; there are much better ways to store customer data without encumbering something as important as the plan. A KA plan should be about future actions, not historical records.This one might sound a good deal better, and is in fact true, but the KA plan is not written in order to achieve something that should be achieved by other means (best of all being discussions within your KA Team). A plan is what we plan to do, not a record of our thought processes. Too many KA plans are overly full of worthy analysis, with their fair share of four-box-matrices, the sort of thing that says 'look, I've read a book about this.' Keep the analysis to the appendices; the plan should focus on the outcomes of that analysis.Reasons 5/6 through to 10 are a good deal better.5/6  It is a supremely important tool of communication, setting the tone for our approach to the customer, so important that a good deal of thought should be given to how it looks, and how it will be shared. Dull formats diminish its effectiveness in this regard, as do overly elaborate presentation styles. Word documents and Excel spreadsheets hardly scintillate when it comes to communicating their contents. PowerPoint presentations still take some beating.   7 Should you show your plan to the customer? Perhaps with a little editing, and perhaps with a little elaboration, certainly, but if the thought worries you, then perhaps you are still some way off the idea of genuine joint planning, working as partners. There are of course some customers where such partnership is not possible, but if that is true in your case, can you seriously regard them as key accounts? Here's a suggestion that will at least start the ball rolling in the right direction: write the plan as if you were going to send it to the customer (you don't then have to), it's surprising how much more customer-focused the result will turn out, and how much more compelling the idea of sharing it will become.   8 A genuine reason, and not the same as being monitored by the boss; this is your own tracking of progress, and your own way of assessing the value of your KAM activities.   9 This is nearly my favourite reason for all the effort involved, and certainly the best definition: a good KA plan should be 'the customer value proposition, and our reward, in blueprint'. 10 As I have already suggested - this is my favourite reason.The planning hierarchyIt is to be hoped that your business has a business plan: this comes first. Then come the market plans, as subsets of the business plan. Then come the segment plans, as subsets of the marketing plans. Key account plans normally fit within the segment plan, as shown in Figure 24.1.Figure 24.1 The planning hierarchyIf a customer operates in more than one of your market segments then this raises the 'status' of the KA plan up a level, and extra care is required in its writing to ensure clarity across a wider team of users.Why does this hierarchy matter? Simply, a key account exists to help you achieve your goals within a target market segment. By doing that it will contribute towards the success of your market and business plans. Any other approach risks a key account becoming an anomaly, an account that might even work in opposition to the good of the business. There should be no such thing as a key account in a market segment that is not important and attractive to you, a good way of avoiding the application of unnecessary or even wasteful investment.The format of a KA planNever accept a template for a KA plan from anyone outside your own business. If you choose to be that lazy then you will almost certainly get the results (with all their shortcomings and frustrations) you deserve. This applies to both style and content, both of which should relate intimately to the specific nature of your own customer challenge, and your own business circumstances.Templates are in any event a second-best solution. This assertion will perhaps have annoyed many a sales director who wants to make aggregated measurements, to compare performance, and to establish some uniform rules. I would in fact have sympathy for their liking of templates, though not for those reasons, but instead in one, perhaps two particular circumstances.The first circumstance is that the business and the sales team are new to the KAM approach and require the guidance of rules, and the inspiration of examples to get things started. Templates can be a valuable place to start, but that said, the sooner the growing experience of the teams allow them to break free of such constraints, the better.The second circumstance is where a large number of people from non-sales functions are involved in KA teams, some of them perhaps in more than one KA team. Life can get complicated for such people if they have to operate within a variety of styles and approaches to the KA plan. Templates may have benefits in such a scenario, bringing uniformity to cross-functional communications, but that said, there are perhaps better ways of creating good cross-functional communications than putting so much weight on a document that has plenty of other purposes.Perhaps a compromise can be found in designing a common 'style' for plans, with an agreed core list of the contents, so that plans at least 'look' the same and users will come across familiar 'headings', but then allowing as much flexibility as possible in the content that comes under those 'headings' - what many people call 'free text' rather than text boxes waiting to be completed with progress denied until they are filled in!My problem with templates is based on what I have seen too often in the field; sharp-witted KA managers and their functionally competent teams reduced to box-ticking rather than applying the breadth of their talents. Worse, if those 'boxes to be ticked' are designed to suit the demands of an IT system into which the plans must be squeezed, rather than the needs of the customer, the KA team, or the business (as is regrettably so often the case), then the value of those plans is diminished still further.That is not to say that I am against the need for some rules. Every business must decide the purpose of the KA plan, the minimum contents of a plan, the typical scope of a plan, perhaps even the stylistic appearance of the plan, but once that is done, aim to allow the KA manager some necessary freedom in the process. The sales director's requirements for measurement and analysis can be met by other means; leave the plans free to match the needs and circumstances of the individual customer challenge.The length of the KA planThe only sensible answer to the question - how long should the plan be? - is: as short as is possible. Resist the urge to include every known fact about the customer. Resist the urge to write a thesis on their business. Put the history and the analysis into an appendix. Focus instead on the following key areas: What is the opportunity - for the customer, and for us?What do we wish to achieve - for the customer, and for ourselves?How will we achieve it - actions and time plan?Who will be involved - from the customer, and from our team?And if you can get that on to four PowerPoint slides then congratulations!One of my clients has an interesting choice of names for the customers in their portfolio. Instead of key accounts, key development accounts, maintenance accounts and opportunistic accounts, they have no-page accounts, one-page accounts, five-page accounts and 10-page accounts. This refers of course to the length of the written plan.The no-page account is clearly the opportunistic account - what would a written plan say: wait for an opportunity?The one-page account expresses nicely the intended approach towards a maintenance account: keep it as simple as possible.Then comes the questions that test whether your understanding of the plan's purpose is sound: which gets the five pages, and which the 10, the key account or the key development account? If your answer is along the lines that the key account must be the larger plan because we know so much more about them, then re-read the reasons given for writing plans earlier in this chapter. The plan is not a repository of all knowledge, it is what you plan to do, and with a key development account there will be plenty to do, often a good deal more than with an established key account.KA plans should not be judged by their size; the customer circumstance and so the opportunity determines their relative complexity, a fact that the template approach can often ignore.The time horizonHow far ahead should a key account plan be looking? While this will of course be one of those 'it depends' answers, here are three questions that will help point us in the right direction: How far ahead does a normal sales plan look? The time horizon for a key account plan should almost certainly be longer.How long will it take to implement your actions and achieve your stated goals? The plan should cover at least the length of time required.What is the planning horizon in your customer? This may be the most important question of the three. If your customer is obsessed by next week, then you had better be similarly obsessed (though perhaps such a customer is unlikely to be a key account?). If they are fascinated by five years ahead, then your own plans must start to share their fascination.Some minimum contentsThis can only be my best advice - your own circumstances may dictate a different 'list'. I make no apology for not providing you with a rigid running order, given my comments on not receiving templates from anyone outside your business I doubt that you are surprised by that. Those of you who were looking for a simple answer, it really is for your own good that you must work this out for yourself!The best I can do is to list what I regard as the minimum contents for a good plan: An executive summary: - What is the current business?- What is the opportunity and what is it worth to us?- What is it worth to the customer?- What will we do to secure this opportunity?The sales/profit plan (the numbers):
- opportunity and objectives- anticipated competitor activity and its possible impact on the aboveThe relationship plan: - Contact Matrix (showing the members of the KA Team)- GROWsThe value proposition: - summary- the quantified value received by the customer- our rewardProjects: - project teams- desired outcomes- timelines and milestonesAny additional resources/investment/help required.Implementation timetable (if different from projects above).As you can see, my list is light on analysis and heavy on action. If you feel that people need to see your analysis, then put it in an appendix to the plan. The same goes for history, or any particular administrative details.You will also note that the plan is light on customer detail, the kind of stuff that often fills the first few pages of a plan; a map of customer locations, pictures of their products, etc. This is deliberate, my aim is to have the plan focus on actions. A fully justifiable exception to this might be if your intention was to improve internal awareness of a particular customer. In such a case a little more customer information might be helpful, but take care not to dilute the plan by turning it instead into an 'educational presentation'.Writing the planIt is the responsibility of the key account manager to have a plan written, but that is not to say that they alone should write it. Writing the plan should be a team effort, and as such, a source of team cohesion. I don't mean word by word and sentence by sentence. One set of fingers on the keyboard is probably a good idea, beware those sentences written by committees, but make sure there is input from all involved.That includes the customer. KAM is not something you can do to a customer, you can only do it with a customer, and the planning process is no exception to this. The best KA plan I have ever seen was one composed entirely in the customer's format, using their presentation style even down to the same typeface, and following a list of contents agreed with the customer. In fact, that list was a very close match to the list used in the customer's own key supplier plan. Such closeness in the joint planning process is rare, but it is perhaps a good place to work towards.Don't sit down on Monday morning at nine o'clock with the intention of having a completed plan by lunchtime, or even five o'clock, or for that matter 10 o'clock. Plans build and develop over time; they are permanently in draft form.I have made my own preference for PowerPoint (or something similar) clear. Word documents tend towards words, and can be hard to modify or update. Excel spreadsheets are good for numbers, but are poor for presentation and sharing, and can too often lead to what are essentially 'private' documents, loved by the individual user, a nightmare for everyone else. PowerPoint slides are great for communication, and their nature encourages the kind of brevity to be praised.Of course, it is increasingly the case that plans will need to be lodged within some larger 'business system'. The advantages of such systems in providing management information cannot be denied, and I have no desire to discourage their use. But (and you knew a 'but' was coming), because your plan is part of some master system, that doesn't mean that you should not also prepare a version designed for presentation and sharing. The 'wise' KA manager will perhaps adhere closely to whatever format is instructed for use within such a system, but then have something that works in practice for their own team, and for the customer. (The idea of presenting to a customer some of the system-generated formats I have seen over the years does not even bear thinking about!)Luck or judgement?So, you have a plan. Add to this a few bucket-loads of energy, a great deal of resolve, not a little patience, and finally that essential for all successful business activities, a little piece of luck. But don't wait for fate to intervene. Figure 24.2 shows why time spent planning in the early days will pay off in the long run, preventing you from wallowing in a morass of argument and painful rethinking.Figure 24.2 Why planning mattersJust as importantly, good planning will allow your team to recognize good fortune when it smiles on you, to know it for what it is, and to be best placed to turn it to your best advantage. In this regard you make your own good luck. I think it was Gary Player, the South African golfer, who on being told by a fan how lucky they were to be so good at golf, responded with: 'You know, it's a funny thing, the more I practise the luckier I get'.A last few tips Don't write War and Peace, and avoid anything looking like a telephone directory.Keep it updatable (that means keeping it short and to the point, and preferably in a medium that makes revisions easy).Start off with some strong comments on direction, goals and targets; people reading the plan will want to know where you are headed (but note the final tip in this list).Stress the actions resulting from the plan and who is responsible for them.Prepare it as a team effort and make it available to the whole business; stamping it 'top secret' is unlikely to be of much help to those who will make it reality.Include an 'executive summary' of the key points: direction, benefits, actions and requirements.Avoid unsupported hype.Application exercise Draw up a running order for an 'ideal' KA plan appropriate to your own business circumstances: - What will be the ideal account plan format?- What IT support will you require?- How important is it for you to have uniformity of plan design across all key accounts?Will you share your KA plan with the customers? - What might you edit?- What outcome do you seek in sharing?Who will be involved in writing the plan?







25Joint planningTo repeat something said in the last chapter: KAM is not something that you do to a customer, it must be something you do with the customer. This is not always easy, particularly if the customer presents you with a gatekeeping buyer who denies you access, or with a combative buyer determined to make the relationship a competitive event. In some ways the ability to work as a collaborative partnership in the planning process is the ultimate test of the KAM approach, just as difficulty in this area should ring some alarm bells about the true status of the customer as a key account.There is a lot to be got right to make joint planning work, summarized in this chapter under three headings: Right peopleRight processRight environmentRight peopleBack in Chapter 9 it was suggested that in order to influence the customer's decision-making process in our favour it would almost certainly be necessary to go beyond the buyer. The same goes for our desire for joint planning. This should be done wherever possible with those in the customer that have the problems to be solved, and with those who will enjoy the benefits of our solutions. Another way of putting that would be to say: with those where our value proposition has the most positive impact.It becomes clear that this is more than a conversation between seller and buyer across the negotiating table, but a task demanding the involvement of both sides of the diamond team. Joint planning is not about trading arguments, it is about sharing analysis and developing collaborative means of implementation. Indeed it will often be found that those furthest away from the negotiating table will find it easiest to engage in joint planning - the links between non-commercial functions in the diamond team being of particular importance in this respect.It will be clear that joint planning is most easily achieved where a mature and multipoint relationship has been developed - the genuine key account, and much harder to achieve where relationships are at the early stages of development - the key development account, and yet here lies one of its ironies: one of the fastest ways to speed a key development account to full key account status will be to rein back the more obvious attempts to sell, and ramp up the more subtle efforts to work together in joint-planning mode.Right processSubtle, yes, but surreptitious, no. Trying to disguise your sales efforts as the process of joint planning will have you found out in double-quick time. Indeed, the process should be separated as far as is possible from the normal hurly-burly of selling and negotiation.Nor is this something to be rushed; observing the following steps in the process will help you avoid an unseemly pace.1 Sharing the analysisBegin by aiming to improve your mutual understanding of each other's positions; yours of the customer's market, their ambitions, their operations; and theirs of your capabilities. Three tools already described as part of our own customer analysis toolkit stand out as being of great use in this goal: The opportunity chain analysis - value mapping (see Chapter 6);The shared-future analysis (see Chapter 19);The customer's activity cycle analysis (see Chapter 21).Each of these tools works well provided the right people are gathered together (see above), and the right environment is established (see below), and provided they are engaged in with the honest desire to improve understanding, not to score points or win arguments.Aim to begin with a tool that focuses squarely on the customer's own circumstances, and ideally where it can be shown to be of direct benefit to them, providing new insights, or opening new horizons.2 Agreeing the shared visionEach of the three tools mentioned above will raise issues deserving of attention and follow through, but before getting sucked into details it will be wise to agree the direction in which you intend to travel. What goals do you share?What strategies do you have in common?What kind of outcomes will be to your mutual benefit?How do you intend to share the rewards of success?Deliberately keep the discussion on a high level to begin with; starting with the detail usually means that you never get to rise above it.3 Agreeing the joint business planThis will take you into the detail of projects and activities, with timetables and individual responsibilities, that inevitably will be particular to your own circumstances, but here are two more general items that should not be forgotten: Identify the desired relationship model, and agree the contact strategy;Draw up a performance scorecard with mutual obligations.Working together on the Contact Matrix can be a very powerful methodology, and one of the ultimate achievements of joint planning will be the preparation of joint GROWs (see Chapter 9).The performance scorecard is simply a list of measures that you intend to use when tracking progress towards agreed goals. If you wait for the customer to suggest the elements, don't be surprised if they often appear to be opportunities to hit you with a stick whenever something goes wrong. The secret is to suggest the elements yourself, but make sure they are expressed in the customer's language, and serve to demonstrate progress towards their objectives. Buyers might like to note each occasion that you slip up, but it is more valuable in the long run to note each time the customer progresses towards their own stated goals.4 Agreeing the process for review How often will you review?Who will be involved?Aim to put these review sessions in the diary well in advance, otherwise they have a habit of being postponed as the hurly-burly of everyday matters dominates people's thoughts.Aim to gather the members of those customer functions that have received the benefits of your value proposition, and the members of your own functions that have been responsible for delivering that value.This is also an opportunity to involve the senior managers from both sides of the relationship, but if you are taking along your bosses, be sure to have their role in proceedings agreed beforehand - get them to write their GROW, or who knows where things might end up going!Right environmentIf we hope to separate this process from the normal hurly-burly of day to day transactions, and to get away from the negotiating table, it may be helpful to do just that: hold these joint-planning sessions off site.And one last thing: take the opportunity to make joint planning 'fun'. There are plenty of opportunities to add extracurricular activities, or even to bring in 'fun' activities that form part of the process itself. I have one client who always combines these sessions with sessions in the gym (it so happens that both parties are young and active) where the focus is on each other's levels of fitness, identifying each other's progress since their last meeting, and what steps will be taken to ensure yet more advances by the next time they meet.If the right environment can be achieved, even the most combative of customers can turn out to be human after all.Joint planning through joint trainingHow often have you been trained alongside your customer? Have you even ever considered the idea of joint training? This is not for everyone, but when it works it can be very powerful indeed, bringing together all three of the imperatives detailed in this chapter: right people, right process, right environment. I have even seen sellers and buyers trained together, jointly learning the skills and techniques of both key account management and key supplier management, in parallel.The psychological environment of a training session is of course very different from that of the buyer's office; more open, more experimental, prepared for making mistakes and learning from them, more accepting of alternative views. This can be a great place to set some foundations of collaborative joint planning.The people gathered together can be from more varied backgrounds than would be the case at almost any other form of supplier/customer business gathering, giving a platform to voices rarely heard and access to views rarely sought.The process speaks for itself. The only health warning would be to seek independent facilitation of such training. Don't be tempted to use it as an opportunity to persuade the customer, nor even influence them in any direct and planned way; no self-respecting customer would turn up to such a blatantly engineered event in any case. Regard it instead as an opportunity for both sides to learn, for both sides to be exposed to new ideas, and experience shows that the opportunities to influence will appear all the more naturally.If this idea appeals to you, and you work with customers who you believe might show equal interest, then see Chapter 35 for suggestions on how you might take it further.Application exercise Do we have the right customer contacts to ensure an effective joint-planning process? - Who do we need to involve from the customer's team?- Who do we need to involve from our own team?Identify the most useful analytical and planning tools to use alongside the customer: - How will we 'manage their expectations' when using these tools?Define our own vision, goals, priority actions and desired strategy: - How might these differ from the customer's, and to what extent are we prepared to compromise?What might be the elements of a performance scorecard?How will we ensure the right environment for this process?







Part EightTargeting







26Customer classificationIt is surprising how many businesses set off on the KAM journey without having properly identified their key accounts. It is as if the task of selection is too troublesome, so they just get on with the application stage, and usually with a long list of customers; very often far too long. The result is, of course, no key account management at all.The reason for making targeting one of the five tasks within the KAM Model (introduced in Chapter 5 and shown again at Figure 26.1) is to ensure the proper return on our KAM investment. Done with too many customers, the KAM investment is diluted, and the returns negligible. Done with the wrong customers, the investment might be wasted altogether.Figure 26.1 The KAM model - targetingThis is something to get right, and perhaps that is another explanation for the reluctance of some to tackle the task: the fear of getting it wrong. It is certainly a task that will provoke internal debate and hopefully a good few arguments; managed properly those arguments can be the precursor of something very important: alignment of everyone behind an agreed list.The six-step processFigure 26.2 shows a six-step process designed to help navigate the way through the mass of questions, analysis and debate, and help avoid the potential bear-traps that lie in wait, with the ultimate objective of an agreed classification of the customer portfolio and agreed actions against each class of customers within that portfolio.Figure 26.2 The six-step customer classification processSteps one through four will be discussed in this chapter, steps five and six will be the focus of attention in Chapter 27.Steps one and two have been discussed elsewhere, but they are such important preliminaries that a little repetition will not go amiss. They should of course almost go without saying, and yet too often businesses leap into the choice of 'who is' and 'who isn't' a key account without being clear on these fundamentals.Step 1: ObjectivesAfter all the thought you have been giving to KAM, its value and purpose within your own business may be very clear, to you, but is it equally clear to others in the business? Let's suppose you are the sales director and you see KAM as an essential process for winning new business with existing customers, a typical enough objective for a sales director, but the people in marketing see it as a means of winning new customers in new markets, while the folk in R&D see it as a way of reducing the number of projects they will work on, the plant manager sees it as a way of saying no to small requests from small customers and filling the plant with big and simple orders, and the finance director sees it as a way of reducing costs by passing all non-key accounts to distributors. The more people you ask the more objectives you uncover, and who is to say that yours are right and theirs are wrong?One thing for sure is, each one of those viewpoints will tend towards selecting a different list of key accounts, so make sure you have proper alignment on the objectives for KAM before proceeding any further. It is of course quite possible to have multiple objectives, but be sure that they are not in conflict with each other. Objectives tend to take on a functional flavour and it is no surprise that those in operations tend to think in terms of operational excellence, those in R&D in terms of product leadership, and those in sales and marketing in terms of customer intimacy - value drivers that we are familiar with from Chapter 18. Each function may well be right, from their own viewpoint, but aim to establish what is the lead value of the business as a whole; that may help speed some of the debates in this area.Step 2: Market segmentationThe identification of target segments comes before the identification of key accounts. The reason is simple: there is no such thing as a key account in a market segment that is not attractive or important to you.The customer classification process is not about neatness, or sharing things out evenly, it is about ensuring that the investment is put where it will bring the best return, and segmentation has the same purpose, at the next level up in the planning hierarchy (see Chapter 24).Segmentation makes the identification and selection of key accounts so very much easier: A key account is the most attractive customer in a target segment, not just one of that segment's big customers.Segmentation will help us define what 'most attractive' means. Customer attractiveness will vary across segments; that was the purpose of segmentation, to divide the market into groups of customers with similar needs, attitudes and behaviours. If being big is an attractive quality in the segment, then the largest customer may well be the key account, while size may be of little relevance in another segment.Segmentation helps us to compare apples to apples.Segmentation lies at the heart of all good marketing strategies and the same goes for KAM strategies. Beyond the selection stage, segmentation will help with the development of the value proposition, all customers in the segment sharing similar needs, attitudes and behaviours, which brings us to an interesting thought: how many key accounts do you need?Not how many do you have, or should you have, but how many do you need?One segment, one key account?If your segmentation has been done well (which means, to repeat: the customers in each segment share the same broad needs attitudes and behaviours) then the tantalizing answer may well be: just one.By investing the team's time and effort into only one key account, so gaining a much deeper understanding than would have been possible if your energies were spread more widely, should you be able to develop a better value proposition, more relevant, more resonant, more impactful? And given that the other customers in the segment have broadly similar needs, attitudes and behaviours, shouldn't that value proposition now be appropriate to all of them?The logic of this theory is sound enough; the problem lies in the fact that market segmentation is rarely done well enough to make it a practical approach. If only it was!A recent trend has seen some businesses regarding segments and key accounts as nearly the same thing, a customer being a segment in its own right. In terms of precision targeting this cannot be faulted, and if an individual customer is significant enough to the business it may be worth the extra investment implied, and it certainly serves to focus the minds of those functions that will be called on to deliver the value proposition. Against the trend it might be argued that it makes it less likely the business will 'learn from' the customer, and seek to apply the learning to other customers, especially those not considered as key accounts and where less attention will be given.Step 3: Assemble the classification and selection teamThe wrong people can be asked to make the decisions. How about asking the sales team to decide?Salespeople naturally have positions to defend, and careers to build. Everyone wants their own accounts to be seen as key; surely that way lies promotion?Salespeople are human, and might be inclined to view their key accounts as the ones that are nicest to them, who buy them lunch, and who always have a car park space booked for their arrival...Salespeople are sometimes viewed by other functions as 'unreliable'; prone to exaggeration, eager to boost their own customer's agenda. Will that make it easy to have the salespeople's choice of key accounts accepted by everyone else?CASE STUDY Getting everyone to agreeI learned this lesson in the first few months of my selling career. I sold decorative paint to independent retailers out in rural East Anglia where I was warned there would be little I could do to rouse customers from their comfortable slumber. I determined to prove those warnings wrong by identifying those customers worthy of extra attention, my key accounts. After poring over my sales statistics and pushing pins of different colours into a map of my territory I went off to inform my local distribution depot, absolutely certain of my analysis.For 10 minutes or so (perhaps longer - time goes quickly when you are lecturing people) I briefed them on the customers that they must now regard as more important than the rest, my key accounts, only to reel back in amazement as they contradicted my identification of almost every customer. For me, a sales rep, a key account was one where I could expect a large order as the result of my call. For my distribution colleagues this was the sin of sending eager young reps out in the first place! For them, a key account was a customer so regular and so consistent in their order pattern that they could form the backbone of their workload planning.We agreed to differ and I went away wiser on one very important issue - it was highly unlikely that key accounts could be identified by a single criterion, and certainly not from the narrow perspective of any one function. Fortunately, I was dealing with rather small independent retailers in a quiet corner of the country, not the global customers that might have determined our whole future. Even more fortunately, I learned a lesson in that quiet corner that was of enormous benefit later in my career when dealing with much larger and more significant fish.The ideal team?Almost certainly it must go beyond the sales function in isolation. This is because as well as making the selection the team involved must also be able to give that selection sufficient authority for it to mean something across the whole business. Selection without implementation will be meaningless.This might suggest the need for a fairly senior team. Certainly it is the responsibility of the leadership team to see that the right decisions are made, but does that mean you should ask them to make those decisions? Consider two scenarios.In the first, the selection team is a group of senior managers who approach the task with their eyes firmly on the recently agreed five-year plan. 'Vision' abounds, and they select some 'interesting' customers for the list, but the sales team is unimpressed: 'What do they know about our customers today?' they ask.In the second scenario, it is a group from sales and customer service that makes up the selection team, and their efforts reflect their intimate knowledge of the customers. 'Fine', say the bosses, 'but what about the five-year plan? Where's the vision?'The ideal team must be able to combine both vision and knowledge. One problem is that 'knowledge' will exist in a lot of places, and any attempt to gather it all together in one team would result in an unworkable monster of a team. Perhaps the solution is a core team (no more than four or five people, three might be just right), probably with a bias towards 'vision', which calls on the knowledge of others as and when it is required.A final thought: the more senior the selection team, the more likely that their conclusions will make an impact, and isn't that one of the main purposes of this whole selection activity?Step 4: The 'KAISM' (Key Account Identification and Selection Matrix)A, B, C, or perhaps Gold, Silver, Bronze: typical classifications that are used to indicate customer importance and priorities. Do they work? The problem is that everyone knows gold is better than silver, so perhaps leading to the dangerous conclusion that bronze hardly matters at all. This is indeed a most dangerous direction to take, the idea that some customers don't matter; imagine the results if that view should take hold in your customer service department, or on the plant!Such labels fall foul of the sin of 'one-dimensionalism', where classifications tend to reflect 'importance' alone, separating the chaff from the grain, or the cream from the milk. The real purpose of the classification process is more ambitious than that; to identify distinct groups of customers where different sales and service approaches will reap the best rewards in each case. Classification doesn't tell us that one type of customer is more important than another, but rather that it is different, and so deserves a different approach.Another kind of one-dimensionalism is the approach to classification that only thinks about our view of the customer. We have seen in our discussions on the increasing prominence of key supplier management strategies that the customer also does a good deal of rating and ranking of us. I recall a lengthy debate with a client as to whether 'selection' was the right word to be using: 'You have obviously been very lucky in your sales career,' he said to me. 'I have never selected a customer in my life; they've always selected me.'He was right of course, and the antidote to one-dimensionalism is to be found in the four-box matrix ('two-dimensionalism' is not a sin) illustrated in Figure 26.3 - the KAISM (key account identification and selection matrix).Figure 26.3 The KAISMHere we take two dimensions - the customer's attractiveness to us (the vertical axis), and the supplier's attractiveness to them (the horizontal axis) - and by combining them find four classifications of customer: Key Accounts are those where the attraction is mutual - we like the look of them, and they rate us more strongly than they do our competitors.Key Development Accounts are those that we have strong ambitions for, but who currently prefer one or more of our competitors.Maintenance Accounts are those that rate us highly, but that we don't view as our more attractive prospects.Opportunistic Accounts are those where neither regards the other as of great attraction.Each one of these types of customer has its place in any healthy customer portfolio, so beware again that sin of thinking some are more or less important than others; each has its moment. The Maintenance customers are important because they are very often the mainstay of the business, and very often the most profitable of our customers at a net margin level; a group much loved by the finance director. The Opportunistic customers can come into their own on those occasions when we need to fill the plant, or find sudden boosts to volume and revenue; perhaps four times a year, as the end of each quarter approaches! The Key Development Accounts represent our future and in many people's eyes deserve the appellation 'most important' more than any other. And the Key Accounts? What makes them 'important' is that they challenge us, teach us, improve us, and so deserve the different kind of attention we bestow on them. A portfolio lacking any one of these classes of customers would be poorer for the omission.The importance of two-dimensionalismMost businesses will rate and rank their customers on the vertical axis (though too many only use size to do so), far fewer consider the horizontal axis, but it is by understanding the customer's view of us compared to competitors that we will see most dramatically the distinctions required in approaching and handling each customer category.The Key Development Account is a very different prospect to the Key Account; harder to access, yet requiring greater investment of time and effort, while promising the least attractive return on that investment in the short term. These are not customers to be handed to the newest and most inexperienced members of the team - as is in fact often the case - but customers requiring the combined skills of hunter and farmer. The Key Account is a secure and thriving concern, requiring excellent management skills over the long term, the Key Development Account might need the touch of the entrepreneur, and the good judgement necessary to admit the occasional defeat.The ideal portfolio?Is there such a thing? There is the portfolio that you have, for better or for worse, but that said, there are perhaps some guidelines on how we might like to see it shape up.Avoid the temptation to squeeze too many customers into the Key Account box. Getting into double figures should be a cause for concern. If your rating system (see below) puts too many customers into this box, you need to refine your rating system.A larger number of Key Development Accounts can more easily be justified, whether taking the positive view that these represent our future and the sooner we get to grips with them the better, or the negative view that not all of them will come to fruition. But don't overdo it, they will suck up resources and provide a relatively low return in the early stages.Don't be afraid of having lots of Maintenance Accounts, they are not second-class citizens. Indeed one would hope this was the largest grouping; customers that are loyal, and relatively easy to serve. The challenge here is to find ways to spend less time, while not risking that they should be any less loyal. This can be difficult on a psychological level as such customers are often the 'favourites' of the sales team, and very often the 'best customers' from the recent past. Spending less time can feel like abandoning them, but try not to see it that way; the aim here is to find more efficient, and more appropriate, ways of spending time.Making use of inside sales resources can be an important part of the solution, as can the tools of 'remote ordering' systems, or making more use of distributors; the customer might even prefer such arrangements, especially if they can be arranged to be made more appropriate to their needs.CASE STUDY  It's all in how you say it...You have decided to pass a number of Maintenance Accounts previously handled directly to the care of local distributors. How do you handle this transition? Compare two alternative approaches: Apologies are sent to the customer, including a letter from the MD thanking them for their loyal support and hoping that it will continue, despite the need to reorganize business operations. The distributor is given the account to work with how they see fit. Once the handover is decided on, and the necessary meetings concluded, the previous sales contact has no further contact with the customer.The supplier and the distributor make a joint presentation on the advantages to the customer of moving to a local distributor, including shorter lead times, more frequent delivery, flexible terms, product variants to suit local circumstances and more personal attention. The distributor is helped to understand their new customer by the previous sales contact, who stays in touch over a managed handover period.The Opportunistic Account might seem the least welcome in the portfolio, but not if you use the classification process as it is intended; to determine a different way of approaching such customers. There are times when you will be pleased to have such customers, and times when your attentions will quite rightly be elsewhere. Most importantly, they are there to be serviced as suits your priorities.CASE STUDY  Being led astray...An international supplier to the oil industry once put at stake a number of their key account contracts because they were overeager to secure a large, but one-off, deal with a customer in Russia.They had a system of customer categorization that put the Russian customer in the opportunistic box, but the order was large and tempting and the production people put in a superhuman effort to meet the deadlines. They made it, and they felt pretty good about it, until the complaints started to flow from their real key accounts. They had all taken their eye off the ball.Step 4 in the Customer Classification process is a big one, filling the rest of a long chapter, being the identification and analytical application of two sets of selection criteria: 4.i: Customer Attractiveness factors4.ii: Supplier Attractiveness factorsStep 4.i: Customer attractiveness factorsThe classification and selection team will need to agree the criteria used in assessing the relative attractiveness of customers; we will call these criteria the 'customer attractiveness factors'.Ideally they will combine factors that assess the long-term potential as well as the short-term realities, and will be a mixture of tangible and intangible, quantitative and qualitative.Most importantly they must be 100 per cent appropriate to your own business situation, and very likely down to that of an individual market segment. Do not in any circumstance be tempted to 'steal' someone else's factors as a template!Many people feel, having completed this whole process, that the greatest value came from the thinking and the discussions that went into this stage, more important even than the outcomes. It is certainly an ideal opportunity to canvass cross- functional opinions, and to test thoughts with both senior and junior staff. Getting this stage right, not only in regard to which factors are chosen but also how they were chosen, will have a major impact on the acceptance and use of the results across the business.Choosing the factorsThere are many types of attractiveness factor, and the search for the right list should take into account five different but overlapping considerations: Those that represent 'pure' attractiveness.Those that indicate a likelihood of success.Those that relate to your long-term business objectives: where do you want to be in x years?Those that help to indicate specific opportunities: what can we get?Those that are based on a realistic assessment of our resources and capability.'Pure' attractivenessThis category includes such things as: 'Significant enough to be worth $1m profit to us'. On its own, this consideration could be dangerously limiting, but it will be balanced by other factors of different complexions. Such factors might actually serve as 'givens', perhaps seeking a particular customer characteristic: 'Nobody without a global presence could be considered attractive', or: 'They must pay their bills on time', but they are as a result less helpful in distinguishing between two customers that both share the same characteristic.Likelihood of successThese factors aim to indicate how likely it is that those pure attractiveness factors could be made real. They help us to narrow the sights. An example might be that they 'share our view of the future technological solutions'. Of two customers that pass the first 'pure' attractiveness test, perhaps only one passes the likelihood of success test.Longer-term business objectivesWill the customer help us achieve our longer-term business objectives? If you aim to be the lowest-cost supplier based on scale and uniformity of offer, then customers that offer large orders with minimum variation are likely to be attractive. If you plan to be a solution provider, then customers with complex issues may be the more attractive. If you plan to be global, then the customer based only in one country will score lower than that based in many. This may seem obvious, but such considerations can often get lost in the pressure to find short-term success.Specific opportunitiesYour plan is to provide services that are currently provided 'in-house' by most businesses. Your most attractive accounts may be those that have a positive attitude towards outsourcing in general, perhaps evidenced by outsourcing in other areas.Resources and capabilitySome customers may be beyond your reach: you're not in the right place, you're not big enough, your product portfolio is too narrow, and so on. An attractive customer may be one where gaining access is easy simply because you are in the right place, the customer is suspicious of overly large suppliers, and your product portfolio matches theirs, whether by luck or judgement. These kind of factors keep us in the real world.A sample listThe following list summarizes the most typically used customer attractiveness factors. They are not given as a template, nor are any of them particularly recommended or warned against; they are simply here to help stimulate your own thinking. Size: volume, value, profit.Growth potential: volume, value, profit.Financial stability: will they be there in the future and will they pay their bills?Ease of access: geography, openness, and the like...Closeness of existing relationships.Strategic fit: do they see the world the same way as you? Will they take you where you wish to be?Are they 'early adopters': do they pick up on new ideas and products, or do they wait until the market has tested them?Do they value your offer? Is it relevant to their needs?Level of competition (low being attractive).Their market standing: industry leader, credibility, prestige and so on.Will they act as an 'ambassador' for us, with other customers?A customer with which you can 'learn' and improve.A suggestion for 'working the process' with a team Ask each member of the team to list their own favoured criteria. Give them the task of listing at least 12. You might focus their minds by asking that at least six should represent their own view (function, territory, team, etc) and at least six the view of the whole business.Then ask them to add more criteria having put themselves into the shoes of another specified function, territory, team, etc and repeat the process as many times as is useful.Then, as a team, prepare a full list of all the criteria, written up on a flipchart.Now, and only now, add any criteria that may already have been identified by senior managers. The reason for doing this now and not at the start is to allow free thinking - no constraints by what 'them upstairs' might have said.Now comes the hard bit - 'getting it down to six'. You may like to call on the help of an impartial facilitator to get this stage accomplished as there are plenty of perils waiting for any member of the team who stands by the flipchart with the pen. On the one hand they will be seen as taking over, the alternative is for them to take part only as the scribe, and that means one valuable view is lost. Why six? Quite apart from experience showing that this works, if you have very many more than six there are two potential problems:• The mathematics of the rating process tends to blur every account into an indistinct middle ground.• It becomes very hard for others to understand the basis of the analysis, and as winning widespread acceptance and support for the outcome is a crucial reason for doing the exercise in the first place, this is fault enough!Too few factors and there is the danger of being too narrow in your outlook; the peril of sizeism looms once again.A few tips on 'getting it down to six':• There will be factors that express broadly the same thing, but using different words.• Some factors might be better placed on the horizontal axis, for instance, those factors expressing how the customer views us.• Weed out those 'givens' that would apply in any case - if you have no intention of working with any customer with a poor credit rating then 'will pay their bills on time' is not going to be a particularly helpful attractiveness factor.You may then decide to weight the factors chosen, for a more refined analysis. One benefit of such weighting is that you can maintain the same list of factors over a long period of time but change the weightings to reflect changes in market circumstances, or in your own objectives and aspirations, or you can use the same list in different territories or teams, with weighting adding the necessary 'local' flavour.Segmentation first...Whatever your final choice, you must be able to apply these factors to each of your customers, effectively comparing them with each other. It will become apparent at this stage why it was so important to segment your market before tackling this process: apples must be compared to apples. It is quite likely that the list of factors selected will need to be different by market segment, though the use of weighting may allow a common list.CASE STUDY  Segments first...A decorative paint supplier operates in two distinct segments -
DIY Retail and Professional Decorators. Customer size, used as an attractiveness factor, leads to two rather different results, so demonstrating the importance of segmentation first.In the DIY Retail segment, the goal of brand leadership makes the large DIY superstores very attractive customers, providing access to the largest number of consumers.In the Professional Decorator segment, a large firm means large-scale contracts, which means pressure on price, which might make the smaller firms more attractive. In fact, the real key accounts in the Professional segment are more likely to be the builders' merchants and specialist distributors that give access to the small and medium-sized decorating firms.Different segments, different objectives, different attractiveness factors.Step 4.ii: Supplier attractiveness factorsCompared to this next task, identifying the factors for the vertical axis was relatively straightforward, for two reasons: They result from your own known objectives and aspirations.They will be the same for all customers in any given segment.The factors on the horizontal axis present a greater challenge as here we need to view the world through our customers' eyes. What are their objectives and aspirations, and how does that translate into their rating of suppliers? In itself this is a valuable exercise, forcing us to focus on a too-often neglected theme, but that doesn't make it easy; Chapters 11 to 14 from the buyer's perspective, and 15 to 19 from the total business perspective, have already attempted to provide some guidance in this area.An additional challenge compared to the vertical axis is that the factors considered will very likely be different for each customer, though again, the practice of market segmentation will reduce this variety of view across the customer portfolio.Some customers publish explicit lists of vendor ratings while others are more secretive. Some will use 'hard' measures, others will favour more subjective evaluations based on perceptions rather than facts. The horizontal axis is hard work, but will repay the effort handsomely.Identifying these factors will also require great honesty. It is tempting to select all those things that you just happen to be good at, and you will doubtless feel very pleased with the outcome, only it will be worthless.The perceptions of different functions within your own business will be of great value to the debate; each will have a distinct awareness of what goes down well and what causes complaints.It may even be useful to commission some formal and independent market research into customers' views in this matter, an antidote to the twin sins of optimistic guesswork and fatalistic resignation.Then there is always the option of asking the customer, straight out. I am told by many a professional buyer how surprised they are that suppliers never seem to ask this vital question: 'On what basis do you rate us against our competition?' Talking to the customer avoids another typical supplier sin: talking to themselves.A sample listThe range of factors (seen from your customers' perspective) might include: price;service - on-time-in-full measures, just-in-time requirements and so on;quality;speed of response;relationships and attitudes;technical innovation;investment in the industry;market standing;market knowledge and experience;value in use - value in the supply chain, total acquisition cost and the like;attitude to exclusivity arrangements;long-term sustainability;appropriate scale;relationships with our own competition;trust and confidence - ethical standards and behaviour;etc...Completing the analysisThere are various software packages that will help take you through the process described here, or something very similar, but it is no bad idea to commence with a paper exercise, however rough, and for several reasons: it quickly identifies the black holes in your knowledge of your customers;it makes a team-wide analysis easier to facilitate;and most importantly, it engages the brain rather than your typing fingers.The tables shown in Figures 26.4 and 26.5 are designed to help you with such an exercise, proving what we might call the 'first cut' analysis. Should you wish to go further - weighting of the individual factors is the obvious next step - it may be at this point that you should turn to the software for help; the sums start to get quite involved!Figure 26.4 Customer attractiveness factorsFigure 26.5 Supplier attractiveness factorsCustomer attractiveness factors Enter the customers under review down the left side of Figure 26.4.List the six (ideally!) customer attractiveness factors (CAFs) across the top.Enter a score from 1 to 10 for each customer, against each attractiveness factor. The higher the score, the better your customer meets that aspiration. Try to set a benchmark of what is 'good' and 'bad' before starting to score, and try to stick to it! (It is all too easy to uprate your 'favourite' customers.)This will give you total scores for each customer that on translation to the KAISM can either be ranked highest to lowest (the simplest method), or rated as higher or lower than the average total score (which might result in a slightly more helpful spread).Supplier attractiveness factors Complete one table (see Figure 26.5) for each of the customers selected for analysis.For each customer under consideration, identify six supplier attractiveness factors (SAFs) that represent their principal needs from their suppliers and by which they would judge you in comparison with others.Place you and your competitors across the top of the table and enter a score from 1 to 10 for each supplier against each factor. This is how the customer views you and your competitors, fact and perception - so be honest! The higher the score, the better the supplier meets the customer's needs.Completing the matrixUsing the information from these two tables, you can place each customer on the KAISM (Figure 26.3). From the customer attractiveness table (Figure 26.4), if a customer scores higher than the average score then they will be in one of the two upper boxes; if lower than average, they will be in one of the two lower boxes.To identify which of the two, use the results from the supplier attractiveness table (Figure 26.5). Where you score better than your best competitor, this indicates the right-hand box, and the left-hand box if you score worse.How much effort and how much detail?It is probably the thought processes forced by this exercise, rather than the outcome on the matrix, that is the most important 'result'. That being so, perhaps the main effort should be put into identifying the two sets of factors, customer attractiveness and supplier attractiveness.When it comes to the rating, calculations to two decimal places that shift customers a few millimetres on the matrix are unlikely to add much to anybody's understanding.Where you simply do not know the answers, most likely when looking at your supplier attractiveness rating, make a note to find out. A supreme benefit of this exercise is the demonstration of what you don't, but must know.This is an exercise that should be done repeatedly, each time seeking for more completeness and greater certainty in your assessments. Over time, you and your team will build up a substantially better appreciation of how you view your customers and how they view you.Often the positions on the matrix are not so surprising, at least not to the KA managers concerned, but the true value is to be found in the debates across functions, telling you a great deal about the different viewpoints in the business, and helping enormously in the all-important task of getting alignment behind the decisions.An important health warningThis process is about getting you and your team to think. It should not be done as guesswork, nor in five minutes on the back of an envelope. It is about determining how you should deal with customers over a sustained period of time, not something that you should allow a series of mathematical calculations to decide for you. In other words, do the analysis, use weightings and ratings, but never allow this to replace the power of discussion and argument. You are allowed to 'break the rules' of the exercise, provided you can explain why. The KAISM is designed to help our thinking, not to replace our brains.CASE STUDY  Do the analysis... do the mathematics... re-engage the brain...My own business, a training and consultancy firm, regularly conducts this identification and selection process, and for many years our chosen criteria for the two axes always found a particular customer down in the bottom-left box. The reason was simple: that this customer had their own in-house training organization, never an attractive proposition for a supplier of training and a hard act to be compared favourably against.But we all knew in our hearts that this was a clear key development account, so what were we doing wrong in our analysis?The problem was in considering things as they stood today. The factors chosen for the vertical axis (at least, a good share of them) should always aim to look ahead. The real question should have been 'What if the company should close or reduce its in-house training organization, and does that look likely?'A positive answer here would see the customer move dramatically northwards.This raised the thought: rather than waiting for that to happen, shouldn't we be treating it as a key development account now, in preparation - perhaps even to encourage them in their decision to reduce their in-house capability? The answer was yes, and as it turned out, with the anticipated results, though it was a journey of some years.For a number of those years we had a higher strategic intent for the customer than they had for us, something that might have worried us in the past, but it was the thinking forced by the classification exercise, and its initially curious results, that served to put our minds at rest.Some complications...We will close this chapter with just two examples of the many real world complications that can beset this otherwise 'simple' process.Same customer, multiple supplier business unitsThis is a common scenario: you have more than one business unit supplying the same customer portfolio. Should the classification process be done in concert, and with the same outcomes for each business unit? While that might appear to make sense, it risks breaking all the rules about segmentation and relevance. This is definitely a circumstance demanding the application of 'brain' rather than mathematical calculations.Let's consider an example, a packaging company, divided into business units focused on different packaging solutions and materials, that has common customers that each use a different mix of these solutions and materials.Business Unit Alpha makes high-tech plastic film, and its No. 1 key account - let's call them 'X' - is designated so because its business is developing fast in the pre-packed, pre-cooked food industry where such high-tech films are going to be of increasing importance.Business Unit Beta makes corrugated cardboard boxes and it also sells to customer 'X', but not in particularly large quantities.Is customer 'X' defined as a key account for Business Unit Beta? Probably not. Is there a likelihood of 'difficulty' here? Absolutely.What if Business Unit Beta, having defined customer 'X' as one of its opportunistic accounts, decides to let go a piece of business with customer 'X'? Perhaps, worse than that, it has to let 'X' down in order to meet the demands of one of its own key accounts? How does Business Unit Alpha feel about this?Well, maybe it works independently from Business Unit Beta and doesn't even realize what has happened. So, does that mean that there is no problem? What if customer 'X', frustrated by the poor regard the supplier holds it in (they don't distinguish between the supplier's business units as much as the supplier does, they all have the same name and logo...), chooses to take out its frustration on Business Unit Alpha? Now there is plenty of scope for difficulties.One 'solution' would be to insist that if any one business unit identifies a customer as a key account then all other business units must follow suit. This may seem logical, but just wait for the internal fights to start.There is a larger question: does the supplier have anything to gain by acting in concert with customer 'X'? If yes, then the proposed rule of 'a key account for one is a key account for all' may make sense. Otherwise, it might just prove an expensive obligation.Some businesses try to solve this problem by using hierarchies of key accounts. They might run as follows: the global key accounts that cross all business and regional boundaries;the regional key accounts;the business unit key accounts;the national key accounts;the local sales representatives' own key accounts.The 'all for one and one for all' rule might be applied to the first two in the hierarchy, but not below that level.There are two dangers in such hierarchies: confusing yourself and confusing the customer, which is quite enough confusion for anyone!If such designations also come with clear definitions of responsibilities and accountabilities then they may yet succeed. Who will get first call on the resources available? Where will we aim to forge diamond relationships? How far will we allow the account to drive business decisions? Where does the ultimate responsibility for this customer lie? What is expected from support functions?The 'exclusive' key accountI once saw a supplier chase and win a major customer (it was Coca-Cola), only to see it almost wreck their good work by then chasing that customer's competitor (in this case Pepsi).Does KAM mean that you cannot serve both? In some industries, large customers, and particularly those with dominant market positions, may try to keep their key suppliers out of their competition. They may not be able to do this by legal contract, but they can make enough suggestions, wield enough influence, and apply enough pressure to make their point very clearly.The customer's reasoning is clear enough: if a close relationship is to form, where sensitive information will be exchanged, then there must be some security, some guarantee that this information will not be used to the benefit of the customer's competitors.For the supplier, one approach might be to demonstrate the existence of some brick walls within their own organization, including the existence of a KA team exclusive to the customer. Otherwise they may have to make the choice: one customer or the other, but not both.If you work in such a market, then perhaps one of the factors placed on the supplier attractiveness axis will need to be: 'does not work actively with our competition'.Application exerciseThis whole process described so far, steps one through four, is of course a major application exercise in itself, so for the purposes of this end of chapter exercise I have highlighted what is perhaps the most important element to be got right; choosing the factors to be used in the analysis. Identify at least 12 potential customer attractiveness factors: - Narrow them down to a list of six- Attempt to weight them- Will these factors satisfy the interests of all functions within your business?List the most typical supplier attractiveness factors (factors used by the customers to rate your performance against your competitors): - How uniform are these across customers?- Are they a unique set for each customer?How might market segmentation simplify and focus this part of the classification process?







27Customer distinctionIn Chapter 26 we walked through the first four steps of the six-step customer classification process. We start a new chapter for steps 5 and 6, largely to make clear the change in the nature of the task and the challenge.Steps 1 through 4 asked us to think and to analyse, steps 5 and 6 require us to do something about all that thinking, something that will make a difference to our business.Step 5: Customer distinction strategiesHaving defined the four customer categories - key accounts, key development accounts, maintenance accounts and opportunistic accounts - the next step is to decide how our approach and our activities will be different in each case. If there is to be no distinction, then not only was the classification exercise entirely academic, but worse, we will be consigning ourselves to suffer three huge problems.First, we make it impossible for those involved in servicing the customers to decide how to act, other than to give everyone the same, or to decide on their own prioritization.Second, we will suffer from 'service creep'. Perhaps for an initial period, despite our failure to lay down lines of distinction, the key accounts will in fact get the best attention, the best ideas, the best services, indeed the best of everything, but it won't be long before jealous eyes from those involved with non-key accounts start to want the same things for their customers. Before long everyone will have what was once exclusive to the key accounts; so what was the point of setting them apart? Worse, it is very likely that the return on these non-key account investments will be less (and if they are not, then there was something wrong with your initial classification!). Worse still, the level of complexity with which you now burden your business might be fatal.Third, and the worst of them all: you will never be able to free up enough time and energy from the non-key accounts to allow you to practise KAM in any meaningful way. It is very likely, and indeed desirable, that the majority of your customers will be maintenance accounts. Failing to set appropriate levels for investment and attention with these customers will almost certainly mean that the majority of everybody's time will be taken up with these customers, denying you that time and effort for the key and key development accounts.Figure 27.1 Customer distinction - freeing up the energyIt is an irony that for many businesses the real challenge of KAM is not to be found in the management of the key accounts, but in finding new ways to look after those customers defined otherwise!Figure 27.1 indicates the need to 'free up energy' from the maintenance accounts, and to invest that energy in the key and key development accounts. It also indicates the likelihood that more energy will need to be invested into the key development accounts than the key accounts.This second observation might surprise some in your organization - surely key accounts deserve and get the most? - but a quick analogy with 'life' will make it clear why this situation is so common. Imagine the key development account to be a person, a particularly attractive person, so attractive in fact that you feel you would like them to marry you. Unfortunately they don't appear to feel the same way about you, or at least they pay you very little attention (their affections may even be diverted elsewhere...). So you set out to 'court' them, and we know the level of energy required for such a pursuit!Figure 27.1 also suggests a number of different approaches to these customers. Using some words familiar to you from Chapter 8 we can see the need for different sales approaches; 'hunting', 'farming', or, to add a new one, 'harvesting'. A good deal of hunting will be required with the key development accounts; opening doors, making first impressions, being noticed, and achieving some 'quick wins'. With the key accounts the doors are wide open and our reputation is clear, so we move to a 'farming' approach; building our business, nurturing, planning for the future. With our maintenance accounts the challenge is to withdraw resources, and yet retain what is almost certainly some of our most profitable business. Some people would refer to this as 'milking' the customer, a clear enough picture, though for myself I prefer to use the word 'harvesting'.Figure 27.2 Customer distinction - relationship modelsFigure 27.2 suggests the most typical relationship model that might apply for each customer classification. These are by no means rules, any more than the suggestion in Figure 27.3 that you will apportion your various budgets according to the classification, they are simply suggestions to get your own thoughts moving as to what will be right in your own circumstances.Figure 27.3 Customer distinction - budgetsDetermining the distinction strategiesFor KAM to be effective, energy and resources must be liberated from the non-key accounts. For each customer type we need to develop a distinct sales and service strategy that allow for this reallocation of resources.First, identify the possible 'bases' for distinction - the things by which you will distinguish your offer, your services and your proposition to each customer type. Any or all of the following may be appropriate bases: expectation of ROI - profitability and the time horizon;frequency of contact;deployment of a team (or not);level and depth of contacts;involvement of senior management;nature of commitment to the customer;contracts - long or short, or none at all;allocation of resources;access to resources;availability of technology;commercial or technical 'openness';nature and number of projects;provision of services;whether we charge for services, or treat them as part of the package;terms and pricing;scope and detail of the account plan;direct supply or use of distributors;how we wish the customer to view us.Next, for each possible base, ask how this would manifest itself with a key account, perhaps trying to identify a 'minimum and maximum' range. If the base was 'level and depth of contact', you might for instance require that contact was made with the customer's CEO, or as a minimum, the functional directors or vice-presidents.Now repeat the same exercise for each of the other customer classifications. Using the same example base, the requirement for an opportunistic account may be no more than contact with the person who places the order.Table 27.1 shows an example (and it is most definitely only that, please don't feel any obligation to copy any issues or points - your challenge is to formulate your own such table) of the finished result.Table 27.1 Customer distinction profilesBasis for distinctionKey accountKey development accountMaintenance accountOpportunistic accountReturn on investmentMeasured over a minimum 2-3 year period'Lifetime value'Be prepared to invest up-front. Have a clear timetable for anticipated returns Conduct regular reviewsPay constant attention to enhancing profitability Take an 'accountant's' viewpoint on costsReturns must be instantAt what level must we 'understand the customer'?Business strategy Vision and drivers Market position View of our competitors Vendor ratingsPrepare analysis using the full diagnostic toolkitContinually monitor for changes in their business strategy that might cause us to reclassify the accountCurrent needsNature of our contractual commitmentFull contract designed to promote trust and confidence, as a platform for developing full partnershipTake 'letter of intent' approach, outlining aspirations and expectations No financial penaltiesEnter into full contract designed to protect current business and build barriers to exitNo contractsRelationship and level of contactsDiamond team Contact MatrixGROWs for all KA team membersFocus on the key sponsors and influencers Involve senior management ASAPSeek increasing efficiency of contacts Make greater use of 'inside sales' teamBow-tie relationshipAccount planFull written KA plan Focus on long-term growth and profitabilityDraft planFocus on short-term winsSummary plan Focus on building barriers to exitNo written plan Sales forecastCustomer's perception of usTheir No 1 'helper' A strategic supplier Supplier of >60 per cent shareA bringer of specific and targeted improvements A key supplierSteady and reliable Eager to keep our businessCommercially astute 'We can do a deal with these guys'Allocation of resourceAgreed internally on an annual basis Agreed with customer against clear returnsAllocate resources against clear and realistic targets Timetable of ROIContinually withdraw resources where there is no negative impactSales onlyProvision of servicesFormally agreed service levels Formal access to R&DAllocate services against clear and realistic targets Timetable of ROIProvide standard technical serviceAlways charged at commercial ratesNature and number of projectsProjects formally agreed by the account team Financial investment where requiredDraw up small list of highly targeted projects with clear criteria for successProvide 'copy/paste' projectsOnly short-term projects No financial supportAvailability of technologyFull collaboration High speed of deliveryTop speed of delivery Tailored 'new' technologyLimited support on 'modifications' Medium speed of deliveryExisting 'off the shelf' technology No development workPricingValue basedMarket basedValue basedTactical, based on our available capacityOverall strategyFarmer Long-term focusFocused hunter Short-term wins to establish credibilitySeeking 'lock-in' Raising barriers to exitOpportunistic hunterOutcomes to avoid...Higher than justified 'cost to serve' KAM bureaucracyGetting locked into commitments with little or no returnBecoming complacent Treating the customer as a second-class citizenDestabilizing the marketOutcomes to avoidThe last 'base' in Table 27.1 is an important 'safety net'. As well as the definitions of 'what you will do', it is important to keep in mind the potential impact of increasing or reducing resources or offering or denying a service. What are the 'outcomes to avoid' with each customer type?For instance, take care not to destabilize the market as a result of short-term opportunistic activities with opportunistic accounts. Beware the risk of 'over-egging' the package for key accounts. With key development accounts take care not to get sucked into long-term commitments, in order to win the business, but that promise no return on the investment.The biggest warning of all must be sounded for maintenance accounts, where the distinction strategy will often involve the removal of resources in different ways: 'Don't do anything that would lead to losing the customer!'This is one of the toughest of all the challenges in KAM. Maintenance customers have perhaps been in receipt of things you want to remove or reduce for a very long time, and might regard your actions as a sign of abandonment. To avoid such a scenario, assess carefully the value they currently put on each of the activities under consideration. If it is high then you must of course proceed with caution, but what if it is low? It is not unusual to discover that many of the interactions that were once of high value have ceased to be so. Times change. If that is the case then do yourself the favour (and the customer) of terminating all the 'unwanted Christmas presents'. These things cost you money, they sap your strength, and they no longer impress the customer, or worse, they make the customer question your true understanding of their needs, or worse still, they only go to explain why you are so expensive! All members of the KA team should be charged with continual vigilance in this regard.Step 6: Communication, alignment and implementationGiven that the whole purpose of this long and involved exercise is to ensure the whole business behaves appropriately across the whole customer portfolio, this final step, for all it being the 'softest' is perhaps the most vital.Much has to be confirmed: does everyone understand the need for the classifications and the basis upon which they have been made? Do they understand and accept the implications of the customer distinction profiles? Will they now give full active support to the plans for each customer type, and in particular to those identified as key or key development accounts?Whether you choose to make a big noise about this, perhaps even a kind of 'launch event', or make the communications through normal channels must depend on your own circumstances - the level of newness, the level of urgency, the level of existing understanding. In general, revolutions are to be avoided, as are fancy launches that inevitably attract cynicism, spoken or unspoken (and the latter is the worse). Equally to be avoided is for the whole thing to be wrapped in secrecy with the final results produced in a document stamped 'Company Secret'.Should we tell the customer?We have made much of the need for the KA approach to be an outwardly-focused activity, but perhaps there is one aspect of its practice that should remain an internal matter; these labels of customer categories. Telling a customer that they are a key account is one thing, but how would you feel, as a customer, to be told that you were in 'maintenance', or were to be treated 'opportunistically'?There may be cases when you want to communicate such a message, but they are rare, and in any case these particular labels might not be the most helpful to your cause.As for telling a customer they are a key account; is that such a good idea in any case? The obvious response from any trained buyer would be: 'That's good to hear, so what's our special package?' Some might even try the line: 'That sounds good, but I expect it costs you something to look after us in that way - perhaps we'll just go for a lower price and forget all that key account complication...'If you plan to tell them, be sure that the news will bring a positive reaction, not a cynical sneer, nor the opportunity for a negotiating tactic. Perhaps it is about timing. Telling the customer they are a key account shortly before doing something that makes a significant difference to their business can make a very positive impression; the same message followed by a price increase or a lengthy wait while you get your act together is more likely to receive one of those cynical sneers.Careless talk in these matters, the lazy use of key account status, not only gives you potential problems with the customer, but risks confusing your own team: are they or aren't they key?The one circumstance where using these labels might bear good fruit is that of the key development account. Perhaps using this term with them will indicate a positive intention on your part, and also communicate the message that the customer needs to give something back in return; in other words, using it yourself as a kind of negotiating and persuasion tactic. The subsequent message to the customer on achieving a full and proper key account status could then be used to better effect. If I hear you squirming at this kind of ploy, then steer well clear; keep the labels for internal use only, and find other ways of discussing these things with your customers.And if they ask you straight out: 'Are we a key account?' try very hard not to say 'yes' if they are not, that's the kind of careless talk that leads to trouble. Perhaps a better answer might be along the lines: 'No, but would you like to be? Let's discuss what it takes...'Application exercise Brainstorm the means by which you could distinguish between the four customer types described in the key account identification and selection matrix.For each selected means of customer distinction, identify the appropriate application for each of the four customer types: - Draw up your own version of Table 27.1.How will you use this to help free up your energy from the maintenance and opportunistic accounts?How will you ensure that these 'packages' are communicated to all those who will be involved in their delivery?







28Global Account ManagementGlobal Account Management (GAM) is in many ways a 'whole new ball game' (and I refer you to my book on the subject - Global Account Management, also published by Kogan Page) but I place this 'summary' chapter here as it does raise one of the more challenging aspects of customer classification and customer distinction: do we have truly global accounts, and if so, what do we do with them that's different?'Global Account Management? That's just Key Account Management with time zones.'Yes, I've heard it said, and if you've heard it said in your company, particularly if it was at the top, then watch out for trouble. Not only is this so very clearly the comment of someone who has never tried it, but as an underestimation of the task ahead it ranks alongside the notion that flying is just walking, with wings.While based on similar processes and tools, the challenges of GAM go far beyond those of nationally-based KAM. Figure 28.1 indicates just some of those additional challenges.Figure 28.1 The challenges of Global Account ManagementGeography and time zones apart, there is the organizational and structural complexity of GAM. The suppliers' nationally-based organizations are very likely built the way they are for very good reason: meeting local needs, not global ones. The whole performance management and reward structure may follow suit, raising a barrier in what we might call the psychology of GAM.What if getting it right for the customer globally compromises the strengths and advantages of the local relationship? Perhaps it places unreasonable demands on the supplier's local organization, perhaps it even makes them do the wrong things for their own good health. This is the classic 'global versus local' dilemma.KAM requires levels of authority well beyond that of traditional selling, often a problem, particularly in 'nervous' businesses, but the GA manager will need an even higher level of authority if they are to work effectively across functions, businesses and territories; a level of authority that senior management may not be willing to grant.Without commitment from senior management all but the simplest ambitions for GAM will come to nothing, but this isn't just one senior management team, this involves the alignment of multiple (and sometimes competing) senior management teams across a range of countries.On top of all of this come the inevitable complexities of cultural diversity - the supplier's and the customer's. While in the end, harnessing such diversity can prove to be a strength, it rarely seems that way at the outset.It becomes clear why taking on the global challenge may prove to be one of the most testing things that your business undertakes; it will certainly occupy large amounts of your time, and it may cost you more than you had ever imagined. This is not something to be entered into lightly.Do you need to do it?We talk so much about the ever shrinking world that such a question might seem unnecessary, even naïve, but this is one of those areas where the hype of ambitions might not always be met by the reality of practice. To suggest that true Global Accounts are in fact a very rare phenomena may sound like a heresy against ideas of modern business practice, but such is the case. Worse than this, too many businesses put themselves through an unnecessary change process in pursuit of GAM (often wasting more time and money than on any other venture) simply because they have misjudged the global nature of their customers.If the customer is genuinely global, then of course GAM is a must, but let's get one thing clear; simply because a customer operates in more than one country is no evidence of their global credentials. Nor is it the number of countries that determines their globality.So what is the proper definition of 'global' in this sense? Getting this right could save you and your business a great deal of time, money and frustration.Truly global, or just plain international?Let's begin with a simpler definition: the 'international' customer. International simply means that they operate in more than one country; it is about geographical presence. You will doubtless have plenty of customers that fit that bill, and big ones into the bargain.Described as such, there is no burning reason why you should aim to manage these customer relationships in any way other than nationally. Perhaps you sell to them in some countries, and not in others: does that matter? Perhaps you regard them as a key account in one country, but a maintenance account in another, or perhaps even as a nuisance customer that you prefer to avoid: does that matter? Perhaps your offer is based on value and close collaboration in one country, but is a straight transactional 'price for volume' arrangement in another: does that matter? If these things do matter, because they matter to the customer, then perhaps this is something more than a 'plain international' customer, and we have the makings of a truly global customer.'Global' implies something far more significant than geographical presence. Ask yourself, does this customer's activities effectively 'shrink our world'? Do the ways in which they behave act to preserve or bolster national or regional boundaries, or do they render such things old-fashioned, even meaningless?There are three important tests that you should apply to any 'international' customer, before defining them as 'global': Do they have needs that are broadly consistent across different countries, and that require globally consistent solutions, measured by globally consistent standards?Do they have a global structure at some relevant operational level? For most suppliers this will mean that the customer has a global procurement operation, but depending on the nature of your offer, a global structure in the customer's R&D, manufacturing, engineering, operations, legal, finance, or sales and marketing organization (or any other for that matter) might be equally relevant.Do they have, and demonstrate, the ability to implement global decisions, and in particular, supplier agreements? Do they 'police' their own purchasing decisions?The first test question is to do with the opportunity: is this customer worth pursuing in a global way? There can be significant economies of scale for both customer and supplier if this condition is met.CASE STUDY  Globally consistent needsSuppliers of raw materials to the pharmaceutical industry often enjoy the protective benefit of something called 'good manufacturing practice' (GMP). It means that tough standards are set for their manufacturing processes, but once achieved they are likely to find themselves tied in to supply contracts for some time, and very likely on a global basis. GMP demands strict uniformity and consistency, and those suppliers that can provide this, and on a global level, will be valued by their customers.The second test question is to do with realistic practicalities: is there an organizational structure with which you can interact? Without such a structure, your journey towards GAM will be met by frustration after frustration as the brilliance of your 'global solution' falls on deaf ears; the ears of those concerned only with their own neck of the woods.The third test question is to do with your reward, and so it is vital to answer this one honestly, and based on evidenced knowledge, not wishful thinking. It is all too easy to make agreements globally - it really is - particularly when they involve suppliers trading discounts for global arrangements or listings. It is so very much harder to ensure that these arrangements are enforced in each and every location. Indeed, it is not unknown for buyers to go laughing all the way to the bank after agreeing such deals, knowing all too well that there is little or no chance of the suppliers getting their side of the bargain. The buyer perhaps has no intention of policing the agreement; it is not their job.The global hunting licenceThe danger for the supplier in such deals is clear; all they have gained is a global 'hunting licence'.Isn't that better than no hunting licence? Maybe not, if you consider at what cost this licence has been won. The supplier has almost certainly given something extra for the global deal (let's say it was a 5 per cent discount, and extended credit), and yet it now has to do locally what it would have had to have done anyway without such a deal: make it happen.Perhaps if it had pursued the opportunity locally in the first place it might have secured the same ends, and at better terms? Perhaps in some localities it might rightly have avoided giving some unnecessary service, or perhaps it could have avoided incurring some unrewarded expense; but now there is a global standard. Perhaps... there are a dozen such 'perhaps' in this scenario, and most of them deeply unsatisfactory.Timing your global response - handling the 'would-be globals'So, before exposing your business to the significant demands of GAM, it is vital to assess the true globality of your customers. At any given moment in time you will probably be able to place them along a spectrum stretching from plain international to truly global as shown in Figure 28.2.Figure 28.2 The 'international/global' spectrumIt is relatively easy to do this 'at any moment in time', but what really matters is the direction in which they are moving, and how quickly, because that should determine your response. The two extremes of the spectrum are straightforward enough, and the required response likely to be clear.The truly global, as defined above, have probably been so for some time and they are letting you know it in no uncertain terms. For these, if you haven't already, you had best start to bite the bullet, and quickly, before they become terminally frustrated with your fragmented silo mentality and your hopelessly national structures.At the other end are those that remain stolidly international and look to remain that way for some time yet. For these you should almost certainly put aside the challenge of GAM; it is unnecessary, and its practice would be artificial, almost certainly causing you more trouble than good.The difficult ones are those customers that lie somewhere in between. To leap into a full-blooded GAM approach with such 'would-be global' customers could perhaps be inappropriate right now (more trouble than good again), and yet to label them as 'plain international' might be to consign yourself to missing a very important boat. At best you will be throwing away an opportunity, and at worst you risk disregarding the customer's true aspirations, and we all know where that one will lead.Good judgement is everything here, the kind of good judgement that only comes from continual review, continual discussion, continual reassessment, and a good deal of patience, particularly with customers that seem to keep changing their minds. Don't forget, this is as difficult for them as it is for you...If it don't fit, don't force it...Judging the customer's position and aspirations is just the start; you must also be aware of your own capability to manage a global relationship and to deliver a truly global offer. It takes time to become global, for suppliers just as for customers.Figure 28.3 considers the closeness of fit between the customer's global ambitions and the supplier's global capability, suggesting the kind of actions that might be required, and in what direction.Figure 28.3 Assessing the fitDon't let your own global capability lead you to assume that the same is true for your customer, or worse, cause you to push them into global behaviours that they do not seek for themselves. I hardly need say where this will lead.But equally, don't allow your own global inadequacies to lead you in the direction of denial or postponement. Promising yourself that you will of course behave globally, but only as and when your customers become truly global, may save you a good deal of unnecessary effort and expense today, but where will such a 'keep up' strategy land you if the customer's move to globality suddenly outpaces yours? Indeed it is very likely that it will, given the differences between being a global customer and a global supplier.It's a tricky balance and the best advice can only be - keep your eyes and ears open. Look for the clues that suggest movements toward true global behaviours from your customers, and aim to be a step ahead of them, ready to match their new requirements as they appear. This way you can help the customer to develop their own global capabilities, without forcing them, and without lagging behind - a fine line indeed, but if navigated successfully the results will be a significant source of competitive advantage.The global buyerThere is some bad news here. On the plus side; it is true to say that many modern buyers have taken a refreshingly positive view of value received from suppliers as opposed to simple price comparisons, but on the minus side, this 'shift in the right direction' from the seller's point of view can often be set back when the buyer takes on the global challenge. Quite simply, the task of comparing value across so many different locations is a daunting one, and given all the other complexities of global purchasing many a buyer has resorted to simple price comparisons, for ease.The task for the supplier becomes obvious; help them to measure that value, locally and globally, but too many suppliers handicap themselves in this pursuit by failing to facilitate good communications between the necessary players, not only across functions, but now also across countries and regions. It is too easy to blame others for this, the IT folk being a common butt of complaints for not providing global systems that talk to each other, but even if that is so, does that prevent people from talking with each other? Some even compound the problem by seizing the opportunity provided by global purchasing to run down their local sales resources: and just when you needed them most!CASE STUDY  Communications breakdownI cannot name the supplier nor the customer, I wish I could, but the tale is no less important for that.After a long period of stable relations at each local level across an international customer the world suddenly changed for the supplier, at least it did in one country: Poland. Without warning a global buyer arrived and for the period of a month replaced the local buyer in a series of negotiations with each supplier. Their aim was clear - significant price reductions - and their methodology simple: threats of delisting if price demands were not met. They were remarkably successful. So successful that they moved on to the next country and repeated the same trick. Three months later the supplier in Poland learned from the local buyer, now back in charge, that delisting had never been a realistic option, but it was too late to do anything about it.Six months later the sales manager from Poland met up with their colleagues from the other European countries, each of which supplied this same customer. Each had the same tale to tell: a visit from the global buyer and the threat of delisting.'Oh really?' said the Polish sales manager, 'Isn't that interesting? Pretty much the same thing happened to us a while back...'Strangely enough, at dinner that evening the chair beside the sales manager from Poland was empty.The global diamond teamNot only cross-functional, but now also cross-sales teams, such teams are without doubt the hardest of all to form, and to manage. I refer you for more advice in this area to my book Global Account Management, published by Kogan Page, but let one comment here provide both an example of the advice, and an indication of the challenge: aim to have a central budget, controlled by the GA manager, for all travel related to the global account, by all members of the GA team, whether from sales or other functions. Simple? It needs to be that simple...Application exercise Are those accounts you call 'global' truly global?Apply the three test questions.How does your global capability fit with their global reality?







Part NineMaking it happen







29Sins and requirementsThe biggest challenge of KAM is not to be found in the concept or the theory, nor in getting to grips with the toolkit. I would in fact go as far as one of my clients once said to me after a series of training sessions: 'You know, that was all just good common sense'. The real challenge comes when faced with the task of practical implementation, what I like to call making it happen. It is the long list of things that can get in the way of making it happen that present the main problems, and the vast majority of these things are tied up with internal issues. It is rarely the customer or the competition that prevents you from making KAM work; it is your own organization.The sins of KAMThe following list of 'deadly sins' is compiled after many years of working with clients in a wide range of industries and markets but encountering pretty much the same obstacles almost everywhere I went. In fact, the day I meet an organization that suffers none of these sins is the day I hang up my trainer's boots.In life there are said to be seven deadly sins: pride, covetousness, lust, envy, gluttony, anger and sloth. We may encounter some of those in our work, pride, covetousness, envy and sloth being the most evident, with anger making occasional appearances, and I make no comment on the impact of either lust or gluttony, but in the world of KAM there are many more besides.Problems with leadership and organization inertia and complacency - no 'burning platform';unclear (sometimes conflicting) goals;top management short-termism;unrealistic expectations regarding the timing and scale of the return on the investment;abandoning the concept in times of crisis;the 'silo mentality', with managers as 'barons';clashes of objectives, priorities and performance measures across functions;inappropriate operational excellence;functions not talking to each other;competition between business units for the same customer;disputes between business units (whose key account is this anyway?);too many key accounts;inadequate customer classification (see Chapter 26);inadequate customer distinction (see Chapter 27);service creep (see Chapter 27);no plan for freeing up the energy from non-key accounts (see Chapter 27).Problems with skills and capabilities resistance from the sales team... a preference for 'hunting' (see Chapter 8);insufficient authority for the KA managers and KA teams;inappropriate skills in the KA managers;inappropriate people or skills in the supporting team;a non-streetwise supporting team;poor plans for personal development, recruitment, or succession planning.Problems with IT and systems too much IT - the straitjacket of processes and templates;too little IT - inadequate means of analysing, recording and communicating;existing systems no longer appropriate but too deeply embedded to change.Problems with measuring profitability inadequate measures of customer profitability;no process for assessing investment propositions.Problems with KA plans no formal, written KA plans (see Chapter 24);the 'telephone directory' plan;the 'top-secret' plan;KAM as a planning bureaucracy;the failure to include the people (Contact Matrix and GROWs);the failure to identify the value proposition.Problems with tracking progress failure to measure the impact, positive and negative;failure to measure or communicate successes;no plans for developing capabilities.Some of these 'sins' have been discussed in earlier chapters (as noted above). The majority of the remainder will be dealt with in the following chapters (30 through 35).It is a daunting list, but fortunately nobody (at least not that I have met to date) will be unlucky enough to suffer them all. Go back through the list and note the ones that are problems within your own business. Then go back through that sub-list and note the ones that you think you should be able to do something about. Hopefully the resultant list is now a little less daunting.Dealing with sins is not about curing everything before you start; if that were the case then most of us would never start anything at all! Approach it as I am assured people are encouraged to approach their first meeting at Alcoholics Anonymous: recognizing that you have a problem is half the battle.Making it happen is not then about seeking perfection; rather, it is about establishing priorities, separating the 'must haves' from the 'nice to haves', and being flexible enough to work with 'what you have'. KAM demands a high degree of realism, and the wisdom to know when change is necessary, and when to just get on with things.Some fundamental requirementsFigure 29.1 repeats the KAM model introduced in Chapter 5, now surrounded by what experience has shown to be the most frequently identified requirements for success, what some would call the critical success factors. These are the things that, if done well will allow us to make it happen, but if done badly will be most likely to squeeze the life out of our KAM ambitions. The following chapters, 30 through 35, will tackle each of these fundamental requirements in turn.Figure 29.1
Making it happen - some fundamental requirementsApplication exercise Which of the sins listed here are evident within your own business and its current approach to KAM?Do you suffer any additional 'sins'?From this list, identify those that present the biggest obstacles.Which of these do you think you should be able to do something about?Note any immediate thoughts on actions required.







30Leadership and organizationLeadership or management?Is making KAM happen a leadership task or a management task? It depends on where you stand right now. If KAM has been established for some time then it will lean towards management, but if this is all new to you then it will definitely be about leadership. It is worth looking at the difference.In general terms the difference might look like this:and in more KAM-specific terms, perhaps something like this:This chapter will focus on the leadership task, making the assumption that you are hoping to take your business and your team somewhere new.One issue usually jumps out from the kind of lists shown above, the business of 'allowing instability', perhaps even encouraging it. This makes many people nervous, particularly 'managers', so a little more definition is due. Let's suppose your KAM journey is motivated by changes in the market and in the behaviours shown by your customers. Customers in such circumstances become less reliable, risk increases, you will need to adopt new approaches, some of which will be experimental, testing the waters, some of which will need refinement, and some maybe even will need abandoning. This is not the normal course of sales management, a process that craves certainty, predictability, and the measurement of known and proven metrics. Instability is inherent in this new situation, but do you go as far as to encourage it? If that provides you with a source of competitive advantage, because your KAM approach is better designed to handle such instability than the competitors' traditional sales approach, then yes, why not?Of course, the reality will be a balance between aspects of both leadership and management, leadership with no management would more than likely lead to chaos. This chapter hopes to help you choose your own balance.LeadershipThere are more books written on this than on almost any other facet of business management, very often from the perspective of one or more 'corporate heroes'. I don't propose to go down the 'do it their way' route, but to limit my advice on leadership in the realm of KAM to the following list of requirements: Being able to set a new course of events in motion - change management.Identifying the priorities - the critical success factors.Ensuring the right capabilities - recruitment, training, coaching.Delivering new messages - the role of language in managing change.Allowing maximum freedom while providing a safety net - authority and rules.Handling success and failure.Being involved.Ensuring cross functional alignment.Change managementBack in Chapter 23 we introduced the change equation (Figure 30.1), a method for persuading change within the customer. The same principles apply when seeking change within your own organization, though here the task often seems a good deal tougher!Figure 30.1 The change equationChange begins with dissatisfaction with how things are now. What then are the sources of current dissatisfaction for you, in the market, with your competition, regarding your customers, and with your team's performance?The next step is to identify a shared future, in this case of the role and purpose of KAM. The ability to describe a credible future is important, but the key is making it a shared vision; the leader's motivational skills will often be tested to their limit here.Once, and only once that is agreed, move on to the first practical steps towards KAM. Avoid revolutions. Take it one thing at a time. Perhaps start with some easy stuff to get the ball rolling.And all of this has to be greater than the cost of change as perceived by those involved, which in the case of KAM probably has more to do with psychological factors than financial; plenty of sales professionals fear the implications of KAM, particularly the hunters, worrying that it will stifle their independence, remove them from the starring role, or burden them with unwelcome tasks.That's change management in summary, an important enough task to deserve a little more elaboration on the importance of dissatisfaction.The burning platform?One of my clients refers to the 'burning platform' as a means of identifying and describing the 'burning need' for KAM. The notion is, the more dire the outcome of failing to practise KAM (the hotter the platform), the more likely people will be to respond and pursue the necessary changes with alacrity. It's an approach.Others feel that people don't change when they are caught like a rabbit in the headlights. They argue that the best way to manage change is by simple and modest steps, almost imperceptibly, not by urgent calls to arms, but by putting right dissatisfactions one at a time. It's another approach.You must take your pick, or more likely, find the appropriate middle course between these two 'poles'; they are perhaps just different ways of describing dissatisfaction. I favour the dissatisfaction with the current state of affairs approach rather than the fear of failure approach, it being more likely to engage the largest number of people. Some will for sure respond to the burning platform idea, but they tend to be a minority, and perhaps those already feeling most secure - those of a nervous disposition tend to avoid such images!One thing that both sides will agree on, complacency is the biggest enemy in the early days, allowing the inertia bound up in all your existing approaches and processes to become an overwhelming obstacle to change. Perhaps the worst phrase in the history of business thinking is: 'If it ain't broke, why fix it?' Aim to replace this with: 'If it ain't broke, what might break it, and do we see any of that coming?' - not quite so catchy (perhaps we might say instead: 'If it ain't broke, it will be...?), but far more valuable!Critical success factorsIt's always difficult discussing such things, the conversation tends to lurch from platitudes on the one hand to realizations that you 'don't know what you don't know' on the other. Here's a useful technique to break through such problems; I call it the 'disaster scenario'. Gather a group of interested parties and ask them to list as many things as they can that they believe would destroy your efforts to make KAM happen. In particular, what behaviours, attitudes and actions would be most likely to kill it? This can be great fun, but don't leave it here! From this scenario, using a simple reversal of each item, identify the positive behaviour attitude or action required, a success factor rather than a failure factor. From that list, it will be much easier to identify those of critical importance.CASE STUDY  CSFs: an example list(This list, drawn up by a real business at the early stage of embracing the KAM philosophy, was based on the obstacles and deficiencies identified in their own particular circumstances. It is not given as a template, but solely as an example of how such a list might look (I have not edited it), though perhaps a little long for my own tastes.) KAM must be a cross-business process, supported at senior levels, with objectives and responsibilities that supersede those of individual functions or departments.Everyone must understand and share the purpose and objectives of KAM.KA teams must have the capabilities and resources to focus on the customer's processes and the customer's markets.KA teams must have sufficient authority to develop value propositions designed to increase customer prosperity and secure key supplier status.Team members must have the right skills and understanding to carry out a customer-intimate role - interpersonal skills and commercial awareness are top priorities.There must be a system for cross-business communication (including the customer) and the necessary skills and disciplines to make it work.We must all understand the dynamics of team working.We must have enhanced skills of project management.Attention to detail. We require relevant, customer-focused operational excellence from all functions.There must be a system for measuring progress on the KAM journey and for assessing the benefits to our customers and ourselves.We must be able to measure customer profitability.There must be written and easily updatable KA plans.Ensuring the right capabilities - recruitment, training, coachingChapter 31 will explore the range of skills required, but a few comments here on how they might be acquired. Training is usually the first thought, and Chapter 35 will look at some options, but there are two avenues that should be explored before pressing that button - and I say this as the boss of a training company!RecruitmentIt is always easier to mould a team from willing participants, and the injection of new enthusiasms from outside can often help. Moreover, finding somebody with existing skills and experience can help avoid a good number of the early days teething problems that can beset KAM.Recruitment can be of most value in a situation where traditional approaches have become so ingrained as to be almost impossible to eradicate.CASE STUDY  The tale of the sports commentatorsSport was not broadcast regularly on South African television until well into the 1970s - radio being the normal medium. When TV started to broadcast more frequently, it needed commentators, so it took them from the radio - well-known and respected voices. There was, however, a problem.After years of reporting every move on the pitch and every swing of every club, bat or racquet, the radio-trained commentators found it hard to adapt. Quite simply, they spoke too much and soon infuriated the audience who could see quite plainly what was going on with their own eyes. The solution, at least in this case, was new people with new perspectives and different skills.CASE STUDY  The tale of the pharmaceutical sales forceThe pharmaceutical industry has experienced this problem in recent years, but with an additional and problematic twist. Having focused for so long on 'call rates', territory 'coverage' and 'detailing', pharma companies find the shift towards any form of Key Account Management a tough one to make. Quite simply, they trained their existing people too well in the old practices!The solution may then appear to be recruitment, but with most pharma companies operating in a downsizing mode with regard to their sales team this has become something of a 'political' problem.CoachingChapter 31 will discuss the coaching skills required by the KA manager, but even more important is their need in the leadership team.When people are struggling, avoid the temptation to tell them what to do, even if you are certain you know the answer; get them to articulate the solutions for themselves. Avoid the temptation to tell people what you would do if you were in their place, encourage them to find their own answers.When things are going well, remember to give appropriate praise, but don't stop there; ask people why they think things are going so well, and what we might learn from that.If you remember when you were learning to drive, the instructor, if they were a good one, probably did their best to avoid grabbing the wheel when you went astray, but asked you what you thought you had done wrong, and made suitably encouraging noises when you eventually got it right, and asked you how you felt about it now that all was well. That, in a nutshell, is coaching.Companies that have a 'coaching culture' generally do better than those that don't, and the same goes for the people who work there.CASE STUDY  Coaching breeds success...I have met with every shade of 'excellence' in KA managers, from the top to the bottom, but it was only when meeting the same gentleman in two different companies that I fully realized the significance of the environment on the individual. In the first company where we met he had been at best a poor KA manager; lethargic, cynical, and perhaps fortunately for those around him, a loner. When I met him again only six months later, now working in a new company, he had been transformed into an enthusiastic and creative team leader. And what had brought about that transformation? His new managers, and starting right at the top. Whereas in his old home he had felt abandoned and discarded, now he felt supported, respected and valued, and his behaviour, and his performance, showed it.'They actually care what I think,' he said to me, 'even when it's going wrong, actually, especially when it's going wrong.'He'd experienced good coaching, perhaps for the first time in his sales career (a good number of sales managers being prone to instructing rather than listening), and it had made a new man of him. Good managers, through skilled coaching, can make a good KA manager, just as bad managers, through clumsy attempts to 'command and control', can achieve exactly the reverse.Job profilesWhether recruiting, training or coaching, start by drawing up a profile of the ideal KA manager, listing the skills required, but even more importantly the desired attitudes and behaviours (again, Chapter 31 will provide some suggestions). In KAM it is what some will call the 'soft skills' that most often bring success.TrainingOnce you are satisfied that you have the right foundations in terms of the right people then thoughts should turn to training, but before embarking on what some people would call a sheep dipping exercise, there is a valid question: must we train and coach everyone involved, or should we perhaps focus on those already most capable, and most likely to lead others by their example? This is a big debate with many competing arguments and a huge number of 'it depends'. I have seen success from both approaches, but if pressed would land on the side of finding those who will lead by example. A certain amount of envy and covetousness among those less capable, though deadly sins in the human context, might perhaps be encouraged in the world of KAM!Delivering new messages - the role of language in managing changeIf you want new things thought and done, consider using new language to describe those things. Words matter, but they can also get in the way.Each function within a business will use its own jargon, its own 'expert' vocabulary, usually with no damage done, but if it leads to functions sounding 'alien' to each other it can become one of the obstacles to genuine cross-functional working.The way salespeople describe their customers inside their own business, often citing the more negative aspects of the customer's behaviour, can leave the wrong impression, and of both parties concerned.When the grocery retailers began to build their own retailer brands alongside the traditional supplier brands those suppliers called them 'no labels' or 'private labels', words that dismissed them as being of an inferior stamp and so irrelevant, and by avoiding the word 'brand' seriously limited their understanding of the retailer's intentions. Worse, the way they spoke of their retail customers created a mental block to any form of collaboration: 'Our biggest customers are also our largest competitors' they said. Deadly words.If salespeople describe the other functions in their business as 'support' functions, what message does that send? Might it create a sense of hierarchy and subservience never intended?Just as bad a phrase is that used by some functions well away from the commercial end of the business, describing themselves as 'non-customer-facing'. While this might be an accurate description, I dread to think at what they are in fact looking; hardly the kind of language to encourage the sense of customer focus you might be wanting to engender.Try to identify all the phrases that might get in the way of making KAM happen, particularly those tired and anachronistic bits of jargon that creep up all too easily on us, and aim to replace them with new KAM-inspired language. It is true that anything very specific to its time will, in time, become an anachronism - it's why clothes and hair fashions always look so odd once their day has passed - but aim to use phrases of the moment. Diamond teams, and contact matrices, and GROWs, may in time become tired words, but while they are new and vibrant, use them for everything they are worth.One way might be to take on board a little more of the customer's language, using their way of describing the market for instance. It may sound a little foreign to begin with, but just as learning a little of the language of the country you are about to holiday in can open up new horizons, so learning 'customer' will open up new understandings.Allowing maximum freedom while providing a safety net - authority and rulesPassing extra authority to KA managers may sound the right thing to do, but what if they are not brave enough to take it up, fearing some old-style chastisement if they make a mess of things? I have always liked a phrase used by one of my clients, and undoubtedly one of the best leaders I have had the privilege to work with: 'Don't come to me asking for permission', he tells his people, urging them on to experiment and broaden their horizons, 'but do learn to come to me occasionally asking for forgiveness.' His personal style provides his people with a safety net.Allowing maximum freedom is all very well, but how do you avoid this leading to chaos? Even at the extremes of leadership there remains a need for rules, to act as a safety net for those braving new heights, though perhaps rules of a different kind from those that controlled the pre-KAM era, or characterized a management-led
environment. Let's consider, as an example, the matter of performance management and in particular the role of monitoring and measuring.Measurement is central to a management-led environment, aiming to identify and remove aberrations in activities and performance, based on a known and proven set of metrics.Its role in a business aspiring to new behaviours is perhaps even more important, though it takes on a very different complexion, aiming to identify evidence of those desired behaviours, and to learn from them in pursuit of a new set of performance metrics.At the other end of performance management comes reward and recognition, and the world of KAM will demand its own approach to this highly politicized area. I will mention just four different aspects of this multi-faceted topic.Firstly, on what criteria should rewards be based? Sales volume is unlikely to be the best measure. Better measures will be those that emphasize the key account as an investment. Profitability is much to be preferred, but it is of course also much harder to measure. There should also be measures that relate to the nature of the KAM task, such as progress in building the relationship, developing the value proposition, forming a KAM team, and achieving the objectives written in the KA plan. This linkage of reward to objective setting, planning and successful implementation will also help establish the responsibilities of the KA manager on the same level as Business Management, which is precisely where they should be.Secondly, who is being rewarded, the KA manager or the KA team? This one is simple; it has to be the team, but how many reward and recognition packages are set up to do that?Thirdly, what is the role of sales awards? I should confess up front to not being a great fan of such things, my experience being that even when KAM is the preferred methodology in a company the award too often goes to the salesperson that won the most exciting piece of new business that year - a hunters' charter. But if you like awards, at least consider two changes. First, give the award to a KA team, not to an individual. Second, consider giving the award to the KA team that has retained the most business in difficult circumstances - a real test of a team's farming skills, especially in a mature market.The fourth and final thought on performance management is a tricky one; given the rarity of good KA managers, how do you plan to keep them in place? The Royal Air Force has come up with a neat solution to a problem not so dissimilar to that for keeping able and ambitious KA managers in place.If you joined the RAF to fly jet planes then you could do so up to the rank of squadron leader, but if you wanted promotion beyond that rank you had to take a desk job. This was a significant problem for those who had joined the RAF to fly.The solution was to allow those officers who wanted to continue flying to move up a new salary ladder that might ultimately see them paid the same as those in ranks well above them, while still remaining at the rank of squadron leader.The R&D function in the likes of large chemical and pharmaceutical companies often practises something similar, for those people that want to 'stay by the bench'. The so-called 'scientific ladder' allows for increases in reward without the need for a move into general management.Could a 'sales ladder' do the same for KA managers?Handling success and failureSir Winston Churchill's view was that 'success is about going from failure to failure without any loss of enthusiasm'. Rudyard Kipling described success and failure as 'those two impostors', the handling of which proved you to be a man. Perhaps there is some truth in both these thoughts for those involved in KAM.Celebrate success at every opportunity, and use it to guide the creation of new winning approaches and processes. Don't leave examples of good practice as isolated anecdotes, but aim to institutionalize them in new and formal approaches and processes for KAM.Learn from the failures, they almost always teach us more than the successes, modifying the approaches and processes as you proceed. If you fail to win a pitch with the customer, be sure to ask them why. If you fail to deliver your value proposition on time, be sure to ask yourself and your team why. Don't be afraid of post mortems, they are opportunities to get it right next time.Being involvedLeadership in the KAM arena implies involvement. Senior managers must be involved in setting the strategy, in removing the obstacles, and as active members of KA teams. I usually advise the board of a business embarking on a new KAM journey that each board member should attach themselves to a KA team. In this role they must of course avoid the temptation to take over - they are team members alongside the rest - and indeed the KA manager will be wise to drop them from the team should they show that disposition - never easy mind when it's your boss!The purpose of such involvement? In the first place, there is no better way to learn the real needs, the critical success factors, of the KAM approach, and to see the obstacles in their way. In the second place, they are then best placed to do something about it.If membership of a team is problematic, then each senior manager should offer themselves as a mentor to a KA manager, coaching them, and helping them through those difficult moments of cross-functional tension, providing the necessary boost to authority that such moments demand (call it 'knocking heads together' if you prefer).At the very least, ensure that the KA managers and their teams are regularly exposed to the leadership team, or perhaps that should be the other way around. One of my clients insists that at every monthly board meeting there is a 20- to 30-minute presentation made by one of the KA teams. They have developed an excellent set of 'rules' for doing this. The KA team (and it is the team, not just the KA manager) don't come and simply tell the board a story about who the customer is (no opening lines like: 'This customer was founded in 1927, in Bolton'), nor do they take them through the detail of the account plan, but instead they focus on a single line of argument, a specific case where something is needed to improve the position with the customer, and very often that 'something' is in the hands of the board. That's great involvement, and from the bottom up.Ensuring cross-functional alignment - the organizationEach function involved in KAM - and note I choose not to call them customer- facing, or support functions - should be asked by the leadership team to address the following questions, not as a challenge, but as a means of identifying the areas where help is required, that help to be provided by the leadership team: Do we understand the customer classification process (see Chapter 26)? - Have we been sufficiently involved in it?- Do we accept its outcomes?Do we understand the customer distinction process (see Chapter 27)? - Have we been sufficiently involved in it?- Do we accept its outcomes?What impact will KAM have on our function?How can our function contribute to the KAM task?What will KAM do for the customer?What must our function do for the customer?What will KAM look and feel like for our function?Do we need to make any changes to our own functional processes and metrics?This last question is of particular importance as one of the biggest obstacles to cross-functional alignment is the fact that different functions use different measures of success.A production manager might be measured on 'occupacity' - their ability to use the plant to ensure maximum output. A key account manager might approach that production manager with a 'customer-focused' request, to produce a modified product, provision of which will advance the customer relationship by a huge leap. This will involve shutting down the production line, re-tooling, opening up for a relatively short production run, another shut down, another re-tooling, and then back to where we left off. Should the key account manager be surprised if the production manager treats the idea as a joke? But who is right? The problem isn't in the people but in the measurement.Which of the two measurements is more appropriate to the overall goals of the business? If this is a business driven by operational excellence (you will recall this as one of Wiersema's value drivers from Chapter 18), then perhaps occupacity is a good measure, but if it was driven by customer intimacy, then perhaps the aims of improving customer relationships might prevail.There remains a problem however; try telling a production manager that they are going to be measured by improvements in customer relationships...Functions have their own metrics because they are appropriate to the nature of that function, and importing somebody else's is unlikely to work; try telling the KA manager that they should be measured on occupacity....The trick is to find metrics that are appropriate to both the function and the overall business. If the business is driven by the kind of customer intimacy that implies short production runs, then perhaps the plant should be measured on its ability to make swift changes with minimum downtime. If the business is driven by the kind of operational excellence that demands a plant working to full capacity, then perhaps the KA managers should be measured on their ability to secure orders of appropriate volume for the state of the plant at any given moment.CASE STUDY  Basketball has the answer...Might the solution be found in the world of professional basketball? Anyone that follows the game will know about the host of statistics that surround it. There seems to be a measure for every single aspect. Players' performances are measured with merciless accuracy - that is the nature of the professional game.Two measures stand out: 'baskets', and 'assists'. That is, how many times they put the ball through the hoop, and how many times their 'play' helped another player put the ball through the hoop. Only some players on the team get to put the ball through the hoop a good number of times, but every one of them is involved in the assists.In your business, what would you regard as a 'basket' and what would constitute an 'assist'?Such solutions to the problem of different metrics would of course require a good deal of communication between functions, and preferably speaking the same language, but surely this is not a problem, rather it is simply part and parcel of cross-functional alignment.Organization and structureThe discussion on cross-functional alignment takes us neatly to the second major topic of this chapter, the question of organization and structure.The mortal enemy of KAM is the silo-based organization. Figure 30.2 illustrates what we might call the 'no chance structure'.Figure 30.2 Silo-based structuresWhat hope is there for a KA manager, buried at the bottom of the hierarchy, to build and lead a truly cross-functional team? It can be done of course, and there are examples of KA managers working hard, against all the odds, and still pulling off minor miracles. One such described the experience to me as something of a cross between an army assault course and an on-the-job MBA. So there are heroes, but isn't there a better way than to have to rely on such rarities?But if teams are to be truly cross-functional, if the functions are to be aligned behind a shared vision and driven by complementary performance measures, and if the whole business decision-making process is to be driven by customer requirements, then isn't all of that going to turn the organization upside down? Very likely yes, so why not do just that?Figure 30.3 shows the comparison between a traditional hierarchy and a possible KAM-driven hierarchy - the organization has been turned upside down. In traditional hierarchies, the management sits at the top and the people with customer contact sit lower down, often at the bottom. In a KAM hierarchy, the people with customer contact (whatever their function or seniority) are placed right at the top, with the lines of management beneath. If you can't be rid of silos (and they do have their purpose and benefits), then at least turn them in the direction of the customer.Figure 30.3 The organization turned upside downYou will have gathered that this upside down organization is less a matter of the reality of reporting lines and more a matter of symbolic intent. It is no less valuable for that, in fact, perhaps we can have the best of both worlds.CASE STUDY I was a newly appointed sales manager in one of the divisions of ICI when a new CEO arrived; he was a rough-tough Australian, and doubtless regarded us as a bunch of Pommy whatevers. He gathered the various managers of the many functions together and gave us a good talking to, starting with a few questions:'Who in this room has contact with customers?'I put my hand up alongside my fellow sales managers and a few other managers from the likes of customer service and distribution. Next question:'Who in this room supports somebody who has contact with customers?'No hands went up, we were managers, we managed, we didn't support...At this point he turned on us like a snake about to strike its prey:'If your job doesn't actually involve you in meeting with customers, then be xxxx sure you support someone who does, otherwise you have no place in this business.'He then tore off the structure chart that was on a flipchart beside him and reaffixed it, upside down.'From today onwards,' he said, with a flash in his eye that we learned in time to regard as good humoured, 'this will be our new structure.'Of course, the actual structure continued as it was, but the symbolism of the message was well regarded, and in time it became more than symbolism as KA teams were empowered to commit their seniors on behalf of their customers.The point being made with upside-down structure charts (or perhaps we should start to call them right-way-up structure charts) is that the management structure should exist to service those who service the customers. The same point can be made for the functions: they exist for the customers, not for their own definitions of operational excellence.Letting the customer be your guideThe perfect structure is not possible, there are too many conflicting interests for that to be so, not least the eternal battle between external needs and internal preferences. You must make your choice as to whether you favour one side or another in this battle, or can find a 'right down the middle' compromise, but if KAM is to be a genuine part of your business you might need to lean towards allowing your structure to develop on the basis of the customers' view of the world.Customers will have little sympathy for structures that might mean something to the supplier but have no positive benefit for them. Worse, if they see the supplier's structure as an obstacle to their progress then the writing will be on the wall. It is interesting to note that whereas in the past a good supplier would always try to secure an 'organogram', or structure chart, of their customer, it is now quite normal for the customer to ask its supplier to provide details and explanations of their structures. This is so that they can judge how easy it will be for them to do business with the supplier, and assess what level of importance they will have in the supplier's organization. If they see something like that shown in Figure 30.2, what do you imagine they will conclude?Businesses that are responsive to their markets and customers will in fact already have modified their organizational structure as 'guided' by their customer's needs. If the customers demand low, and steadily decreasing prices, then a structure that helps promote internal cost reductions will probably have developed, with functions such as manufacturing in a dominant position. If on the other hand the customers demand high-tech products with 'added-value' services, then we might expect to find the likes of R&D and sales and marketing in a more prominent position.Multi-business, multi-unit, multi-site suppliers might find some sense in having separate sales teams for the same customer, but often the customer does not see things the same way. Duplication of contacts is bad enough, but if this complexity also leads to different terms, conditions, service levels and the rest, then the customer will have something to say about that. The pressure will be on to change the organization in response to customer demand - not a bad motivation, but it is always best if the organization can pre-empt such demands and look at their own organization from the customer's perspective first.The matrix structureFigure 30.4 illustrates the almost inevitable matrix structure that emerges from the practice of KAM. It is neither regular nor uniform, but depends on the involvement of different functions in different accounts as they occur, not in response to any set plan. Whether this becomes the basis of an actual structure, or simply illustrates some different internal relationships, will be entirely the choice of those involved, and there is much to be said in favour of either outcome.Figure 30.4 The matrix structureIt is probably fair to say that the matrix structure will not be liked by those who crave the neatness and clarity of straight lines in such matters, but if KAM was about neatness this would have been a very different, and much shorter book.Evolution not revolutionWe are told that change is the new constant, but the peril with changing the organizational structure is that in the pursuit of new objectives you can easily risk losing some of the best of whatever worked before. Not only that, organizational change always leaves some people nervous, and can be a block to the very changes it hopes to secure as those people keep their heads down. I have even heard one of my clients claim that the true source of their competitive advantage is that they have remained the same for years, structurally, while their competitors have suffered the confusion and debilitation of structural upheaval after structural upheaval.In view of this, when change is necessary, evolution rather than revolution may be the preferred route.Figure 30.5 illustrates a typical evolution. Over a long period of time this company has successively morphed from a country-led structure where business units were secondary, to one led by those same business units while those same country units took the secondary role, after which came the finesse of market channels within the same business units, largely replacing the country-based structure from the past. Over time the channels took on the dominant role. Then along came key accounts within the channels, and it is not too hard to see how the next shift might take them into key-account-led structures. Such morphing, by retaining some portion of the previous structure but shifting its level of importance helps ensure a level of stability through the instability of change.Figure 30.5 The evolving structureThere is a counter argument among organizational-change experts, that by attempting to retain something of the old, the arrival of the new is slowed, and one can see the dangers. The counter argument suggests that if you are to suffer the inconveniences of change then get them all over as quickly as possible; suffer the pain now. It is a view that has something in common with that held by some physical exercise coaches that if it doesn't hurt, then it is not doing you any good.The KA team continuityThere is, at least within the sphere of KAM, a kind of middle ground to the evolution/revolution debate, and one that brings benefits to the whole organization however it takes shape. By forming cross-functional KA teams (and in the world of GAM, cross-national KA teams), structures are created that will remain largely consistent throughout whatever bigger change is going on around them. That is not to say that they are immune to that change, they might even influence it, but the good news is that a consistency is assured from the customer's point of view, a factor too often forgotten by those who wish the more dramatic kinds of upheaval on their businesses.KAM and downsizing?Some businesses see KAM as an opportunity to reduce the size of the sales force, replacing regional structures of field-based reps with a small team of KA managers, perhaps supported by a customer service office of inside salespeople.If this is a line that you might follow, take care that your thinking is led by the nature of the market and its demands, and not by your desire to cut costs.Pharmaceutical companies have made drastic cuts to their sales teams in recent years. Some justify the cuts by reference to insupportable cost structures and the need to protect the bottom line. Others argue that the cuts reflect the changing demands of the market and a move away from call-rate driven sales towards a more efficient account management basis. Assuming that both are right, I leave you to decide who has the better motivation.Application exercise In making KAM happen, is your task one of management or leadership?If it is leadership, assess your own (or your leadership team's) leadership performance against the following requirements: - Being able to set a new course of events in motion - change management.- Identifying the priorities - the critical success factors.- Ensuring the right capabilities - recruitment, training, coaching.- Delivering new messages - the role of language in managing change.- Allowing maximum freedom while providing a safety net - authority and rules.- Handling success and failure.- Being involved.- Ensuring cross-functional alignment.Is your organizational structure based on customer-focused imperatives, or on internal requirements? - If the latter, is there need for change, and will that change involve revolution or evolution?- How might you align functions behind complementary performance metrics?- How might you be able to develop an upside down structure?How far can you, or should you, let the customer's needs define your structure?







31Skills, attitudes and behavioursA sporting analogyThe players in some top sporting contests, a Golf Open Championship or a Tennis Grand Slam for instance, are exposed and isolated as brutally as any activity devised by man. It is often observed that the eventual winner in such contests is not necessarily the one with the greatest technique or most abundant natural ability, but the one who best handles their mind.How often have we seen a fine player thrown by the moment of supreme tension? One thinks of Jana Novotna at Wimbledon (not only the once but twice before she mastered her nerves and won), or Rory McIlroy at the US Masters, far and away the leader going into the final day but ending up well down the leader board (another who would go on to much better things once those nerves were conquered). And how often have we seen an apparent underdog succeed, it would seem through sheer determination? One thinks of Goran Ivanisevic, again at Wimbledon, or Darren Clarke at the British Open.When the talents are evenly matched, the winner is likely to be the one whose greater strength of mind finds their legs wobbling the least. And where does this 'inner strength' come from? Some of it may be in the genes, but for the most part it is through long and considered preparation, working on attitude and behaviours as well as skills, and from the help of others.The same might be said of sales professionals battling it out for the customer's favour: whose nerve will hold out the longest, who plays the better hand of poker, who turns the competitive pressure to their advantage? And these abilities also come from long and considered preparation, working on attitude and behaviours as well as skills, and also from the help of others. In the world of KAM, we are speaking of course of the planning process and the KAM team.At this point we might consider the analogy with team sports rather than solo pursuits, where it is the 'healthier' group psychology that can win the day. The role of coaching is of course vital here, and not infrequently the removal of characters that do not fit the team, however brilliant their individual talent. The England football team supporter has been made sadly aware of these truths too many times down the years, where players of undoubted talent, players who will work miracles each Saturday for their club sides, simply fail to fire when wearing their national colours. Something fails to gel, and the manager will complain of having too little time to prepare, what with all the other commitments that fill the season for top-flight players.The same holds true for KAM teams. The winner in front of the customer is not always the one with the best case on paper, but the one that manages to communicate its proposition most effectively, meaning to the right people, and at the right time. Such precision will depend on top-flight team work.In even-handed contests, where suppliers have little to separate them in terms of the essential elements of price, quality and service, victory will go to the one that has the best KAM team disciplines and processes, the best attitudes and behaviours, and the right skills, all developed over time through long and considered preparation, and top class coaching.The prima donna account manager is a nuisance to themselves and their company, just as much as is that 'brilliant' but ultimately frustrating footballing talent who won't play for the team. Even in solo sports it is rarely down to the individual alone. No Grand Slam tennis champion gets there on their own. These days their entourage will most likely include their coach, a sports psychologist, a physiotherapist, a hitting partner or two, a masseur, a business agent, perhaps even a dietician, and all of those before we consider their ever present friends and family. It's just as well the prize money is good.Likewise, no account manager gets there on their own. Their team is likely to be even wider ranging, touching at some point on most of the functions within the business, but here we come to some important differences from our tennis professional (salary and prize money levels apart).First, many an account manager (though not those in the top flight it should be said) seems unaware of the team that supports them, unaware that it is in fact their team. This might be the result of their independent-minded approach, developed through long years of 'hunter-killer' selling 'at the sharp end', and in such cases if such an attitude cannot be changed, then their long-term future in KAM must be questioned. It may, however, be the result of the mists of complexity and misunderstanding created by complex organization charts, where authority is hard to muster, and 'team members' can all too easily hide behind walls built on separate departmental or business unit objectives. The cure in such cases can only be effected at the most senior level.The next difference is the one that represents for many account managers their greatest single challenge. Whereas the tennis player has the luxury of getting on with their game while their team effectively manages them, the account manager has to carry on their customer-facing role while at the same time managing their extended team. One immediately sees the problem caused if they fail to understand that it is their team to manage in the first place.Those sales professionals that are 'hunters to the core' will often struggle with their role as leader - they would rather hunt alone. The same goes for hunters within the team - perhaps the local salespeople within a global account team, and here another sporting analogy might be made. Tiger Woods, surely the best golfer of his generation, developed a reputation for 'losing form' when asked to play for the American Ryder Cup team. Many a top-flight sales professional suffers the same 'loss of form' when asked to take their part in a diamond team approach. We are in the realm of intangible attitudes, behaviours and skills rather than that of tangible processes, what I once heard a senior manager dismiss as the 'soft stuff' of the KAM challenge, as if it was a minor frill placed on top of those 'far more important' tools and processes.I would rather call it the 'hard stuff', inasmuch as it is one of the hardest parts of the whole KAM package to get right, and without the right attitudes, behaviours and skills in place no amount of tools or processes will advance you an inch.The multifaceted requirementThere was a time when the question of what capabilities are required was asked only of the KA manager. Many an HR manager was given the impossible task of tracking down the kind of superhero capable of handling every part of the task, solo. The error made was in thinking the KAM task a simple extension of the traditional sales task.The following list represents the range of capabilities required in what we might call a 'traditional sales professional': product knowledge;interpersonal skills;presentation skills;negotiation skills;self-organization;time management;territory management;independence.It is quite possible to find individuals possessing all of these things, or at least to regard the 'full set' as trainable. Let us now turn to the capability set required for the KAM task - and please note that this list is very much a top-line summary: strategic thinking;strategic influencing;business management;project management;team leadership;team working;innovation and creativity;coordination;managing change;managing diversity;coaching;'political entrepreneurship'.What becomes clear when we consider the KAM task is just how multifaceted are its requirements in comparison to 'traditional' selling. So, do you honestly expect to find anyone who is good at all of this? What about yourself, do you excel at all of this? And if you can find such people, what will you have to pay to keep them?Fortunately this is not a problem you need think too much about; the solution is not to be found in superheroes, but in a team. The KA team should be constructed with care, not only to take into consideration the customer contact strategy required (see Chapter 9) but also the mix of capabilities required for the full KAM task.Conducting the orchestraLooking to the team for these capabilities does not mean that the KA manager can simply get on with what they always used to do as a solo sales professional and leave the team work to others. To use a musical analogy now, rather than a sporting one, they must be able to put down their violin for a moment and pick up the conductor's baton. The conductor of an orchestra is in a curious position, surrounded by people of huge talent, all of them better at what they do than the conductor, yet the conductor is in charge. The same goes for a KA manager, and they must be able to motivate that team, delegate tasks, coordinate a team-sell, and all that while navigating the course of the KA plan.While the team exists to provide the necessary skills, there are some that will fall to the KA manager in their role as conductor. Experience has shown that three in particular will usually stand out from the crowd: team leadership;coaching;political entrepreneurship.Team leadership - authority without powerMuch of what was said in Chapter 30 about leadership in general will apply to the leadership task facing the KA manager, so this section will focus on those aspects that relate specifically to the task of leading a cross-functional team where the leader is not in any formal sense 'the boss'.This is not a role that depends on formal and hierarchical authority; many KA teams will contain people who are senior to the KA manager. Nor will it depend on the KA manager being smarter, or more experienced; there is every chance, indeed every hope, that the team members are smarter and more experienced in their own particular fields. And it is certainly not about having formal power; when push comes to shove the KA manager may find they have very little of that, perhaps none at all.It is in the end about having authority, but the kind of authority that comes from demonstrated behaviours and attitudes, what we might call 'earned' authority, as opposed to the kind that is 'given' by rank or title.There are many ways to earn authority; the following lists some of the more important in the KAM cross-functional team environment: Demonstrate knowledge, but be honest about what you don't know; 'bluffing' is the fastest way to be found out.Consult the experts, and demonstrate your ability to listen.Involve senior management when necessary, but don't let them steal your clothes; you remain the conductor of the orchestra.Demonstrate confidence, but always be realistic: 'boosting' is another sure way to be found out.Demonstrate 'inclusive leadership'; show interest in, and empathy for, the views of others; actively seek diverse opinions; explain your decisions.Coach, don't tell.Demonstrate structure in your thinking and organization in your planning (particularly when working with functions that value this approach, and might suspect it to be a weak suit in the salesperson's hand); a well-prepared KA plan is very important in this respect.Give regular feedback, communicate progress, don't hide from bad news and setbacks.Be patient; your team members will often face conflicting demands on their time and energy.Be persistent; demonstrate that this matters to you, and that you plan to keep at it.Demonstrate professionalism in your own area of expertise, which is of course very likely to be the business of customer relationship management. Try in particular to avoid behaviours that might reinforce the negative stereotypes that some non-sales professionals might have about salespeople.What sort of leader?Figure 31.1 shows the 'leadership spectrum', a choice of approaches ranging from being 100 per cent directive all the way through to behaving as the master of empowerment. The choice of where to pitch can only depend on your circumstances, but there is a good chance that at the early stages of KAM you will need to stand somewhere 'left of centre' - your team members will most likely expect you to - while aiming to move to the right as fast as circumstances allow.Figure 31.1 The leadership spectrumDiscuss this with your team, it isn't a secret plan; ask them where they would like you to be, their answers may even surprise you!Team dynamicsThere are dozens of different models for team working, each of which with much to recommend it, but I have chosen two that appear to have particular relevance and use in the KAM environment: the 'team role' model developed by Dr Meredith Belbin, and the idea of the 'team clock'.Belbin team roles: the team in practiceThe KA team 'in practice' must be more than a collection of functions. It is a team of people first, and people who will make their different contributions based on their different personalities just as much as their job titles. Dr Belbin, as a result of years of research, condensed these many and varied behaviours down to what he calls 'team roles'.There are nine team roles identified in the Belbin model, each having a distinct and valuable contribution to make to the successful working of the whole team. Each role has its positive qualities, and also what Belbin calls its allowable weakness - the price you pay for the strength. Figures 31.2 through to 31.10 summarize the contributions made, the positive qualities and the allowable weaknesses of each of the nine roles.Figure 31.2 The coordinatorSOURCE: From the work of Dr Meredith BelbinFigure 31.3 The resource-investigatorSOURCE: From the work of Dr Meredith BelbinFigure 31.4 The shaperSOURCE: From the work of Dr Meredith BelbinFigure 31.5 The completer-finisherSOURCE: From the work of Dr Meredith BelbinFigure 31.6 The implementerSOURCE: From the work of Dr Meredith BelbinFigure 31.7 The monitor-evaluatorSOURCE: From the work of Dr Meredith BelbinFigure 31.8 The team workerSOURCE: From the work of Dr Meredith BelbinFigure 31.9 The plantSOURCE: From the work of Dr Meredith BelbinFigure 31.10 The specialistSOURCE: From the work of Dr Meredith BelbinThe 'ideal' team will need to contain all these roles, but that does not mean you need a team of nine; each team member will probably display two or three of the roles as dominant roles within their own make-up and personality.It may not be possible to find a KA team that covers all nine roles, but recognize that the team's effectiveness will be seen to decline the more Belbin roles are found to be missing. If roles are missing, think hard about what might be done to inject that role into the team. Perhaps you lack a monitor-evaluator, the person who stops you doing foolish or reckless things by asking, in various ways, if we are sure. That being so, aim to compensate by taking a pause before making final commitments to action and asking, out loud, are we sure, have we checked the facts. Some roles will be harder to compensate for their lack than others, a team without a shaper is a difficult prospect. Belbin's advice here is not to look to the person most like a shaper, even though they are not really that way inclined; that will only put unfair pressure on that individual, not a route to their best performance.In practice, you will have what you have, but an understanding of Belbin's model will help the team discuss their pros and cons (sorry, allowable weaknesses) without personal rancour, and make it very much more likely you will find ways to compensate for missing roles.The teams to avoid are those made up of too many of the same team role. A group of people with identical personalities and interests might very likely get on well together, but they might not be the best group to get things done. Gather a room full of hard-driving, objective-led extroverts - in Belbin parlance this would be a room of 'shapers' - and you might even expect some sparks to fly.Some simple questionnaires can help the team to identify the roles most likely to be played by each member, and once that is done a little analysis should follow: What roles, if any, are missing, or under-represented?What will be the implication of that for team performance?What can you do to compensate?What roles are 'abundant', perhaps even over-represented?What will be the implication of that for team performance?What can you do to mitigate that?It is usually best to seek independent help from a Belbin expert when using this tool with your team, some people may suspect the motives of a leader that foists such an analysis on them and then appears to control the outcomes. The HR function in your business should be able to direct you to such expert help, or see Chapter 35 for a suggestion on other independent guidance.The team clockYou may already be familiar with the terms 'forming', 'storming', 'norming' and 'performing', as they are applied to team working. Figure 31.11 illustrates these four stages of team development around a clock face.Figure 31.11 The team clockAll teams must go through these four stages, from initial 'forming', where everyone is nervously polite and not much gets done, through the painful but necessary 'storming' stage, where arguments abound but the resultant friction helps to start things moving, on to the stage called 'norming' where team rules start to be established, and on (it is hoped) to the 'performing' stage.Identify where your own team stands at present - at what time of the clock? What are the limitations of this position? Where would you like to be within three or six months - at what time of the clock? What must you do to get there?If you are only still forming, then patience will be the order of the day, alongside some simple first practical steps that can get the ball rolling without arousing conflicting views.Storming is of course the difficult stage - exciting, but dangerous. People will be taking up positions, some might be throwing in the towel already. Now is the time to demonstrate authority, of the earned variety (see above).CoachingThe KA manager is not the boss, but they are the leader. They must lead people that do not work for them, might be senior to them, and are certainly more capable than them in their own field. The use of the Contact Matrix and GROW mechanism (see Chapter 9) will be of great help in this task, but it is not enough. The real answer lies in coaching.Coaching is a vitally important skill, its effectiveness too often underrated. If you have any doubts as to the quality of the coaching within your business then this should be one of your top priorities when it comes to training and development. It requires professional training (see Chapter 35) and plenty of skills practice, it is not something that you can master from a book, so I will limit myself here to just a few observations.Sales professionals often think they will be good coaches because they are good talkers, good presenters and good persuaders. Unfortunately this misunderstands coaching from square one! Coaching is about listening, not talking. Coaching is about asking questions and then helping the coachee to answer them for themselves, not telling.Coaching starts from an assumption that is quite different from selling. Selling begins with the assumption that the seller has something, or knows something, worth giving, and that the buyer should pay attention. Coaching starts with the assumption that the person being coached (the coachee) has something valuable to give, and should be encouraged to find it and develop it.If we return to a sporting analogy, does Rafa Nadal's coach play tennis better than Rafa Nadal? Can they show Rafa what to do by seizing the racquet from him? Their approach must rather be to get out of their coachee what is in there already, and then develop it through encouragement.Here are some non-coaching responses to a person seeking help: 'The problem is you're doing it all wrong...''Well, this is what I would do if I was in your situation...''I had that problem once, this is what I would do...''If you want my advice...'And here are some coaching responses: 'So, how do you think it went?''So, how does that make you feel?''What would you like to be able to do about it?''What's worked for you in the past?'Then, and only then, might the coach choose to offer advice, or better, help the coachee sort out their own self-advice into a practical action plan.Political entrepreneurshipThis particular skill, behaviour, or talent (you might take your pick) has been mentioned several times throughout this book. It is perhaps the hardest to pin down, and even harder to train, but you will know it when you see it in others.Everything the KA manager must do must be done within two complex organizations: the supplier's and the customer's. These are organizations with very different objectives, cultures and approaches, and yet the KA manager must weave through the maze of both, in parallel.All of this calls for a high degree of political awareness and diplomatic aplomb. The KA manager must know when to push and when to retreat, when to insist and when to parley, when to pacify and even when to throw an appropriately managed fit.The 'entrepreneurial' part of the combination is about having a commercial sense. It is about being able to see opportunities and knowing which to chase. Most sales-people have a good entrepreneurial sense.The 'political' part of the combination is about being able to make the right judgements when making the chase. How easy will it be?What help will I require?What opposition might I face?How urgently must I push?Will it go away if I delay?Might I be better placed to help if I delay?Each of these questions is equally applicable within the supplier's own organization as it is within the customer's. It is fair to say that salespeople do not always demonstrate this political sense as well as they do the entrepreneurial sense, and it is not always their fault. Perhaps they have been given the kind of targets and timetables that force them to hurry, to cut corners, to tread on toes. Or perhaps they are just in too much of a hurry for themselves, for their hunter selves?Most KA managers will readily attest that their own organization is by far the tougher of the two mazes to navigate, and yet it is within this maze that they might show their political skills with least finesse. Having exhausted their diplomatic skills and persuasive charms on the customer some will get lazy with their own people and slip in to 'tell' mode, or even 'demand' mode. They become like bulls in china shops.'Don't you realise you are letting my customer down?' is not the language of a political entrepreneur. Perhaps something like the following might be better: 'I realize you have had other priorities of late, but I would very much appreciate your advice on how we can get some priority placed behind this project.' It's the sort of thing you would say to your customer, so why not treat your own people with similar respect?Some frequently asked questionsHunters or farmers?The behaviours we have been discussing, whether leading the team, coaching, or being the political entrepreneur, might sound rather more like those of a farmer than a hunter. So do we conclude that the role of KA manager is not for hunters?Absolutely not. I have met many successful KA managers whose 'hunter quotient' was very high, but they had one particular capability: a high degree of self- awareness. If you know that you are a hunter, then you will be more able to modify that behaviour as and when it is necessary. One approach might even be to build a team around you that has much more of a farmer hue. The Belbin roles discussed above may also be useful in this particular pursuit.Do key account managers have to be salespeople?In short: no. As has already been said, they are perhaps first and foremost business managers. Indeed it is often true that when the role of selling is lifted from their shoulders (by appointing non-sales professionals to the role), the key account manager can suddenly operate with greater freedom, creativity and vision. The key to this particular scenario is of course to have sales professionals in the team. This is already likely to be the case in a Global Account Team, and it is in this circumstance also that the appointment of a non-sales professional as the GKA manager might be most worthy of consideration. On a global level the task will certainly call for a conductor, a political entrepreneur, and someone able to demonstrate authority across broad fields of activity. If they also happen to be a salesperson, no problem, but the broader capabilities might need to be satisfied as the priority.There are no rules about this, other than: appoint the person best suited to the task, not the person next in line for promotion, nor the person that happens to live closest to the customer's head office. While tempting to think in terms of lower travel costs it really would be better to ask who will have the best 'chemical reaction' with the customer and the KA team.Should key account managers be senior managers?Why not? If they can commit the time, this can be a successful approach, particularly where there might be significant internal barriers to progress. But take care not to turn such senior managers into salespeople, or allow them to be sucked into the daily detail. Again, as with the preceding question, support such a KA manager with sales professionals in the team.There is a counter-view that says senior managers will be better acting as coaches, mentors and enablers. I can only say that I have seen both scenarios work.CASE STUDY  Directors as KA managersIn South Africa, Kohler is a leading supplier of packaging materials, and is organized into distinct business units focused on each main packaging technology, such as card, film, can and so on. When Kohler decided that they needed to appoint KA managers to coordinate the activities of these separate units, in front of customers like Nestlé that made use of all of the units, the appointments were made at senior levels, for example, plant manager or divisional director. The role was one that required knowledge and experience of the inherent barriers and an authority to overcome them.For some new appointees, the 'sales' orientation of the new role seemed a problem at first. Either it raised new expectations of them or, for others, it might have appeared a downgrading of their seniority. In fact, as far as the top management at Kohler was concerned, the role of KA manager was among the most important in the company and would be rewarded accordingly. The message finally got through, and most senior managers were keen to be involved in the new direction.Which matters more: skills, attitudes or behaviours?Before new skills can be learned, or behaviours encouraged, those being so developed will need to understand why these improvements are required of them, why they matter, and how they might themselves benefit from the improvements. It needs more than a change in circumstances to persuade them to learn, or to change. Simply telling them that they are now a KA manager will not be enough to make them change. In short, the right attitudes need to be in place first.A man who has spent a lifetime at work, in the role of the family breadwinner, does not become an ideal house husband just because he loses his job. In fact he is more than likely to rebel against the prospect of being put in such a position.Attitudes and behaviours are deeply entrenched and rarely respond to simple exhortations to change. A skill might be easily learned, in theory, but it will be the underlying attitudes that determine whether that is in fact the case, and whether the newly learned skill will be applied. Men can be very slow at learning how to clean, to iron and to wash up, and yet surprisingly quick to learn how to drive, to fish, and to gamble. Isn't it remarkable how that person you went to school with and was hopeless at maths and trigonometry can handle mental arithmetic and complex angles with ease when faced with a dart board or a pool table in the pub?Much effort goes into developing new skills and yet they are merely the tip of an iceberg that goes deep beneath the waves with behaviours and attitudes, and it's the stuff beneath the waves that most commonly needs attending to. Millions can be spent on installing a new IT system, and huge amount of time on training people how to use it, but how much time and money is spent on making them want to use it?Let's consider an example of just what we might want to be changing. A traditional sales representative might have been accustomed, over the years, to receiving annual sales targets, a range of new products and an instruction to go out and sell. In order to succeed (and survive) the following attitudes and behaviours (good and bad) might have been in evidence: My job is to make the customer want what we have.If they don't want what we have then I will let my bosses know through periodic sales reports.Achieving my sales target is my number one objective.I will aim to do this with minimum disruption to my own organization.I will do this single-handed (because I have to!).If I encounter internal opposition, who am I to argue?If I encounter customer opposition, I need to sell harder.Success will result from my own energy and my ability to present and negotiate.The world of the KA manager is rather different. To begin with, it is quite possible that they will be responsible for setting their own targets. On top of this, any new products they have to offer might have emerged as a result of their own lobbying. For them, the word 'sell' will have a different ring. Success will depend on a rather different set of attitudes and behaviours: Not: my job is to make the customer want what we have, but: - our KA team's job is to develop an intimacy of relationship that allows us to fully understand our KA customer's needs.Not: If they don't want what we have then I will let my bosses know through periodic sales reports, but: - it is the KA team's responsibility to seek an alignment between our own and the customer's interests (where this is not possible, perhaps the customer cannot be a KA).Not: achieving my sales target is my number one objective, but: - satisfying the customer in a profitable manner is our number one objective.Not: I will aim to do this with minimum disruption to my own organization, but: - we will aim to do this by involving and directing the organization as appropriate.Not: I will do this single-handed (because I have to!), but: - the KA team will achieve this.Not: if I encounter internal opposition, who am I to argue? but: - if we encounter internal opposition, we must understand why and seek a way forward, continually aiming to align the business behind our KA objectives.Not: if I encounter customer opposition, I need to sell harder, but: - if we encounter customer opposition, we may well be doing the wrong thing.Not: success will result from my own energy and my ability to present and negotiate, but: - success will result from our ability to work in collaboration with the customer and to harness the resources of our own organization.What about the wider team?We have spoken a lot about the capabilities of the KA manager, but what about the skills, attitudes and behaviours of the wider team? The ideal attitudes and behaviours are broadly similar to those of the KA managers, it is in the area of skills training that the emphasis changes a little.The most typical skills gap tends to lie in those areas regarded by the sales professionals as their strengths, those required in front of the customer, or what we might call selling skills: 1:1 interpersonal skills;persuasion and influencing skills;presentation skills;commercial awareness;customer focus;a streetwise sense in front of the customer;consultative selling.Where this is the case, the sales professionals involved should take on the responsibility for coaching and mentoring their fellows. They should also be prepared to take part in the training provided for their non-sales colleagues. It may be tempting to dismiss it as 'basic selling skills' and 'the kind of thing we did years ago', but there are plenty of reasons to be involved: those with experience can be of great help to those without, the development of a common language and style will be of importance to the development of a team sell, and it is always interesting to observe how those 'innocents' in the team can encourage new thoughts, even new attitudes and behaviours, among the experienced.I have always recommended in any case that every sales professional should attend a negotiation skills training event, or a persuasion skills event, or any one of those 'basic' skills events, at least once every three or four years - it is amazing how the rust can set in...We will close this chapter with just one example of the kind of 'in front of the customer' training that will be of value, not only to the non-sales professionals in the team, but to the whole team in enhancing their team selling capability.In front of the customer - the human factorThe high levels of analysis and planning inherent in the KAM task have led some to liken it to a kind of mathematical process, yet, they rightly say, underneath all of that we are dealing with people, human beings with all their foibles and weaknesses.We don't only sell to the customer's business needs, we must also observe their organizational needs, both of which requirements have been well covered, and now we must turn to their personal needs.Logic or emotionExperienced salespeople know that customers don't always make their decisions for cold logical reasons. Harvard Business School tells us that their research over many years shows that as much as 80 per cent of decisions taken in business are taken for 'emotional' reasons. Those who spend only little time in front of customers often find that hard to accept; 'just show them the data and they'll be convinced, don't worry about all that soft stuff' being their preferred line.Consider a buyer looking to buy a steel-making plant. This is a massive task. The decision will run over months, maybe years. The decision will involve large teams of people from the buyer's own organization and from various potential suppliers. Even once a decision is made, there will be a lengthy process of determining specific needs and tailoring the supplier's offer. All in all, the buyer might expect to be dealing with the chosen supplier over a number of years. In such a circumstance, how far will the buyer proceed with a potential supplier that they cannot trust, that they feel uncomfortable working with, or that they simply 'don't like'?Research has shown that when customers change suppliers, while it might be expected that the key reasons were things like finding better products or prices elsewhere, the real reasons lie in more human issues.Figure 31.12 shows that the biggest killer is 'indifference' - a supplier that just doesn't seem to care. Think of your own purchasing decisions as a consumer: do you return to shops that don't seem to know you are there, or when they do wake up to the fact, don't appear to care?Figure 31.12 Why customers change suppliersConsider a buying decision. Two companies are offering the same product, a commodity. Their specifications are identical, as are their prices. There is no previous history of supply with either company. How does the customer decide? How were they treated during the sale?Who do they trust?Who do they like?Consider another buying decision. Two companies are offering high-tech solutions to a complex problem. They both have the right technical capabilities. The buyer knows that a successful supplier will have to work with a wide range of people, identifying with their individual needs and sometimes arbitrating between different views and opinions. How do they decide with which supplier to work? What skills of tact and diplomacy did the supplier display?How might the supplier handle conflict?Will they understand the human factors?Two different decisions but deep down the same issues: are they 'people' people?Building rapportThe ability to build rapport is the foundation of good interpersonal skills; the ability to identify the other person's personal motivations and then to work within those bounds. Or, to put it on a less formal level, do you get a tingling feeling in the ends of your fingers when you are talking with somebody?Customer rapport comes from many things, mostly simple, provided the seller recognizes the following: Being persuasive is much less about the logic of your case and far more about the way in which it is argued.What the customer believes is more important than what you know to be the facts.The best persuaders recognize the importance of the client's personal motivations.The best persuaders aim to persuade not through telling but through involving.The best persuaders speak little and listen a lot.The best persuaders recognize that they will only be listened to once they have earned the right to be listened to and shown that they are honest and trustworthy (being the 'expert' comes a long way down the list after those two).Speaking like a silver-tongued angel will come to nothing if you fail to empathize with the listener's issues.To be persuasive in a 1:1 situation it is important to get the chemistry right.On this last point - getting the chemistry right - there are dozens (perhaps even hundreds) of models that break the complexity of human chemistry down into bite-size chunks and then suggest some behaviours on the seller/persuader's part that will help them to develop the desired rapport. Many are excellent, some are tawdry, and provided you avoid the latter it doesn't much matter which one you adopt. The following model has been 'proven in the field' over the years, and compared to many others has the advantage of being simple.Getting the chemistry rightExcepting all those marriages made up of complete opposites (the happy Mr and Mrs Jack Spratts), the most common route to rapport through the right chemistry is the matching of like outlooks and like attitudes. People driven by ambition usually get along best with like-minded souls - those that just want to get through life unruffled are likely to frustrate them, or just leave them cold. Similarly, those that thrive in the company of others will seek out similarly sociable animals.This model of rapport takes as its starting point the search for common outlooks and attitudes; it calls them motivations.Figure 31.13 describes three particular personal motivations. The model recognizes that we make our decisions in life (and business!) as a result of all three of these motivations, but that each one of us has a particular mix that characterizes us.Figure 31.13 Personal motivationsMost people, it is suggested, will have one of these three as their 'lead' motivation, and any attempt to build rapport will need to take that lead motivation on board. The Power motivation is about a desire for control, for getting things your way, being in charge, making sure things are in good order.The Achiever motivation is about seeking challenges and wanting success, beating targets, being competitive, perhaps with others, perhaps with yourself.The Affiliator motivation is about recognizing the value and importance of relationships, of teamwork and of cooperation.Learning to observeWith good training it is possible to learn how to observe these motivations in others, from the words they use, the nature of their environment, the way they work with others, their use of time, their behaviour in meetings, and plenty more besides. The following table (Table 31.1) summarizes some of the more typical 'clues' to a person's personal motivation.Table 31.1 Observing the motivations Spotting the 'achiever' motivationSpotting the 'affiliator' motivationSpotting the 'power' motivationThe words they use:'It' (ie the task)'Us' and 'we''I' and 'me'The way they involve others:Focus on expertsBroad - valuing a teamLimitedThe attitude to relationships:Fine if they move things forwardValued in themselvesFor me to controlThe nature of their demands:'What's the bottom line?''How will we benefit?''What's in it for me?'Their use of time:Faster - 'don't slow me down'Slower - 'don't rush me'My pace...How they handle meetings/agendas:'Let's cut to the chase...''What's our agenda?''Here's my agenda'Their environment:OrganizedPersonalizedDominatingTheir clothes:Making a statement?Conforming?Making a statement?It must be stressed that each individual observation in this summary, when taken in isolation, may tell us nothing about the individual. Someone sitting behind a large desk isn't necessarily motivated by 'power'; they may be borrowing someone's office for the day, they might even hate the desk! No one thing labels a person as 'power', 'achiever' or 'affiliator'; it is a jigsaw puzzle of observations over time that may build towards a picture.Continue to observe, continue to question your assessments, resist the temptation to pigeonhole anyone as an 'absolute anything', and above all, discuss your thoughts with your colleagues. Use the language in coaching sessions and aim to establish it as the team's way of discussing the individuals in the customer's DMU.Learning to matchThat same training that will help you with your observation skills will then help you to identify those behaviours most likely to build rapport. The idea of matching is important.If you are working with an 'achiever' then it will be wise to be organized, on time, to come with a plan, to focus on results (good and bad), keep records, show progress, and maybe suggest a working lunch (or even better, working breakfast).With an 'affiliator' you might bring colleagues, recognize the importance of the introductions and the 'small-talk', discuss the opinions of others, express your own feelings, and show that nobody is in too much of a hurry.Such matching is important, but not absolute; matching the power motivation head on might not always bring the best results! This one requires a little more subtlety, perhaps positioning yourself as someone who will be an achiever 'on their behalf'. Be sure to ask their opinions, seek their advice, give them alternatives from which to choose, and if they have a position of status, find ways to recognize it.Developing the skillsSkills are rarely developed through reading books - that takes experience, and practice, and plenty of feedback from peers and managers through coaching. If you or your team need to improve on your skills in front of the customer, and think training will be the solution, then see Chapter 35 for more help.Application exerciseConduct a capabilities audit of your own business and/or account team. In particular, assess: the leadership performance of the KA manager(s);the coaching skills of the management team and the KA managers;the 'political entrepreneurship' of the KA managers;performance in front of the customer.Where are the biggest gaps? Is it a question of skills, attitudes, or behaviours?Should these gaps be closed by training, by coaching, or by recruitment?Consider a live KA team: How will you ensure the best use of Belbin team roles?What roles, if any, are missing, or under-represented? - What will be the implication of that for team performance?- What can you do to compensate?What roles are 'abundant', or perhaps over-represented? - What will be the implication of that for team performance?- What can you do to mitigate that?Consider a live KA team: Where is that KA team on the team clock?What behaviours is that likely to generate?What problems or obstacles may be encountered?How should you aim to deal with these?Where would you like the team to be in six months' time, and in a year's time?What actions and behaviours are required to get you there?







32The role of information technologyCurse or saviour?Information technology has made the practice of KAM possible and practical, but all too often it has also threatened to strangle it at birth.Before the days of e-mails and mobile phones, the kind of cross-functional diamond teams we have been describing would have been very hard work indeed. For most sales professionals it was so much easier to get on with the job as an island of independence. My own memory of working on major accounts in the early 1980s is of a once a month face-to-face meeting with my sales manager - the rest was pretty much down to me.So, what we might call the first wave of IT was almost entirely beneficial, enabling conversations to be had more frequently, more easily, and across wider groups. Technology helped to take KAM beyond the sales force.But then came the second wave; the arrival of IT as 'big brother'. Systems were designed ostensibly to help key account managers plan, but in truth they were there to help sales managers manage, or let me rephrase that: they were designed to help sales managers monitor and control, and these are definitely not the same thing.It is not surprising that any sales professional who remembers that second wave still shudders at the sound of these three letters: CRM. The early customer relationship management systems were usually little more than information dumps that required countless hours of feeding and updating, with data that most sales professionals already had in their heads. The point was well made by bosses: 'What good is it in their heads?', but the desire to share and make use of this data was usually pretty much one-way traffic, it was for the bosses' use in pursuit of monitoring and control.As these IT systems developed some real shockers were foisted on the sales profession; megalomaniac systems that demanded to know everything, or monster systems that attempted to automate tasks best left to human beings. Consider this analogy: who would you rather landed the aeroplane, the pilot or the autopilot?I recall one such system being proudly demonstrated at a sales conference, a system that not only prepared journey plans for the account managers, to be accessed by them each morning before leaving home, but instructed those sales professionals on what they should do and say at each call, on the basis of the recorded sales history and previously logged data on customer needs and attitudes. Clever stuff, from a technology point of view, but is that what KAM is all about, turning KA managers into robots?The sinners in this scenario were not always, as you might think, the IT people, but all too often the sales professionals themselves. It has long been recognized that 'you get the IT system you deserve', and if a sales team could not be bothered to say what it wanted (usually because it didn't know, or hadn't thought about it), it should not have been surprised, or aggrieved, when they got something they hated.Is all of this in the past? That CRM systems have come a long way since their early days is of course indisputable, but their less-than-glorious history means that many of those involved in the practice of KAM still require convincing that such systems exist for their benefit, or perhaps even more importantly, for the customer's benefit. The problem today tends to fall into one of two sins: too much IT, or too little.Too much IT?Too much IT is when you are obliged to shoehorn your KAM needs into some larger 'master' system. The system determines the nature of your KAM, and that of course breaks the golden rule: the nature of your KAM practice is determined by the nature of the customer.Alongside this sin comes what we might call the 'template culture', particularly prevalent in the area of key account plans, where everything has to fit into preordained boxes, because that's the way the system works. At the risk of mixing my metaphors, this kind of 'tail wagging the dog' approach is just the way to 'strangle KAM at birth', perhaps even the fastest way.A key account plan must be a living document that reflects the particular issues and solutions with that particular customer; the process of ticking boxes in a mandatory template is hardly likely to achieve that ambition.Another feature of too much IT has already been alluded to: the attempt to automate things better done by human beings, often as part of a cost cutting exercise. There is a place for such attempts, and that is with those customers classified as maintenance accounts, and possibly with those classified as opportunistic accounts (see Chapter 26).The 'freeing up' of human energy from the opportunistic and maintenance accounts is an essential prerequisite for successful KAM, and IT and CRM-style systems can be of great assistance here. Their value with the customers 'above the line', the key development accounts and the key accounts, is of a different kind, as indicated in Figure 32.1, suggesting the principal role of a good IT system in each class of customer.Figure 32.1 Customer classification and the role of ITThe implication is clear; you cannot shoehorn all customer related interactions into one uniform system, there is a need for varied approaches based on the nature of those customers.For the good of your KAM health, if you think your own company is, or is about to suffer from the sin of 'too much IT', or is disregarding the variations in approach as required by different customer classes, then be sure to ask those responsible why it is necessary to do things this way. Is it to ensure better customer focus and service, or is it to satisfy the management's desire for neat reports? And for the good of your career, be equally sure to take care with the way you ask these questions!Too little IT?This is where the KA managers and their teams are expected to develop professional plans without access to the essential data, or to work in complex (and often remote) teams without adequate means of sharing knowledge or communicating ideas. Frustrating, debilitating, and in the long term, a killer.Time to develop a system. The perfect system is unlikely to exist, but there is much that you can do to ensure that whatever is developed is more likely to help than to hinder. I make three general recommendations before turning to some more detailed requirements.First, be sure of what you need your systems to do before engaging on any development or purchase. This may seem so obvious as not to need stating, but so often people are led in such matters by the potential functionalities of some 'super system', the kind of thing that happens when as consumers we are buying a piece of technology in a shop and we get transfixed by some sexy feature that on getting the equipment home we never use again. Be led by what is necessary to develop better plans for our customers, and better means of delivering those plans.Second, engage your IT colleagues as members of your KA teams from the outset. Help them see the real needs at the sharp end, and they will be so much better placed to help you get what you really need.Third, and if possible, aim to develop your own system rather than buying something off the shelf. It may seem an expensive way of doing things, but the return on the investment can be expected to grow exponentially compared to that from the off-the-shelf system, assuming of course that the job is done well!Whether self-developing or purchasing a system, continually ask three questions: Will this help us plan more effectively?Will this help us serve the customer better?Will this help us improve profitability?The third of these is not only important, but if established up front as a key criteria can only help you make the right kind of investment. A KAM system should not be seen as a cost, but as an engine of enhanced profitability. If it is seen as a cost then expect people to cut corners in the attempt to save money.Of course, three straight negatives to these questions and you have a system to be jettisoned ASAP.The proper role of ITThe pace of change makes the recommendation of any particular system unwise - it will surely be out of date before the ink in this book is dry at the printer, but it is possible to make some general recommendations for the role of information technology in enhancing KAM performance, falling into four interconnected areas: recording, analysing and sharing data, in pursuit of insights that will lead to improved strategies, plans and actions;enhancing planning, as a KA team activity;facilitate communication within the KA team;enable collaborative customer working.If IT can be utilized in these ways then we will be justified in adding a fifth role, not independent of these four but resulting from them: IT as a source of competitive advantage.From data to actionsRecording data is the easy bit - so easy that too many systems focus too much on this task, and go little further. I have seen plenty of system-generated KA plans that record everything that is known about the customer, and present it in excellent style - but these are not real KA plans, nor good use of the data or the system.The key is how we use that data to drive actions. Figure 32.2 suggests a chain of events by which data, from customers and from your own business, is turned through analysis into insights, that lead to the development of strategies, and so on to plans, from which we derive actions, with the final step being the development of processes to help facilitate those actions.Figure 32.2 The planning process - from data to actions Each step is important, but perhaps the most vital is that of the insights. The system itself cannot be expected to provide those insights, but it should be capable of interrogation in a way that makes it easier for our human brains to make them.As an example, the classification process described in Chapter 26 is just the kind of thing one would hope could be integrated within an IT system, but we don't look to the system to make the selections. We look to the system to handle the complex mass of data, much more than can be stored in any team's heads, however capable, and to present itself to the team in a way that stimulates those all-important insights. In this example I would cite the identification and rationalization of the attractiveness factors necessary to the classification task as just such an insight, and before that, identifying relevant market segments.Insights will only occur if people are given sufficient access to the data within the IT system, but on this point we enter a minefield of security issues, internal politics, and wrangles over levels of authority. Amazingly, it is not unusual for key account managers to be denied access to data concerning their own customers, levels of profitability being a typical case in point. Unfortunately, the more complex and detailed systems become, the more access becomes an issue, not to mention the challenge of finding your way around them, which rather begins to defeat their purpose in the first place. Rather than putting up barriers to entry, a good system is one that makes it easy for the broadest team to use, encouraging the users to seek access, to make regular and informed updates, and to think deeply about what they see on the screen before them. It must be so much more than a data store.Enhancing the KA planning processIf KA planning is to be a truly team-based activity then the ability to share data, analysis, insights and strategic thinking will be a vital foundation. We are back with access, and now with a tantalizing twist: should you allow a key account plan to be modified and enhanced by individual contributions, Wikipedia style, or must such things be funnelled through the KA manager? Those seeking greater 'agility' might choose the former, while those intent on control will prefer the latter. I used Wikipedia as an example of the individually enhanced option, but there are of course (so I am assured!) processes within the Wikipedia system that ensure this does not become an undisciplined free-for-all. You must decide where you sit on this particular spectrum.Most systems will be designed to handle the 'numbers' involved in the planning process: product volumes, sales revenues, perhaps even margins. These are givens, but if we are truly to use IT to enhance the planning process we should be looking for more ambitious help, perhaps along some of the following lines: analysing the customer's decision-making process;determining contact plans (Contact Matrix and GROWs);analysing the customer's business;developing the value proposition;comparing options based on costs and rewards.Facilitating communicationEver present behind the glossy façade of a diamond team relationship (see Chapter 8) is the possibility of a serious communications breakdown, not through a lack of communication, but through an excess. As more people interact across the supplier/customer interface, and the reports of those meetings flow, and more data is gathered and shared, then there is a danger that KAM can become a monstrous information bureaucracy.The technology exists to explode the boundaries of communication, but whether that helps or hinders is down to the users. Take one simple example: how many e-mail messages do you have when you return from holiday, and how do you feel about that? It wasn't the system that sent you this headache; it was people.You might not be able to change the way everyone works, but within your own KA team you might like to agree a team 'communications charter', starting with e-mail etiquette: Do we want all communications with the customer copied across the whole team, or can we identify some rules based on 'need to know'?When someone asks for something to be done, must the recipient reply to say they are doing it, or can it be taken as read?E-mail or telephone? What sort of conversations should we try to have by telephone, or video-conferencing, or even face-to-face, rather than by e-mail? (Never try persuading or negotiating by e-mail!)Encourage people to edit messages ruthlessly. Being concise takes thought, and planning, which takes time. George Bernard Shaw once sent a long letter to a friend and closed with an apology, 'I am sorry for sending you such a long letter, I didn't have time to write you a shorter one.'Whatever the 'rules', lead by example. 'Do as you would be done by' was the famous advice sent by Lord Chesterfield to his son in 1747. He wrote a letter of course, but such brevity would have made him a natural for e-mail!E-mails are just the tip of the communication iceberg. The kind of technology that allows us to communicate without actually having to be in direct contact with others is of huge value in the KAM context. Being able to access other people's work, their activities, their thinking, and they being able to access yours, because it is recorded in an easily accessible way, is essential if we are to have the volume of interchange required without the cacophony of overload. Allowing people to choose what they want to hear through intelligent access principles is vital in the more complex realms of KAM and GAM.CASE STUDY  Communication through virtual team networksBP has had enormous success in using its own BP intranet to develop what it calls 'virtual team networks'. This is a knowledge-management system, process and culture, all wrapped into one, used to connect business units, project teams, geographical regions, customers and suppliers.The philosophy of the BP intranet is to allow staff to use it as they wish - creating their own home pages - 'let a thousand home pages bloom'. Since it was launched with a relatively small group of users in 1995 (the pilot scheme saw a £7m investment), very quickly staff have found access to information, expertise and unknown colleagues working on similar issues, and the idea grows, with more people requesting access to the scheme. Soon, business units had to pay to become involved, and they came in droves, voluntarily.One of the most ambitious elements, and particularly relevant to the KAM scenario, is the way major projects are being handled through these 'virtual teams'. Major contracts are conducted through desktop conferencing, and suppliers are involved in a highly creative way. Suppliers are asked to form an 'alliance' on a particular project, working together with BP. More than this, the alliance of contractors is asked to manage the project with much less direct supervision from BP than ever would have been the case in the days before 'virtual teams'. This is what BP calls 'breakthrough thinking'.Having emphasized the value of such remote communication technology, I will close this section with a warning. However good the systems (and yes, video conferencing has come a very long way from the early days of delayed action and muffled voices) don't allow technology to replace physical meetings. Don't underestimate the social element of the team, or the simple fact that putting faces and personalities to names is hugely beneficial in itself. Any new member of the team tends to remain an outsider until such time as they meet their colleagues face to face.Enable collaborative customer workingCustomer satisfaction surveys seem always to lead to the same conclusions: our customers wish us to be easier to work with and speedier in our responses. Cue IT.Forecasting is a good example. Everyone blames everyone else when forecasting goes wrong, and the customer is perhaps the favourite butt of them all. That doesn't help, leading to increasing levels of suspicion from those receiving the forecasts. I know one plant manager who cuts every forecast received from the sales force in half, on principle.Forecasting usually goes wrong when it is done in isolation, and most often when it is done by salespeople with insufficient access to the vital data. The best forecasting systems are ones that involve the customer. The more intimate the customer relationship, the closer you will get to accurate information. The closer you work together, the more you will know about the customer's doubts - their problems with their markets and their customers - rather than relying on their public pronouncements, which usually involve spectacular growth!A forecasting system that allows access to each other's data might sound like a holy grail, but plenty of people achieve this; the result of high levels of trust, and joint investment in the necessary IT.Such access, and not just to data but also to people, perhaps even to strategies and plans, will be of huge value to any attempts at joint planning, indeed it is hard to see how such a task can be properly approached without such access. If you want to promote a collaborative relationship with the customer, ask the IT folk on both sides what they can do together to oil the wheels.A source of competitive advantageA better price, a better product, a better service, a better promotion, better people; each of these can be a source of competitive advantage, but we should add to the list, a better IT system. By making the journey from data to action speedier and smarter, by enhancing our plans by allowing more intelligent input and discussion, by facilitating communications within the team and with the customer, we make ourselves smarter and so more attractive.Do you know what kind of systems your customers use, and how you might be able to link theirs with yours?Do you know what kind of systems your competitors use, and where they suffer the biggest frustrations (ask their salespeople and you will hear the problems soon enough!), particularly with regard to servicing the customer?System or people?Having spent so much time speaking of the system, we should close by thinking of the people who will use that system. Which is the more important? It has to be the people every time. If the users feel that the system is not designed for their benefit, then the resultant attitudes will lead to some entirely predictable results.The ideal system is not created in the minds of software experts, nor even in the minds of sales managers, but in the practice of its use. A home-made set of Excel spreadsheets that is used and respected will always outshine the most expensive purchased package that is regarded as the enemy and used only so far as it pleases the bosses.Application exercise Where could you improve the application of IT to your own KAM approach?: - turning data into actions?- enhancing the planning process?- facilitating communication within the KA team?- enabling collaborative customer working?What steps will be required to make those improvements? - Who will you need to involve?In what way might any of the above provide you with competitive advantage?







33Measuring customer profitabilityIs it a reasonable assumption that KAM will be more profitable than traditional selling? There is only one answer to this question: never make such an assumption!If ever there was a need to make better measures of profitability it comes with the initiation of a KAM approach. You are about to change the use of your company resources, perhaps dramatically, giving more to some, and taking them away from others; shouldn't you want to know the impact of those changes - the returns on your different investments?Assumptions are always dangerous with regards to profitability, even educated ones. It may be true that the practice of KAM results in a more efficient use of resources, with better targeting of your efforts, but does that inevitably lead to increased profits? Consider the tale of the National Health Service.CASE STUDY  The tale of the NHSIn the UK in the 1940s, the creation of the NHS was heralded not only as a mark of a new height of civilization, but also as a route to greater efficiency. The planners sincerely believed that the NHS would result in the steadily decreasing cost of healthcare provision. Why? Because the NHS would improve the health of the nation - the populace would therefore require 'less healthcare'.We now know how things turned out in practice - people expected ever-more sophisticated treatments for an apparently ever-growing range of ailments. It was almost as if the NHS invented a whole new range of diseases!There is a direct analogy with KAM. It is possible that the diamond team relationship, while improving the efficiency of relationships, will in itself uncover a whole new range of needs and actions required. This is almost certainly 'a good thing' in as far as it represents 'the truth' and helps to cement the relationship between supplier and customer, just as the NHS really did improve the health of the nation. But might the new actions, like those in the NHS situation, result in increased costs and so reduced profitability?The interactions and implications are so complex that predictions are pointless, and active measurement of individual customer profitability the only solution: this is a rule.Four 'almost truths' of customer profitabilityThese four things are nearly always so (but be warned, never make assumptions!): The largest customers (ranked by volume) are rarely the same as the most profitable customers (measured by percentage return on investment).The cost of winning new customers, even in a high-growth environment, is almost always higher than you think.In the short-term, retaining customers is almost always a more profitable activity than winning new customers.The longer you keep a customer the more profitable they become (measured by their lifetime value - see below).Without proper measures of profitability it is all too easy to favour 'big customers' simply for their size, far too easy to favour the 'macho' activity of winning new customers (without a proper understanding of the costs) and far too easy to underestimate the value of customer retention.The costs of large customersThere is plenty of evidence across a broad spectrum of industries that a business's largest customers are significantly less profitable than the middle-ranking ones. This might be less so in situations where economies of scale are substantial, but even here the big customers are often not as profitable as might be imagined. They get the best prices (often better than their higher volumes actually justify), the best terms, the most attention, the lion's share of resources (especially those expensive people of yours), and so it goes on. When businesses actually commit to measuring customer profitability they will often receive some unpleasant surprises.Figure 33.1 shows the widening gap between profitable and unprofitable customers in just one sector, the European printing industry, comparing 1985 to 2005 (and the trend identified has continued just as markedly since 2005). Back in 1985, profit came in more or less equal measure from the largest through to the smallest customers. By 2005, largely as a result of customer consolidations and the attendant price negotiations that drove down prices despite there being no real increases in volume, we see that the largest 10 per cent of customers represent a loss to suppliers.Figure 33.1 Profitability by customer sizeSo why keep big customers? Often because their volume is what keeps your operation turning. This is fine, provided everyone recognizes the reasons for keeping them, and also recognizes the different value of other, more profitable customers.The costs of winning new customersFirst there are the more obvious costs; the initial discounts given for trial and first orders and the customer-imposed 'start-up costs'. In some markets, suppliers have to 'buy their way in'. This is particularly true for those selling to the retail industry in the United States (and increasingly so elsewhere), where suppliers are very often obliged not only to offer excellent terms, but also to purchase their space on the shop floor and to buy up any stock of the supplier they may be replacing. Some US suppliers refer to this, rather euphemistically, as 'selling a customer'. Perhaps a more honest phrase would be 'buying a customer'.The cost story does not end there. When a customer changes their supplier, they might suffer costs in downtime during 'swap-overs' or to take account of new specifications and processes. PPG sells paint for repairing damaged cars and needs to offer the ability to match any colour, anywhere, any time - a massive undertaking requiring great skills of colour matching and reproducibility. Any supplier to PPG wishing to replace, let's say, an existing supplier of a particular pigment has to be aware that their product will be used in perhaps thousands of recipes for individual colours - recipes that have been got 'just right' with the current supplier. The tasks of testing and changing formulations can be enormous, perhaps too big for the customer to even contemplate, at least without significant help from the new supplier. All of this will have costs in time and money, borne by both customer and supplier.There is more. When you win a new customer, do you factor in the costs of people's time, the extra travel, the cost of presentations, meetings and entertainment? An advertising agency can sometimes spend its first year's anticipated profits in pitching to a new client. In addition, if you are a manufacturer, you must keep higher stock levels to service new customers, and there will be an increase in debtors, especially if you offer extended credit as a carrot.Do you also factor in the not so obvious cost of devoting less time to your other concerns? What if, while directing your best people to the new pursuit, you took your eye off the ball and lost an existing customer? Then there are the costs of new systems and processes to cope with the new customer, perhaps there are training needs, perhaps new operating procedures, changes to databases and promotional materials... the story goes on.None of this is said to put you off the pursuit of new customers in any regard - heaven forbid! Rather, it is to encourage you to think a little more deeply about the relative investments and returns on your investments across your customer portfolio.The value of customer retentionCustomer retention, as a stated strategy, is about increasing the security of your position in a world where change happens fast. Customer retention is about acting to ensure that supplier rationalization programmes do not find you the loser. Customer retention is about getting a proper return on investments that sometimes require a long-term payback.There are many reasons that profits improve the longer you keep a customer. Here are just a few: Gradual increases in volume may not be matched by discounts for that volume.Operating costs are reduced as the supplier grows more experienced in servicing the customer.Forecasts become more accurate, which bring efficiencies for production and distribution.Better relationships develop, which result in better customer intelligence.What we learn from this customer is of benefit in dealing with others.The customer brings new business through referrals, or the evidence of their own success.There is a reduction in the costs of chasing and re-winning lost customers.Estimates vary of the value of retention, and everything depends of course on the precise circumstances, but one study (by FA Reichheld, quoted in Relationship Marketing For Competitive Advantage) gives estimates by industry types, based on improving their retention rates by only 5 per cent. Industrial distribution companies might see a 45 per cent improvement, while car insurance firms might expect 84 per cent, with advertising agencies seeing the best impact at 95 per cent (paying back those high upfront costs by keeping the customer beyond the first year). Once again, don't take anyone's word for it, but measure the impact for yourself.Lifetime valueGiven that retention is so important to profitability, we should consider measuring customer profit on what we will call a 'lifetime value' basis. This means going beyond the normal annual evaluation, and adding up the profit cumulatively year after year. By this method it becomes very clear that every additional year of retention means a yet more profitable customer. Nothing very surprising in that, but comparisons with customers that might bring higher margins but then move on to rival suppliers after relatively short periods of time can be very illuminating.Figure 33.2 Lifetime valueFigure 33.2 shows how reductions in customer defections (or improvements in customer retention, whichever way you prefer to see it) increase lifetime value. The defection rate indicates what percentage of your customers cease doing business with you in any given annual period. It is simple to see how by halving the rate of customer defections you can, in effect, double the lifetime value of your retained customers.This is, of course, something of a simplification. Perhaps your defecting customers were the least profitable - maybe that's why you let them go - but the principle is worth remembering: it is the lifetime value of a customer that counts, not just this year's results.Discounts for volume: are you getting a good deal?How much more volume do you require if you give a 5 per cent discount on your price but wish to end up with the same cash profit? 10 per cent? 50 per cent? 100 per cent?It all depends, of course, on your current gross margin. Figure 33.3 shows the relationships between margins (the top line), discounts (the left-hand column) and volume increases required (the corresponding box).Figure 33.3 Discounts for volumeFor a supplier making a gross margin of 20 per cent, a discount in price of 5 per cent will require an extra 33 per cent volume for cash profit to remain the same as before the discount. (This calculation doesn't take account of any resulting economies of scale, nor of the notion of marginal pricing and 'contribution to overheads', but even so, the figures are rather arresting.)Buyers have the mathematics of the relationships between price and volume engraved on their hearts, which is why they are so keen to learn their suppliers' profit margins: it puts them in the driving seat for all discount-for-volume negotiations. Sales professionals are too often rather less well informed. Do they even know their margins in the first place (let alone the mathematics of the relationship to price and volume)?There are two common reasons why sales professionals are often denied this information: Their business systems are not able to measure profit down to individual customer level.The measurements are made, but sales professionals are not trusted with the information for fear that they will tell the customer.How can KA managers be expected to operate with any degree of proper judgement if they are denied this basic information? And we are only talking here of profit at gross margin level (revenue minus cost of materials): what about the measure of profit after a proper allocation of all other costs and overheads?Measuring profit after all costsIt is not enough to pretend that you are measuring customer profitability 'after all costs' if those costs are not properly or accurately allocated. We are talking here of the sin of 'marmalading'. This is where the overhead costs are spread 'evenly' across all customers, regardless of each customer's actual use of particular services or facilities.The tale of the 'marmalader'Figure 33.4 shows the start point of a business that is killing itself because of the laziness of marmalading. The company has four customers with a combined gross profit of 290, and shows a net profit of 50. The marmalading of the 240 overheads indicates a loss-making customer - Customer D. The decision is taken to cease doing business with that customer.Figure 33.4 The sins of 'marmalading' - part 1Unfortunately, overheads do not reduce immediately by the 60 units that had been 'imaginatively' allocated to Customer D. But perhaps they do go down by 30 and people give themselves a slap on the back for a smart decision. The new situation is as shown in Figure 33.5.Figure 33.5 The sins of 'marmalading' - part 2The company is still in profit, but after re-marmalading the costs Customer C is now found to be a loss-making customer and the troubled board meets to decide action. 'Concentrate on profitable customers,' they say, and Customer C is quietly dropped. But, unfortunately, the overheads do not reduce in line, as demonstrated by the new situation shown in Figure 33.6.Figure 33.6 The sins of 'marmalading' - part 3I think you can guess what happens next. The moral of the story is clear; decisions about customers and resources cannot be taken without proper knowledge of their relative profitability. Perhaps Customer D was a profitable customer (taking up very few resources) and it was Customer A that was the problem (the biggest customer getting all the high-cost attention).The answer lies in some form of activity-based costing, where the costs of activities, people, overheads and the rest are allocated more precisely to individual customers. Management consultants, advertising agencies, legal firms - these are examples of businesses that will do this calculation to some degree. Why them, and not chemical manufacturers or food companies? For consultants and the like, their product is their time, so that time must be monitored and charged. The outcome is a business that knows where its profits come from and so is better able to make decisions concerning its key accounts. Life is harder for manufacturers with their relative complexity, but that makes it even more important that they should aim to make these calculations.Diamond team profitabilityDiamond teams cost more than bow-ties - people's time being the most obvious extra cost, but don't forget the additional activities that result from the enhanced relationship - but it is hoped that there will be corresponding increases in volume, perhaps also price, and some other less tangible rewards that will more than compensate. If there are not, then the question should be asked: is it worth doing this?The diamond team approach might also lead to some reductions in costs, reductions that are hard to measure, but are there all the same. Figure 33.7 shows how this might come about.Figure 33.7 Diamond team profitabilityImagine a customer that demands a significant number of new products, all of which go through pilot trials but only some of which come to fruition as launched products. In a sales approach based on a bow-tie relationship, the relative lack of knowledge of the customer's business and market might make it difficult to distinguish the likelihood of success for any one project compared with any other. There is a tendency to chase them all, what we might call the 'throwing a lot of mud at the wall and hoping some of it sticks' approach. The costs of such an approach can be very high, and with relatively poor returns.If the switch to a diamond team approach improves our knowledge sufficiently to make better judgements about which projects to chase then we might find ourselves in the situation illustrated in Figure 33.7. The diamond team are running with fewer projects in the first place, so devoting better quality resource time, so coming out the other end with more successes. It's what some call a 'double-whammy'; you win twice, through lower costs at one end, and a higher success rate at the other. Wouldn't that be worth trying to measure?Cost-to-serve modelsIf you do measure customer profitability with any degree of accuracy, then you will be able to construct what we will call a 'cost-to-serve' model. An example is shown at Figure 33.8.Figure 33.8 The 'cost-to-serve' modelThis shows each customer along the horizontal axis, from the most profitable through to the least so, with the graph line measuring the cumulative profit. It is very likely that your business will fit the 80:20 rule in this regard - a small number of customers that account for the lion's share of the profit. It is also possible that you have some customers where you make a loss.I have one client who has been toying with the idea of telling his staff that, should they receive an order from a customer at the right-hand extremity of the graph, where they lose money, they should send the customer a cheque for $500 and a note saying: 'This is what it would have cost us to service your order, but having saved ourselves the bother here is the money instead.' Needless to say he hasn't done it yet, but it's a thought...What if you find that those loss makers are your larger customers (and quite likely the ones you have labelled key accounts)? There are plenty of questions, and even more 'ifs' and 'buts': How dependent is your business on their volume? - Does it keep the factory running?- Even if it does, is that a good excuse for losing money?- Should you be thinking about a smaller factory... etc?If you cannot bring them to a genuinely profitable level, should you question their status as key accounts?CASE STUDY The happy endingHaving built a cost-to-serve model a business finds that it has several loss-making customers and decides to raise their prices with those customers. They realize that they will lose some volume, but it was loss-making volume, so what's the problem? In fact, they lost over half the volume with those customers, and there were some worried faces about the place.The good news, however, was that the volume remaining was volume producing a real profit, and these customers shifted towards the other end of the cost-to-serve model. Before long people were realizing that these were customers where new opportunities were worth chasing, whereas before they had been seen as customers where such energy would have been throwing good money after bad. A happy ending was in sight.Creating the modelThe process of creating such a model is no simple task, and will involve the support and enthusiasm of a team, it being particularly important to engage the folk from finance and IT. Most importantly they will want to know why it is worth all the effort. Bring them into your KA teams and they might start to see for themselves.There will be a need, at least in the short term, for a good deal of manual record-keeping - time spent, costs incurred - and those making those records will also want to know why they are bothering; be sure you tell them.Some businesses will want and need to do this for all customers in their portfolio, some only for the largest where they have concerns about true profitability; you make the rules. Given the scale of the task it might be wise to start with a pilot study. Take one or two customers from each classification type - key development, key, maintenance and opportunistic accounts, and do a thorough, detailed study of all related costs. If the resultant differences in profitability are minimal, then perhaps your need for a complete measurement across the portfolio is less pressing, but if the differences are significant, or surprising, then cue further investigation.You are not seeking to create wholly accurate profit and loss accounts for each customer - a challenge that would send shivers of concern through the finance department - but something approximating a P&L. Aim to be approximately right, rather than absolutely wrong...Application exercise How well do you measure individual customer profitability?If you do not currently measure individual customer profitability, do you have any concerns about your methods for allocating resources or funds to different accounts?What needs improving?What actions must be taken in order to effect these improvements?







34The implementation planCASE STUDY  And it was all going so well...A group of key account managers is put through an intensive period of training, at first on their own, then with the members of their KA teams - the result being a highly motivated group of people keen to make KAM live and breathe.Then, back in the workplace, in an environment unchanged from the one they left before the training, they find themselves facing a brick wall. Their managers have not been trained in the same concepts and tools as them. Their managers don't understand their new requirements. Their managers seem to be keener on short-term fire-fighting, call rates and the like. Their managers are unable to coach them in overcoming the many obstacles they face.And so the best laid plans are set aside and KAM is quietly forgotten... until the next time.At the start of this book I urged you to set your own rules. Now, nearing its close, I'd like to insist on one absolute rule:Don't send key account managers and their KA teams off with high expectations of what they can achieve if the management team is not prepared and ready to let them act, and to support them to the hilt.The awful scenario described above can be avoided if a plan for the implementation of KAM exists and is followed. I have suggested below a 10-step implementation plan, based on the many successful implementations of KAM with which it has been my pleasure and good fortune to be involved. Appoint a KAM 'driver' - the person responsible for seeing through this implementation programme - along with a supporting cross-functional steering group or project team.Be clear about what you wish KAM to achieve for your business, and communicate it widely.Define KAM in your own terms, including what is meant by the label 'Key Account'.Identify the gap between your ambition and current practice.Identify the obstacles and so, in turn, the critical success factors.Secure support from the management team and ensure full cross-functional alignment.Set in motion the necessary changes to structure, levels and lines of authority, performance management process, reward mechanisms, IT support, etc.Conduct the customer classification and customer distinction exercises.Identify the KA managers and potential members of the KA teams and conduct training, in live KA teams, focused on live customer issues, resulting in the preparation of first draft KA plans.Implement, track progress and provide bucket-loads of coaching.In every case of success that I have observed there have been three overriding qualities that always shone through - leadership, resolution and patience - the last of these being the most important. Plans may be set, but things sometimes don't advance as swiftly as we might wish.Tracking progressIf impatience is a sin of your leadership team then it will show itself most clearly once implementation begins at step 10 above. After the efforts involved in steps 1 through 9, they will want to see results. The political entrepreneurs among the KA managers will be certain to provide their bosses with plenty of short-term wins, while continuing with their longer-term ambitions, but we can do better than that.The problem of impatient managers can be avoided if, at the very outset of the KAM journey, time is taken to consider how progress will be tracked and reported, to the satisfaction of the short- and the long-term thinkers: Set clear objectives for KAM, by customer, and for the whole KAM journey, in each case noting the current position and the expectations, perhaps to include: - financial expectations (sales volume, value, profitability);- product expectations (ranging, NPD, shares);- project expectations (timetables);- relationship expectations (bow-tie towards diamond);- customer and market knowledge expectations;- security and status expectations (key supplier status);- customer satisfaction.Have a clear implementation timetable.Ensure GROWs are prepared for the KA managers and members of their teams. - Measure progress against these GROWs.Measuring the intangiblesThe well-known phrase: 'if you can't measure it, you can't manage it', has been much abused by some, translated into a much more worrying refrain: 'if you can't measure it, it doesn't matter'. This is dangerous territory, especially in the world of KAM where much of the progress we will want to track will be that of intangible issues. Can you measure the quality of a relationship? The number of contact points, yes, perhaps even a definition of the right contact points, but the quality?Allow room for a certain amount of subjective judgement - such things are not irrelevant or low in value simply because they cannot be entered onto an Excel spreadsheet - it makes their discussion even more important.Comparing key accounts?Dangerous. One KA manager has secured key supplier status and has doubled sales, while another is still struggling to penetrate the decision-making process and sales growth is non-existent. Does this make the first KA manager the better of the two? There are too many variables to be sure about that. Perhaps the second customer is simply a harder nut to crack.A better comparison would be in the way they have used the tools and processes of KAM. Do written KA plans exist? Is there a Contact Matrix? Does the KA team meet with sufficient regularity?This brings us to a tool that can be used to compare accounts, compare account managers, track progress, assess development needs, personal, team and business, facilitate joint planning, and plenty more besides. We come to it so late in the day because its proper use demands a thorough knowledge of the whole KAM process.The KAM Excellence Performance MapRecent years have seen a boom in 'well man', 'well woman' and 'well baby' clinics. Their main purpose is prevention rather than cure, based on regular check-ups. The KAM Excellence Performance Map is perhaps a kind of 'well KAM' clinic, for use by yourself, your team and your business.Figure 34.1 will look complicated. KAM is complicated, and this is a way of trying to boil it all down to one picture.Figure 34.1 The KAM Excellence Performance MapEach circle on the map represents something that has to be done to make KAM happen.The circles on the left are what we will call foundation knowledge; things you must know about the customer, their business, their decision-making process.The circles in the middle represent things you will do with that knowledge; prepare a contact plan, develop a value proposition; what we will call KAM tools.The circles to the right represent whatever we have decided will be the absolute pillars of our KAM success, perhaps such things as a written KA plan, a KA team, the achievement of Key Supplier Status; what we will call the pillars of success.What becomes clear is that these activities, processes, requirements, flow from the left to the right. Without foundation knowledge the rest is impossible. What good is a KA plan if it doesn't have a contact strategy and a value proposition?The lines on the map show the linkages between the activities, and can be coloured to indicate the current level of performance of each activity: green for good, orange for only partially, and red for not at all. A red line coming out of a circle on the left will indicate that the next activity in the flow is going to be harder to complete, perhaps impossible.The coloured lines indicate the health of your KAM activities, the more green the better, making more likely the achievement of KAM excellence - the final circle on the right.The colour of each line is of course the result of a self-assessment made by the KA manager, or the KA team, or perhaps done alongside their line manager(s), using a questionnaire produced for the purpose.The most important part of this performance map is of course its initial design. Each map will be unique to its user, representing the activities and requirements reckoned to be important for that particular KAM approach.It is possible to create maps for different stages of the KAM approach; a map for the 10-step implementation plan, a map for the implementation stage itself, perhaps even a map of specific objectives, such as joint planning with the customer, or delivery of a new value proposition.In trying to keep this explanation of the performance map simple I will have run the risk of making its creation and use sound simple; it isn't. This is an area where you will be well advised to seek professional help. For a suggestion on this, please see Chapter 35.If you find the performance map tool a little too daunting, a checklist approach might be an alternative; less pictorial, harder to use for comparison purposes, but perhaps easier to follow for the individual KA manager or KA team. The example below is only just that, an example: please be sure to develop your own checklist, based on your own circumstances.A KAM Progress Tracking Checklist In order to achieve KAM Excellence it is necessary to complete a series of activities, sometimes in a particular chronological order.The following checklist summarizes the main activities, listing them in a typical chronological order.It is important to ensure completion of the earlier tasks and activities on this list before proceeding too far with those later in the list.Under each heading, a question summarizes the purpose of this activity, and then relevant tools from the KAM toolkit are listed. It is not necessary to use all of these tools, rather, make a selection as is appropriate to your own customer circumstances.Using the checklist For each one of your key accounts or key development accounts, indicate against each activity the state of your progress to date: • Not at all• Only partially• Mostly• FullyWhere you have indicated anything less than 'mostly', enter an appropriate action or plan that will help you to make progress with the activity. This could include, for example, which tools from the KAM toolkit you plan to use: the most relevant ones for each activity are listed below the action plan box.Note the tools used using the tick-box.Customer classificationCustomer distinctionCustomer business analysisThe value propositionCustomer decision-making analysisThe influencing strategyThe key account planThe key account teamKey supplier statusHow will you know when you get there?Most journeys have a final destination, but not this one. There is no final arrival, no perfect state of KAM: the whole thing just keeps on turning. That is not to say there is no right direction - this whole book has been an attempt to help you find your own right direction.Regard this lack of ending as a good thing rather than an endless source of frustration. Someone once said to me that the best thing about KAM was that come each 1st of January, unlike the case with 'traditional selling', they didn't feel as if they were having to start all over again. If you get to feel that way on January 1st, then you will know you are headed in the right direction.Application exercise Draw up a timetable for your own 10-step implementation plan: - Where will you need to exert most effort?How do you plan to track progress? - KAM Excellence Performance Map?- KAM Progress Tracking Checklist?Attempt a first draft of either of the above.







35Training and further helpTrainingEach KAM application circumstance demands its own programme of training, depending on the company's stage in the KAM journey, the experience of those involved and the nature of the KAM ambition.Figure 35.1 A typical training programmeFigure 35.1 shows a 'typical' programme that might suit a business starting more or less from scratch. There are two phases: training to support direction and alignment;training to support application.The first phase opens with a session for the leadership team, and this needs to be a good deal more than a 30-minute session squeezed into a busy board meeting. Too often we find managers happy to commit their people to lengthy periods of training without proper knowledge of the purpose or content. More than needing to know, they also need to facilitate and coach - so it is very important to include them in the training right from the start.The direction and alignment part of the programme moves through key stages of the implementation plan described in Chapter 34, including training sessions that will help establish the purpose, principles, and toolkit, as well as completing the customer classification and customer distinction stages (see Chapters 26 and 27).The 'handover' between the two phases is established with a KAM Masterclass designed for all functions, to ensure full cross-functional alignment, with clarity on the contribution and role of each function.From here the application phase proceeds through training for the key account managers and then their teams. An important ambition here is to build the authority and confidence of the key account managers so that they can 'lead' their teams through the live application stages of the training. Such training should be delivered through a series of events over time, with deliberate pauses in-between to allow practical application. KAM develops over time, and so should the skills and capabilities of the people involved.This was a programme designed for a business starting from scratch, a business already practising KAM, but seeking enhancements or changes to its approach, will of course be able to achieve that with a more condensed programme, though don't be tempted to edit out what remains a vital session - the one that engages the leadership team and helps them define their role in making KAM happen.CoachingKey to success through the application phase will be the practice of coaching. I would go as far as saying that training without follow-up coaching is poor training, in that it will not achieve its goals. If training without coaching is nothing, then I would even say that coaching without training, is at least something. This is why managers must be involved in the training from the outset, and this is why the application stages of the KAM training should be well spaced out over time.Joint training and joint planningThis was referred to in Chapter 25, the use of training as a means of enhancing joint planning with the customer. It will not suit everyone. It requires a level of maturity in the supplier/customer relationship that will ensure it does not descend into either a sales pitch or a 'negotiation by other means' session. It requires a focus point; a particular project or a particular ambition. It requires a subtle hand from the trainer's side. If those conditions can be met, then it can be a very successful enterprise, and one of the best of all ways to get both sides of a diamond team working together.As well as bringing teams together, you might consider the involvement of individuals from the customer as 'expert witnesses' in your own training. Among the most successful of such things that I have seen is the use of the customer's buyers as role players in persuasion and negotiation training. This is of course what you should rightly regard as high-risk territory, in effect carrying out live negotiations in a training room environment, and so requires a good deal of pre-planning, a good deal of subtlety, and a good deal of expertise from the facilitators, but as with the team training, the results can be spectacular when done well.Further helpI am always pleased to receive enquiries for further help or advice on any of the issues raised in this book. In particular, there have been several occasions where I have suggested you might like to seek further advice, including: bringing KAM (its benefits, challenges and implications) to the attention of the leadership team and engaging them in their role (Chapter 30);mapping out the KAM challenge (Chapter 34);conducting the customer classification exercise (Chapter 26);developing the skills of coaching (Chapter 30);applying the Belbin team roles model (Chapter 31);developing the 'soft skills' of selling (Chapter 31);training of KA managers and their teams in the KAM process and toolkit (see below);and much more besides.So please feel free to contact me at:peter.cheverton@insight-mp.comor visit the INSIGHT website at:www.insightmp.comTranslations into foreign languagesShould you be interested in engaging your colleagues from overseas in the KAM process, where language may be an issue, you should know that this book has been translated into several languages. For the most recent list of availability please feel free to contact me as shown above.INSIGHT Marketing and PeopleMy company, INSIGHT Marketing and People, is an international training and consultancy firm that specializes in all aspects of KAM and GAM implementation. As a director of INSIGHT I have been involved in the implementation of KAM around the globe (this book has been translated into more than 10 languages), working with clients across a broad range of industries, including: pharmaceutical and healthcare, speciality chemicals, packaging, telecommunications, construction and engineering, transport, IT, financial services, fast-moving consumer goods, retail, and service industries.The INSIGHT KAM training programmeINSIGHT offers a full programme of in-company training, including the following: Leadership team alignment and the KAM implementation process.KAM handbook design and development.Customer classification and customer distinction strategies.The KAM Masterclass.KAM for KA managers.Leadership and coaching for KA managers.KA team workshops.KAM for non-sales functions.Developing the soft skills for KAM.Global Account ManagementPlease check the INSIGHT website www.insightmp.com for more details.Open sessionsINSIGHT also delivers occasional open session KAM Masterclasses, in locations including: Barcelona, Beijing, Brussels, Budapest, Chicago, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Kuala Lumpur, London, New York, Shanghai, Singapore, and Warsaw. Please check the INSIGHT website www.insightmp.com for latest details.Further readingAs well as the books listed overleaf, I recommend a regular scanning of the business pages of whatever newspaper you favour - you will find these peppered with case studies, good and bad, the latter often being the most useful.Cheverton, P (2004) Key Marketing Skills, Kogan Page, LondonCheverton, P (2008) Global Account Management, Kogan Page, LondonCheverton, P (2009) Building the Value Machine, Kogan Page, LondonCheverton, P and van der Velde, JP (2010) Understanding the Professional Buyer, Kogan Page, LondonMiller, RB, Heiman, SE and Teleja, T (2011) The New Conceptual Selling, Kogan Page, LondonMiller, RB, Heiman, SE and Teleja, T (2011) The New Strategic Selling, Kogan Page, LondonTreacy, M and Wiersema, F (1995) The Discipline of Market Leaders, Harper CollinsOnline materials and toolsFor free online materials and tools please go to the Kogan Page website: www.koganpage.com/KAM6







Indexadopter types see decision mappingAnsoff Matrix (i)Apple (i)attitudes required see skills requiredB&Q (i)behaviours required see skills requiredBelbin team roles (i)Belgacom (i)Bell, Alexander Graham (i)bow-tie relationship see key account managementBP (i), (ii), (iii)Branson, Sir Richard (i)British Gas (i)British Telecom (i)business strategy analysis (i)buyers (i), (ii)    centralization (i)    global buyers (i)    key supplier management (KSM) (i)    purchasing revolution (i)    supply chain management (i)    purchsing organisation (i)    risk management (i), (ii)    spend mapping (i)    supplier positioning (i), (ii)    supplier rationalization (i)Carrefour (i), (ii)category management (i)centralization of purchasing (i)change equation (i)change management (i), (ii)CICS questioning strategy (i)coaching (i), (ii), (iii)competitor analysis (i)Contact Matrix (i), (ii), (iii)contact strategies see decision mappingcorporate purchasing (i)cost in use (i), (ii)cost to serve models (i)critical success factors (CSFs) (i)cross-functional working (i)CRM (customer relationship management) (i)cultural matching (i)customer activity cycle (i), (ii)customer analyis (i)customer attractiveness factors see customer classificationcustomer classification (i), (ii), (iii)    classification team (i), (ii)    communication & alignment (i)    customer attractiveness factors (i)    customer distinction (i)    KAISM (key account identification & selection matrix) (i)    IT (i)    key accounts (i)    key development accounts (i)    maintenance accounts (i)    objectives (i)    opportunistic accounts (i)    segmentation (i), (ii)    six step process (i)    supplier attractiveness factors (i)customer distinction (i)customer intimacy (i)customer profitability (i)customer relationship management (CRM) (i)customer retention (i)customer's total business experience (TBE) (i)deadly sins (i)decision mapping (i), (ii)    adopter types (i)    buyer types (i)    Contact Matrix (i), (ii), (iii)    DMU toolkit (i)    DMU types (i)    GROWs (i)    influencer matrix (i), (ii)    influencer wheel (i)    making a positive impact (i)    receptivity/dissatisfaction/power model (i), (ii)    seniority (i)    sponsor/user/specifier/economic model (i)    supporters & opponents (i), (ii)Dell (i)diamond teams see key account managementdiversification (i)DMUs (decision making units) see decision mappingduet relationship see key account managementDulux (i)DuPont (i)EasyJet (i)e-commerce (i)elevator pitch (i)entry strategies see decision mappingfarmers & farming (i), (ii), (iii), (iv)gatekeepers (i), (ii)GE (i)global account management (i), (ii)GROWs (i)growth and risk management (i)healthcare markets (i), (ii)hunters & hunting (i), (ii), (iii), (iv)IKEA (i)implementation plan (i)influencer matrix see decision mappinginfluencer wheel see decision mappingINSIGHT Marketing and People (i), (ii)interpersonal skills (i)IT (information technology) & systems (i)joint planning (i)KAISM (key account identification & selection matrix) see key account selectionKAM LITE (i)KAM Model see key account managementKey Account Excellence Performance Map (i)key account management    ambitions (i)    bow-tie relationship (i), (ii)    coaching (i), (ii)    Contact Matrix (i), (ii), (iii)    critical success factors (CSFs) (i)    cross-functional working (i)    customer analysis (i)    customer classification (i), (ii), (iii)    customer distinction (i)    customer profitability (i)    decision mapping (i), (ii)    definitions (i), (ii), (iii)    diamond teams (i)    DMU toolkit (i)    DMU types (i)    duet relationship (i)    GROWs (i)    implementation plan (i)    IT (information technology) & systems (i)    joint planning (i)    journey (i)    KAM LITE (i)    KAM model (i)    KA plans (i), (ii)    KA teams (i), (ii), (iii), (iv)    key account approach    leadership (i)    one-on-many relationship (i)    organization and structure (i)    Performance Map (i)    reasons for KAM (i)    relationship management (i), (ii)    requirements for KAM (i)    rewards of KAM (i), (ii)    rules of KAM (i)    selection (i), (ii), (iii)    sins of KAM (i)    skills required (i)    targeting (i), (ii), (iii)    tracking progress (i)    training (i), (ii), (iii)    value mapping (i)    value propositions (i), (ii)key account plans & planning (i), (ii)key account selection see customer classificationkey account teams (i), (ii), (iii), (iv)key development accounts see customer classificationkey network management (i)key supplier management (KSM) (i)key supplier status (i)Kohler (i)Kraft (i)Kraljic Matrix (i), (ii)lead buyers (i)leadership (i)lean supply (i)lock in (i)maintenance accounts see customer classificationmarket extension (i)market penetration (i)Marks and Spencer (i), (ii)Mars (i)mass customization (i)McDonalds (i)MCI Worldcom (i)Mercury (i)Microsoft (i)milk round (i)money-making-logic (i)Nestlé (i)New product development (NPD) (i)Nutricia (i)one-on-many relationship see key account managementopen book trading (i)operational excellence (i)opponents see decision mappingopportunistic accounts see customer classificationopportunity chain (i), (ii)opportunity snail (i), (ii)organization and structure (i)OTIF (i)packaging industry (i), (ii)paint industry (i), (ii)Performance Map (i)persuasion skills (i)Pfizer (i)pharmaceutical industry (i), (ii), (iii)planning see key account plans & planningpolitical entrepreneurship (i), (ii)Porter and competitive advantage (i)Porter's 'five forces' analysis (i)PPG (i)product leadership (i)product life cycles (i)proposal analysis (i)proposals, making (i)purchasing see buyerspurchasing revolution (i)purchasing organization (i)questioning strategies (i)recruitment (i)relationship management (i), (ii)    bow-tie relationship (i)    Contact Matrix (i), (ii), (iii)    decision mapping (i), (ii)    diamond teams (i)    duet relationship (i)    farmers & farming (i), (ii), (iii), (iv)    frustration zones (i)    GROWs (i)    hunters & hunting (i), (ii), (iii), (iv)    milk round (i)    one-on-many relationship (i)rewards (i), (ii)risk management (i), (ii), (iii)Ryanair (i)sales ladder (i)segmentation (i), (ii), (iii)selection of key accounts see customer classificationselling skills (i)service creep (i)shared-future analysis (i), (ii)sins of KAM (i)skills, attitudes and behaviours required (i)snails (i), (ii)SNAP model (i)soft skills (i)spend mapping (i)sponsors see decision mappingstrategic supplier status (i)Subway (i)supplier attractiveness factors see customer classificationsupplier rationalization (i), (ii)supplier positioning (i), (ii)supply chain management (i)supporters see decision mappingStena Sealink (i)SWOT analysis (i)targeting see customer classificationteam leadership (i)team dynamics (i)teams see key account teamsTesco (i), (ii), (iii)total business experience (TBE) (i)tracking progress (i)training (i), (ii), (iii)Unilever (i)value drivers (i)value hotspots (i)Value Machine (i)value mapping (i)value propositions (i), (ii)    CICS questioning strategy (i)    cost in use (i), (ii)    customer activity cycle (i), (ii)    customer's total business experience (TBE) (i)    elevator pitch (i)    lock in (i)    making the proposal (i)    measuring the value (i)    proposal analysis (i)Virgin (i), (ii)Walmart (i), (ii), (iii), (iv)Wiersema, Fred (i)







 Publisher's noteEvery possible effort has been made to ensure that the information contained in this book is accurate at the time of going to press, and the publisher and author cannot accept responsibility for any errors or omissions, however caused. No responsibility for loss or damage occasioned to any person acting, or refraining from action, as a result of the material in this publication can be accepted by the editor, the publisher or the author. First published in Great Britain in 1999 by Kogan Page LimitedSecond edition 2001Third edition published in Great Britain and the United States in 2004Reprinted 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 (twice)Fourth edition 2008Fifth edition 2012Sixth edition published in Great Britain and the United States in 2015 by Kogan Page LimitedApart from any fair dealing for the purposes of research or private study, or criticism or review, as permitted under the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, this publication may only be reproduced, stored or transmitted, in any form or by any means, with the prior permission in writing of the publishers, or in the case of reprographic reproduction in accordance with the terms and licences issued by the CLA. Enquiries concerning reproduction outside these terms should be sent to the publishers at the undermentioned addresses:2nd Floor, 45 Gee StreetLondon EC1V 3RSUnited Kingdomwww.koganpage.com1518 Walnut Street, Suite 1100Philadelphia PA 19102USA4737/23 Ansari RoadDaryaganjNew Delhi 110002India© Peter Cheverton, 1999, 2001, 2004, 2008, 2012, 2015The right of Peter Cheverton to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted by him in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.ISBN       978 0 7494 6940 5E-ISBN    978 0 7494 6941 2British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication DataA CIP record for this book is available from the British Library.Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication DataCheverton, Peter.    Key account management : tools and techniques for achieving profitable key supplier status / Peter Cheverton. -- Sixth edition.        pages cm    ISBN 978-0-7494-6940-5 (paperback) -- ISBN 978-0-7494-6941-2 (ebk) 1. Selling--Key accounts. 2. Marketing--Key accounts. 3. Customer services. I. Title.    HF5438.8.K48C47 2015    658.8'04--dc232014043313Typeset and eBook by Graphicraft Limited, Hong KongPrint production managed by JellyfishPrinted and bound by CPI Group (UK) Ltd, Croydon, CR0 4YY















Table of ContentsTitle pageImprintTable of contentsAbout the authorForewordPrefacePreface to the sixth editionAcknowledgementsAnd it was all going so very well...Part One: Definitions and purpose01 The key account approach02 Why Key Account Management?03 The spectrum of KAM ambition04 What is a key account?05 What is Key Account Management?Part Two: Analysis: opportunity and value06 Knowing the market, knowing your value07 Knowing the people, knowing your valuePart Three: Relationship management08 From 'bow-ties' to 'diamonds'09 Decision mapping and contact strategies10 The good, the bad, the sad and the uglyPart Four: Achieving key supplier status11 The purchasing revolution12 Supply chain management: seeking value13 Purchasing organization: rationalization and centralization14 Supplier positioning: managing suppliersPart Five: Achieving strategic supplier status15 Being of strategic value16 How do they plan to grow?17 How do they aim to win?18 What drives them?19 A shared future?Part Six: The value proposition20 The customer's total business experience21 The customer's activity cycle22 Measuring the value - securing the reward23 Making the proposalPart Seven: Planning and joint planning24 The key account plan25 Joint planningPart Eight: Targeting26 Customer classification27 Customer distinction28 Global Account ManagementPart Nine: Making it happen29 Sins and requirements30 Leadership and organization31 Skills, attitudes and behaviours32 The role of information technology33 Measuring customer profitability34 The implementation plan35 Training and further helpIndexFull imprint















