



























About Clemons Kunkel
ltunes.com... Super Professor's Podcast...
EventBrite.com... Keys to Unlocking the Universe Seminar
Store... CafePress.com... SuperProfessorShop
BuzzSprout.com ... Super Professor's Podcast
YouTube.com... Clemons Kunkel
SoundCloud.com... SuperProfessor
Twitter.com... Keys to Unlocking
lnstagram.com... SuperProfessor
Twenty20.com... SuperProfessor
UwingU.com... Planet called Utopia Haven...
...is a planet that you can vote for at $1 a vote, the money goes to help getting into space. Mars One will be using UwingU.com for mapping the craters on Mars. "Utopia Haven" also is the name of the planet that is in one of my children book that is called
"Galaxies Keys".
UwingU.com... Planet called
"Keys to Unlocking the Universe"
Stop over and name a planet or name a crater.
Paper li.com... Faster then Light Speed 1-7















Library of Congress Control Number: 2015919865
CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, North Charleston, SC
eStore address (i.e. www.CreateSpace.com/KeysToUnlockingTheUniverse)
An Amazon.com Company Available from Amazon.com and other retail outlets Available from Amazon.com and other online stores Available from Amazon.com and other book stores Available from Amazon.com, CreateSpace.com, and other retail outlets A reference to an Amazon review Available on Kindle and other devices Available on Kindle and other retail outlets Available on Kindle and other book stores
Available on Kindle and online stores
Case#: 1-2935296381
Title of work: Keys to unlocking the Universe
Author: Clemons Leon Kunkel
Author Clemons Leon Kunkel Created: Entire Text, Illustrations
Certification Name R. Friedman for GoCopyright.com
Issue Date: December 6, 2015
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publishers.
First Edition
















There have been so many people who have helped me along the way to bring my dream and my theory into a book format. To them I give a million thanks. First of all to my brother, Randy Kunkel, who was up at 2:30 AM in the morning, letting me talk to him for hours when I first found my first Empirical Evidence to validate the theory. Also, for helping me to expand further with his theory on how to map the universes called "Weatherman Randy." (More to come in Book Two: Keys to Unlocking the Universes Mystery's).
A Big Thank You to Alicia Kunkel for her invaluable help in being the best ghostwriter ever. For your patience, comprehension, talent, and creativity. Also for an addition of her own theory "Alice's Flip" to move us ahead, and her help not only in writing but with the presentation designs as well. "Alice's Flip" is in Book 2.
To my daughter Amber Kunkel (Queen of Halo) and Bryan: Many thanks for their expertise, creativity and time in producing my MySpace page.
Casa-astro.de for their picture and support at www.Casa-astro.de. They have many beautiful pictures you will love to see.
Thanks to Paul Creonte and Katrina for their encouragement, support, and editing efforts.
Of course to Ed and Pat Ross a giant thank you, for their research, more editing, and advertisement and encouragement.
To Chris Rover for being a great listener, and bringing yet another idea to the table. Chris added to my theory with "David's Sling" and I'm hoping for more in book two (Keys to Unlocking the Universes Mystery's). Also Editing and lay out of the book and Good Friend.
To my other daughters, Candice and Jennifer, for their continued inspiration. Thanks to Erik for his wildlife photos,
My brother, Tim, and Stacey and family, for supporting me during these bad times. I would have not gotten this far without their help.
To Ketan at Café Life in Westwood, NJ for letting me do lectures and hang my theories up in the store. Thank you Ketan!
Kirk Kunkel for adding his theory "Kirt Hill" to advance further in the mapping and working with me on two of my theories in Book 2.
My friend Al Rahall in support and computer expertise.
I would like to send a warm and heartfelt thank you to the many other wonderful people who contributed in their own way, such as: my sister Leona, Effie, and Tanzia, and their honeys Kevin, Rob and Scott.
To Alex and Anglia for reading over my work and for letting me bend their ears. And I am looking forward to reading Alex's new book.
Also Felix for having his ear bent over backward and for being a good Friend.
And Mindy Fluckey for her editing skills.
Deon Bell for her editing skills for making it a better book.










New Key Theories in Astronomy explaining the unexplainable.


False Truth
History
Introduction
Keys to Unlocking the Universe's Mystery
Allie's Shoe Box Theory
Stars
The Birth of Stars
Stella Snow Flake Cluster
Black Hole
Black Hole a New Theory
Amber & Bryan's Heat Theory
Melanie's Sweep 'A' Theory
Melanie's Sweep 'B' Theory
Amber & Bryan's Attraction Theory
Amber & Bryan's Universe Theory
Amber's Ring Theory
Rudy's Insight Theory
Mitchell's Bowling Ball Theory
Vicky's Prism Theory
Max A Million
Hubble Capture
BEA Theory
Colbert Effects Theories
Steven's Effect Theory
C Kirk View Theory
Rebecca's Insight Theory
Star Light, Star Bright
Katrina's Star Shine Theory
Paul's Back Spin Theory
Twinkle Twinkle Little Star
Weatherman Randy Theory
Al's Brain Child 1 Theory
Al's Brain Child 2 Theory
Veronica's Stepping Theory
Derek's Speed Theory
Tim's Foresight Map Theory
Shannon's Check List
Every Rose Has a Thorn
Backward Black Hole
Chip& Earl's Tug a War Theory
Earth New Trojan Friend
Utopia Haven
Milky Way Galaxy
Starry Night Education
Super Professor
Jyotic Exotic Indian Cuisine ...Seminar
Rise Up Events
























Once Accepted Fact/Truth Accepted Fact/Truth
1. The earth is flat.1. The earth is round.
2. The earth is the center of the Universe.2. The Earth goes around the Sun
3. The sun is the center of the Universe.3. The Milky Way is the center of the Universe.
4. The Milky Way is the known Universe.4. The Milky Way is only one galaxy of more than 125 billion galaxies in our known Universe.
5. It is impossible to fly; only birds can fly.5. People fly in airplanes every day to go on Vacation!
6. It is impossible for a human to break the four-minute mile.6. The four minute mile is now the starting point to be able to compete in college track.
7. A germ cannot jump out of your mouth and jump into a another person's mouth.7. The common cold is passed on for one person to the next this way.
8. Man cannot go into space.8. There are two space stations in outer space.
9. Man cannot land on the moon.9. Man has landed on the moon eight times.
10. The moon is made of shiny material.10. The moon is not made of shiny material.
11. Halley's comet is a ball of fire.11. Halley's comet is a dirty ice ball, its tail's are dirty ice practical, melted by the sun as it passes bye.
12. The atom is the smallest piece of matter. It cannot be broken down any more.12. The atom can be broken in to electron, protons and neutron. Those can be broken down in to smaller particles.
13. There was no big bang; the universe has always been here and always will be.13. The CMB (Comic Microwave Background 2.5 to 4.5 degree above absolute zero) is the heat signature left over from the Big Bang.
14. Man lives in the 4th dimensional plane.14. NEW Theory! Man lives in at least the 6th dimensional plane.












Some Invention/Advance/Discovery



(B.C. 260) Aristarhus = Theory that the sun is the center of the Solar System.
(B.C. 570) Anaximander of Miletus = Geographical and star charts.
(c. 140) Hipparchus = Trigonometry
(c. 250) Archimedes = Principles of the lever and other simple machines.
(c.600) India = They added the zero.
(c. 1100) China = Made a rocket.
(c. 1535) Copernicus = Heliocentric planetary model
(A.D. 1269) Petrus Peregrinus de Maricourt = 360° compass.
(A.D. 1592) Galileo Galilei = Thermoscope (primitive thermometer)
(A.D. 1609) Galileo Galilei = Astronomical telescope.
(A.D. 1675) Ole Römer = Speed of light.
(A.D. 1684) Isaac Newton =Theory of Gravity.
(1961)Vostok 1 (U.S.S.R.) = Manned space flight.
(1969) Apollo 11 (U.S.) = Manned moon landing.
(1976) Viking I and Viking II (U.S.) = Mars space probe landing.
(1995) Craig J. Venter and Hamilton Smith = Decipherment of entire DNA sequence of living organism.












Cosmic Exclamation Point
VV 340, also known as Arp 302, provides a textbook example of colliding galaxies seen in the early stages of their interaction. The edge-on galaxy near the top of the image is VV 340 North and the face-on galaxy at the bottom of the image is VV 340 South. Millions of years later these two spirals will merge -- much like the Milky Way and Andromeda will likely do billions of years from now. Data from NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory (purple) are shown here along with optical data from the Hubble Space Telescope (red, green, blue). VV 340 is located about 450 million light years from Earth.
Image Credit: X-ray NASA/CXC/lfA/D.Sanders et al; Optical NASA/STScl/NRAO/A.Evans et al











As far back as I can remember I have enjoyed looking at the stars. As a child I dreamed of traveling from star to star in my cool space ship. Of course I've not turned that dream into reality yet, but that has not stopped me from dreaming.
We all like to look at the heavens and wonder what is up there. With the advancement of technology we are looking deeper into space than ever before. The Hubble telescope has provided us a view of the universe, but we still do not understand much of what we see. Dark matter and lensing are only a small fraction of the phenomena we see, but cannot explain. The universe is full of mystery. What would it be like to understand these cosmic wonders?
We want to see and experience more of the universe than we do today. But, we cannot go to the stars or galaxies with the ships of today. We need new ideas about how to make our dreams come true. This book presents new ideas; a new beginning toward the goal of advanced space travel. It includes new theories that may lead us on the path toward making that dream of advanced space travel a reality.
This book contains unbelievable ideas that may be unsettling and perhaps a little scary. People throughout history have had to accept crazy ideas like the earth is round and the earth is not the center of the universe. To advance, we too must grow and change our understanding of the cosmos. We have done great things as a species, but we have reached an impasse in space exploration. We need to explore outside of our solar system but we are limited by our understanding. To make progress we must first believe we can, and second work together with open minds as a world united toward that goal. In this book I will present theories that make sense of our knowledge of the universe based upon the laws of nature and physics. These theories are a step toward making advanced space travel a reality.
Imagine ...
...for a moment. What would it be like if we could travel from one galaxy to another? What wonders would we find? Our fragile planet is rapidly becoming overpopulated, polluted and neglected. We need to explore alternative planets as a living places. To live in the vast void of space is too expensive. To terraform Mars will take decades. Mars One is looking to have a Colony on Mars by 2023 and the goal is possible with today knowledge but the atmosphere of Mars is not suitable for us to breathe. Mars is not at all like our planet Earth. We need a better solution. What if we could travel to other worlds similar to ours? As of today we cannot travel to another sun, or even dream of traveling to another galaxy. But, what if it was possible? What would that ability be worth? Where would we go? Think about what it would be like to go to other worlds around difference stars. How would these Exo-planets (planets around a different star (sun)) be similar to ours, and how would they be different? If it were possible, would you even want to leave Earth to start a new life in a new world? Did we learn from our past so that we don't make the same mistakes again?
I would like to think that we have learned from our experience here on Earth and we will make better decisions on these new worlds. But, first we have to get there. My dream is to make travel to other worlds similar to ours a reality. "Keys to Unlocking the Universe" presents theories that are a step in this direction.
This is a global goal for all mankind. We must work as one to make this dream a reality. Take a journey in this book into the future. Think for a moment, is this possible? If it is, what would be the next steps toward making this dream come true?














Keys to Unlocking the Universe Mystery...
... is the second book to be able to take us on the journey of deep space travel. . .
But first let's look at how this could be possible with ..
...Keys to Unlocking the Universe
This book explains how to make that dream become a reality. We are going to discuss Two Big Bangs, Black Holes, Kinetic Energy, Dimension planes, Mapping of Dimensional planes, Dark Matter, Dark Energy, MACHO, CMB and much more. How and why the Universe came to be what it is today, it is from a merging of..
...Two Universes!
What we perceive, but cannot be explained until now in ...
...Keys to Unlocking the Universe.
So let's get started. In Allie's Shoe Box Theory we will give structure to space and show how it can be bent by another dimension. And welcome to the new frontier.












In this book we will talk about the effects from a Black Hole on galaxies and how they change in size and shape over the different time lines. How to find where we are in the universes by using dark matter mapping. Why dark matter comes and goes, because it is base on were the other dimension or as we move throw them and the position of these galaxies getting closer to our galaxies.










... is giving space a structure that you can use to see how space moves and changes in size.





... shows how other dimensions are side by side and how they affect our space.


It has long been known that we live and exist in a three-dimensional plane. The first dimension is forward and backward, the second dimension is left and right, and the third, being depth, is up and down. Albert Einstein added that we live in the fourth dimension, which is space and time. Space, with time, allows us to move in space. Other scientists since Albert Einstein have been reaching beyond the fourth dimension for more answers.







Such as:String Theory
Super String Theory
M - Theory
Super Gravity Theory


String theories has fallen in and out of favor for the last twenty years because it has not been substantiated through observation. All of these theories are working toward a single goal; proof of the existence of other dimensions. These theorists have based their work on mathematical calculations. They have been attempting proof of this through equations, yet these have not been observed - the ultimate challenge for scientists throughout time. Scientists have been searching for observed truth by focusing down on the subatomic particle level and their lines of connections. What if one were to look at the universe as a grand cosmic picture instead of focusing on individual pixels?
Could the proof of the existence of other dimensions finally be reached? Maybe!
If one were to look at the universe as a detective, viewing the evidence left behind and following the clues to solve the mystery, we might just be able to crack the case. What evidence in our known universe is available to us to guide us down our path of understanding the sequence of those events that have unfolded in our universe throughout the passage of time?
Here are a few of the clues left behind:
Black Holes
CMB (Cosmic Microwave Background) is the heat signature left over from the big bang
The Great Void (large area of space with no stars)
The Great Attractor (large cluster of galaxies)
The Great Wall (galaxies close together at the edge of the Universe)
Massive Compact Halo Object (MACHO) causes light to jump to a blue shift Galactic Poles
Universe in a Red Shift Spectrum (expanding)
Lensing Effects (bending of light ray)
Quasar Galaxy (large red shift with a double lensing of the same galaxy)
Dark Matter (matter that we cannot see)
Dark Energy (causes the universe to expand)
The Milky Way (One trillion suns, its Speed and Direction)

All of these phenomena are clues; evidence for unlocking the mysteries of the universe.
Currently, we know all of these phenomena exist, but we are not able to fully understand them. Our universe is scattered with these enigmas, confounding scientists. Could all of these phenomena be connected? Just as our cosmic understanding has expanded from our earth to our solar system, to our galaxy and our universe, we must expand our search for the answers. These riddles could be solved if we would expand our view to include another universal plain of existence. What if we were to include another universal plain, the fifth dimension? This would be a dimension of thinner space, slower time, and heavier matter. This fifth dimension would exist in the same area of space as the fourth dimension, but at a different level of space and time. If we theorize that it exists next to ours, then it must interplay with our universe. Conversely, our fourth dimension would interplay with the fifth dimension.


I believe that we not only have the fourth dimension but also the fifth dimension. How could they co-exist in the same region of space? Perhaps this is a question of perspective. A person might look through their telescope at the night sky and see a star. They believe it to be a single sparkling object. They are not aware that the twinkling light could be a galaxy; made up of more than a billion suns with one to ten light years of space between each one.
That same person might shift his focus down and look at an object of mass - for instance, a concrete block - which appears to be completely solid. He is not aware that the atoms of the concrete block are correspondingly as scattered as the stars of a galaxy. Each seeming star is seen as a complete and solid whole. However, it is anything but. The real challenge is to achieve a proper perspective of space to view its building blocks. We see space like the person sees the concrete block.
We can only truly see space through its interaction with us. We see an effect and look for the cause. Space can be bent by matter; this is one of the effects. The fabric of space can actually be curved by matter. Einstein's Ring and Einstein's Cross are discoveries that demonstrate this. The effects of the curved space can be seen by the light that passes through it. The light will shift directions and wave length. Through the use of a spectrometer the changes in light spectrum can be observed; typically shifting from a red or blue spectrum to its opposite. Then back again.
We are even mapping the Dark Matter. We can do this by the way dark matter interact with light coming from the distance stars that we are viewing.

It is common for scientists to see some stars behave unusually with no apparent cause. Sometimes they brighten; sometimes they dim; sometimes their light rays shift to a massive red or blue spectrum. Some of these unusual behaviors are called dark matter interactions. This very intriguing phenomenon of unseen mass encroaching on an area of space causes the objects to appear to move in and out of focus; appearing to brighten and then dim over a period of time. Fritz Zwicky discovered in 1933 that dark matter was four hundred times denser than was previously thought. With the current advances in technology we have seen more evidence of dark matter in such phenomena as a Massive Compact Halo Object, or MACHO. Over seventy years later there has been very little gain in understanding of this phenomenon, and its true nature. We must expand our current understanding of space. We must validate our theories through observation. The theory of the existence of the fifth dimension explains many of the phenomena that we see.
Let's talk a little bit about dimensions if another dimension excited would it not interact with our dimension and should we not be able to see it? Just for a little while lets think that a dimension could exist. If they exist then we must be able to see there effect on our universe. I will should what I think is the effects in our dimension and how we can use these dimensions to travel faster then light speed. I know this my sound crazy but what if that I am saying could be true, and traveling faster then light speed is possible and not break the known laws of science.
First imagine that this is possible, if I am right we can change the world and live on other planets around other stars, which was unthinkable before. But would you even consider going to live on another world? Did you know more than 200 thousand people would because they singed up to live on Mars. The gold of Mars One is to have a colony on Mars by 2025. This is not going to be as hard as some people my think. We have 3D printer and now 4D printer. NASA even hired a company to make a 3D printer to print out food that like a pizza. And look at the advancement in nanotechnology or the Al (artificial intelligence) computers, robots or drones. The robots will build the habit on Mars before an human ever arrives there. Biosphere 2 and one has help in making living in a closed environments possible. There has be more then 6 space station in space were people lived and more then 533 people have been to space. This has not been easy, we have lost a lot of lives in getting this far and we should never forget the ones we have lost.
Allie's Shoe Box Theory show how it is possible for other dimensions to be next to ours and how we effect there space and they effect our space. We are using a Rubik's cube to help illustrate this because most people have played with one and it is easier than using a sphere to explain the concepts of space. And like a Rubik's cube that rotates but still connected, it is the same with space that is moving but still connected. Dark matter is only one of many sighting in space that we do not understand as you read this book thing will get clear on what dark matter is and how to use it. So lets get to understanding how space moves.

Let us use the Rubik's cube as a diagram to show how the fourth dimensions and fifth dimensions are beside and all around each other, connected at the corners by invisible lines of force. Similar to the way two magnets can hold onto one another, they can be held together and yet are two separate objects. You can see, using the diagram, how it is conceivable for the proposed 6th dimension to expand from the outer walls of the fourth dimension into the 5th dimension. The entrance of a black hole acts like a hydraulic jack. Envision oil pumped through a small hole to build up enough force to lift a house up, leaving a space between it and its foundation. The black hole absorbs magnetic plasma from the suns. The mass of that magnetic plasma acts as the oil of the hydraulic jack. Its forces moves the other dimension, creating a new space that did not exist previously. This new space is stretching and expanding out into the fifth dimension, which creates the new sixth dimension (the six sides of the cube). Before the black hole separates from the fourth dimension it squeezes the fifth dimension very tightly because the new space, the sixth dimension-surrounded by the fourth and fifth dimensions-cannot expand freely. It puts pressure on the fifth dimension. If you lived in the fifth dimension you would see the bulge in space as light passes through it. This bulge is a Massive Compact Halo Object, or MACHO. A MACHO is considered Dark Matter; matter that we cannot see but we view its mass by the effect that it causes on light. If you lived in the fourth dimension and a black hole from another dimension was bending the fabric of your space you would view it as a MACHO.


This is my proposed theory of the universes making room for the new-born sixth dimension, which is named "Amber". Because space is always trying to seek balance, the cubes divide equally. One cube of the fifth dimension will become eight smaller cubes; four of the fifth dimension and four of the sixth dimension.

A black hole expands from its center point pushing into the firth dimension space making room for the sixth dimension.

A black hole at a single point puts pressure on the adjoining dimensions, moving them out of the way. This makes the adjoining dimensions enlarge. Space is always trying to seek balance with one another.

A Black Hole is new space pushing into the old space, trying to make room for its self in the old dimension. Which puts forces on the universes, causing it to expand to a breaking point, making room for a new dimension. Dark matter is also old space pushing in on new space, forcing it out of the way.


1. Forward and Backward
2. Up and Down
3. Left and Right
4. Space and Time

1. Forward and Backward
2. Up and Down
3. Left and Right
5. Thin Space, Slower Time, and Heavy Matter

1. Forward and Backward
2. Up and Down
3. Left and Right
6. Thinner Space, Slower Time, and Heavier Matter
Superstring Theory, M Theory and Super Gravity Theory are all theories on different dimensions.

When the new sixth dimension separates from the fourth dimension completely, it is free to expand, forcing the fourth and fifth dimensions out of its way. The sixth dimension is now a new universe. This new universe/dimension has thinner space, heavier matter and slower time than the fourth and fifth dimensions but it is part of the 5th dimensions. They are both growing trying to seek balance with each other.
See Pascal's Principle: pressure on an object to balance it out
See the Bohr Model: a model of how the atom appears
Allie's Shoe Box Theory is a model of the appearance of the dimensions, much like the Bohr Model is a representation of the appearance of the atom.
See Newton's Third Law during acceleration: For every force exerted by x on y there is an equal and opposite force exerted by y on x.
Allie's Shoe Box Theory applies the sixth dimension as x and the fifth dimension as y of Newton's Third Law.
6th dimension = x and 5th dimension = y
x = y


6th Dimension Amber



Molecules have structure; why not space? Molecules bond differently depending on how many are joining, creating different patterns depending on the quality and quantity of the molecules. If space has structure then they would they not join differently, as well.
Space in each dimension is connected by the corners. Small particles from the 4th dimension can pass through the corners. Heavier particles cannot get through the corners so they must push out on the six sides of the cube, pushing out into the 5th dimension.
Just as a hydraulic pump pushes oil through a small hole causing pressure, the black hole will put pressure on the 4th dimension at a single point, pushing over into the 5th dimension, stretching it in six different directions and creating the new space in the 5th dimension, which we have called the 6th dimension (Amber).
Before the black hole can separate from the 4th dimension, it squeezes the 5th dimension and 4th dimension very tightly. This causes the 6th dimension (new space) to be restricted to expand freely. If you lived in the 5th dimension you would see a bulge in space as light passed through it. We see an effects like this, the bulge is called a MACHO (Massive Compact Halo Object). This is said to be Dark Matter and unexplainable until now.
Imagine space being like water. Water will mix with some liquids, but not all liquids. Why?

Water can mix with alcohol because they are both polar liquids. Water does not mix with oil due to it being a non-polar liquid.
Can't space be the same? Different times will not mix. Different weights will not mix. Different temperatures will not mix.








Our sun is a star and only one of a estimate 200 - 400 billion stars in our Milky Way Galaxy and some believe it is closer to a trillion stars.

And as the advancement in technology grows, we will continue to see deeper into the great dark voids of space and see more and more stars and galaxies.












Our Sun
Extreme Ultraviolet Imaging Telescope (EIT) image of a huge, handle-shaped prominence taken on Sept. 14, 1999, taken in the 304 angstrom wavelength - Prominences are huge clouds of relatively cool dense plasma suspended in the Sun's hot, thin corona. At times, they can erupt, escaping the Sun's atmosphere. Emission in this spectral line shows the upper chromospheres at a temperature of about 60,000 degrees K. Every feature in the image traces magnetic field structure. The hottest areas appear almost white, while the darker red areas indicate cooler temperatures. Courtesy of SOHO/Extreme Ultraviolet Imaging Telescope (EIT) consortium. SOHO is a project of international cooperation between ESA and NASA.
Credit: NASA, ESA, and the Hubble Heritage Team (STScl/AURA)-ESA/Hubble Collaboration






The constellation Vulpecula is a veritable entire assembly line of newborn stars. The diffuse glow reveals the widespread cold reservoir of raw material that our Milky Way galaxy has in stock for building stars.
Large-scale turbulence from the giant colliding galactic flows causes this material to condense into the web of filaments seen in this image. As the stellar material becomes colder and denser, gravitational forces take over and fragment these filaments into chains of stellar embryos that can finally collapse to form baby stars.
These scientific results from the European Space Agency's Herschel infrared space observatory are revealing previously hidden details of star formation. New images show thousands of distant galaxies furiously building stars and beautiful star-forming clouds draped across the Milky Way. One image captures an 'impossible' star in the act of formation.
Presented on May 6, 2010, during a major scientific symposium held at ESA, the results challenge old ideas of star birth, and open new roads for future research.
Herschel's observation of the star-forming cloud RCW 120 also revealed an embryonic star which may become one of the biggest and brightest stars in our galaxy within the next few hundred thousand years. The star already contains eight to ten times the mass of our sun and is still surrounded by an additional two thousand solar masses of gas and dust from which it can feed.
More on the new results and images from ESA's Herschel, visit http://www.esa.int/SPECIALS/Herschel/index.html. Image credit: ESA/Hi-GAL Consortium





The Brightest of Stars
Swirls of gas and dust reside in this ethereal-looking region of star formation, seen by NASA's Hubble Space Telescope. This majestic view, located in the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC), reveals a region where low-mass, infant stars and their much more massive stellar neighbors reside. A shroud of blue haze gently lingers amid the stars.
Known as LH 95, this is just one of the hundreds of star-forming systems, called associations, located in the LMC some 160,000 light-years distant. Earlier ground-based observations of such systems had only allowed astronomers to study the bright blue giant stars present in these regions. With Hubble's resolution, the low-mass stars can now be analyzed, which will allow for a more accurate calculation of their ages and masses.
Credit: NASA, ESA, and the Hubble Heritage Team (STScl/AURA)-ESA/Hubble Collaboration






The Greatest Stars
The small open star cluster Pismis 24 lies in the core of the NGC 6357 nebula in Scorpius, about eight thousand light-years away from Earth. The brightest object in the center of this image is designated Pismis 24-1 and was once thought to weigh as much as 200 to 300 solar masses. This would not only have made it by far the most massive known star in the galaxy, but would have put it considerably above the currently believed upper mass limit of about 150 solar masses for individual stars.
However, Hubble Space Telescope high-resolution images of the star show that it is really two stars orbiting one another that are each estimated to be one hundred solar masses. In addition, spectroscopic observations with ground-based telescopes further reveal that one of the stars is actually a tight binary that is too compact to be resolved even by Hubble. This divides the estimated mass for Pismis 24-1 among the three stars. Although the stars are still among the heaviest known, the mass limit has not been broken due to the multiplicity of the system.
The images of NGC 6357 were taken with Hubble's Wide Field and Planetary Came2,in,April,2002.
Image Credit: NASA, ESA, and J. Maíz Apellániz (Instituto de Astrofísica de Andalucía, Spain)












The Birth of Stars
This new Hubble photo is but a small portion of one of the largest seen star-birth regions in the galaxy, the Carina Nebula. Towers of cool hydrogen laced with dust rise from the wall of the nebula. Reminiscent of Hubble's classic image of the Eagle Nebula dubbed the 'Pillars of Creation' this image is even more striking in appearance.
Captured here are the top of a three-light-year-tall pillar of gas and the dust that is being eaten away by the brilliant light from nearby bright stars. The pillar is also being pushed apart from within, as infant stars buried inside it fire off jets of gas that can be seen streaming from towering peaks like arrows sailing through the air.
Image Credit: NASA, ESA, and M. Livio and the Hubble 20th Anniversary Team (STScI)





Where Stars Are Born
This mosaic image is the sharpest wide-angle view ever obtained of the starburst galaxy, Messier 82 (M82). The galaxy is remarkable for its bright blue disk, webs of shredded clouds and fiery-looking plumes of glowing hydrogen blasting out of its central regions.
Throughout the galaxy's center, young stars are being born ten times faster than they are inside our entire Milky Way Galaxy, which results in a huge concentration of young stars carved into the gas and dust at the galaxy's center. The fierce galactic superwinds generated from these stars compresses enough gas to make millions of more stars.
In M82, young stars are crammed into tiny but massive star clusters. These in turn congregate by the dozens to make the bright patches, or starburst clumps, in the central parts of M82. The clusters in the clumps can only be distinguished in the sharp Hubble images. Most of the pale, white objects sprinkled around the body of M82 that look like fuzzy stars are actually individual star clusters about twenty light-years across and contain up to a million stars.
The rapid rate of star formation in this galaxy eventually will be self-limiting. When star formation becomes too vigorous, it will consume or destroy the material needed to make more stars. The starburst then will subside, probably in a few tens of millions of years.
The observation was made in March 2006, with Hubble's Advanced Camera for Surveys' Wide Field Channel. Astronomers assembled this six-image composite mosaic by combining exposures taken with four colored filters that capture starlight from visible and infrared wavelengths, as well as the light from the glowing hydrogen filaments.
Image Credit: NASA, ESA, and The Hubble Heritage Team (STScl/AURA); Acknowledgment: J. Gallagher (University of Wisconsin), M. Mountain (STScI), and P. Puxley (National Science Foundation)













Stellar Snowflake Cluster
Newborn stars, hidden behind thick dust, are revealed in this image of a section of the Christmas Tree Cluster from NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope. The newly revealed infant stars appear as pink and red specks toward the center and appear to have formed in regularly spaced intervals along linear structures in a configuration that resembles the spokes of a wheel or the pattern of a snowflake. Hence, astronomers have nicknamed this the "Snowflake Cluster."
Star-forming clouds like this one are dynamic and evolving structures. Since the stars trace the straight line pattern of spokes of a wheel, scientists believe that these are newborn stars, or "protostars." At a mere 100,000 years old, these infant structures have yet to "crawl" away from their location of birth. Over time, the natural drifting motions of each star will break this order, and the snowflake design will be no more.

While most of the visible-light stars that give the Christmas Tree Cluster its name and triangular shape do not shine brightly in Spitzer's infrared eyes, all of the stars forming from this dusty cloud are considered part of the cluster.
Like a dusty cosmic finger pointing up to the newborn clusters, Spitzer also illuminates the optically dark and dense Cone Nebula, the tip of which can be seen toward the bottom left corner of the image.
Image Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/P.S. Teixeira (Center for Astrophysics)











Prior to 18th century, black holes were only theorized, not identified. The Schwarzschild Solution provided the mathematical formula to infer a black hole's existence. In 1943, the first pulsar was discovered and named Little Green Men (L.G.M), one of three stars. It was the first radio signal from a star that had ever been received. At first, the signal was believed to be a communication from alien life forms. Once it was realized that this ground breaking transmission was actually from a star, further study ensued. Scientists found that the star's mass was contained within a twelve-mile circumference. This sharply shook the prevalent understanding of stars because they didn't think that the mass of a star could collapse within a twelve-mile circumference. This early concept was only perceived in Schwarzschild Solution. Once this pulsar was located and proof of the beginning of the Schwarzschild Solution was found, search for the next steps was embarked upon. It is believed that when a star becomes a supernova, it has the potential, due to the incredible amount of energy released, to have a corresponding backwash of energy, which is flowing and rushing in toward the epicenter.
This contracting energy could be so great that it could completely collapse in upon itself. Becoming super contracted and dense with energy, Any light in the proximity of it becomes trapped due to the super massive gravitational pull, thus it not able to emanate out. This creates the utter blackness of the space created, hence it's name, the Black Hole. Scientists believe that this collapsing effect at a single point may be so great that it could continue on into infinity. It is at this point that their theory ends and mine begins.
As science and our knowledge has progressed our understanding has changed from earth being flat to it being a sphere, it was discovered that one can walk upon the Earth in a straight, but curved line, around the planet and returning to the exact point of origin. This was difficult to understand for some and not so challenging for others. These people were able to think past their knowledge of laws of science because they understood that there is a learning curve to science and knowledge. As advances in science continue, then we also must change too.










Know let's see what a Black Hole might do, if we had a 5th dimension to go into.


Scientists believe that a black hole stretches to infinity at a single point. Allowing for the 5th dimension to exist, the density, mass, and energy of the black hole, existing in the 5th dimension, is actually pulling the fabric of space at a single point, stretching outward in every direction and bulging into the 5thdimension. As more and more stars are fed into the black hole, their masses create more pressure from that single point in the 4th dimension. This continues until the black hole and the fabric of space in the fourth dimension reaches critical mass. The black hole, full of the magnetic plasma of countless stars, has now become bloated into the fifth dimension. Therefore, the entrance of the black hole in the 4th dimension becomes more contracted until it finally releases and seals off the extruded space of the black hole that was in the 4th. This gargantuan bubble of plasma floats free and is expanding, falling into the 5th dimension. It is no longer part of the 4th or 5th dimension. The Black Hole is changed into a new universal baby, if you will, which I will now call AMBER, the 6th dimension.



Let's give a black hole a 5th dimension to stretch into and see how the theory works having it stretch to infinity at a single point. If a person could see into a Black Hole what, what would it look like?





Although a different point of view, this represents the same black hole as the previous diagram, with a 5th dimension to stretch into at a single point. The Black Hole is pushing into the 5th Dimension which makes the new 6th Dimension.





Think about a straw and a balloon connected. Then push the straw into the center of the balloon.





A Black Hole is like a straw that is pushed into the center of a balloon, getting smaller as it reaches the center point. Here is where it starts to expand outward.





A Black Hole is like a straw that is pushed into the center of a balloon, getting smaller as it reaches the center point. Here is where it starts to expand outward.



Remember a lot of pressure going in to a small point become very powerful. With water pressure we can cut steel. With air pressure we can split rocks. Hydraulic pressure can raise building. Space can be bent by matter. Allowing a black hole to push into another dimension explain where the matter goes and letting a black hole release its energy at the end of its life in what we know as the big bang.












If a Black Hole is in a another dimension, then it must be dragged through the other dimension, affecting that area of space, as it moves through space. Our black hole would affect their dimension and theirs would affect ours.



A Black Hole is moving in space because space is always growing. Space is constantly trying to seek balance with the other dimensions space and never find it.


Think of a Black Hole as a ball, getting heavier and heavier, pushing into the 5th dimension and leaving the 4th dimension behind.





Think of a Black Hole as oil and light together when it leaves a universe.


Consider a Black Hole as something like oil. When it is set free, it is between two universes being forced upon by both universes, the 4th and 5th putting pressure on the 6th, which forces it to expand. The 6th is also pushing on the 4th and 5th moving them out of the way, making room for the 6th. Also, think of space acting like a light wave, expanding outward as a spherical wave, getting thinner as it moves outward, at which point it travels at a different speed depending on the medium it is traveling in.

Now that we have give structure to a Black Hole, let's let it slide over in to the 5th dimension and now that it is no longer a part of the 4th dimension, it is new space that came from old space, but having different weight and temperature. This new Universe that we will now call BEA (Birth of Everything Again). We know there's more than one Black hole in our Universe so let's make another one separate from the 4th dimension, now you have two BEA (Birth of Everything Again)., How would they be different?
What Question can we ask ourselves about what might be happening? Ready to give it a try and see for yourself what might be happening. Here are a few clues that I came up with.
1How long would it be before the two Universes would see each other? 
2How much have they cooled off?
3How much have they grown and how much will they continue to grow??
4Do they have any stars?
5Are there any Galaxies?
6Are the Galaxies large are small?
7Which Universe is older than the other?
8What would happen if the two Universes joined?
9Could we see BEA from our side?
10If we could see BEA what would it look like from our side of the universe?
11Are there more than two BEAs? ETC....
These are some of the Question that I will answer in my three book Series. Follow with me on this cook crumb trail of the cosmic Universes. Keep track of each Key that is turn for it will unlock another Mystery. Each New Key Theory open more doors that were closed. We can use these Keys to change the World for the Better. Step with me into a Grand New Future of Wonder and Wealth 



Supermassive Black Hole
In a single exposure, astronomers were able to confirm the existence of a supermassive black hole in the center of galaxy M84. They did this by using the Hubble Space Telescope's more powerful spectrograph to map the rapid rotation of gas at the galaxy's center. The colorful zigzag provides the evidence. If no black hole were present, the line would be nearly vertical. The Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph measured a velocity of 880,000 mph within 26 light-years of the galaxy's center. This measurement allowed astronomers to calculate that the black hole contains at least 300 million solar masses. M84 is located in the Virgo Cluster of galaxies, 50 million light-years from Earth, and a nearby neighbor to the more massive M87 galaxy, which also contains an extremely massive black hole.
This image was originally released May 12, 1997.
Image Credit: NASA, Gary Bower, Richard Green (NOAO), the STIS Instrument Definition Team











Most black holes exist in the center of a galaxy. Galaxies can be approximately 100,000 light-years across or larger. The black hole continues with the orbit of the galaxy in which it lives. As the black hole extrudes into the 5th dimension and continues with its galactic orbit, its movement of drag creates a kinetic energy wake in the 5th dimension. Conversely, there is a corresponding black hole extrusion from the 5th dimension into the 4th dimension. We should therefore be able to see this effect of the 5th dimension upon our universe (Vicky's Prism). The first clue is the CMB (Cosmic Microwave Background) difference, which is the heat signature left behind from a Big Bang. According to the current Big Bang Theory understandings, there should be an even heat emanation; however, the heat signature has a range from 2.5 to 4.5 above absolute zero (negative 459 degrees below zero). These readings have been taken over various locations around the world. The readings show a mixing of temperatures, an unexplainable variable heat residue. Noting the two different heat signatures, one could propose a second Big Bang Theory creating two universes.

Proposing the hypothesis of two universes in existence, what would the resulting outcome be? Based upon the two different heat signatures, 2.5 and 4.5, one is hotter and younger and the other is cooler and older. Both being sphere-like, the newer universe is hotter, smaller, and cooler; the older universe has the opposing characteristics. Because of the Law of Attraction, which states, "Like attracts like," it stands to reason that the two universes would be attracted to each other. So, the older, larger, cooler universe would then pull and attract the younger, smaller, hotter universe. Similar to two water droplets, one larger than the other, the smaller droplet of water is drawn toward the larger droplet because of surface cohesion. The universe, similar to water, has fluidity.


...is the merging of two universes to make one larger universe, causing a mixing of the temperatures.













... is the expansion of the universe pushing outward into another dimension making clean space.













... is the expansion of the universe pushing outward into another dimension making clean space."













Is the merging of two universes designed to make one larger universe?













When two universes merge, there will be four major events that you will always be able to view.


Let's assume that when each universe was created, the stars and galaxies were formed equally. As the two universes merge, the smaller universe is pulled upon rapidly by the larger universe, which we will now call AMBER, creating specific differences in the smaller universe, which we will now call BRYAN. The universe's attraction to one another is a funneling effect, forcing the galaxies and stars closer together in this region. Both are being pulled upon with equal force; however, BRYAN's pull is faster because of less surface area. This area of space would not allow the galaxies to be dragged with the expansion of space, because of the massive body of galaxies would be holding each other in place. Therefore, with this joining, there should be a massive number of galaxies clustering on BRYAN's side. Having more energy, closer together, will create newer stars which will subsequently form newer galaxies. Due to this, the galaxies and their close proximity to each other would cause new stars to be born more rapidly in this area. That area of space now will expand and becomes more densely clustered. We have a region of space like this called the Great Attractor. Until now, there has been no known theory identifying this phenomenon.



... are both small 6th Dimension (BEA), but after the joining they make one Large 6th Dimension.





Our Universe looks like the 6th Dimension in Stage 3.







This is our universe, the white and yellow dots represent galaxies. Our observable universe has more than 125 billion galaxies. The Milky Way Galaxy is one of these, with about a Trillions stars and the number keeps growing as better advancements are made in the technology of telescopes and camera equipment. We used to think that the Milky Way Galaxy was a universe with only a few 100 thousand stars, now we proven this to be a myth. Our Milky Way Galaxy is about 100,000 light-years across and new studies have us thinking that this is also inaccurate. Scientists now think we are larger an about the same size as the Andromeda galaxy which is about 220,000 light-years across.













As we know, stars are born in nebula, which are condensed masses of gas. Such as hydrogen, helium and other higher elements. These nebulas are birthing grounds for stars. It takes millions of years for these stars to gradually emerge. Nebula, such as N49, spans about 30 light years across. Others reach much larger spans, two hundred light-years or more. We know that our universe is expanding, because in every direction that we look, the galaxies are in a Red Shift Spectrum (See Doppler Effect). As the universe is expanding, my theory states that there are no stars on the outer edges because of the lack of energy and gas. We will call this area of Clean Space (Melanie's Sweep). So, each universe has an outer sphere of Clean Space with two distinct temperatures. As these two universes, AMBER and BRYAN, stretch out and merge, they penetrate their sphere of Clean Space, creating a region of Super Clean Space that is void of stars and galaxies. Plus, a ring, like a donut, is created around the Great Attractor where the joining occurred. We will now call that area AMBER'S RING.
AMBER's Ring is a two-fold major event, the first being the void. Currently, all that is understood about the void is that it is completely devoid of stars and galaxies for no known reason. Just as a detective searches for clues, the void can be explained through the joining of the two universes. One challenge of the Void, is the lack of stars emanating light, therefore it is impossible to detect any speed in that region of space with the Hubble Constant. This leaves us only the heat signature to use as a gauge. As AMBER and BRYAN have reached out and joined in their corresponding Super Clean Space, they would be racing away from the point of contact to their Combined Universal Potential Boundary (C.U.P.B.), seeking to create balance. Since we live in the merging, we are able to observe the Ring and its various characteristics. Now that we know why, we can discover more about our universe. There are many effects from these universes merging that we can see. The question is how did they change over the time line and how would they look now?










The second effect that substantiates AMBER'S RING is the massive coalition of stars and galaxies in one condensed area. The region of space where we find this clustering is known as the Great Attractor. This zone has proved to cause a great conundrum for contemporary scientists because this tight formation is unexpected when testing a single Big Bang theory. How could such a dense formation exist, in a island of cosmic life, in a sea of emptiness? With roughly more than twenty-eight thousand galaxies, this is no small question. Following deductive reasoning of a two Big Bang theory of merging Universes, an answer for this massive clustering emerges. As noted, BRYAN'S attraction is much stronger than Amber's due to the difference in their sizes and surface area. Therefore, the side farthest away from the joining in this region will be forced to come closer to each other. The galaxies, having their own gravitational field, are multiplied because of their new proximity to each other. When they combine, they create a much greater gravitational field. This will bring more galaxies into the area, drastically increasing the gravitational pull. Over and over, the pull increases in momentum, creating a funneling effect, a suction that is continually dragging. With each galaxy that is overcome, its strength is added to the momentum. Much like the fields of magnetic beads, they have little effect on each other if they are far away from each other. As they move closer, their field becomes noticeably stronger and their magnetic field increases, puling in more mass. Now a stronger field, the greater the attraction to other galaxies bringing more and more to themselves and once again creating a larger, more powerful magnetic field with greater ability to reach out and overcome space expansion. Due to the physics of the cosmic mass behind these reactions of the void and the Great Attractor, they are almost self-creating and they will be forever evident, showing the joining of the universe over a unimaginable length of time.


The 6th Dimension is Amber and Bryan

















The Great Wall is always on the side of the smaller universe, in our universe, it on Bryan's side.


As we have been following our starburst trail of the Two Big Bang Theory, we have found our way to finding reason to previously chaotic happenings. We must now stay on our course and find the way to our destination of greater understanding of the unknown. Another region of space that seems unreasonable is known as the Great Wall. The Great Wall is an area where the galaxies line up, almost in a row. This is challenging for Scientists, as they would expect the galaxies to be widely dispersed and strewn along the outer boundaries of the universe. The thinning out of matter as the universe expands farther from the center and has fewer and fewer stars, and therefore fewer galaxy. According to our Two Big Bang Theory, this wall is expected and necessary and is found on BRYAN's side of the universe. Two reactions are taking place to cause the Wall effect. The two universes are each in a state of expansion and compression. This causes the space at the far end of the universes to be tugged around and is pressing the stars and galaxies, against the back boundary of each universe, while it is still in a state of expansion.

This press-and-push effect causes a condensing of these celestial bodies against the back rim. Each universe has this wall. However, it is most noticeable on BRYAN'S side due to its smaller area. This means having less surface area makes the effect much greater. In opposition, AMBER'S wall is less dense, due to the larger size of the older universe. Typically, we would expect these galaxies to be in a state of universal expansion, if the merging occurred in a more recent cosmic time line the tugging effect moving the galaxies inward may still be noticeable and observed in a blue shift spectrum. Due to the tightness of the Great Wall, there should still be some galaxies in a blue shift spectrum on BRYAN'S side. This would provide us with more evidence of the merging.











... is the lost of the heat signature, the further you look in to space at the joining the less of it you will see.


We would be able to see the CMB dissipate the farther we look out into that region of the void. This is because the Super Clean Space (Melanie's Sweep) is stretching out to their C.U.P.B.(Combined Universal Potential Boundary). The heat signature becomes thinned out. If the Super Clean Space (Melanie's Sweep) is being pulled away next to the speed of light, then the heat signature would become unrecognizable, as if it didn't exist. The void will become much smaller as it is filled with gases which stars and galaxies will be created over billions of years. This region of space will have a distinct appearance from the rest of the universe even after they have fully merged.



Due to Melanie's Sweep, the joining of two universes causes Rudy's Insight,













...are all the Universes in Expansion, Rotation, and Falling toward the center of the universe that they are in.





Think of space as a ball. There is a larger ball with a smaller ball inside of it. The smaller ball has an even smaller ball inside of it and so on. If the largest ball turn and falls, all the balls within it will turn and fall.
Our universe, the sixth dimension is simultaneously falling, expanding and rotating in the fifth dimension. The fifth dimension is falling into the fourth dimension, which is also expanding and falling. All the dimensions are expanding and falling. Each Universe is continually falling toward the center of each dimension in which it is located. A definitive center of the universes can never be reached, since they move as space moves and expands. A universe is a dimension.



The mass of a particle has more kinetic energy than can be accounted for [by traditional science]. The falling of a particle in a different dimension account for some of that extra kinetic energy. Kinetic energy comes from an object set in motion. A moving object can also transfer its kinetic energy into an object that it comes in contact with, like a car hitting a tree, there is kinetic energy transfer. We have faster speed and contact from the older dimensions that we are moving in. We must add this extra kinetic energy to the particle.













... Is how light rays are affected by a bulge from a different dimension into our area of space.



Vicky's Prism occurs when pressure has been applied to space, much like squeezing it, which then puts the light rays back together. A Black Hole has enough mass from another dimension to affect our space so much so that it will put the light waves back together. Just as white light can be separated, when it enters a prism it can be recombined if you put another prism in its path. It will come back out as white light again. Our space is one prism, and the other universe (fifth dimension) with a Black Hole pushing in on our space makes a Massive Compact Halo Object (MACHO), that is the second prism.














Is finding the speed of a Massive Compact Halo Object (MACHO), and the direction that it is traveling and which dimension it is moving in.





Understanding that a Macho is a black hole from a different dimension, helps us understand dark matter lensing. As in our universe most black holes have a galaxy around them and in knowing that the dark matter mapping will get easier in tracking black hole in different dimensions.












NASA's Hubble Space Telescope captured the first-ever picture of a group of five star-like images of a single distant quasar.
The multiple-image effect is produced by a process called gravitational lensing, in which the gravitational field of a massive object -- in this case, a cluster of galaxies -- bends and amplifies light from an object -- in this case, a quasar - farther behind it.
Although many examples of gravitational lensing have been observed, this "quintuple quasar" is the only case so far in which multiple quasar images are produced by an entire galaxy cluster acting as a gravitational lens.
The background quasar is the brilliant core of a galaxy. It is powered by a black hole, which is devouring gas and dust and creating a gusher of light in the process. When the quasar's light passes through the gravity field of the galaxy cluster that lies between us and the quasar, the light is bent by the space-warping gravity field in such a way that five separate images of the object are produced surrounding the cluster's center. The fifth quasar image is embedded to the right of the core of the central galaxy in the cluster. The cluster also creates a cobweb of images of other distant galaxies gravitationally lensed into arcs.
The galaxy cluster creating the lens is known as SDSS J1004+4112 and was discovered in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey. It is one of the more distant clusters known (seven billion light-years away), and is seen as it appeared when the universe was half its present age.
Image Credit: NASA, ESA, K. Sharon (Tel Aviv University) and E. Ofek (Caltech)





Abell 1689, shown in this composite image, is a massive cluster of galaxies located about 2.3 billion light years away that shows signs of merging activity. Hundred-million-degree gas detected by NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory is shown as purple in this image, while galaxies from optical data from the Hubble Space Telescope are colored yellow. The X-ray emission has a smooth appearance, unlike other merging systems such as the Bullet Cluster or MACS J0025.4-1222. The temperature pattern across Abell 1689 is more complicated, however, possibly requiring multiple structures with different temperatures.
The long arcs in the optical image are caused by gravitational lensing of background galaxies by matter in the galaxy cluster, the largest system of such arcs ever found. Further studies of this cluster are needed to explain the lack of agreement between mass estimates based on the X-ray data and on the gravitational lensing. Previous work suggests that filament-like structures of galaxies are located near Abell 1689 along our line-of-sight to this cluster, which may bias mass estimates using gravitational lensing.
Credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/MIT/E.-H Peng. Optical: NASA/STScI




















... is when a black hole absents a Universe it emanate space waves from the point of detachment.





... is caused by the absence of a black hole in a Universe. It will causes space waves.


The effect of a Black Hole that detaches itself from a Universe and the space around it is called the Colbert Effect. As one might imagine, at the specific point of space where the Black Hole detaches a tremendous amount of kinetic energy is released. The detachment is a catalyst of the energy release. The energy wave that emanates from the point of detachment is space itself. As was previously presented, space is like water, but much more fluid than water.
The kinetic energy flows outward in a spherical wave. This wave, like all waves, has a rippling effect which produces many expanding megalithic space waves that flow throughout the Universe. As the waves pass through each area of space they manipulate light itself there. As the energy waves flow the light contortions will appear differently depending upon the viewer's position relative to them. There are four predominant points of view; within a wave, within the epicenter of a wave, outside the wave, catching a glimpse on the outer edge of a wave.



Some of space waves called Colbert Effects used in mapping the other dimensions.













... is the largest of the Colbert Effects because the light rays remain in the space wave the longest; therefore, it is the easiest to see because more light is bent and is stretched.













...is about looking at the wave from the outside, represented by the little man to the right. As the Colbert's effects wave moves through space it causes a number of things to happen. One; the stars enlarges and then shrink to slightly larger than their original size. Two; the light spectrum stretches in the area will change to slightly longer that it's original length. Three; there is a release of energy as the wave hits a star. Also, wavelengths that pass through the wave are affected.













...is about looking at the wave from the inside after it has passed, represented by the little man in the center. The stars in the wave look different from this view than from the outside (Kirk's View).













A mysterious flash of light from somewhere near or far in the universe is still keeping astronomers in the dark long after it was first detected by NASA's Hubble Space Telescope in 2006. It might represent an entirely new class of stellar phenomena, say researchers.
Astronomers commonly observe intense flashes of light from a variety of stellar explosions and outbursts, such as novae and supernovae. Hubble discovered the cosmic flash on February 26, 2006. It steadily rose in brightness for 100 days, and then dimmed back to oblivion after another 100 days.
The rise and fall in brightness has a signature that simply has never been recorded for any other type of celestial event. Supernovae peak after no more than 70 days, and gravitational lensing events are much shorter. Therefore, this observation defies a simple explanation, reports Kyle Barbary of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) in Berkeley, Calif. He is describing the bizarre Hubble observation at the 213th meeting of the American Astronomical Society in Long Beach, Calif. "We have never seen anything like it," he concludes.
The spectral fingerprints of light coming from the object, cataloged as SCP 06F6, also have eluded identification as being due to any specific element. One guess is that the features are redshifted molecular carbon absorption lines in a star roughly one billion light-years away.
But searches through various astronomical survey catalogs for the source of the light have not uncovered any evidence for a star or galaxy at the location of the flash. The Supernova Cosmology Project at LBNL discovered it serendipitously in a search for supernovae.
Hubble was aimed at a cluster of galaxies 8 billion light-years away in the spring constellation Bootes. But the mystery object could be anywhere in between, even in the halo of our own Milky Way galaxy.
Papers published by other researchers since the event was reported in June 2006, have suggested a bizarre zoo of possibilities: the core collapse and explosion of a carbon rich star, a collision between a white dwarf and an asteroid, or the collision of a white dwarf with a black hole. But Barbary does not believe that any model offered so far fully explains the observations. "I don't think we really know what the discovery means until we can observe similar objects in the future."
All-sky surveys for variable phenomena, such as those to be conducted with the planned Large Synoptic Survey Telescope, may ultimately find similar transient events in the universe.
The Hubble Space Telescope is a project of international cooperation between NASA and the European Space Agency (ESA) and is managed by NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC) in Greenbelt, Md. The Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI) conducts Hubble science operations. The institute is operated for NASA by the Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy, Inc., Washington, D.C.
STScI is an International Year of Astronomy 2009 (IYA 2009) program partner.







This is a color composite image from NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory (Chandra data are shown in purple) and Hubble Space Telescope (blue) of the giant elliptical galaxy, NGC 4649, located about 51 million light years from Earth.
Although NGC 4649 contains one of the biggest black holes in the local Universe, there are no overt signs of its presence because the black hole is in a dormant state. The lack of a bright central point in either the X-ray or optical images shows that the supermassive black hole does not appear to be rapidly pulling in material toward its event horizon, nor generating copious amounts of light as it grows. Also, the very smooth appearance of the Chandra image shows that the hot gas producing the X-rays has not been disturbed recently by outbursts from a growing black hole. So, the presence and mass of the black hole in NGC 4649, and other galaxies like it, has to be studied more indirectly by tracking its effects on stars and gas surrounding it. By applying a clever technique for the first time, scientists used Chandra data to measure a mass for the black hole of about 3.4 billion times that of the Sun. The new technique takes advantage of the gravitational influence the black hole has on the hot gas near the center of the galaxy. As gas slowly settles towards the black hole, it gets compressed and heated. This causes a peak in the temperature of the gas right near the center of the galaxy. The more massive the black hole, the bigger the temperature peak detected by Chandra. Reassuringly, the estimate of the black hole's mass using this X-ray technique is consistent with a more traditional technique using the motions of stars near the black hole. NGC 4649 is now one of only a handful of galaxies for which the mass of a supermassive black hole has been measured with two different methods.
Credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/Univ. of California Irvine/P.Humphrey et al. Optical: NASA/STScI












...is what occurs when the waves from the Colbert Effect pass through the star and the effects it has on the star.













...is the release of a black hole. The effects of the release on the stars in the galaxy that it leaves behind.



When the Black Hole slips into another dimension it no longer exerts centripetal force upon the stars in the galaxy. The stars in the center of the galaxy nearest the point where the Black Hole exited stop rotating around the center point. They continue to move at the same pace, but along a straight line in the direction they were going before they were released from the pull of the Black Hole. As the release of the gravitational wave moves outward it releases each star in its path over a very long period of time. However, the stars of the galaxy still have gravitational attraction to each other so over time, stars that had been released are pulled back toward one another. Because of this they change directions again.
The Colbert's Effect also exerts itself upon the galaxy in concert with Paul's Back Spin.



Paul's Back Spin is when there is no longer centripetal force on the stars from a Black Hole. The central region will look like it is in a stall, giving the appearance of moving backward. Meanwhile, the stars in the outer region continue to rotate as if the Black Hole is still in place. A Quasar Galaxy looks like it is moving backward. This is unexplainable by known accepted science, but it is the expected view with the application of Paul's Back Spin Theory.




You have two different waves at different speeds. One is a loss of a gravitational wave, this is Paul's Back Spin. The second is kinetic energy wave called the Colbert Effect.





...is the release of a black hole on the Stars, and what are the effects of all the stars in that galaxy.






Some Quasar Galaxy appears to move backward. This is unexplainable by known accepted science, but it is the expected view with the application of Paul's Back Spin Theory. The stars are confused about which direction they should go. It will take some time for them to finds there place again.












Twinkle twinkle little star.
This illustration shows a flare from magnetar Swift J195509+261406. A starquake is probably what triggered the object's 40 optical flares.
"Twinkle, twinkle little star" goes the nursery rhyme. Now, astronomers are reporting on a strange case where one of the littlest of stars "twinkled" with gamma rays, X-rays, and light -- and then vanished.
The story began on June 10, 2007. That's when a spike of gamma-rays lasting less than five seconds washed over NASA's Swift satellite. But this high-energy flash wasn't a gamma-ray burst -- the birth cry of a black hole far across the universe. It was something much closer to home.
Swift immediately reported the event's position to astronomers all over the world. Within a minute, robotic telescopes turned to a spot in the constellation Vulpecula. Because Swift found an X-ray glow coming from this point, astronomers cataloged the object as "Swift J195509+261406," after its position in the sky and the discovering satellite. (Well, they had to call it something!)
During the next three days, the object brightened and faded in visible light. Not once, not twice -- but 40 times! Eleven days later, it flashed again, this time at infrared wavelengths. Then, it disappeared from view.
Credit: NASA/Swift/Sonoma State University/A. Simonnet












... is mapping all the Dark Matter that is created from other dimensions pushing in on our space and any of the effects caused by the merging.


Weatherman Randy is a Universal Map of different dimensions showing their speed and rotation. These effects are from Candice's Universe and Jennifer's Universe bending the fabric of our space. Mapping these effects will help us to predict the speed of our dimensional rotation in space and the speed of the other dimensions and their rotation. When we know the speed and the rotation, we will be able to predict the next lensing effect. Once we can predict it, we will be able to step from dimension to dimension and back again. We will be able to go anywhere we want. The higher the arc the faster we are turning. The smaller the arc, the slower the 5th Dimension is rotating. It also tells us which direction the dimensions are turning. A different direction would tell us it is another dimension. We need to figure out the time, distance, direction of the lensing, and then the rotation of space, to predict where it will occur next.

If there is a different directional rotation, then you will have faster speed, and returning home will be much faster. We will need different charts for the different dimensions to ensure we travel where we intend to.



A chart for mapping different effects on our side of the universe. The lighting bolt on the page mean that theory is to be map.













...is finding all the effects, caused by a black hole before, and after, it leaves a universe to go into a new dimension.













look for more effects in book two : Keys to Unlocking the Universes Mystery.
... is how they effect our space when a merging occurs. Here are some of the effects of Al Brain Child 2:













...is stepping over to a different dimension, allowing for faster than the speed of light travel.





... is the using other dimensions for faster than the speed of light travel by stepping over to a different dimension.



Being able to step to a different dimensions will advance us in space travel since nothing can currently travel faster than the speed of light. If you were to try to build a ship to travel in the same dimension the ship would need to be very large. By letting space move without us, we can step back and forth and travel faster than the speed of light. The universe is moving very fast you just have to realize that it is and use that speed for traveling.
Then as the dimension we leave rotates, the new dimension that we step into rotates in a different direction, so we will be moving without physically moving. When we step back over to our dimension, we will be in a different area of space. Letting space move, then stepping back at the right time is the Key.


We would no longer be trapped in our solar system. We would be able to find new riches, vacation, or expand our existence on other worlds. We might even find new life and maybe meet the Little Green Men that we have been talking about for years. Just think of all the possibilities available to us when we are finally able to travel this way.










... is finding out how fast we are really moving, in our universe, and adding the other universe's speed to ours.


Direction of Earth's Rotation using Established Known Speed of Space. Position of Earth for Entering into a (different) Dimension.

Traveling faster than light-speed without moving! How can we accomplish this when we know nothing can travel faster than the speed of light? The answer to this questions is: by stepping over into the other dimensions. The 4th and 5th Dimensions are side-by-side. They are around us all the time, we just don't see them, but we do see their effects on us.
Even when we are sitting still we are traveling very fast!    How Fast???????

1.Speed of the Earth's rotation 1,000 Miles per hour.
2.Speed of the Earth's rotation around the Sun 66,600 Miles per hour.
3.Speed of the Sun's rotation around the Milky Way 504,000 Miles per hour.
4.Speed of the Milky Way rotation toward the Great Attractor 14,000,000 Miles per hour.
5.Speed of the Great Attractor rotation in Amber & Bryan's Universe and the expansion?
6.Speed of Amber and Bryan's rotation in Candice's Universe and expansion?
7.Speed of Candice's rotation in Jennifer's Universe and expansion?
8.Speed of Jennifer's rotation and expansion?


Fact: With just the 4 known speeds combined, you are traveling 14,571,600 miles per hour while you're physically sitting still!!! (Please, quit moving I'm getting dizzy.) Now, if you step over to a different dimension, you are still moving, only you are moving in a straight line, not in circular rotation. We no longer have centripetal force on us from Amber & Bryan's Universe, until we arrive at the next dimension and it takes control of us and changes our path.











TIM = Time for Instantaneous Mapping
FORESIGHT = Forecasting Orbital Rotation from Early SIGHTings or stepping,
MAPS = Measurement for Apparent Position in Space
We have to move our star chart forward in time and rotation because where we currently see the light from the star is where the star was. Not were the stare is a this instance. If we don't, we will never get back to Earth since stepping from one dimension to another happens too quickly. We will be able to go to different galaxies, but we need to know where they are now. Light travels at 186,282 miles per second in the vacuum of space. If we look at the closest star to our sun, it is 4.3 light-years in the past. It's no longer in the same location where we have just viewed it. The star is rotating with us around the Milky Way Galaxy. Current maps are out of date for stepping and forecasting.











What we must do before we step over to another dimension, so we can make it back home again. We do not want to get .....Lost in Space.



        1.Veronica's Stepping

                Finding the best time to step over to a different dimension. Look for thinner space. Depending on when we leave, the speed could be doubled.
                Finding the best time to step back.
                Match the speed and rotation of the other dimensions.
                Match the magnetic field's speed and direction.
                How to get heavier or lighter to go to a higher or lower dimension? Gaining mass or losing mass by use of a charge or discharge (possibly static).
        2.Derek's Speed

                Is how fast we are moving in our dimension (6th Dimension Amber and Bryan).
                Is how fast the other dimensions are rotating (5th Dimension Candice and 4th Dimension Jennifer).
                We must add to ours because we are rotating in the Candice and Jennifer Dimensions.
        3.Tim's Foresight Map

                Is moving the star chart of today forward in time to their present day position, allowing for the difference in the timeline. The star charts are out of date because it is from the past timeline.
                Is moving the new star charts of the other dimensions (6th, 5th, 4th and 7th Dimension) forward in time also after mapping with Weatherman Randy.
See More of Shannon's Check List in: Keys to Unlocking the Universes Mystery.










Every Rose Has a Thorn
This infrared image from NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope shows the Rosette Nebula, a pretty star-forming region more than 5,000 light-years away in the constellation Monoceros. In optical light, the nebula looks like a rosebud, or the "rosette" adornments that date back to antiquity.
Lurking inside this delicate cosmic rosebud are so-called planetary "danger zones," which surround super hot stars, called O-stars (blue stars inside spheres), which give off intense winds and radiation. Young, cooler stars that happen to reside within one of these zones are in danger of having their dusty planet-forming materials stripped away.
While scientists have known about O-star danger zones, their parameters were among science's mysteries. Astronomers used Spitzer's infrared vision to survey the extent of the five danger zones shown here. The results showed that young stars lying beyond 1.6 light-years, or 10 trillion miles, of any O-stars are safe, while those within this zone are likely to have their potential planets blasted into space.
Radiation and winds from the super hot stars have collectively blown layers of dust (green) and gas away, revealing the cavity of cooler dust (red). The largest two blue stars in this picture are in the foreground, and not in the nebula itself.
Image credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/Univ.of.Ariz.
NASA Official: Brian Dunbar












This artist's concept shows a galaxy with a supermassive black hole at its core. The black hole is shooting out jets of radio waves.
New research led by theoretical astrophysicist David Garofalo of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., suggests supermassive black holes that spin backward might produce more ferocious jets of gas. The results have broad implications for how galaxies change over time.
Black holes are immense distortions of space and time with gravity that is so great, even light itself cannot escape. Astronomers have known for more than a decade that all galaxies, including our own Milky Way, are anchored by tremendous, so-called supermassive black holes, containing billions of suns' worth of mass. The black holes are surrounded and nourished by disks of gas and dust, called accretion disks. Powerful jets stream out from below and above the disks like lasers, and fierce winds blow off from the disks themselves. The black holes can spin either in the same direction as the disks called prograde black holes, or against the flow - the retrograde black holes.
Scientists say that the backward black holes shoot more powerful jets because there's more space between the black hole and the inner edge of the orbiting disk. This gap provides more room for the build-up of magnetic fields, which fuel the jets, an idea known as the Reynold's conjecture after the theoretical astrophysicist Chris Reynolds of the University of Maryland, College Park.
Image credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech













... is the Black hole angle of the energy release cause by the other dimension pull and why it spins so fast.


We can see the earth's pull on the sun and we can see the moon pull on the earth's water. We noticed the pull of other planets on their sun, and we can never know the size of the planets. Why not other dimensions pulling or pushing in on us. It should not be that hard to see because the fifth dimension is much larger than ours and is closer to us because we are in the 6th dimension. The first universe is the 4th dimension then the 5th dimension then the 6th dimension and 7th and etc. The same thing happen with the different universe pulling or pushing in on one another their will be different kinds of effects to measure.


Like an anchor in the water, it is dragged in the direction of the faster current. It would be that a black hole from our dimension would also have a pitch away from the stronger pull. If the emission from a black hole shows a different direction, then we can see the direction of the pull from the other dimension.


... is the Black hole angle of the energy release showing direction of drag.







A powerful collision of galaxy clusters has been captured with NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory and Hubble Space Telescope. Like its famous cousin, the so-called Bullet Cluster, this clash of clusters provides striking evidence for dark matter and insight into its properties. Like the Bullet Cluster, this newly studied cluster, officially known as MACSJ0025.4-1222, shows a clear separation between dark and ordinary matter. This helps answer a crucial question about whether dark matter interacts with itself in ways other than via gravitational forces.
Credit: X-ray(NASA/CXC/Stanford/S.AIIen); Optical/Lensing (NASA/STScl/UC Santa Barbara/M.Bradac)













This artist's concept illustrates the first known Earth Trojan asteroid, discovered by NEOWISE, the asteroid-hunting portion of NASA's WISE mission. The asteroid is shown in gray and its extreme orbit is shown in green. Earth's orbit around the sun is indicated by blue dots. The objects are not drawn to scale.
Trojans are asteroids that share an orbit with a planet, circling around the sun in front of or behind the planet. Because they ride in the same orbit as a planet, they never cross its path, and never collide with the planet. They circle around stable gravity wells, called Lagrange points.
In the case of 2010 TK7, it has an extreme orbit that takes it far above and below the plane of Earth's orbit. The asteroid's orbit is well defined and for at least the next 100 years, it will not come closer to Earth than 15 million miles (24 million kilometers). Typically, Trojan asteroids, for example those that orbit with Jupiter, don't travel so far from the Lagrange points. They stay mostly near these points, located where the angle between the sun and Earth is 60 degrees. Asteroids near a comparable position with respect to Earth would be very difficult to see, because they would appear near the sun from our point of view. WISE was able to spot 2010 TK7 because of its eccentric orbit, which takes it as far as 90 degrees away from the sun.
WISE surveyed the whole sky from a polar orbit, so it had the perfect seat to find 2010 TK7. Follow-up observations with the Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope on Mauna Kea, Hawaii, helped confirm the object's Trojan nature.
Image credit: Paul Wiegert, University of Western Ontario, Canada












If we take these new theories and use them, we may get to new worlds, if we can finish the rest of the ideas in this book. To build a ship to step over into an old dimension has never been done and I have not finish with my theories on how to make this a reality, but walking on the moon also came from an idea that we could and we did. I hope you will work with me on making our dream come true. I truly believe this is possible. There is much we must do if this is to come to pass. I will keep working toward making this dream come true. I hope you share these theories with friends and family. Looking forward in talking to you on your ideas on how to make it possible for faster than light speed travel.
There is also two children's book to go out very soon. The fist is called "Galactic Keys " and is related to "Keys to Unlocking the Universe". The book is about Queen Effie II and her people. They are the most advance race to ever live, they live above there world on Haven the rotating cites of the planet called Utopia Haven. They are 100% green society and their entire planet is the universe's largest animal sanctuary. No one lives on the planet. It what we called a super earth, three time the size of earth. You can even see the planet in UwingU.com date base, you can even vote for it and the money goes to help space travel.
The second kids book is Magical. It is called "Mystical Truth Tales". It is about a young bog that accidentally creates a Dragon and yes that is where Dinosaurs came from in the book. I use fact about to world to pull kids into the stories.
I am also working on a self-help book called "Three Keys to Self-Help" or it might be "Three steps to Self-Help" still working on it.
I looking forward to meeting you at one of my seminar. I truly hope you enjoyed this book as much as I did in making it.
Did you know astronomers of today have found 16 more New Super Earth. Go to Space.com for more information.









Certificate of Planet Naming
Uwingu hereby certifies that the planet name
Utopia Haven
was officially submitted by
Clemons Kunkel AKA Super Professor
on March 28, 2014 and accepted intothe Uwingu database of candidate names for extrasolar planetswith the following citation:
Utopia is Queen Effie's Planet, her people are the most advance race that has every lived in all the Universes, They live in cities above their world. All the cities are connected and is one gigantic interlocking sphere. It's a world of its own, outside of its own world. The sphere of cites rotate around the planet so they see their hole world in a day The cities are 100% Green Technology. Planet Utopia is the only planet where people do not live because it is a Zoo Planet.




















































Certificate of Planet Naming
Uwingu hereby certifies that the planet name
Keys to Unlocking the Universe
was officially submitted by
Clemons Kunkel AKA Super Professor
on October 6, 2014 and accepted intothe Uwingu database of candidate names for extrasolar planetswith the following citation:
Keys to Unlocking the Universe is my new book that show not One Big Bang but Two. With over 41 Empirical evidence to validate the theories. Explaining what a MACHO (Massive Compact Halo object) is, it's not just Dark Matter, and why it was in a blue shift To survive Dream. Best of luck to Mars One.

















Photograph Credits
Images courtesy of Starry Night Education, www.starrynight.com, all rights reserved
Plejaden -Sierbengestirn - M45/NGC 1435 Image Credit: Casa-astro.de for their picture and support at www.Casa-astro.de
Dusty Environs of Eta Carinae Image Credit: NASA
WISE Eyes Evolution of Massive Stars Image Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/UC
A Supermassive Black Hole Image Credit: NASA, Gary Bower, Richard Green (NOAO), the STIS Instrument Definition Team
Milky Way Galaxy Image credit: NASA
The Brightest of Stars Image Credit: NASA, ESA, and the Hubble Heritage Team (STScl/AURA)-ESA/Hubble Collaboration
Hubble Captures a "Five Star" Image Image Credit: NASA, ESA, K. Sharon (Tel Aviv University) and E. Ofek (Caltech)
Star Light, Star Bright, Its Explanation is Out of Sight 01.06.09 Release No. STScl-PR09-04
Image Credit: NASA, ESA, and K. Barbary (University of California, Berkeley)
AAbell 1689: A Galaxy Cluster Makes Its Mark Image Credit: X-ray: NASA/CXC/MIT/E.-H Peng. Optical: NASA/STScI
Backward Black Hole Shoots Powerful Jets 06.01.10 Image credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech
A Clash of Clusters Provides Another Clue to Dark Matter 08.27.08 Credit: Xray(NASA/CXC/Stanford/S.AIIen); Optical/Lensing (NASA/STScl/UC Santa Barbara/M.Bradac
Assembly Line of Stars More on the new results and images from ESA's Herschel, visit http://www.esa.int/SPECIALS/Herschel/index.html. Image credit: ESA/Hi-GAL Consortium
Cosmic Exclamation Point Image Credit: X-ray NASA/CXC/lfA/D.Sanders et al; Optical NASA/STScl/NRAO/A. Evans et al
Twinkle twinkle little star Credit: NASA/Swift/Sonoma State University/A. Simonnet
Earth's New Trojan Friend Image credit: Paul Wiegert, University of Western Ontario, Canada
New York Public Library Desk Reference Fourth Edition
Sun
http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/stereo/images/index.html








Resources Guide
Eclipsing of Binary Star AKO 9 in the Globular Cluster 47
WWW.JournalsuChicago.ede/apj/issues
Black hole From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blackhole
Astronomy The Definitive Guide
StarryNight.com
Wild live and Nature Photos
Erik Cache
Illustration Credits
Artists : Not One Big Bang But Two: Chris Rover
Artists and Designer: Clemons Kunkel, Front Cover Designer: Clemons Kunkel
Project Editor: Clemons Kunkel
Program In Microsoft PowerPoint by Clemons Kunkel
Keys to Unlocking the Universe for the Future: Author: Clemons Kunkel
Edit by Deon Bell
Computer Expert
Al Rahhal, Advantage Computers www.AdavantageComputers.com
Advantage Computer
Solutions is a well-maintained family business that was established in 1988 to serve the growing needs of businesses and individuals in New Jersey. Advantage Computers offers a full range of IT solutions to meet all of your business or individual computing needs. Our highly trained staff is here for you at affordable rates. We offer solutions before we offer other products or services. In today's world of computer technology, businesses and individuals depend on fast, reliable service and uninterrupted communication.









StarryNight.com
LayeredEarth.com
Follow us! facebook.com/starrynightsoftware




























Each month they will give away a Free Product or Book of
Keys to Unlocking the Universe
just give your email address for a chance to win.
Location is 247 Westwood Avenue, Westwood, NJ 07675. Stop in an say Hello to Steve.











 www.facebook.com/Riseupeventss
Call Sammy : 973 338 2060











Advantage Computers
178 Main Avenue
Passaic Park, NJ 07055
973-777-5656
Advantagecomputers.com
Servers, Desktop, All-in-One and Notebooks
We Sell and Service all makes and models Notebooks and Desktops
Apple (MAC), Dell, HP, Sony, Toshiba Compaq, Gateway, Acer and more.
Virus removal, data recovery and all software and hardware repairs.
All work is done in-house
Quick turnaround & very competitive.
More than twenty years in business.

Stop
over
and
Say
Hello
To
Al.




















Clemons Kunkel is a proud father of three beautiful girls and three beautiful grandkids. A carpenter for thirty years. Only 12 years of schooling.
Likes : Science and Comic books. Going to the movies as much as possible. Snow skiing, playing Halo on the Xbox 360 and a good game of Chess. Computer games like MYST or RIVEN.
Hunting ,fishing and trapping. Camping with friends.
Love Art and playing in snow. How do you like my Snow Dragon?
Going out to eat at different restaurants, all food is good as long as I don't cook it, because food poisoning is bad for me. LOL
Enjoying life on the way to a better future.
Taking cool pictures, took this one at my sister Effie's house.
The theories are named after family and friends that gave support along the way.













What do you think of my tile floor and Super Professor outfit?



I have been in construction most of my life, I learned to build a house from the ground up form Earl and Chip Wilson. In the picture on the right I am standing 8 feet tall. I use the stilts to for hanging drywall, mudding and painting. The block you see me holding is what I break with my hand at my Seminars to demonstrate the transfer of kinetic energy. I am looking forward to seeing you at my next event.


Come to one of my Seminars and see what all the buss is about and remember to have



















When I am working I see the world a little different then most. Putting tar on a roof looks way Cool.




I am how I say I am, Not how you say I Am.
I am Different, aren't You?
Be YOURSELF!
By Clemons Kunkel
AKA
Super Professor


I love taking pictures in the Country. Hope you enjoy this one.



Beauty is also in something that has move on.
To be something Different.
By Clemons Kunkel
AKA
Super Professor















