


















Kindle Fire HD: The Missing Manual




Peter Meyers









Beijing • Cambridge • Farnham • Köln • Sebastopol • Tokyo
















Special Upgrade Offer



If you purchased this ebook directly from oreilly.com, you have the following benefits:



DRM-free ebooks—use your ebooks across devices without restrictions or limitations


Multiple formats—use on your laptop, tablet, or phone


Lifetime access, with free updates


Dropbox syncing—your files, anywhere



If you purchased this ebook from another retailer, you can upgrade your ebook to take advantage of all these benefits for just $4.99. Click here to access your ebook upgrade.



Please note that upgrade offers are not available from sample content.
















The Missing Credits







About the Author










Peter Meyers designs, speaks, and writes about digital books. Currently he's vice president of editorial and content innovation at Citia (http://citia.com), an incredibly cool publishing startup. For more than two decades, he's worked at the intersection of writing and technology. He cofounded Digital Learning Interactive, a pioneering multimedia textbook publisher (sold in 2004 to Thomson Learning). Peter has written for many publications, including the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, Wired, Salon, and the Village Voice. During a five-year tour of duty at O'Reilly Media, he worked in the Missing Manual group, serving as managing editor and associate publisher. He's also the author of Best iPad Apps and Breaking the Page: Transforming Books and the Reading Experience. Peter's undergraduate degree is from Harvard, where he studied American history and literature, and he has an MFA in fiction from the Iowa Writers' Workshop. He lives with his wife and two daughters in "upstate Manhattan" (aka Washington Heights). Online, you can find his blog at http://newkindofbook.com and his tweets at http://twitter.com/petermeyers.





About the Creative Team



Nan Barber (editor) has been working with the Missing Manual series since its inception. She lives in Massachusetts with her husband, a variety of electronic gadgets, and a stack of dictionaries. Email: nanbarber@oreilly.com.
Holly Bauer (production editor) resides in Ye Olde Cambridge, Mass. She's a production editor by day and an avid home cook, prolific DIYer, and mid-century modern furniture enthusiast by night/weekend. Email: holly@oreilly.com.
Carla Spoon (proofreader) is a freelance writer and copyeditor. An avid runner, she works and feeds her tech gadget addiction from her home office in the shadow of Mount Rainier. Email: carla_spoon@comcast.net.
Ron Strauss (indexer) specializes in the indexing of information technology publications of all kinds. He is also an accomplished classical violist and lives in northern California with his wife and fellow indexer, Annie, and his miniature pinscher, Kanga. Email: rstrauss@mchsi.com.
Yvonne Mills (technical reviewer) is a writer, blogger, and gadget addicted she-geek. She is equally comfortable in the corporate world as she is blogging from within a fort made out of her extensive tablet collection. Follow her musings at www.acerbicblonde.com.





Acknowledgments



The Missing Manual series doesn't accept ads, but I can't resist kicking these thanks off with an uncompensated word of gratitude to the makers of Cafe du Monde. Friends, this is some writing-friendly coffee! For a book that was largely written in the wee hours of the day, this caffeinated support was crucial. In the department of humans that helped, Brian Sawyer gave me the green light on the initial version of this project, and to him I remain thankful. At Amazon, Leslie Letts and Amir Pellig were patient, valuable guides to the Fire. They answered many questions that I would have had to spend hours hunting down on my own. On a related note, technical reviewer Yvonne Mills did a thorough job of spotting missing or confusing explanations; she also added a number of great suggestions. Indexer Ron Strauss put together the subject finder at the back of this book; as a huge fan of that overlooked art, I wanted to say thanks for doing such a great job on that front. What this book contains, of course, is more than just words, and for the finely polished images and labels I wanted to tip my hat to Rebecca Demarest. Equally important is Holly Bauer's work; each page layout is a beautifully crafted combo of words and pictures thanks to her fine interior design skills. Speaking of prose: My editor Nan Barber has demonstrated why she belongs in the Missing Manual Hall of Fame; thanks to her, with ample help from proofreader Carla Spoon, lots o' flab and fuzzy verbiage got trimmed and clarified.
On the home front, this writing project couldn't have happened—and wouldn't be worth doing—without the help of my three favorite touchscreen fanatics. Willa, I hereby award you the Ms. Junior Cryptographer Award, for youngest-ever cracker of Mom and Dad's security code. Esme, you are now platinum-certified on every version of Toca Boca ever invented. Here's to many more joint sketching sessions!
And to my darling Lisa: I am grateful to you especially for enduring my annual fall book-writing ritual. For your extra-innings childcare work, your above-and-beyond-the-call wifely support, and your heapings of multi-gigabyte love, I hereby pledge that I will figure out a way to write faster!


—Peter Meyers







The Missing Manual Series



Missing Manuals are witty, superbly written guides to computer products that don't come with printed manuals (which is just about all of them). Each book features a handcrafted index and cross-references to specific pages (not just chapters). Recent and upcoming titles include:
Access 2010: The Missing Manual by Matthew MacDonald
Access 2013: The Missing Manual by Matthew MacDonald
Adobe Edge Animate: The Missing Manual by Chris Grover
Buying a Home: The Missing Manual by Nancy Conner
Creating a Website: The Missing Manual, Third Edition, by Matthew MacDonald
CSS3: The Missing Manual, Third Edition, by David Sawyer McFarland
David Pogue's Digital Photography: The Missing Manual by David Pogue
Dreamweaver CS6: The Missing Manual by David Sawyer McFarland
Droid 2: The Missing Manual by Preston Gralla
Droid X2: The Missing Manual by Preston Gralla
Excel 2010: The Missing Manual by Matthew MacDonald
Excel 2013: The Missing Manual by Matthew MacDonald
Facebook: The Missing Manual, Third Edition by E. A. Vander Veer
FileMaker Pro 12: The Missing Manual by Susan Prosser and Stuart Gripman
Flash CS6: The Missing Manual by Chris Grover
Galaxy S II: The Missing Manual by Preston Gralla
Galaxy Tab: The Missing Manual by Preston Gralla
Google+: The Missing Manual by Kevin Purdy
Google SketchUp: The Missing Manual by Chris Grover
HTML5: The Missing Manual by Matthew MacDonald
iMovie '11 & iDVD: The Missing Manual by David Pogue and Aaron Miller
iPad: The Missing Manual, Fifth Edition by J.D. Biersdorfer
iPhone: The Missing Manual, Sixth Edition by David Pogue
iPhone App Development: The Missing Manual by Craig Hockenberry
iPhoto '11: The Missing Manual by David Pogue and Lesa Snider
iPod: The Missing Manual, Eleventh Edition by J.D. Biersdorfer and David Pogue
JavaScript & jQuery: The Missing Manual, Second Edition by David Sawyer McFarland
Living Green: The Missing Manual by Nancy Conner
Microsoft Project 2010: The Missing Manual by Bonnie Biafore
Microsoft Project 2013: The Missing Manual by Bonnie Biafore
Motorola Xoom: The Missing Manual by Preston Gralla
Netbooks: The Missing Manual by J.D. Biersdorfer
NOOK Tablet: The Missing Manual by Preston Gralla
Office 2010: The Missing Manual by Nancy Conner, Chris Grover, and Matthew MacDonald
Office 2011 for Macintosh: The Missing Manual by Chris Grover
Office 2013: The Missing Manual by Nancy Conner and Matthew MacDonald
OS X Mountain Lion: The Missing Manual by David Pogue
Personal Investing: The Missing Manual by Bonnie Biafore
Photoshop CS6: The Missing Manual by Lesa Snider
Photoshop Elements 10: The Missing Manual by Barbara Brundage
PHP & MySQL: The Missing Manual, Second Edition by Brett McLaughlin
QuickBooks 2013: The Missing Manual by Bonnie Biafore
Switching to the Mac: The Missing Manual, Mountain Lion Edition by David Pogue
Windows 7: The Missing Manual by David Pogue
Windows 8: The Missing Manual by David Pogue
Your Body: The Missing Manual by Matthew MacDonald
Your Brain: The Missing Manual by Matthew MacDonald
Your Money: The Missing Manual by J.D. Roth
For a full list of all Missing Manuals in print, go to www.missingmanuals.com/library.html.














Introduction



START SMALL, GET BIG. That motto must be on the wall somewhere at Amazon HQ. You see it in the products they sell (beginning with books and music and moving on to...well, everything), the services they offer (discounted shipping evolving into the Amazon Prime service), and the gadget group that, five years ago, unveiled the clunky but ambitious Kindle e-reader. Soon that had spawned a growing family of fellow Kindles: the jumbo-sized DX followed by many, many variants. It all culminated in the company's first version of a tablet PC—the Kindle Fire. Now the Fire too has grown into a bigger, better version of itself. The 7-inch model you could cradle in one hand now has strapping 8.9-inch siblings.
The Fire is deceptively powerful. Though it's got only a few physical buttons, underneath its sleek, simple exterior lies a machine that can do as much as a "real" computer. It's a Kindle so, of course, you can buy and read ebooks. But because it's a multi-purpose tablet, that's just one of its many talents. With it, you also get:



TV set and movie screen. Bring a Fire into bed or onto the bus, and you've got your own personal entertainment center. Amazon's Hollywood and TV studio dealmakers have put together a cheap and large catalog that's big enough to rival Netflix and iTunes. Your choices don't quite match what you'd find on a normal boob tube or cineplex, but you still have thousands and thousands of titles to pick from. This particular revolution is just getting started and it's wickedly fun for any moving image fan.


Web browser. Most phones nowadays give you some way to surf. But even the biggest, smartest phone is still around the size of your palm. The Fire's extra real estate really helps you appreciate the Web. What you see on its shiny, multi-million colored display is pretty close to what you see on a full-size computer.


Email, chat, and social networking. It's all here. However you connect, the Fire is ready to help. It has a nifty built-in email program, video chat with Skype pals, and easy sharing to popular hangouts like Facebook and Twitter.


Portable picture frame. TV, movies, and the Web aren't always enough. Sometimes the best home entertainment is the kind you make with your own family: pet photos, vacation albums, and birthday party videos. If you can capture it on a digital camera or camcorder, you can show it off on the Fire. Photo sharing in particular is a blast. No longer do your friends have to squint at the cellphone screen to watch little Eddie make the diving catch. The Fire's big enough to really light up people's faces.


Digital briefcase. Tired of fumbling around with printouts? With the Fire, you never have to bother printing hotel confirmations, online shopping receipts, or the work documents you want to read on the train. Out of the box, the Fire is ready to display any Microsoft Word or PDF file. A few add-on apps, which you'll meet in Chapter 4, extend that list to almost any document type you've ever heard of.


Jukebox. Amazon's been hard at work stocking the shelves of its digital record shop. Even better, it's designed free software that makes it easy to remain a loyal Apple fan while playing its tunes on non-iGadgets—the Fire very much included. Whether you plug in a pair of earphones, play your music aloud on the Fire's built-in speakers, or connect a pair of legit speakers, this gadget's great for tuning in and turning on.


Video game player. Angry Birds, Fruit Ninja, even 21st-century versions of Pac Man and Pong—it's all here on the Fire, plus a cool 15,000 or so other options. A quick list of key categories include: race car driving; football, soccer, and pool; word and number puzzles; card games; pinball; and strategy and adventure fests. Hardcore teenage gamers may need a dedicated gadget for high-end performance, but for the rest of us, the Fire is a pretty amazing portable arcade.


Everything else. Speaking of apps: Anything the Fire can't do out of the box, some developer somewhere is probably working on. Weather report videos, podcasts and worldwide radio tuners, recipe displays, sleep-inducing white noise machines, horoscope advisors, family calendar keepers. These are just a few of the apps that are currently available on the Fire. About half of these special-purpose programs are free, and most cost no more than a buck or two.




Tip
One simple way to load up on apps is via Amazon's daily giveaway. At the very top of the Appstore (either on your Fire or on Amazon.com), a paid app's price gets slashed to the low, low price of free. Installing Apps has details on downloading and other app suggestions. Also check out the final three chapters of this book, which are dedicated to guiding you through the many app options that await.





What's New in Fire-land



Most of the Fire's new talents come thanks to a slew of hardware upgrades. Here are the highlights:



New container. The first Fire was a blocky, squarish affair. The second-generation HD models come inside an all-new hardware jacket. It's noticeably slimmer and sleeker, with tapered edges that make it a pleasure to hold.

Note
This book covers every version of the Fire except the original, first generation model released in November 2011; coverage of that device and its flavor of the Fire operating system await in the first edition of this book. The new models that you'll read about in the pages ahead include the 7-inch non-HD Fire, the 7-inch HD version, and the 8.9-inch big boys (one of which comes with 4G/LTE, for getting online when you don't have WiFi). Unless specifically mentioned, the features in this book apply to all these new models.



Faster innards. You'd have to crack open the housing to see these changes, but the results are apparent from swipe one. The thing feels faster than its predecessor. The fluid motion on the main screen's icon carousel (The Home Screen), the way photos zoom when you spread your fingers apart to enlarge them, the vertical scrolling speed of long lists—all of it responds really quickly.


Better screen. What you see on the display itself also looks extra spiffy. HD model owners, of course, get the most pixels. For them the clarity is remarkably crisp. Non-HD owners get a pixel boost too, compared to last year's model. Everyone sees less glare.


Bigger real estate. The difference between 7 and 8.9 inches may sound minimal, but it gets you a noticeably larger amount of display area to work with. For those looking to push their Fire into laptop-replacement duty (working on slideshows and reports, reading PDFs, composing long emails), the extra space can be a big help.


Louder, crisper sound. You know that dinky, tinny sound that most portable gadgets emit? The Fire projects in a loud, clear voice. Thanks to a pair of stereo-capable, Dolby-powered speakers, the sound is pleasant, audible, and perfectly adequate for entertaining pals at a picnic table. (Non-HD owners don't get the extra Dolby sweetness.)


Longer battery life. The numbers differ a bit for each model—the 7-inch non-HD model goes for about 9 hours, its HD cousin goes for about 11 hours, and the 8.9-inch models top out around 10 hours—but they all extend the original model's lasting power by at least an hour.


Quicker downloads. Souped-up antennas deliver bits from Internet to device pronto. New, less cluttered flavors of WiFi (5 GHz) now complement the standard 2.4 GHz band on all the HD models.


More storage. This one's especially useful for the HD models, where a couple of movies and a few pixel-rich games can easily occupy 6, 8, or 10 GB. The operating system and assorted administrative files alone require another 2-plus GBs. The starter level in HD-land is 16 GB; you can pony up extra to bump that up as high as 64 GB.


More connection options. In addition to the existing USB connector, the Fires now come with a few ultra-handy new ways to slurp down content and connect with other gadgets. Bluetooth is the biggie. With this popular wireless technology, you can use an external keyboard or send tunes to a speaker. HDMI is great for connecting to living room TVs and entertainment centers. Road warriors can use the 4G/LTE cellular capability on the 8.9-inch model to surf the Web, do email, and chat even when they're not near a WiFi signal.


Video camera. An entirely new arrival, the front-facing video camera on the HD models makes video chats possible (and complimentary, thanks to a deal Amazon cut with Skype, the popular Internet messaging company). The lens does double duty as a still camera for apps programmed to use it.



Even more important than these physical changes, Team Fire did a big refresh on the software front. They've added media features and even improved how the device runs.



Operating system overhaul. The Home (main) screen has been simplified. Items you've most recently used sit side-by-side in an easily swipeable carousel. Favorites, which can include apps, websites, and ebooks, can be summoned at a tap.


Photos. Getting your pictures onto the original Fire was a frustratingly multi-step affair. No longer. Your Facebook photos are now just a couple of taps away, and the pictures you store on Amazon's increasingly useful Cloud Drive show up instantly.


Reading and viewing extras. Amazon's X-Ray service is a nifty example of how a subsidiary-owning conglomerate can thoughtfully improve how you read books and watch movies. For ebooks, X-Ray lets you see a visual guide to where a book's characters and key places occur. (That trick comes courtesy of Shelfari, an online book-reading service run by Amazon.) You can quickly pull up actor profiles in many movies thanks to a similar link to the IMDb entertainment encyclopedia.


Syncing. Amazon's Whispersync service is now almost five years old. If you have a Kindle, you may already rely on it. This feature keeps track of your position in a book, making it easy to start on your BlackBerry during the commute to work, pick up on your office PC during lunch, and finish the day using a Kindle in bed. Now the same feature is available for audiobooks and games, so you can keep track of how many levels you've conquered—even if you delete and later reinstall a game. Whispersync keeps track of your progress even when you switch between audio and Kindle book editions.


Immersion reading. Speaking of audio and ebooks, here's another cool new feature. Pony up a few extra bucks, and you can listen to a professionally recorded audiobook while the ebook text gets highlighted as it's read. Amazon even claims this kind of so-called bi-modal reading improves comprehension.


Kid control. The official name for this new feature is FreeTime. That is, you, the parent can now enjoy guilt-free time while your darlings use your Fire in tightly controlled ways. Set up specific profiles for each Fire user, and from there you can choose how much time they each get for app playing, book reading, and so on.








Under the Fire's Hood



Making all this happen is a combination of hardware and software that matches the Fire's exterior: simple and sufficient to get the job done. Storage size ranges from 8 GB (on the 7-inch non-HD model) all the way up to 64 GB for the most capacious 8.9-inch model.
The screen is a 16-million-color IPS display. That's short for in-plane switching, which means that even if you're not looking directly at the Fire, what's on the screen still looks clear. In other words: Two kids in the back seat of a car both get a decent view of the movie.
Most significant is the underlying software. The Fire runs on the Google-designed and freely available Android operating system version 4 (nicknamed Ice Cream Sandwich, for those keeping score at home). But you'd never know it if you compared the Fire to one of the other Android-powered tablets out there—Amazon made all sorts of custom changes. You'll read about the details in the pages ahead, but in effect, Amazon laid an easy-to-operate topcoat of its own design over the basic Android framework. Amazon gets its base layer of programming for free, but you benefit as well, given that many Android apps are playable on the Fire.





About This Book



Tucked alongside the Fire and its power cord is a playing card-sized "getting to know your Kindle" guide. It's enough to usher you onto the home screen, where you'll find a bare-bones User's Guide—the kind that covers a headline-only list of features, without telling you much about which ones are most worth your time. This Missing Manual, then, is the book that should have come in the box. In the pages ahead, you'll learn about all the Fire's nooks and crannies. But what's more valuable, you'll find out which apps and options work best and which items are still works in progress. You'll also get real-world counsel on how to beef up the Fire's still-developing talents with third-party apps.




About the Outline



The book is divided into five parts, each containing a handful of chapters. Everything's arranged to help you get the most out of the Fire's key talents, from reading and watching to staying in touch and using apps. You'll find it helpful to start with Chapter 1 for a quick tour of the Fire's parts and navigation. After that, read the chapters in any order you like—page-specific cross references point you to related material you'll need to understand any explanation. What follows is a highlight reel of what each part contains:



Part I. The first chapter explains what you need to know about how the Fire organizes its contents and how to operate its touchscreen controls. Reading (and Listening to) Books (Chapter 2) tells the story of every Kindle's main talent; it's also where audio books are covered. The Newsstand (Chapter 3) is next, with coverage on finding, buying, and reading magazines and newspapers (both plain-text editions and multimedia-powered app versions). Documents and Spreadsheets (Chapter 4) is primarily for Microsoft Office fans—be they businesspeople or students—but it's also where you'll learn how to do things like read PDF files and load the Fire with ebooks that don't come from Amazon.


Part II. That beautiful screen you're holding is ready to show off beautiful images—moving and still alike. Watching TV and Movies (Chapter 5) introduces you to the ever-growing commercial lineup that Amazon offers, ready for display not just on the Fire, but also on your computer and network-ready TV. For your own version of showtime, Photos and Home Videos (Chapter 6) gives you the scoop on getting your own pictures and movies onto the small screen. Listening to Music (Chapter 7) covers more than just buying and playing the 20 million songs Amazon now sells. You'll also find out how to import any existing iTunes or Windows Media Player collections you have, as well as the kinds of apps you'll need to play podcasts and even real radio.


Part III. The Fire's WiFi connection is ready to do more, of course, than just buy books and songs and movies. Email, Contacts, and Calendar (Chapter 8) explains how to get the most out of three apps that ship with the Fire, and Browsing the Web (Chapter 9) sets you up with Silk, Amazon's homemade Internet explorer.


Part IV. The hundreds of thousands of special purpose programs—apps, as they're commonly called—that have revolutionized the software industry and filled our virtual skies with Angry Birds are available, or coming soon, to your Fire. Amazon's set up a special store (the Appstore for Android) where it vets each submission to make sure it's Fire-compatible. The chapters here—Playing Games (Chapter 10), Creative Corner (Chapter 11), and Managing Time, Tasks, and Travel (Chapter 12)—distinguish the best from the rest, in an effort to help you spend your app budget wisely.


Part V. Three brief, back-of-the-book help guides. The first (Settings [Appendix A]) guides you through every option in the buried-deep control room of that same name. The second (Troubleshooting and Maintenance [Appendix B]) lays out a half dozen or so remedies to the most common Fire ailments and lists links to some helpful advice and support sites. Appendix C explains how to sign up for the 4G/LTE service on the 8.9-inch model as well as a few other features reserved just for the big screen Fires.








About→These→Arrows



In order to keep the navigational pointers in this, as well as every Missing Manual, concise, we've adopted a simple shorthand for pointing out how to burrow through menu or button hierarchies. Rather than slowing you down with a cumbersome series of instructions—Tap the middle of the screen to summon the Options bar; on it, tap the Menu button and, from the row that pops up above it, touch Send—a series of arrows helps more efficiently convey that info, like so: Options bar→Menu→Send.






About MissingManuals.com



This book is loaded with web links. If you're reading the print edition, sure, you can type in each address every time you want to visit an online pointer. Why not, though, bookmark the Missing CD page for this title (www.missingmanuals.com/cds/firemm2e)? There you'll find a list of every link mentioned within these pages.
The Missing CD page also offers corrections and updates to the book. To see them, click the View Errata link. You're invited to submit corrections and updates yourself by clicking "Submit your own errata" on the same page. To keep this book as up to date and accurate as possible, each time we print more copies, we'll make any confirmed corrections you've suggested. Or go directly to the errata page at http://oreil.ly/T86x7K.
While you're online, you can register this book at http://oreilly.com/register. Registering means we can send you updates about the book, and you'll be eligible for special offers like discounts on future editions of Kindle Fire HD: The Missing Manual.





Safari Books Online



Safari® Books Online is an on-demand digital library that lets you search over 7,500 technology books and videos.
With a subscription, you can read any page and watch any video from our library. Access new titles before they're available in print. Copy and paste code samples, organize your favorites, download chapters, bookmark key sections, create notes, print out pages, and benefit from tons of other time-saving features.
O'Reilly Media has uploaded this book to the Safari Books Online service. To have full digital access to this book and others on similar topics from O'Reilly and other publishers, sign up for free at http://my.safaribooksonline.com.














Part I. Getting Started and Reading






Chapter 1


Chapter 2


Chapter 3


Chapter 4















Chapter 1. Out of the Box: Setting Up, Taking a Tour










SERIOUS GADGET GEEKS TREAT device openings as YouTube-worthy rituals. They shoot video, add narration (my hand is shaking from the fatigue of being up all night...), and then post the entire experience online—from opening the package to a tour of the interface. Assuming your day job leaves you little time for YouTube, consider this chapter your own Kindle Fire meet 'n' greet.
When you first unpack the Fire, you'll notice that Amazon has kept physical buttons and ports to a bare minimum. It's once you've flipped Fire on that things get interesting. You'll encounter a navigational system for programs and files that looks absolutely nothing like what you've seen on a regular computer. Instead, think super-sized smartphone or souped-up ATM.
In the following pages, you'll learn much more than simply how to turn the Fire on and enter your account info. You'll see how to control the device using neither mouse nor menu. You'll get touchscreen basics, including some taps and tricks that will make your time in TouchLand more enjoyable. Finally, you'll take a trip into the Cloud for a brief but necessary introduction to that increasingly popular method of online file storage. Videotaping what lies ahead is strictly optional.




Parts and Ports



Amazon has made a serious commitment to minimalist hardware design—no small feat for a firm whose first device, the original Kindle, had more buttons than a tailor's shop. There's the screen, of course, and just a handful of buttons and openings:



On/off switch. This nubbin comes in two sizes. On the HD models, it's about the size of a fingernail clipping; on the non-HD Fire, it's about as big as a candy dot. In addition to letting you turn the Fire on and off, it's also how you put the device to sleep (a power-saving mode that's quicker to rejuvenate than a cold start).

Tip
A common criticism among non-HD model owners is the placement of its power button. Down on the bottom of the device, it's way too easy to hit accidentally, say the complainers. If you agree, here's a simple fix: Rotate the Fire 180 degrees. What's onscreen shifts to match how your Fire is oriented, and the offending button is on top, safely away from unintentional turnoffs. HD owners have their own beef: That the power button is so seamlessly inset into the device's border that it's tough to locate. Alas, there's no fix for that.



Combo charging and USB port. Here's where you insert the one and only accessory that comes in the box—the USB cable. Should you wish to transfer digital files directly from a Mac or PC to the Fire (a strictly optional maneuver covered in detail starting on Transferring Files from Your Computer), you can plug that cable here. If you're like most people, most of the time, you'll use this port for battery refills; Turning the Fire Off explains how.


HDMI port (HD models only). Broadcast what's on your Fire on any newish TV by stringing a special cable (Making the Cabled Connection) between this opening and the HDMI port on your boob tube.


Volume. On the HD models there's a physical button—a rocker that, pushed one way pumps up the audio, and pushed the other way turns it down. On all Fires there are onscreen alternatives (The Home Screen) for performing the same task.


Audio port. Stick pretty much any gadget-friendly headphone in this 3.5-millimeter opening; the sounds that ensue will be for your ears only.


Microphone (HD only). A small but growing number of apps take advantage of this barely noticeable pinhole. Early entries worth checking out: Skype (for video and audio chats) and AutoRap (which warps your words into a rap-like beat). Installing Apps has more about how to load your Fire with apps.


Camera (HD only). Speaking of Skype, Amazon cut a deal with this 21st century version of Ma Bell. This video camera is what makes the video chats possible. It does double duty for photo-taking apps like Camera Fun Pro and PicSay Pro (Photos).


Speakers. When headphone-free, the Fire plays its beats and beeps through this pair of stereo speakers. HD model speakers are souped up with ear-friendly Dolby Audio.











Note
Want to connect external speakers? No problem. They'll need their own power source (like most any that work with an iPod or computer) and have that toothpick-sized 3.5-millimeter plug. HD model owners can also make the connection wirelessly with the help of Bluetooth-equipped speakers or headphones. Connecting Bluetooth Devices explains how to do that.






Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours



If by some miracle of self-restraint you haven't turned the Fire on, do so now by pressing the power button. Holding the button for a second is plenty long enough to do the trick. The device logo greets you, followed by a screen sporting the date and some time zone's version of now. Any finger will do as your entry key: Swipe the padlock icon from right to left. The Fire presents you with a list of different language choices; pick the one that suits you and then tap Continue. You've now arrived at the "Welcome to Kindle Fire" screen.

Note
If WiFi is truly nowhere to be found (perhaps you're unboxing on a plane), tap the link that says "Complete Setup Later" and then dismiss the message warning you about all the fun you're missing out on—ebook and music buying, app downloading, and so on. When you do get within WiFi range, you need to take care of two chores: Connect to a WiFi network and register your Fire with Amazon. The Quick Settings menu (The Home Screen) is where you make both happen.

As you probably know, the Fire connects to the world at large via WiFi—or, if you've got the high-end 8.9-inch model, high-speed cellular. (See the box on WiFi 101 for a WiFi primer, and Appendix C for details on 4G/LTE.) Ahead, you'll learn about plenty you can do when not in range of one of these wireless Internet zones. But the setup process and all your initial Fire fiddling are much simpler when you're in a hotspot. Once you're appropriately situated, your first steps are pretty straightforward:



Connect to a WiFi network. A list of available hotspots appears, with tiny lock icons next to any that require a password. Tap the name of the one you wish to log into. Apartment dwellers may need to scroll down to see the full list. (Scrolling instructions await on Tapping, Touching, Typing for touchscreen rookies. The short version: Place and hold your finger on the screen and then drag up or down in the direction you want the list to move.) If you're seeing one of those locks, and you've been given the password, enter it on the screen that appears after you tap the network's name, and then tap Connect.









UP TO SPEED: WiFi 101
WiFi is how most people will get their Fire on the Web, download apps, and do email. If you don't have much experience in the ways of WiFi (what, you don't already have your own home WiFi network?), here are some basics that'll help you get—and stay—connected.



Network SSID. Geek-speak for a WiFi network's name. On the Fire, you see this term only if you burrow deep down on the "Connect to a Wi-Fi Network" list and tap "Add Network" to manually enter a network's name, as described in the Note on the next page. Some restaurants and libraries use this term. Now you know how to translate it into plain English.


Security. For reasons roughly similar to why front doors come with locks, most people secure the WiFi networks they set up. That way, anyone who wants to log on needs to enter a password. Over the past decade or so, a bunch of more or less incompatible security methods have gained varying degrees of popularity. When you encounter a protected network, your Fire asks you to enter a password. In most cases that's all you need to do. (If you're following the Note on the next page, also pick the protocol flavor matching the WiFi network you're connecting to. Fire is conversant in all the popular varieties, from oldest and least secure [WEP] to the more modern and harder-to-hack WPA. The latter comes in four flavors, all of which you find in the Add Network's Security pull-down menu: WPA PSK, WPA2 PSK, WPA EAP, WPA2 EAP.)


Finding a WiFi network. Starbucks, McDonalds, and your local public library are all good places to start. Many of these establishments offer free WiFi, asking only that you first visit a web page and agree to some reasonable rules (I will not download the entire Internet or broadcast naughty images). On the Fire, the typical sequence goes like this: Go to Quick Settings→WiFi and tap whatever network name the help desk or cashier tells you to look for. In the dialog box that springs up, choose Connect. If the WiFi provider wants you to agree to some good behavior terms, you'll see another box asking if you wish to sign in; tap OK. Then there's the page of legalese, which typically requires you to turn on a checkbox and then tap a button to continue. Finally, tap the upper-right Close button. You are now free to roam around the Internet.





Note
Some security-conscious citizens hide their WiFi network's name from publicly viewable lists, like the one you see on Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours. If that describes you (or, more likely, your teenage WiFi administrator), scroll to the bottom of the list, tap Add Network, type your network's name (in the box that says Network SSID), pick the security method from the drop-down menu of that name, and then enter a password.



Register your Kindle. If you bought it yourself—that is, using your own Amazon account—the Fire may have your account info already filled in. If not, fill in your Amazon account email and password.
Don't have one? Tap Create Account and follow the Fire through the setup process (the box on Creating an Amazon Account shows you how to perform this necessary chore from a regular computer, if you prefer). Finally, tap the Register button.
If a software update is available—a likely occurrence in these early days of bug-squashing and feature-adding—the Fire immediately starts downloading it. Though the Fire offers you an option to pause this operation and resume later, it's best to incorporate these changes as Amazon issues them. After digesting the new software, the device shuts down; restart it by pressing the power button to pick up again from this point.


Pick a time zone. Tap to choose from the list of U.S. options, or pick from a list of worldwide alternatives by opening the "Select Another Time Zone" menu. Then hit Continue.

Tip
When you see one of those tappable empty circles (web designers call 'em radio buttons), you don't have to tap precisely on the button. Anywhere on the row where it's located will do just fine.



On the Get Started screen, check out your social networking options. You see icons for Facebook and Twitter, with your account names for both those social networks showing, if you use them. The Fire automatically links to these services, making it easy to do things like tweet web pages, post photos, and so on. If you don't want this linkage to happen, head to the My Account section in the Fire's Settings; My Account explains how to get there.


Tap Get Started Now. Take a whirl through the quick start tips Amazon has scrawled on your screen. Sure, you've got this book, but you have no choice but to tap through each of the mini-tutorial's Next buttons (on the right side of the screen) before you can start using the Fire.


When you're done, tap Close on the last screen. Now you're on the home screen.








Rotation and Orientation



Sometimes you want to hold the Fire upright, like a paperback. Sometimes you want to turn it on its side for race-car driving or movie watching. The first is often referred to as portrait mode (think Mona Lisa); the sideways pivot is called landscape (think, well, a nice wide landscape). Like any modern touchscreen device, the Fire is smart enough to sense when you switch. It reorients whatever is onscreen to match the mode you're in. Try it now to experience one of a new tablet owner's small but delightful pleasures.








Note
Most apps (for ebook reading, browsing the web, and so on) will shift their contents according to how you're holding the Fire. Sometimes, however, an app developer programs in a no-shift order. In the Fire's own video-watching app, for example, you can hold the device in portrait mode, but the show remains in landscape. Makes sense, if you think about it, considering how truncated things would look if a movie got crammed into the narrow width of portrait mode.



UP TO SPEED: Creating an Amazon Account
Amazon says it's got more than 185 million registered customers. But that still leaves a few folks who've never entered this virtual store. If you're among them, here's how to gain access to all the shopportunities (including plenty of free samples) that await. Using any web browser, surf over to www.amazon.com and, at the top of the screen, click the "Start here" link.
On the page that appears, enter an email address and turn on the radio button that says "No, I am a new customer." Then click the yellow "Sign in..." button. On the next screen, fill in your name, create a password, and then click "Create account." Amazon gives you a bunch of ways to personalize what you see in its aisles—by asking you to give a thumbs up to a bunch of products it parades in front of you. That process, amusingly called the Amazon Betterizer, is completely optional.






Turning the Fire Off



The party's barely started, but perhaps you need a break from all this gadget-in-duced excitement. You have two alternatives: powering the Fire down or putting it to sleep. What's the difference? The first saves more battery life, but requires more time to power back on (about 30 seconds, versus pretty much instantaneously to wake from sleeping). The choice, of course, is yours, but plenty of people rarely turn their Fires off completely.
To fully shut the Fire off, press and hold the power button for about a second. A message appears onscreen asking you to confirm that you really want to shut down. To give your Fire a nap (and avoid having to power up again), press the power button ever so briefly; the screen goes dark. When you want to wake the Fire, press the button again and swipe the padlock icon.
To charge the Fire you have a couple options. If you've sprung for Amazon's extra electric plug (full name: "Amazon Kindle PowerFast for Accelerated Charging"; see http://bit.ly/kfmm220), then plug the USB cable you got with the Fire into the PowerFast, insert the USB connector into the opening on the Fire that matches it, and then plug the power cord into a standard electric wall socket. A full charge takes about four hours this way (longer for the 8.9-inch Fires, shorter for the non-HD models).
You can also refill by plugging the USB connector into a computer, but this method works more slowly—it can take as long as 13 hours on the HD models. To check how much juice remains, in the Status bar (The Home Screen), tap Quick Settings→More and then scroll down to and tap Device, where you see a quick report listing the figure in percentage terms. Two other ways to tell: The power button glows red when charging (and green when finished), and the Status bar's battery icon turns fully green when charging is done. During a charge, it pulses to indicate the fill-up is in progress.

Tip
Don't like your Fire's assigned name (Gertrude's 7th Kindle)? It's what appears on the upper-left corner of the screen, as well as on Amazon's various ebook, music, and media stores when you're asked which device you want to send your purchase to. Name-changing is easy. On Amazon.com, use the home page's left-hand Shop By Department menu to navigate to Kindle→Manage Your Kindle. On the left side of the page that appears, click Manage Your Devices and then click the Edit link next to your Fire's currently assigned name. Enter the new name you want in the pop-up window and then click Update. Patience is the final requirement: It may take a few hours for your new handle to appear on the Fire.













The Home Screen



The home screen is the entry point to all the fun stuff on your Fire. If the Fire were a regular computer, here's where you'd find its desktop, control panel, application launcher, and search tool...all crammed onto one screen. There's a certain elegance to the layout here: As crowded as your Fire may some day become with ebooks, apps, tunes, and TV shows, you can always count on this screen's navigational simplicity. Head to toe, here's what your newest gadget looks like:










The Status bar. Most of what's here is strictly read-only: your Fire's name, the time, the strength of your WiFi connection (represented by the industry standard stack-of-curved-lines icon), and a battery charge indicator (filled with white when you're fully charged; green when you're charging and plugged in; red when you're close to running out of power). You may sometimes also see, on the left side, a number inside a circle: This Notifications circle is how apps, and the Fire itself, signal they've got a message for you—a new tweet or email awaits, for example.
Place a finger on the Notifications number and drag downward to expose a screen listing details. That's also how you reveal the Quick Settings menu, a small panel of frequently used virtual settings: Locked/Unlocked (to prevent, or allow, the screen's contents from rotating as you turn the device horizontally or vertically); Volume (plus music controls, if you've got a tune playing); Brightness (of the screen's display); Wireless (quick access to WiFi, Bluetooth, and cellular); Sync (coordinates where you are in the ebook you're reading, the show you're watching, the game you're playing, and so on—so you can pick up in the same spot on another device); and the overstuffed More option. This last one is covered choice-by-choice in Appendix A; you'll also meet its options on an as-needed basis throughout the main chapters of this book. Basically, it's the Fire's equivalent of Windows' Control Panel or the Mac's System Preferences.
To dismiss the Quick Settings menu, place your finger on the pair of horizontal lines at the bottom of the screen and drag upward.








Note
See an X next to the WiFi icon? It sometimes appears after you wake the device from its sleep mode. The quickest remedy, if you know you're in a recently visited hotspot, is simply waiting. A couple seconds and that X usually goes away. If you're out and about and seeing it, then tap the main Web link on the top of Fire's home screen and some entity—an airport, hotel, or restaurant WiFi system—will ask either for your credit card (to pay for hourly access) or a guest code.



The search oval. On Day One this lookup tool may not get much of a workout—what have you got to hunt for? But as you fill up your Fire, it's a handy way to quickly find what you need. Depending on which tab you touch after tapping the oval—Libraries, Stores, or Web—you're poking through your own collection (of songs, books, TV shows, and so on), Amazon's digital media shops, or the Internet at large.


Libraries. Each of the links in this row puts you one tap away from the Fire's starring lineup: Shop, Games, Apps, Books, Music, Videos, Newsstand, Audiobooks, Web, Photos, Docs, and Offers. Most of these categories get their own chapters in the pages ahead. (A few of 'em—Shop and Offers—are recent additions that are mainly ways to get you to spend more money buying stuff from Amazon.)


The Carousel. A horizontally swipeable list of shortcut icons to items you've recently looked at: a book, an app, a TV show, or anything else on the Fire. A single tap launches whatever the icon represents. What's here is whatever's in the Fire's recent memory. In other words, the system decides what's on this shelf, not you. First time Fire starters will see an Amazon-penned user's guide (helpful, but containing none of the gems you get in a, um, real guidebook), a welcome note from Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, and a list of any ebooks you've bought from his ebook shop, the Kindle Store.
Move through this carousel by holding down and tracing your finger right to left. A light touch is all it takes; you can also flick, just as you'd do when spinning a Lazy Susan: The touchscreen plays along and delivers more or less momentum, depending on how fast you flick. Notice the little white downward-pointing arrow on the lower-right corner of any ebook cover. That means the item is sitting up on Amazon's servers; to download it, simply tap anywhere on the cover. After it downloads, tap it again, and the book appears onscreen. To get rid of anything on the Carousel, hold your finger on its icon and, from the pop-up menu, pick "Remove from Carousel." (Two other options you'll see: "Add to Favorites," which gets you a permanent home screen shortcut, and "Remove from Device," which deletes the item from your Fire.)

Tip
You can get back to the home screen from pretty much anywhere by tapping the middle of any app, ebook, movie, and so on; the Options bar pops up at the bottom of the Fire, and on its far-left side is the Home icon. Tap it and you're back on the main page. The universal back button—a leftward-pointing arrow—is also a handy navigational tool to know about. Tap it to return to whichever screen you just came from. Finally, pretty much every app has a Menu button; tap it to expose a row or two of further options, tailored to each app.










Recommendations row. This stamp-sized row of icons, which appears only when your Fire is upright, presents a cluster of related links to whatever is frontmost in the Carousel. An ebook will be accompanied by a list of titles that other shoppers bought; a web page shows other, popular websites; the E-mail app sports a trio of icons called New Message, This Week (a glimpse at your calendar), and Favorite Contacts. Want to get rid of this row (say you find the Customers Also Bought icons intrusive)? Pull down the Quick Settings menu (top of the screen), navigate to More→Applications→Amazon Home Recommendations, and then select Hide.

Tip
Speaking of ads, every time you turn the Fire on or wake it from sleep, the Lock screen displays an ad (if you opted for one of the discounted "With Special Offers" versions of the Fire). Getting rid of these commercials will cost ya $15; head to Manage Your Kindle (Reading on Multiple Devices) and choose Manage Your Devices. Click the plus icon next to your Fire's name and, in the Special Offers column, click Edit. Follow the payment instructions and from here on, your Fire shows a lovely piece of screensaver artwork instead of an ad.



Favorites. Here's a handy way to corral, for one-tap access, all the things you like most on your Fire. Then, on virtually every screen, all you need to do is tap the lower-right star icon for a pop-up panel showing all these goodies. Add pretty much whatever you like: favorite apps, ebooks, web pages—even playlists (Connecting Bluetooth Devices). If you can view it on the Kindle, you can stick it on this shelf. Create as many of these one-tap-and-you're-there bookmarks as you like. (More shelves get added as you need 'em.) The quickest way: Start looking or listening to anything and, when its icon appears in the Carousel, tap and hold its icon till the "Add to favorites" option appears. Feel like redecorating? Tap, hold, and drag any icon to reposition it. Or clean out your shelves by tapping, holding, and choosing "Remove from favorites."















Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids



Now's a good time to mention a few ways to protect your Fire from snoopers and young hands with over-enthusiastic fingers. To require a password before letting anyone onto the home screen, head to Quick Settings→More→Security and set Lock Screen Password to On. Enter the password you'd like to use, confirm it, and then tap Finish. Now anyone who turns on or wakes up your Fire will need to tap in the secret code.







Six choices up from Security sits Parental Controls. This gate-keeping feature is handy—though a bit heavy-handed. It lets you slap an all-or-nothing padlock on almost every nook and cranny on your Fire. Turn it on, and you can do any of the following: disable access to top-level content libraries (Apps, Books, Music, and so on); require a password before any purchase is made; require a password before any video can be played; and control the ability to turn on WiFi.
As useful as this all might sound for exerting parental control, it's no fun spending lots of time with Junior bringing the Fire over to you so you can open up your Video library—which only lets you give him access to all the grown-up choices in your collection. You're better off taking advantage of the all-new Kindle FreeTime app, which gives you much more customized control. Either way, you need to setup a Parental Controls password. Do so by heading to Settings→Parental Controls and turning the sole menu item on. Enter any password you like (four-character minimum) in both boxes and then tap Finish. Now the screen fills with individual menu items for all those padlock options just mentioned.




Kindle FreeTime



If you've spent any time around kids and gadgets, you'll soon learn one thing: Slapping a password on the device's virtual front door doesn't help much. Either the critters crack the code or, if you punch in the key for them, the young 'uns get free range of all your content pickings. FreeTime is Amazon's incredibly useful solution. It's a special app that lets you control what your kid sees, what she can buy, and how much time she spends on the device. The FreeTime universe is a very different place than the unfettered world of the grownup Fire. Gone are most of the Libraries where little kids probably shouldn't be. Instead, they get Books, Videos, and Apps—all filled up with items that you select. You can even create multiple profiles (up to six). So you can give your wee-est tots screen-time restrictions that differ from those for slightly older kids.







You'll find the app waiting in your Apps Library. Tap to open and then follow these steps:



Create a password. Here's the one reason you'll need to pay a quick visit to the Parental Controls section in the Fire's Settings: to create a password. If you haven't already done so, follow the instructions on the previous page and then, after launching FreeTime, tap Next in the lower-right corner. Enter the password and tap OK.


Add a profile. The first thing to do here is basic, cosmetic stuff: Enter the child's first name and birthdate and pick out an icon (which will appear on a sign-in screen). Tap Next if you're ready to pick the content for this child's account, or choose Add Another Child and repeat the process.


Pick content and time limits. Job number one here is to decide what kinds of books, videos, and apps you want your child to have access to. Tap the Manage Content button, enter your password, and on the Manage Your Content screen that appears, tap the child's name. Now you see a three-tabbed screen: Books, Videos, and Apps. Turn on the checkboxes for the items you want to include. Tap Save when you're finished.
Back on FreeTime's main screen, you also get a Daily Time Limits option to make sure your kid gets some fresh air once in a while. Tap that icon, choose the child whose account you want to manage, and then turn on Set Time Limits. You can either decide on a master Total Screen Time (from 15 minutes all the way up to 6 hours), or choose specific time limits for books, videos, and app usage (options here include Blocked, 15 minutes to 6 hours, or Unlimited). Either way, use the slider below each label to pick the time you want.









Sign in, sign out. When you're ready to hand over the device to your child, start by launching the FreeTime app and picking the profile name you want to activate. The screen that appears is a customized kiddie version of the one you see on your grownup Fire. It has its own top-of-screen Library links, Carousel (The Home Screen), and Favorites. (Kids can add their own best-loved items here the same way you learned back on The Home Screen.)




Tip
Don't miss the Library's cool Characters option. It features automatically generated, kid-friendly categories: Dora, Puppies—whatever the system can drum up from the content loaded on your Fire.

When you're ready to bring back your adult Fire, drag down from the top of the screen for the Quick Settings menu and pick Exit FreeTime, or pick Parent Settings to switch to a different kid.








Tip
Going on a car or plane ride? Sign into your own grownup Fire account to download movies and books while you're still within range of WiFi. Also remember that—bummer—video rentals and Prime Instant Video content aren't viewable in a FreeTime account.







Tapping, Touching, Typing



You know how to tap. But don't be embarrassed if all the other, not-so-obvious touchscreen gestures seem foreign. That includes the flick, the swipe, the pinch, the twist, and—they don't call it multi-touch for nothing—those two-fingered maneuvers. Here, then, is a brief primer:



Tapping. The touchscreen equivalent of mouse clicking. For icons and hyperlinks, a single tap is all you need. On web pages, photos, and some apps, double-tapping enlarges the spot where your finger hit. Double-tap again to return to the regular, full-page view. (Keep in mind that double-tapping doesn't always make things bigger; when using the Kindle app to read ebooks, for example, that gesture has no effect; Text View: Better Text Reading shows how to use the Options bar to bump up the font size.)


Swiping. Here's where you hold and trace your finger in either direction, left or right. Great for reviewing long rows of book covers, albums, and movies. If you swipe-and-release quickly, the items whiz along, till the software-simulated friction slows them down. Same as Vanna White spinning the big Wheel of Fortune.


Flicking. Basically, vertical swiping. Any time you see a long, scrolling list (contacts, song titles), you can skim by moving the top of your finger quickly up- or downward. As with all touch gestures, use the fleshy tip of your finger here, not the nail (which will work, but is much harder to position).


The two-finger spread. There isn't any real-world equivalent to this gesture, but somehow the way it works makes sense: Take two fingers (typically the thumb and pointer), put them down on the screen next to each other, and spread them apart. This move almost always enlarges what's onscreen. Very popular among photo and drawing apps.


The pinch. Sometimes called the reverse spread, since it's the previous gesture rewound. On any bit of content that's been enlarged, place two fingers a chicken wing or so apart from each other and then pull them together. Now you get to see more stuff onscreen, albeit in a shrunken state.







The Keyboard



Voice recognition may be the future of gadget control, but the Fire will ignore you no matter how loud you shout. Typing, then, is how you conduct searches, compose emails, and craft status updates. The downside of touchscreen typing is the cramped keyboard; even a puny netbook gives you bigger tiles to press than those on the jumbo 8.9-inch Fire. The good news: Smart software powers the Fire's virtual keyboard. With timesaving assists like auto-completion suggestions, keyboard labels that adjust on-the-fly to match options you're most likely to need, and some simple auto-correct fixes, you'll probably find this input method easy to master.

Note
What follows is an all-purpose guide to keyboarding. Many apps add custom frills, like a dedicated .com button in the web browser's keyboard. The Fire's built-in E-mail app soups up the keyboard with helpful, typer-friendly additions (those auto-complete suggestions, for example); see the box on Typing Tips and Tricks for a full tour. And 8.9-inch Fire owners will want to check out Appendix C for a few special keyboard features available only on the big screen models.








The home screen's search bar is a good place to take the keyboard for a spin. Tap anywhere inside its oval, and up pops a four-row keyboard on the bottom of the screen. It works just as you might expect. Tap any key to type. Make a mistake? The Delete key on the far-right edge erases one character each time you hit it. Tap the Shift key once to summon an upper-case layout that sticks around for the next letter only. Tap the Shift key twice, and the capital lineup sticks around till you dismiss it by tapping the Shift key again.
To get those tiny numbers perched in the upper-right corner of the top letter row, just tap and hold any host letter. Tap and hold q, for example, and you see an orange 1 sprout up; remove your finger to insert the number. (Change your mind? Drag your finger away till the orange key turns gray; now you won't enter anything in the text box.)
Common punctuation marks are hidden under the period (.) key. Touch and hold it to see a dozen or so items: semicolon, plus sign, ampersand, and so on.

Tip
Turns out a bunch of letters sport secret, tucked-away variations. Touch and hold the a for the most common accented varieties: à á â ã ä å ā æ. Other multipurpose keys include: e, y, u, i, o, s, c, and n.

You can find other, less popular variations (asterisk, pound sign) by tapping the lower-left corner's ?123 key. Burrow down even further to more options (the British pound, the Euro, squiggly brackets) by tapping the ?123 key and then, on the screen that appears, tap the =\< key. Return from any of these odd-key expeditions by tapping the lower-left corner's ABC key.







To edit a word you've already typed—for example, fixing the typo ckngress—tap (but don't hold) the spot you want to fix. You don't have to hit the exact letter, because you get a gray pointer that you can reposition by dragging, if it's not exactly where you want it. When it's positioned correctly—in front of the k—tap the keyboard's Delete key and then insert an o to fix the mistake.

Note
Want to customize a handful of keyboard settings, like the sounds it makes when tapped and whether or not new sentences automatically start with a capital letter? Location-based Services has the scoop.







Installing Apps



Apps are a big reason people buy tablets and smartphones. Short for applications, these downloadable programs turn your Fire into a 21st-century Swiss Army knife. Play games, edit photos, brush up on your Shakespeare—the list of what these single-purpose programs can do is almost endless. Amazon's store (officially called the Amazon Appstore for Android) is where you shop for these goodies, or download them for free.

Note
As with regular computers, apps run only on the systems they're programmed for. So an app designed for the iPad won't work on the Fire unless the developer releases a separate version. Complicating matters a bit, Amazon doesn't make it easy to shop at any ol' Android app store, including the Walmart of app outlets, Google Play. (The Tip on Installing Apps has some advice about how to get around the roadblocks.) Instead, Amazon's opted to link your device with its own app store. The benefit? Simple installation and a catalog that includes only apps that Amazon has verified as Fire-friendly.

The simplest way to get an app is by heading to the Apps Library and tapping the Store link. Use the search oval to look for a specific title, or scroll downscreen through rows of promoted and recommended apps. You can swipe horizontally (left to right) for more choices in each of these rows. There's a special treat in the top row: "Today's Free App of the Day," which offers just what it says.
Tucked just under the search oval is a helpful group of links: Best Sellers, Games, New Releases, Test Drive, and All Categories. Tap Test Drive, and you see a list of apps, specially programmed to give you a 10-minute taste of the app. Tap the app's green Test Drive button to check it out. The All Categories link is good for niche browsing. It offers a list of more than two dozen areas (from Books & Comics and City Info to Travel and Weather). Tap any of these and then, on the screen that appears, filter even further by tapping either the All Categories pull-down menu (gets you sub-categories) or the Refine menu (lets you sort in different ways—highest to lowest price, for example—or show only apps meeting a certain criteria; say, 4-star or higher reviews).







Once you've spotted an app you want, click its orange download button (either the one that says Free or lists a price). The button turns green (saying either Get or Buy App); tap it again to start the download. After the download is complete, the button morphs one last time and now says Open. Tap it to launch the app. Throughout this book you'll meet apps that beef up what your Fire can do. And the final three chapters focus exclusively on helping you pick the best apps in well-populated categories like games and task trackers.
You can also go app picking from a computer's web browser. One advantage to this route is that you get some fine-tuned browsing options that aren't available on the Fire's built-in app store. For example, in the Price section of the web-based store (http://amzn.to/kfmm131), you can turn on a checkbox (left-hand column) showing just the free apps. When you've found an app you want, click its "Buy now" or "Get now" button (the second is for freebies). In a minute or so, the app appears in your Apps Library (tap the Cloud tab).








Note
Got your eyes on an Android app that's not listed in Amazon's Appstore? One somewhat friendly option exists: Install a third-party app market like the one at GetJar.com (Google Play, alas, is not an option). To install GetJar, follow these steps: Pull down the Quick Settings menu and head to More→Device. Next, turn on "Allow Installation of Applications" and, using the Fire's web browser (Creating and Editing Events), navigate to http://m.getjar.com. Tap the Free button next to any app and, on the screen that appears, tap Download. Once the download is complete, pull down the Quick Settings menu again and tap on the name of the file at the top of the list (it will end in .apk). Now you have the GetJar app on your Fire; use it to browse through its catalog and download any of its pickings.






Cloud vs. Device



Here's a 21st Century, First World problem: With all the digital goodies you'll end up loading onto your Fire, how on earth can you cram everything into its limited storage space?
You can't. But you don't have to.
Enter the Cloud, this decade's frontrunner for most overused bit of jargon. As you've probably figured out, the term refers to stuff stored up on the Internet. Geeks appreciate how the Cloud matches the Internet illustrations in their diagrams. Marketing types get excited because terms like online and web-based were getting boring.
To be fair, though, Cloud-based offerings do contain some special qualities. For starters, any digital file that's stored in the Cloud is automatically available on any of the devices you own or happen to be using (a PC at the library, for example). That means any Kindle book you've ever bought is ready for downloading and reading on any Kindle gadget or app. Same goes, more or less, for Amazon's TV shows and movies. (The "less" being that you can't watch a movie on a first-generation Kindle.) In a world where most people shuttle among multiple computers, tablets, and smartphones, having widespread, easy access to all this media is a huge convenience.
Amazon takes the concept a bit further with its Whispersync service. With Whispersync, not only is that John Grisham thriller you're reading available on any Kindle reader, but your bookmarks, notes, and even your reading location are coordinated everywhere. Start reading on the commute home using a BlackBerry, and then pick up where you left off on your Fire when you crawl into bed. Backup worries also get washed away. No longer do you have to go through the tedium of all that copying. As long as you believe that Amazon's here to stay—probably a safe bet—their pledge is that you can always re-download anything you bought from them.
For Fire owners, the Cloud plays an even bigger role. It gives you access to loads more media than can actually fit on your machine. Amazon's solution? Setting you up with a healthy sized Cloud-based shelf. You can enjoy anything stored there, as long as you have a WiFi connection. Tap any of the main Libraries (music, books, and so on), and you'll notice two tabs at the top of each library's screen: Device and Cloud. Here lie the routes to whatever you want to play or view. Files behind door number one reside directly on the Fire itself. Door number two—the Cloud—is what lives on Amazon's virtual drives. Whenever you and your Fire are inside a reasonably speedy WiFi zone, everything you see there is showtime ready.







Now, of course, there are some catches:



Moving your files online. For ebooks, apps, TV shows, and movies, this one's a non-issue. Buy any of those items from Amazon, and the digital files await online forevermore and automatically. Music's another story. If you've built your collections from iTunes purchases or burning lots of CDs, you'll need to spend time hauling those bits from local hard drive to the one in the Cloud. Guidance on how to make that happen begins on Getting Music onto the Fire. (If you've bought your tunes from Amazon, you're covered. All its MP3 files get stored there once you flip on a single checkbox; see the note on Note.)


No or poor WiFi connection. Remotely stored media is only convenient if you can get to it. If you're a subway-riding city slicker, ranch hand far out on the range, or an airplane-trapped traveler, you may not have a WiFi signal in reach.


Everything Amazon. It's getting increasingly difficult these days to live a life that doesn't depend on one of the following firms: Amazon, Apple, Facebook, or Google. By storing all or most of your digital stuff on Amazon's servers, you're making it tough to pack up and take your media business somewhere else. And it's not simply a logistical challenge you'd face. In plenty of cases—ebooks, TV shows, and movies—you can't take those files with you. They've got software locks attached (DRM, short for digital rights management) that make the files playable only on Amazon-controlled software and gadgets.


Cost. Amazon's starter cloud package is free and reasonably sized (5 gigabytes worth of non-music files, 250 songs, no charge for those tunes purchased on their music store). But if you stick with Amazon, you'll probably find yourself ponying up for additional space. Your options are described starting on Choosing what to upload, but given the annual fees for this extra storage, it's a price worth understanding.



Fact is, however many downsides you can think of, with finite storage space on even the 64 GB models, sooner or later you'll have to pick what deserves on-device storage and what's okay to keep in Cloudville. Of course there's no right or wrong approach. A few items are no-brainers for bringing onto the Fire: the ebook you're currently reading, plus the handful of Best Books Ever; reference works (cookbooks, for example) that would be great to have while at that cabin in the woods; any movies you want to watch on a long flight; the couple hundred greatest hits in your music and photo library; and your essential document collection. It helps that the Fire makes it pretty easy to flush out what you don't need and download what you do.

Tip
To keep tabs on how much room you've got left, check out Quick Settings→Device→Internal Storage. To delete pretty much any item on the Fire, tap and hold its icon and then select "Remove from Device."

So there you have it: a short version of Cloud 101. Ready to go have some fun with your Fire? Reading books is a great place to start, which is what the next chapter covers in detail.














Chapter 2. Reading (and Listening to) Books










AMAZON CEO JEFF BEZOS has always had one big design goal for the Kindle: to make it disappear in your hands so you can enjoy your reading. Even though the Fire is the heaviest, most feature-packed model in the family, it meets its dad's main objective. Whether you're a Kindle veteran, an occasional smartphone reader, or even a hardcover lover, you'll find it easy to read on the Fire.
Three things in particular make the Fire a good alternative to print. First: choice. There may be bigger online catalogs, but no one beats Amazon when it comes to titles people actually want to read. Google's eBookstore boasts four million titles, but if you ever wade deep into those virtual stacks, you'll find lots of shoddily-scanned snooze inducers. Meanwhile, Amazon has deals in place with more or less every publisher around. If an ebook edition is available, chances are Amazon's got it.
The Fire's second big attraction is Amazon's appetite for innovation. The company is constantly looking for ways to make ebooks more useful and more delightful. With the newest generation of Fires, you get things like X-Ray (a visual index of key people and terms), Whispersync for Voice (coordinated reading and spot tracking between audio- and ebook), and Immersion Reading (highlighted text as an audiobook plays).
Finally, you've got to give the company credit for keeping its eye on what counts—the reading experience. When historians write up the tectonic shift from print to digital, Amazon may well get blamed for bound books' diminished profile. But it also deserves kudos for sweating the little things that make ebook-reading an engrossing experience. Things like distraction-free page design and reading software that gets out of the way and lets you read without intrusive social features and other frills.
Ready to read some books? This chapter shows you how.

Note
Comic book fans, a few apps await to help indulge your habit. The Tip on Tip has the scoop on one leading option—the Comics app. And dozens of Fire-friendly graphic novels—specially formatted to accommodate the slightly smaller screen—are available, too. They get their own category in the Kindle Bookstore (Comics & Graphic Novels); see Read, Watch, Listen for more on how to navigate its aisles.





Grab a Book



Buying an ebook from Amazon is simple. Any ebook you buy from Amazon will be waiting for you either on the home screen's Carousel (The Home Screen), or inside the Books Library. If it's in the Library, you may need to tap the Cloud tab and then tap the book's cover again to download it, or you may find it already sitting in the Device section, ready to read.
If you don't yet own a Kindle book (which is what Amazon sometimes calls its ebooks), see Read, Watch, Listen for how to download one so you can follow along for the next few pages. The quickest way: On the Fire, go to Books→Store, and tap to buy any of the books listed there.





Page Turning and Navigation



What you see onscreen when opening a book depends on whether you're cracking its spine for the first time or have dipped into it before. The first time, you see the publisher's chosen kickoff page—often the page right after the table of contents. After that initial launch, the book opens to where you left off.
When you're ready to turn the page, tap anywhere on the right side of the page (an inch or so from the edge is the hot zone) to move ahead one page. Swiping from right to left anywhere does the same. You can hold your finger and drag while doing this, or, if you're in a hurry, simply flick your finger leftward. To move backwards, one page at a time, reverse any of these gestures. Tap anywhere on the left side of the page (the same one-inch margin) or swipe/flick from left to right.








Tip
You also tap and swipe to move between pages in a graphic novel. But most of the dialog in those big-print-page originals is tough to read on the 7-inch model's Fire's smaller screen. That's where Kindle Panel View comes in—Amazon's panel-magnifying and quick navigation tool. Double-tap any panel to enlarge it. Then, simply tap anywhere on the screen's right edge. The Fire automatically serves up an enlarged version of the next panel. Keep tapping, and you'll get a specially magnified tour of the whole book. Panel View is even smart enough to pop up the top-left panel when you start a new page. To return to regular reading mode, double-tap anywhere on the screen.








Tap anywhere in the middle of the page to summon the Location bar at bottom. If you're new to Kindle-land, here's the location lowdown. Ebooks and page numbers don't get along very well. That's because you, dear reader, are free to adjust font size. So what began as, say, Page 327, pre-bigification, is now some other page number. And, whatever the text size, what you see onscreen on that hypothetical Page 327 has absolutely no connection to the same page number in a print book.
Amazon has a solution: Location numbering. In this system, each chunk of text (128 bytes, for those scoring at home) gets assigned a number. The first one you see listed in the Location bar—for example, 1456 of 4856—is the chunk at the top of the page; the second one is the last bit of the book. Your progress also gets displayed in percentage terms. A print book that has, say, 627 pages, in its Kindle edition would span from Location 1 to 12477. Now that you know why it's there, operating the bar's slider is the easy part: Just drag the dot in either direction to move around the book.








Note
You say you have spotted Kindle books with page numbers? You're not going crazy: Some publishers, with Amazon's cooperation, embed print page number equivalents that coordinate digital and physical editions. However, not all publishers do the extra work that page numbering requires.

The Fire gives you plenty of other ways to move around a book. Tap anywhere in the center of the screen to reveal the Menu bar's Go To button. Tap that for quick access to a handy navigation screen; Page Turning and Navigation walks you through all its options.

















A Specific Page or Location. The first option is available, of course, only if your book has embedded page numbers from the print book. Navigating to a specific location often leaves print fans scratching their heads. Why the heck would you ever want to go to, say, Location 1189? Well, if you have Kindle book-reading pals, locations are one way to communicate specific reading spots. And if you ever find yourself embarking on a virtual page-flipping expedition (returning to the opening pages of a novel to reread a passage), you can make a mental note of your location and use this tool to quickly return there. Another alternative: Set a bookmark, as explained on Bookmarks.


Sync to Furthest Page Read. If you read the same book on multiple devices (a PC at work, a BlackBerry during your commute, and so on), Amazon has answered your device-coordination prayers. It's called Whispersync—a way to make sure that, no matter how many copies of an ebook you own, they're all on the same page. Sometimes, however, the automatic gremlins aren't working as quickly as you'd like. Tap this link to move your Fire to the furthest spot. (A full explanation of Whispersync lies ahead on Reading on Multiple Devices.)


Beginning. A publisher-designated starting line. Usually, it's the first page of honest-to-goodness text. Thorough readers, however, beware. Epigraphs and dedications often appear before this point, so if you want the full beginning-to-end experience, head to the next item in this list.


Cover. Most publishers place a digital replica of the front of the print jacket here. Sometimes that looks fine, other times it looks like...a print production crammed onto a too-small screen. Fact is, ebook covers are still a developing art form.


Front Matter. All the stuff you can safely skip over if you're not a publishing industry insider: copyright information, warnings from the lawyers, and so on.


Table of Contents. Most publishers include one; some don't. It's a hyperlinked version of the same chapter list that appears in a print book. Tap to hop to any chapter or subsection.




Tip
Some books have photos, graphics, or other illustrations. To get a full-screen view of any of these, double-tap the image, which now appears all by itself on the screen. You can pinch and spread (Tapping, Touching, Typing) to zoom in and out. Tap the upper-right X to return to regular reading.





The Back Button



This button offers an instant return path after you've tapped an in-book link (a footnote, say). Read the author's aside or citation—usually sequestered somewhere toward the back of the book—and then tap the Back button. This button whisks you to the spot you departed from. (If you don't see the button, you can summon it by tapping anywhere in the middle of the screen.) Confusingly, the Back button here doesn't do quite the same thing as the go-back methods explained earlier on Grab a Book. Those take you back one screen at a time; the Back button returns you from any link you've visited. In fact, it's the same Back button that sits on call at the bottom of almost every Fire app. So even if an ebook link shoots you off to the Web, just tap the browser's Back button to return to the reading location you departed from.













Search...and Research



An inch or so to the right of the Back button, a search monocle sits ready to scour any book you're reading. Tap it, enter any word or phrase, and then hit Go. In the results list that appears, the Fire highlights the found term (as it does on the actual page, if you tap a search result).
Want to sharpen your search? Tap-and-hold any word. The window that pops up gives a dictionary's quick take—see the full definition by tapping the link. Behind the More button are links that let you search:



Inside the book. Novel readers, rejoice. This feature is a great memory refresher. Forget who Ethel is, a hundred or so pages into the story? Tap here for a list of every place she's been mentioned. (If that sounds useful, you'll love the X-Ray tool described in the next section.)


Wikipedia. The world's favorite encyclopedia comes bolted onto every Kindle book, so you can do a quick bit of research and then get back to reading. Wikipedia articles appear on a stripped-down web browser built right into the reading app. It's a distraction-free lens—no bookmarks, no web address bar—a subtle reminder that reading, not web surfing, is the main event.


The Web. The factory-set search tool is Bing; to switch to Google or Yahoo instead, see the note on Note. This choice launches the Fire's full-powered Web browser (Creating and Editing Events), but you still have the handy, bottom-of-the-screen Back button for quick navigation back to your ebook.











Note
If you're serious about searching, you may notice a bug that, alas, as of this writing, has no simple fix. If the word you're interested in is followed by a quotation mark or footnote (...hippo-campus."), there's no way to select only the word itself. No matter how much you try adjusting those selection arrows, you get the whole glob. That puts the kibosh on getting a dictionary definition. It also monkeys with your Web and Wikipedia searches (which, of course, you can perform manually, but who wants to take time doing that?).





Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray



Here's an odd-sounding yet handy feature. About a year ago, Amazon cooked up a kind of visual index to accompany its ebooks. The service debuted on the black-and-white Kindles; now it comes to the Fire. X-Ray gives you a fully linked display of all the people, places, and obscure terms in the book you're reading. And it's even fun to use.







The X-Ray screen lets you see at a glance how often and where a character is mentioned throughout a book. In most cases, each of these items links to a snapshot summary (for characters) or definition (for terms).
How do you use it? Say you're reading A Tale of Two Cities and forget who John Barsad is. Presto, X-Ray serves up a non-plot-spoiling mini-profile ("An English spy") from Amazon-subsidiary Shelfari—a community-powered book review service, kind of like Wikipedia for books. You can use it to jog your memory or fill gaps in your knowledge.







X-Ray isn't the most intuitive feature in the world, so here's a bit more on how to get the most out of it:
To activate X-Ray, tap the middle of the screen on any ebook, and then look up at the Menu bar at the top of the screen. If the X-Ray button is illuminated, you can dive in; if the button is dimmed, X-Ray is not available for that book. The screen morphs from book page to X-Ray mode, displaying a list of any items found on the page you're currently reading. Toggle the scope of what's revealed by switching between the tabs—Page, Chapter, and Book—at top, or narrow the kinds of results that appear by picking from the All, People, and Terms buttons in the next row.
Much more valuable is what happens when you tap an item. Up comes a slick report, including snapshot character summaries and Wikipedia articles for places, events, and so on. Below each listing is a list of snippets showing every place the item gets mentioned throughout the book. Student essay writers rejoice—no more hunting for that obscure character you sort of remember. You get a full dossier on every man, woman, and child in that novel you're cranking through.
Here's a quick guide to what's going on in those gray bars—what the blue means, what the difference is between thick bands and thin lines, and why some ranges are illuminated:



The gray bar spans the book from left to right. The left edge corresponds to the book's first page; the right edge is its ending.


All the blue stuff indicates where a person or thing item is mentioned. Light blue lines or bands show results that occur within the range you're currently displaying. For example, if you tap the Page tab (top of the screen), the light blue line tells you "here, on OfficeSuite, is where these three characters are mentioned."


The other blue bands represent the characters' presence throughout the rest of the book. (Thick blue bands are simply a big chunk of consecutive pages on which the character gets mentioned.)



Now, the bad news. Many, many books don't have X-Ray information available for them. And even for books that are covered, the amount of info you get varies widely. After all, the indexers—the folks who supply content to Shelfari and Wikipedia—are only volunteers. Still, X-Ray is an intriguing example of how ebooks can be more useful than their print counterparts.






Playing Page Designer



Ebooks are a boon to readers with fading eyesight. All it takes is a tap or two to bump up the text's size. Now you've got a large-type edition. The Fire is loaded with ways to customize what you see onscreen. Tap the Menu bar's Aa icon to get a look at your design palette. Here's where you can really tailor your text:



Font size. From microscopic to jumbotronic, these ten settings should satisfy most eyes.


Color mode. Three flavors: black text on a white background; brown on beige; white text on black.


Margins. Your chance to control how much space surrounds the text: Narrow (about a quarter inch), Normal (half inch), Wide (one inch).


Font. Six to choose from: Caecilia, Georgia, Palatino, Baskerville, Helvetica, Lucida. The choice, of course, is yours, but Amazon spent years studying what's most readable and went with Caecilia as its default option.










Screen brightness is another key factor in readability. Studies show that onscreen brightness is best when it matches the room's surrounding light. A really bright screen in an otherwise dark room is murder on your eyes. To turn the backlight up or down, tap once on the middle of the screen. From the top of the screen, pull down the Quick Settings bar, tap Brightness, and then adjust its slider to your liking.

Tip
Reading a heavily illustrated kids book? (One clue: Its only layout option is horizontal. Even if you rotate the Fire vertically, the content doesn't budge.) You can enlarge any text box by tapping it; tap again to shrink it back down to its original size. You may not always need this temporary magnifier, but if the type's extra small, you can use it to help readers-in-training.













Notes and Highlighting



Taking notes and highlighting passages are indispensable tools for some readers (you know who you are). Both are great for flagging an author's most astute points—or spotlighting boneheaded claims. To do either on the Fire:



Select the passage you want to highlight or attach a note to. Start by pressing and holding your finger on the first word you want to select. A magnifying rectangle previews what's beneath your finger (which would otherwise be hard to see). Without pulling your finger off the screen, drag over or down to the last word; a pair of selection triangles surrounds the text. Don't worry if you don't grab exactly what you want; reposition either triangle to lengthen or shorten the selection.









From the pop-up menu that appears, decide whether you want to write a note or add a highlight. Notetakers: After jotting down your thoughts, tap the Save button on the right edge of the text entry box. To get rid of (or edit) a note, tap quickly the blue "there's-a-note-here" icon. From the pop-up box that appears, choose whether to change or delete what you've written. To delete highlights, hold anywhere on the yellow region; a contextual bar sprouts up and the option you want is Delete Highlight.


To review your notes and highlights, call up your ebook's Menu bar (Page Turning and Navigation) and then tap the Notes button. A list appears, showing every annotation you've made. The blue note icon, pinned at the end of any text you've annotated, is another way to get a quick look at your comments. Tap it, and the pop-up box that appears shows your note. Finally, Sharing profiles a web-based repository for all your notes and highlights.







Sharing



If you want others to see what you found note- and highlight-worthy, now you can show them. A simple, if somewhat limited, new feature lets you post Kindle text to Facebook, Twitter, and a dedicated website. It doesn't let you do a whole lot (for example, you still can't email text to whomever you like), but it's a sign that publishers and Amazon are loosening up the controls over what you can do with the books you buy.
Start by selecting a passage, using the method described on the previous page. Pick Share from the pop-up menu and, on the screen that appears, add an optional note. The text you grabbed automatically shows up on a Kindle book website that Amazon has set up for sharing such clips. (The site, http://kindle.amazon.com, also does plenty of other things that book fans may like; the box on Highlights and Notes To Go has the full scoop.) To broadcast the note you wrote to either Facebook or Twitter, plus a link to the shared passage, turn on the "Also share to" checkboxes. Facebook and Twitter sharing require you to be signed in to these accounts on your Fire; My Account explains how to take care of that.

Tip
Change your mind about a passage you shared, or some commentary you added? Tap the tiny x above and to the right of your clip. The "Recently Shared from this Book" list has a record of all your shares; you can get back to that screen by selecting any text and tapping Share from the pop-up menu. You can find the same delete option, plus one that lets you edit your notes, on that Kindle website listed in the previous paragraph.







Bookmarks



Bookmarks are a kind of sidekick to notes and highlights, and they're a snap to add. Tap the center of any page and, in the upper-right corner, tap the gray ribbon (tap again to remove it). To return to any bookmarked location, call up your ebook's Menu bar (Page Turning and Navigation), tap the Notes button, and look for any blue-ribbon icon labeled Bookmark; tap it and you're back to where you inserted it.


GEM IN THE ROUGH: Highlights and Notes To Go
One of the most frustrating aspects of the major ebook systems—Kindle included—are their stingy sharing policies. They don't make it easy to borrow and lend ebooks. But why must publishers keep our own notes chained to these books, when all you want is to use that commentary to write a paper, compose a blog post, or dump into a reading journal? Turns out you can copy notes made on your Kindle, but you have to make a separate trip to the Web. Visit the Amazon Kindle site (http://kindle.amazon.com) and, lo and behold, every single note you've made or passage you've highlighted shows up here. To grab anything, simply select and copy as you would any web page text. It's not the most elegant solution in the world, but it works. A few other fun tricks you might want to try out on this site:



Follow other people. Amazon has supplied a neat tool for peeking over the shoulders of friends and famous people alike—you get to see what books they've read, which ones they want to read, and even the annotations they've made. All this is strictly opt-in, of course: People have to choose to participate, which they (or you) can do by visiting the Your Books section of the Kindle site listed in the previous paragraph. From there, turn on two checkboxes next to the books whose notes you wish to make peekable: "Make Reading Status & Rating Public" and "Public Notes: Make Yours Public." To find someone to follow, on that site's home page, either enter her name in the site's Search box or click either the Twitter or Facebook links in the "Find People You Know" section.


Daily review. Want a periodic refresher of books you've already read? This flashcard-style offering serves up a small portion of any Kindle book you've marked up. What you see on this web page are passages you've highlighted, plus any notes you've made. Dip back into the full book by installing the PC- or Mac-based Kindle software. Clicking the Amazon Kindle site's excerpt takes you directly to the spot in the book where the passage is from.


Track all your books. The Your Books link at the top of the Amazon Kindle site is command central for all books that Amazon knows you're interested in—Kindle and print. It's their nascent version of a book-tracking site (kinda like Goodreads or the Amazon-owned Shelfari). Add titles to this list by using the upper-right Search box to find them. You can also indicate reading status (Read, Reading, Hope to Read, Stopped Reading), rate the book, and decide how much of all this gets shared publicly.























Reading on Multiple Devices



Even before there was Fire, there was sync. Or as Amazon calls it: Whispersync. (As opposed to, what, noisy sync?) Whatever its name, this service is incredibly handy. It works like this: Amazon's servers make sure you're always in the same reading location, regardless of what hardware you're holding. Start reading at sunrise on your BlackBerry, switch over to your Fire during the bus ride, and then sneak in a few pages at work on your Dell laptop.
Behind the scenes, Amazon automatically coordinates your reading location, any notes you make, and any highlights and bookmarks you add. Each device in your fleet needs an Internet connection—and, of course, a copy of the book. To make the latter happen, download the ebook from the Cloud section of the Fire's Books Library, or the same area in any Kindle app you're using. You can also web browse over to Amazon's Manage Your Kindle page (Amazon.com→Your Account→Manage Your Kindle; http://amzn.to/kfmm113) and, from the Actions menu next to any title you've purchased, pick from the "Deliver to my..." list. Next time you launch a Kindle app, the synched copy downloads.
Amazon offers free Kindle reading apps for most computers and gadgets. The full list includes Android-powered phones, BlackBerry devices, iPhones, iPads, iPod Touches, Macs, Windows PCs and phones, and a web-browser tool called Kindle Cloud Reader (download it at: http://amzn.to/kfmm103). And, of course, there's every Kindle device that Amazon makes.

Note
Gadget hoarder alert: Some publishers place a six-device limit on each ebook you buy from Amazon. That is, you can't simultaneously download any Kindle book to more than six different Kindle reading apps or devices. If you get a message warning you've reached that limit, it's time to nix one copy of the ebook from one of your e-reading devices.

All this is great when it works, which is most of the time. But things do, occasionally, get Whisperstuck. That can happen when:



You have no Internet connection. If you take your Fire hiking and read 50 pages in Jane Eyre, how will the Kindle app on your Galaxy Nexus find out about your progress? It won't, at least not until the Fire gets back in WiFi range, at which point a couple things need to happen. First, the Fire's version of Jane Eyre needs to be open so that Whispersync can grab its latest info. And the Nexus needs to be open, too, to ingest those updates. If you're in a rush to switch from one device to the other, it helps to know about the Sync button. Tap it, and you tell Whispersync: "Hey, pal, sync now, please." (In most Kindle apps, look for a pair of arrows chasing each other's tails; on the Fire, pull down the Quick Settings menu from the top of the screen.)


Your kid grabs your Fire and swipes ahead 100 pages or so on your copy of How to Raise Your I.Q. by Eating Gifted Children. Next time you pick up your iPhone it suddenly thinks you've actually read that far—and keeps asking if you want to "Go to the furthest place read?" every time you open any of your Kindle readers. How do you let Whispersync know where you really are? Head to the Manage Your Kindle web page (Bookmarks) and, on the Action menu of the title in question, pick Clear Furthest Page Read. Doing so means that whichever device you use to open the ebook marks the now uniformly recognized furthest page.



Sometimes, you may want all this auto-syncing to stop. Maybe you don't like the idea of Amazon peering over your virtual shoulder as you read. And there's one other rare but real scenario: If you and someone else use the same Amazon account to download copies of a book (you to your Fire, your partner to a Droid, for example), then nix the syncing. That keeps you from jerking each other to the same reading spot.
To turn Whispersync off, use a web browser to log into the Amazon account you used to purchase the book you want to un-sync. Head to Manage Your Kindle→Manage Your Devices and in the Device Synchronization section, under the Actions header, click Turn Off.




Whispersync for Voice



Audiobooks are now full-fledged members of Team Sync—great news for fans of this format. Imagine the convenience: Drive to work listening to Stephen King's latest, then pick up on your lunch break reading the ebook on your Fire. Runners, home cooks, and anyone who listens while showering will also find this a real boon. No fussing over where you left off; the system's got you covered. It all works thanks to a seamless partnership between Amazon's Kindle books and its audiobook subsidiary Audible.com. (Plus a little help from your wallet: You need to pony up extra for the audio edition.) Best of all, these are real, professionally narrated audiobooks.

Note
This service only works for Kindle books, not ebooks you buy from places other than Amazon.

To choreograph this tango, just follow these steps:



Buy the Kindle book. Read, Watch, Listen shows how, if you haven't done that yet. Not every title can perform this audio feat; at launch (Fall 2012) Amazon had 15,000 choices to choose from. See http://bit.ly/kfmm245 for the full list. (Another tipoff: If the book's buying page sports a box saying Activate Immersion Reading, it's good to go; more soon on what that service gets you.) If you've already purchased one of these anointed ebooks, you're ready for step 2.


Add narration. In other words, it's time to buy the audiobook edition. The simplest way to do so is at the same time you buy the ebook. On your Fire, look for the Add Narration button that appears after you've bought the Kindle book.
Prices range from free to, in most cases, $3.95. If you already own the Kindle edition and want to grab its audio companion, go back to the Kindle Store (either on the Fire, as explained on Browsing and Buying, or using a regular computer), and you'll see a similar button.


Start reading...or listening. The choice, of course, is yours, and it's the whole point of the service.
Reading—well, that you already know how to do. (Pop back to Grab a Book for a refresher.)
To listen on your Fire, you have two options—either head to the Kindle app and tap the play button that appears at the bottom of the screen, or crank up the Audiobooks player. How to use that virtual machine is covered starting on Shopping for Audiobooks.










To listen on an iPhone, iPod Touch, or Android phone, just use the free Audible app available on any of those devices.
When you want to switch modes—from listening to reading, say—just stop where you are in the audiobook and open up the ebook. A message pops up, asking if you'd like to advance to the furthest page read; if it doesn't, you can manually prod your device to get there by following Reading on Multiple Devices's directions for nudging your sync.

Tip
Want to test out Whispersync for Voice and see if you like it? Check out the 20 free titles ready and waiting at www.amazon.com/wsv.







Audiobooks



This format has graduated from second-tier status to home page star. Fire owners used to have to download a dedicated audiobook playing app. Now these guys get their own section (in Fire-speak: Library) on the top row, right alongside books, movies, music, and so on. Amazon has essentially sucked into the Fire all of Audible.com's catalog and made it look identical to its other digital media stores (which makes perfect sense given that Amazon is Audible's corporate parent).

Note
Got an existing Audible account? You'll want to link it to your Amazon account (My Account). The payoff? All your previous purchases now appear in the Fire's Audiobooks→Cloud section. Using any web browser, go to https://www.audible.com/acc-merge. There, you'll be asked to enter your current username and password for both Audible and Amazon and then pick a credit card for audiobook purchases.





Shopping for Audiobooks



Wandering the audiobook aisles, you won't lack for choice. It's not just books, but also magazines, comedy sketches, podcasts, and speeches. You can pick from pretty much all the bestsellers, plus oodles of novels, biographies, thrillers, and even old-time radio shows.
The quickest path to purchase is right on your Fire. Head to Audiobooks→Store. Browse using any of the big categories listed (Best Sellers, New & Notable, Celebrity Narrators).







Or enter a specific title in the search box. This box works just like in every other store on the Fire. Tap it, and a keyboard pops up. Start typing what you're looking for, and the Fire suggests matches, which you can either accept, by tapping to select, or keep typing. To search on a term you've entered (as opposed to one of the suggested choices), tap the magnifier glass icon on the right side of the search box. On the results page that appears, you can filter and sort using the Refine pull-down menu, which lets you do things like order the list by when the titles were released or show only titles with at least four-star ratings.







For detailed info on any audiobook, tap its icon. The page that appears is just like any product page you've seen before on Amazon.com. You can play a sample (good for deciding whether you want to spend the next 46 hours and 50 minutes of your listening life with this narrator); read a description from the publisher (the equivalent of book jacket copy); read customer reviews, and so on.
When you're ready to buy, tap the audiobook's title. If you're just testing out audiobooks or only plan on buying a few per year, head for the gray Buy button. Tap it and watch it morph through a couple different labels (Processing Purchase, Listen Now). The download takes place when you touch Listen Now, which also takes you to the Fire's built-in audiobook player.

Note
On every audiobook page, next to the Buy button, lives a shiny orange alternative button saying "Get this Free." What's the catch? Amazon's trying to get you to sign up for an Audible subscription—an option absolutely worth considering if you're an audiobook regular. Plans range from $15 per month (one book a month) to $230 per year (24 books a year). The budget plan includes the one freebie promised by the orange button, and starts you off at $7.50 per month for three months before switching you to the higher rate.

Operating the built-in audiobook player is simple. The usual play/pause button and volume slider are standing by, ready to do their jobs. A sleep timer (Options bar→Menu) turns the book off after anywhere from 15 to 60 minutes, or at the end of the chapter.
To navigate forward or backward, you get a handful of options, as shown on the next page:



30 seconds back. Just to the left of the play/pause button, this guy is great for popping back a half-minute if you get distracted.


The scrubber bar. This thin, yellow and white bar lets you drag its location button to adjust your position in the book. Time stamps on left and right edges indicate time elapsed and time remaining.


The Chapters button. Most publishers chunk up their works into individual chapters; here's where you navigate between them.


Narrator Speed. Attention Chipmunks fans. The turtle and hare controller gets you six voice-speed control options: from half speed (0.5x) all the way to the high-pitched 3x.


Bookmarks. Add as many of these as you like. Tap the bookmark icon to the right of the play/pause button. You can add a note too, if you like, by holding the button down until a notepad pops up. To navigate to any of these bookmarks, tap the Menu icon on the Options bar and choose View Bookmarks.










If you're a fan of the old Audible app, you may be bummed to find that a few features didn't make it onto the new Fire: the fast forward and rewind buttons and the car-friendly button-free mode (whose screen featured large-type navigation options). Unfortunately, the new built-in audiobook player is the only way to play Audible books; the old app got yanked from Amazon's Appstore.

Note
Amazon's text-to-speech service, a weak alternative to Audible, is now part of the Fire's feature lineup. This good-in-a-pinch tool debuted on some of the earlier Kindle hardware. It uses a computerized voice to recite an ebook's contents (assuming the publisher consented; some didn't, hoping audio fans will pony up for the audiobook edition).
There's no comparison between the two renditions. No one will ever mistake Donald Sutherland's narration of Hemingway's The Old Man and the Sea with a stilted silicon-powered voice.






Read, Watch, Listen



If audio- and ebooks had a kid, it'd look something like Amazon's new Immersion Reading feature. Designed as an aid for readers-in-training, it highlights the words onscreen as the audiobook narrator reads.
Immersion Reading is available for any book that comes in both formats. If you already own the ebook, head back to the Kindle bookstore, navigate to the book's buying page, and look for the Add Narration button. Most titles cost $3.95; what you're doing is buying the audiobook version. If you don't own either version, start by buying the ebook and, once you've done so, Amazon presents you with a nice big Add Narration button.
To start the show, open the ebook version and then tap the play button at the bottom of the screen.
For a full list of Immersion Reading-ready titles, check out http://bit.ly/kfmm200. Or, on your Fire, go to the Audiobooks store and tap the Immersion Reading link in the Browse Features section on the right side of the store's front page.

Note
Already own an audiobook and want to unite it with an ebook? Head back to where you bought it—either on the Fire or Audible.com's website—and you'll see a link to the ebook.







Browsing and Buying



Kindle book shopping is simple, fun, and addictive. The free samples alone almost justify the cost of buying a low-end $69 Kindle or maybe even a Fire. You get the first five percent or so of any book, free to download and peruse. Back in olden times, you had to trundle off to the library or your local bookshop. Now you can browse a wide selection of books wherever you have WiFi. You're only a hard-to-resist tap of the Buy button away—one that requires no confrontation with cash or credit card. No wonder Amazon gives you so many ways to do it:



From the Fire. In the Books Library, tap the Store link. The page you see is topped by a horizontally swipeable "Recommended for You" list. And then, below that, a collection of ever-changing spotlights: groupings like Best Sellers, Monthly Deals Under $4, and Editors' Picks. On the right side of the main screen, Popular Categories gets you Amazon's 10 main book sections: Biographies & Memoirs; History; Literary Fiction; and so on.








Tip
To see the full category list (including less popular sections like Cooking, Reference, Computer & Internet), you need to dig a little deeper. On the Options bar, tap Menu→Browse; on the screen that appears, tap Refine (upper-right corner) and then Category. Now you're looking at every aisle in the Kindle Bookstore.

Touch any title to see a page dedicated to it. You see the same information as on Amazon.com: a Buy button, "Try a Sample," a summary of the book, customer reviews, and, way down at the bottom of the screen, Product Details (things like release date, publisher, file size, and print length).







Those personal recommendations don't always match your actual interests. Sometimes a recent buying spree—for your eight-year-old niece's birthday, say—can skew the results. To nudge things in the right direction, pay a visit to Amazon's Kindle book-specific "Recommended for You" web page. (Start out on the front page of the Kindle eBooks section and, halfway down the left edge, you'll see Your Kindle Recommendations.) A list offers ebook suggestions, each of which you can mark as "I own it" or "Not interested," or add a 1- to 5-star rating. For deep-tissue adjustments, click the "Fix this" link; the page that appears shows the previous purchases you made that influenced this suggestion. Next to each of these titles you can turn on checkboxes for "This was a gift" and "Don't use for recommendations."

Tip
Tucked on the left side of your Amazon-wide Improve Your Recommendations page (that is, the one that controls all the suggestions you get), you can turn on a checkbox next to "Show Amazon book recommendations as Kindle editions when possible." To get to that über-improvement page, click the customized-with-your-name link on the upper-left corner of Amazon's home page (Susie's Amazon.com, for example); the link you want is mid-screen, about two inches down from the top of your browser. Now when you visit Amazon from any computer, the books will be electronic whenever those editions exist.










From any web browser. The Kindle Books section is a pop-up menu away from Amazon's home page. Under the Shop By Department header, go to Kindle→Kindle Books (or head straight to http://amzn.to/kfmm105). The top-level categories alone are enough to keep a taxonomer employed full-time. Way too many to list here, but beyond the obvious (Fiction, Nonfiction, Advice), some groupings that might be worth a quick visit: Free Collections, 100 Books for $3.99 or Less, and the Kindle Daily Deal. Sign up for an email (http://amzn.to/kfmm108) to hear about the latter, and you'll get the scoop on some fairly steep discounts.




Note
It's possible to buy or download free ebooks from a few other sources, though Amazon doesn't do anything to make the process easy. The files must be free from copyright protection and appear in one of the Fire's accepted file formats (.txt, .mobi, and .doc are the most popular; see http://amzn.to/kfmm133 for the full list). This is great news for fans of Project Gutenberg (www.gutenberg.org), the decades-old free ebook repository—not to mention anyone who buys ebooks directly from this book's publisher, O'Reilly Media. As for the hard part: Getting the files onto your Fire is a pain, and the books don't even end up in the Books Library. They get shelved in Docs, which is the subject of Chapter 4. That's also where you can learn all about these ebook shuttling maneuvers.

Any books you buy from Amazon appear in your Fire's Books Library. As with any other Fire media collection, the titles here are divvied up between the ones stored up on Amazon's servers and those you've downloaded to the Fire. Either bucket can be displayed in two ways: as book cover icons on a shelf (Grid view) or as a list of titles and tiny icons (List view). Switch between these two looks by heading to Options bar→Menu and picking the one you want. (One advantage of List view: A percentage indicator shows how far along you are in every title in your collection.)

Tip
Comic book fans will definitely want to check out Comixology's free Comics app. These guys have been putting picture/prose mashups on the touchscreen for more than five years. Their catalog is deep, with plenty of choices from brands like DC Comics and even a few dozen graphic novels. They've also designed a nifty "guided mode" that pushes to center screen one panel after another, making the print page easier to read on the small screen.













Borrowing and Lending



Many publishers view ebook lending with about as much enthusiasm as they have for video games. Rife with killers and mortal threats, the both of them. And, to be fair, this wariness has a certain logic. If all Kindle owners could borrow as many ebooks as they wanted, why would anyone ever buy an ebook? That day will likely never come, thanks to the aforementioned fear. But there are a couple of nascent and fairly useful sharing initiatives available for Fire owners:



Loan this title. You lend out your print books all the time. Why not do the same with your Kindle books? You can...sorta...sometimes. First, the publisher of the book in question needs to deem the title loan-eligible. If that's the case (and often it's not), you can lend the title to a Kindle-using pal for 14 days. During that time, your own access to the book is revoked, and you can only lend each book once. To see whether all these stars align, head over to Amazon.com and drill down to Your Account→Manage Your Kindle→Your Kindle Library. (On the Fire, you can reach the same point by starting from the Kindle Store, tapping the Options bar's Menu icon, and choosing Manage Your Kindle.) Next to each title you've purchased, in the Actions pop-up menu, look for the "Loan this title" option. If it's there, loan away. If it's not, you can't.









Kindle Owners Lending Library. Another hobbled but slightly more interesting program arrived around the time of the first Fire's release. Available only to Amazon Prime subscribers (OfficeSuite), this program lets you check out one Kindle book per month and keep it as long as you like. On the first day of the next month, you're free to borrow again as long as you've "returned" the book you previously checked out. Onscreen prompts when checking out the new book explain what you need to do. Or do so manually by picking "Return this book" from the Your Kindle Library page mentioned in the previous point. You won't find books from all the big-name publishers, but there are a smattering of New York Times bestsellers on the list and—get this—all seven Harry Potter books. To do some virtual borrowing, inside the Fire's Books library, tap Store→Kindle Owners' Lending Library. On the page that appears, click the upper-right Refine button to home in on areas you like.

Note
If you take notes or make highlights in a borrowed book, Amazon will save them for you, storing them in perpetuity on Amazon's Kindle annotation storage site (Bookmarks). Should you ever decide to buy the book, everything will get tacked onto your purchase.










Public library ebooks. Library fans rejoiced when Amazon announced this service. It lets you borrow Kindle-compatible ebooks from more than 11,000 public library websites. You'll need an account to log into your local library's site (which uses a company called Overdrive to participate in the program). Find the book you want, check it out (periods range from 7 to 21 days), and you get whisked off to an Amazon page for the book that lets you decide which Kindle to deliver the book to. After picking your Fire from the "Deliver to" menu, click the "Get library book" button. Back at your Fire, tap Settings→Sync, and the title will be waiting for you in the Device tab of the Books Library.



For now, these perks are just that: frills that might complement your book buying appetite, but won't give you the satisfied feeling you get from an armful of library books.














Chapter 3. The Newsstand










AS YOU SAW IN the previous chapter, ebooks look great on the Fire. Later in this book, you'll see how movies shrink gracefully from silver- to touchscreen. But magazines and newspapers are a mixed bag. The good news: thanks to Amazon's growing clout as an e-power, the company has signed deals with all the biggies, including: Condé Nast (publisher of Vanity Fair, The New Yorker, and many others), the New York Times, National Geographic—the list is huge. The bad news: trying to cram a full-sized print page onto 7-inch displays, which are better suited for books and Angry Birds, isn't always a great success.
The worst offenders are the magazines, most of which don't even try to rejigger their layouts; you end up with a whole lot of panning and zooming. Big screen model owners, of course, are spared this nuisance; the 8.9-inch display requires only a modest amount of shrinkage. Reading digital replicas of print periodicals on these devices is quite pleasing.
Most newspapers, to their credit, sidestep this problem of trying to squeeze their massively wide selves onto any of the Fire's screen sizes. Instead, they ditch all fancy formatting and deliver plain text plus a few pictures. On an early-generation Kindle—the kind with the black-and-white screen—this formula made sense. It even helped de-gunk ad clutter so readers could focus on articles. But the Fire has illuminated all that's out there on the technicolor Web. It's like being stuck with a radio when all your neighbors have color TVs.
Consider the Newsstand, then, an area where the Fire flickers a bit dimly. To be fair, it's not really Amazon's fault. Until periodical publishers redesign their titles for these new screen sizes, you can either make do with these sub-par pickings or choose not to. If you're determined to save some trees and read magazines and newspapers on the Fire, this chapter shows you how to make the most of what's out there.




Apps vs. Kindle Editions



Like any newsstand, the Fire gives you lots of choices. Before grabbing that first pile of publications, here's what you need to know about the two main format flavors.










Apps. These custom-built readers are designed especially for the Fire. Publishers and their programming teams invest lots of time and money into making these things look and work the way they want them to. For example, The New Yorker isn't a shrunken snapshot of the print magazine. Instead, designers lay out the whole issue anew to fit your mid-sized screen. They even toss in some digital-only treats: poets reading their work, tappable timelines, video extras. Navigation also gets special treatment, giving you app-style freedom to swipe between articles or scroll down a table of contents. This category is filled mainly with titles from magazine moguls Condé Nast and Time, Inc. (Sports Illustrated, People). USA Today also has a nice entry in this category. Other than that, the pickings are slim.


Kindle editions. Design options here are much more limited. Basically, you can toggle between two views. The first, Page View, shrinks a print magazine replica and stuffs it onto your Fire. As mentioned earlier, this approach entails one big tradeoff for 7-inch Fire owners: lots of panning and zooming to view what was originally meant for a normal-sized print page. Option two—Text View—comes at the problem from a different angle: It strips out all the formatting and leaves you with words plus some oddly positioned graphics. If you believe that half the fun of magazines are those intricate, graphic-heavy layouts, you're in for a letdown. Infographics with their pictures lopped off, for example, are usually just clunky-looking lists. Some Kindle editions, including most newspapers, don't offer Page View; if that's the case, you won't see the special Page View Enabled note next to the publication's title.















Reading and Navigation



One nice thing about the Kindle edition's design constraints is that all publications that use this format work the same way. Once you understand how to skim pages, browse articles, and flip between Page and Text view, you're set for every periodical that uses this approach. What follows is a quick tour on how to do all that.

Note
Since every app gets its own design and navigation system, it's tough to offer advice on how to read these things. Sure, the usual "tap the right edge to see the next page" almost always works. But beyond that, different publishers use different designs for the table of contents, skimming pages, and so on. Fortunately, two big software companies power the majority of magazine apps available in these early days of the Fire. Two Ways to Navigate Apps shows you how they work.





Page View: A Print Magazine Replica



Navigating a magazine in Page View mode gives you a chance to use all your favorite Fire gestures. Tap anywhere on the right edge to turn the page; the left edge flips you back. Swipe in either direction, anywhere on the page, to move forward (right-to-left) or backward (left-to-right). Spread your fingers to zoom in; when zoomed in, pan around by holding and dragging one finger around. Pinch to return to normal magnification. Tap the center of the screen to summon the Options bar and up pops a slew of similar choices:



Page browser. A horizontally swipeable carousel of page miniatures, ideal for speedy visual browsing. It's not easy to see details, but usually there's enough to decide whether you want to see what's on that page. To dive in, tap the mini version; tap again on the actual page to dismiss the browser.


"Page curl" control. Don't like the lifting and twisting graphics effect each time you turn a page? The Aa icon launches an On/Off menu to disable this feature.


The table of contents. Represented by the familiar bullet list icon. Tap it for a vertically scrolling list of articles, often divided by publication section. Tap to select an article, or tap the Back button on the Options bar to dismiss it.


Search tool. The magnifier glass in the lower-right corner gets you a top-of-screen search oval and a keyboard. Enter the word or phrase you're looking for, tap the Go button, and a list of results shows up.










Tired of pinching, tapping, and squinting? Toggle over to Text View by double tapping the page (if nothing happens, it means Text View of this page isn't offered, which happens, for example, if the page is an ad).





Text View: Better Text Reading



In this mode, reading newspapers and magazines is much the same as reading ebooks—Grab a Book in the previous chapter has the full rundown. The short version: Tap the right edge to move forward, the left edge to move back, and the middle of the screen for the Options bar, where you can do things like pick from a table of contents list or adjust font size and background style. One Newsstand-only difference: Middle-screen taps bring up an article navigator; tap either of its arrows (left or right edge, bottom of the screen) to move between articles in a publication.












Two Ways to Navigate Apps



Two big software companies design the majority of magazine apps you see today: Adobe and WoodWing. Their tools do three things well: Accommodate the multimedia editions everyone wants to add; work well with the publisher's existing print operations (still where they earn their bread and butter); and give readers an easy way to navigate these new digital offerings. You won't see either firm's name mentioned anywhere in these apps, but their programming handiwork is what you're using. Here's a quick roundup of the two platforms' key features.




Adobe



Adobe's magazine technology is the choice of high-profile publications like The New Yorker, Wired, Vanity Fair, Glamour, GQ, Self, and Allure. Think of the overall layout as a combo vertical and horizontal layout. Swipe left or right to move between articles (and ads). Scroll up and down to peruse an individual piece.
Tap anywhere on the middle of the screen to show the top-row Menu bar. There you'll see a lineup of buttons (left to right): library (an archive page where you can download past issues); a Back arrow (return to the last article you were reading); a vertical table of contents (a scrollable list of every article in the issue); a star (for saving favorites); and a horizontal TOC (a swipeable layout of every article and ad from front page to legalese).















Tip
Tap the middle of the screen to summon the page slider (at bottom), and then hold your finger on it and move in either direction to see miniature previews of whatever page you'll land on when you remove your finger.






WoodWing



This firm created the software behind the digital editions of Sports Illustrated, People, Time, Entertainment Weekly, and Real Simple. Tap anywhere on the middle of the screen to summon a Menu bar. You then get a row of buttons on the top of the screen: Magazine (for back issues), Cover, Contents, and Page Viewer. The Contents button gets you a vertically scrollable, hyperlinked list to every item in the issue. Page Viewer produces a row of miniature page snapshots, each of which you can tap to view the page in full.
Touch the middle of any page to dismiss this entire navigational apparatus and use the Fire's swipe left/swipe right gestures to move through the issue page by page.
Finally, forget about nap time and multitasking while you're downloading new issues. If your Fire goes to sleep or you switch out of the app and start emailing or browsing the Web, your issue stops mid-stream. Tap the resume arrows on the issue cover to pick up where you left off.














Browsing and Buying



The easiest way to visit the Newsstand is on the Fire itself. On the home screen, tap the Newsstand link. The screen shows your previously purchased Kindle edition titles. Back issues or purchases you've made online but haven't yet downloaded await in the Cloud tab.

Note
You're also free to shop directly on Amazon's website, which has its own Newsstand section (Amazon.com→Kindle→Newsstand; http://amzn.to/kfmm114). It's useful for impulse buys when you're not near your Fire. Just be sure, on the publication's "Deliver to" menu, to pick your Fire from the device list.










FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTION: Subscriptions and Digital Editions


I subscribe to the New York Times digital edition. Does that get me the Kindle edition?





Sorry, no. And the Times is not alone here. Many publications—including the New York Review of Books, The Atlantic, and The Boston Globe—offer digital subscriptions that don't include separate access to the Kindle version. Particulars vary but one common scenario is what the Times does: Offer a complex mish-mash of print/app/web access options, none of which get you the Kindle edition. One argument might be: Why would you want it? All three of those versions contain far more content than the Kindle edition. But one nice thing about the Kindle edition is its auto-delivery feature (Browsing and Buying), which other digital versions usually don't offer. That all said, if you spring for the Times Kindle edition, you get a perk on the other side of the fence: free range of the paper's website.
Now for the good news. About two dozen publications do offer complementary Kindle edition access to their print subscribers. Popular titles include TV Guide, Fast Company, Newsweek, and Star. Check out the full list at http://bit.ly/kfmm201; that page also has instructions on how to activate the Kindle version of an existing print subscription.
Same goes for some publications and their magazine apps (The New Yorker, Real Simple, Sports Illustrated, and some of the others you read about earlier). Check the app's description page in the Newsstand store if you're a print subscriber; you may get the app edition as a bonus.

To start shopping, tap the Newsstand's upper-right Store link. A scrolling list groups choices by category: Featured Magazines, Sports, Magazines Under $1.99, and so on. To browse magazines or newspapers only, tap those dedicated links on the right side of the page. Filter out sub-categories you don't want, or focus on those you do, by tapping the Refine button.







As you poke around, notice how each publication clues you into its format with a tagline: "Magazine - Page View Enabled," "Magazine," and "Newspaper" get you Kindle editions (the latter two versions in Text View only). Any publication tagged as an App is—you guessed it—an app.
Most publications let you either buy single issues or subscriptions. The latter come with either 14- or 30-day free trials; if you change your mind, head to the Subscription Settings on Amazon.com (Your Account→Manage Your Kindle→Subscription Settings) and, from the Actions menu next to the publication's name, choose "Cancel subscription."

Tip
Would you actually answer "yes" to the question "Use name and billing address for marketing purposes?" Well, that's what Amazon's magazine industry dealmakers have chosen for you. It's right there on the Subscription Settings page. You can opt out by clicking "Edit" and, from the pop-up window, turning off the "Name and billing address" checkbox. Leave "E-mail address" unchecked, and then turn on one of the greatest checkbox options ever given to magazine-reading kind: "Use these settings for future newspaper and magazine purchases." Yesssss!








One nice subscription perk: Each issue gets delivered as soon as it's ready. Imagine waking up at 6:00 a.m. and finding your digital copy of The Beacon-News loaded up and ready to read. If your Fire isn't in WiFi range, you get the issue the next time you connect.





















Chapter 4. Documents and Spreadsheets










EVEN BACK IN ITS early, steam-powered days, the Kindle filled students and businesspeople with hope: That it could store and display a personal document collection. Fantasies of a paper-free life took hold. Amazon helped things along with a clever file shuttling system (via email or USB cable) that helped with transfer chores. Problem was those pokey eInk screens. They couldn't handle much more than basic text. And you certainly couldn't edit documents on the Kindle—much less create them from scratch. But the Fire's gorgeous screen and its document-slinging apps have restored hope. Now it's not only possible to turn your Kindle into a virtual briefcase, it may become part of your everyday routine.
You have three different ways to get the job done. Each has its own set of pros and cons:



The Fire's built-in Docs Library. Amazon chose to give this tool home-screen billing—and with good reason. It's free, easy to use, and, if all you need to do is tote around and scroll through a PDF or Word file every so often, just right. Load your documents either by email, USB file transfer, or best of all, a nifty Mac- or PC-based utility. Reading works just as it does with Kindle ebooks. If all this sounds good, see the next section for full details.


Third-party apps. Need your mobile reading machine to do more? Perhaps you want to view and edit a Word file, tweak that Excel spreadsheet or PowerPoint presentation as you're heading to the big meeting, or add a new chapter to your Lady Gaga vampire novel. Time to enlist the services of a specialized app. Three of the biggest names in this realm—Documents to Go, Quickoffice Pro, and OfficeSuite—are ready to help. You get all the Docs Library's uploading options, plus the ability to pull from and save to online storage services like Dropbox and Google Drive. You can even install a computer-based utility to keep the Fire's files in sync with, say, your laptop. More info on how to make all this happen is on Third-Party Apps.









Web-based tools. There are a number of competitors in this world (Google Drive, Microsoft's Office 365, Zoho). Each lets you store, compose, and edit Office-like files from just about any web browser...emphasis on "just about." You can get these guys working on the Fire, but the results ain't always pretty. Among the problems you'll encounter are missing menu choices and toolbar buttons (Google Docs) and a crashing web browser (Zoho). Best to wait till these or other developers release apps that show up in Amazon's Android Appstore.







The Built-in Docs Library



Before getting into details of how to use Fire's own little library, consider what you might want to store here. A typical collection could include recipes, directions, user manuals, long web articles, free ebooks (downloaded from a site like Project Gutenberg; www.gutenberg.org). Notice a theme here? Everything's read-only. That is, these are documents you want to peruse but won't need to edit. The Docs viewer is about just that—looking. No copying text, no emailing files. Except for basic note-making and highlighting, the Docs viewer is an eyes-only, hands-off affair.








Note
If you spot any similarity between how your files look here and the way Kindle ebooks appear on the Fire, it's because both use much the same internal viewing software.





Adding and Reading Documents



A host of file formats are welcome to this party. From the word processing world, you can open the door for Microsoft Word (.doc and .docx), plain text (.txt), and Rich Text Format (.rtf). Image formats that are okay include the three biggies (JPEG, GIF, and PNG), plus BMP (an old and not very popular option). Ebooks can come dressed in either main Kindle format: MOBI or AZW. Bummer for ebook mavens: EPUB—the most widely used format—is a no-go. You can also send finished web pages (.html or .htm) or, as mentioned earlier, everyone's favorite universal format: the PDF.

Note
RTF documents, which you can create in Word or any number of other text programs, let you use slightly more complex formatting than plain ol' text files.

Now that you know who's allowed in, here's how to get what you want onto the Fire:



By email. Every Fire gets its own email address. Lonely gadget lovers can use it to send their Fire love notes, but most people will want to send actual files. To see your Fire's unique email address, tap the Docs Library; the address is at the top of the screen. However, no one can send anything to that address without your authorization—not even you. That's how Amazon protects your Fire from spam, should this dedicated email address get into the wrong hands. To register approved senders, go to Personal Document Settings on Amazon.com's Manage Your Kindle page (http://amzn.to/kfmm115). Below the Approved Personal Document E-mail List, click "Add a new approved e-mail address." (You can give the OK to as many senders as you like.)










The Personal Docs Settings page is also where you can change the Fire's email address. While you're here, also think about turning on Personal Document Archiving. If you've got other Kindle gadgets or apps, doing so enables you to download your emailed documents to those, too.
Once all that's in place, attach and email your Fire one or more files (up to a max of 25 per email). What you sent should show up (Docs→Cloud) after a few minutes. If you're getting antsy, pull down the Quick Settings bar (The Home Screen) and hit its Sync button. Some additional restrictions to keep in mind: No individual file can be larger than 50 MB, and you can't email a file to more than 15 Kindles at a time.

Tip
A cool experimental feature lets you strip out the formatting from a PDF and end up with plain text only. That way, you can search the text and adjust its font size, for example. Type Convert in the subject line of any PDF you send. Converter beware: The results are often messy.




From computer to Fire. The next section has the details on shuttling files from one device to the other.



Looking at what's in your Docs Library is a snap, especially if you've ever read a Kindle ebook. All the same gestures (tap the right margin to turn the page, tap and hold text to add a note or highlight, and so on) work here. If you need an introduction—or a refresher—pop back to Notes and Highlighting.

Tip
Got a file in your Docs Library that you want extra quick access to? On the Docs main screen, tap, hold, and touch any item and then pick "Add to Favorites" from the pop-up menu. Now you've got a home screen shortcut to this file. From the same menu you can also delete the file from your Fire or email it (Composing a Message).






Transferring Files from Your Computer



Amazon gives you a simple way to get files from your computer to your Kindle. Install Amazon Cloud Drive—a free program for Mac and Windows. This easy-to-use tool lets you whisk any document off your desktop machine or laptop and up onto Amazon's Cloud Drive (Cloud vs. Device). From there you're just a tap and a download away from sucking it down onto your Fire.

Note
The same procedure works for moving photos and home videos, so consider bookmarking this section, even if you don't think you'll use it to move documents.

You start the process on your computer by heading to www.amazon.com/CloudDrive; click Install Cloud Drive and then follow the simple instructions on the page that appears.
Once Cloud Drive is installed, launch it. In the sign-in window, enter your Amazon.com username and password. A window appears sporting the invitation: "Drag files and folders here." To view what you just uploaded on the Fire, go to Docs→Cloud and download any files you want. That's all there is to it.
A few tips and tricks on how to get the most out of this utility:



Quick uploads. From anywhere on your computer (on the Desktop or within a folder), Ctrl-click (⌘-click) a file or folder and, from the pop-up menu, choose "Send to"→Amazon Cloud Drive. (On the Mac, you'll see Services→"Upload to Amazon Cloud Drive").


Menu- and Taskbar shortcuts. On a Mac, you'll notice a tiny new menulet in the top row of your screen. Pull it down and choose Open Upload Window to launch the drag-and-drop window. Other options in this pull-down menu include a tool for uploading your iPhoto collection, changing the download folder location (for when you want to pull a file in the other direction), and a shortcut to viewing your Cloud Drive in a Web browser. Windows folks get the same options, save for the iPhoto tricks; head to the Taskbar for your Cloud controller.




Tip
Drag any file onto the menulet or Taskbar icon, and it gets sent Cloudward pronto.












Sideloading



Sideloading is what geeks call the process of plugging a Fire into a Mac or PC and then shuttling ebooks, Word files, or PDFs back and forth.
First, you need a cable to connect the two machines. The cable you want is a special flavor of USB: namely, one with a micro B plug. That's the same one that comes with recent model Kindles and with other gadgets like BlackBerry phones. Don't mistake this cord with its cousin, the mini B USB, which is almost, but not quite, as tiny.

Note
Amazon apparently didn't think most folks would want to sideload. In early Kindle models, they didn't even include the USB cable. If you need to buy a cable, here's one well-reviewed model:http://amzn.to/kfmm135.

Also, you may need to download a free helper program called Android File Transfer. If you have a Windows PC running the XP operating system, or a Mac of any stripe, you can't sideload without installing this software. Go to http://kindle.com/support/downloads and step through some quick installation instructions. If you're running Windows 7 or later, go straight to these steps:



Connect the Fire to a computer. Plug one end of the cable into the Fire and the other into a USB port on your computer. The Fire appears on your desktop (name: KINDLE) or wherever your system displays plugged-in flash or external drives. If you're using the Android File Transfer utility, a window opens showing the Fire and all its internal folders.









Move files from your computer to the Fire. On the Fire, the folder you're heading for is called Documents. (Following these steps to sideload tunes or visual material? Pick the folder that matches your content: Music, Pictures, or Video.) Drag your files from the computer to whichever Fire folder you've just opened.


Disconnect the Fire. Unplug the cable from both machines. Power up or wake your Fire as you normally would (Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours) and then head to whichever library holds your newly added items; they'll be waiting for you in the Device portion of Docs, Music, and so on.










Third-Party Apps



One of the main raps against the Fire is that it's only good for consuming content. Tasks like reading an ebook, watching a TV show, or browsing email are fine—even fun. But are you really going to use its virtual keyboard to create anything? If you're like most Fire fans, the answer is probably not. But if you're a mobile device-loving road warrior, the desire may be there.
To be sure, it's not the simplest thing in the world to compose long documents using the three tools—Documents to Go, Quickoffice, and OfficeSuite—profiled in this section. First, get yourself a Bluetooth external keyboards and pair it with your Fire as described on Connecting Bluetooth Devices. The onscreen keyboard doesn't lend itself to tapping out a novel. But if you've ever wished to leave your five-pound laptop behind for that day trip or overnight, this fleet of file-editing apps is encouraging news. These three apps can be surprisingly powerful for viewing, editing, sharing, and even creating documents from scratch. Each app may be missing a feature or two, but keep reading, and you're likely to find one that matches your needs.
All three apps handle most Office 101 skills. In the word processing utilities, you get undo/redo; zoomable views (good for increasing onscreen legibility without changing the text's font size); bullet and numbered lists; a handful of font choices; and basic styling (italics, bold, paragraph alignment). With spreadsheets, you can create and navigate between multiple worksheets; format cell number style (currency, date, time); pick from a large catalog of ready-to-use functions (AVERAGE, COUNTIF, LOOKUP); and add rows and columns. The PowerPoint stand-ins are the most limited, at least in terms of features shared by all three apps. Every one in the trio lets you view presentations made on a computer, but don't count on extremely sophisticated formatting. Fancy builds and transitions don't show up on the Fire.
Opening and emailing files work much the same way in all three apps, too. You can email files to yourself and then, in whichever app you use for that task, tap the message's Open button and pick the Office-viewing app you want to use to open the attachment. If you transfer a file from your computer to your Fire (as described on Transferring Files from Your Computer), you need only to navigate in the Office-viewing app to whichever folder you stashed your file in. To move files in the other direction—that is, email them off your Fire—simply add an attachment in your email app of choice; a pop-up menu lets you pick the file.

Tip
If you're using Amazon Cloud Drive to move files onto your Fire, the folder in which these files are stored isn't the most intuitively named choice in the world. After launching whichever Office app you use, navigate to: Android→Data→com.amazon.zico→files, or use the app's search tool to hunt for the file by name.

On the other hand, the apps vary somewhat in their willingness to interact with online storage services like Google Drive and Dropbox. So-called Cloud-based offerings like these can be supremely useful for big travelers and those who move between multiple computers, smartphones, and tablets. You never have to worry about where the latest version is—it's always stored online.
One final similarity worth mentioning: All three apps come in cheap (sometimes free) and expensive versions. The cheap kind gets you the ability to view, but not create or edit, a file. For that, you need to pony up for the more expensive edition.




Documents to Go



Documents to Go's big advantage is its unique desktop companion software. Install the free utility on a regular computer—Windows-only, alas—and you're a sync-button push away from mirror-image files on both your Fire and any of your regular computers. But an even bigger draw is how simple and intuitive this app is. Pretty much every icon and menu choice is dead simple to discern and operate. For an app that you may dip into every couple of weeks, not having to pause and figure things out is probably worth the price of admission.







That's not to say Documents to Go is underpowered. It meets most needs, starting with the ability to create, edit, and view Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files (both the old generation file types—.doc, .xls, .ppt—and the newer editions with an "x" at the end of their file extensions). A PDF reader is also part of the lineup. Other special talents worth noting: In Word you can create and view others' comments, modify line spacing, create tables, and view word count. You can also tap into any files you've stored up in Google Docs—and create new ones on the Fire.





Quickoffice










Quickoffice Pro earns an "A" for "works and plays well with others." It's a snap to tap into online file storage services like Google Drive, Dropbox, Box.net, SugarSync—the list goes on. So if you're into this increasingly popular method of file storage and sharing, you may have found your match. Another, slightly more quirky perk: text recital, which does just what it suggests, using a slightly grating computer voice to read a document aloud.
A powerful find-and-replace tool (in Word and Excel) is a nice helper. Quickoffice's PowerPoint design skills are also top-notch. (Though, again, reality-check time: No transitions or builds will show up on the small screen.) You get more slide design tools than the other two apps, including ready-to-use page layout templates. You can also add circles, arrows, and lines. One downside: Many of the toolbar icons don't look much like their underlying tool—and they have no identifying text labels. If you don't use the app frequently, you may get frustrated relearning the toolbar each time.





OfficeSuite










This app is the best option for Excel jockeys. You get a full complement of chart-creating tools (column, bar, pie, and area) and smoothest-in-class speed for switching between worksheets. PowerPoint's not too shabby either. Notes are visible if you want 'em, and a Play button lets you put the slides on auto-advance (Quickoffice has this feature, too). If you need to create a slideshow on your Fire, you can pick from 10 templates, each of which include background art. Nothing fancy, but these visuals may make you appear more prepared. Who said you can't use the Fire as a content-creation machine?

Tip
Need to print straight from your Fire? There's an awesome, albeit pricey, app that does just that—if you've got a WiFi or network-connected printer. Called PrinterShare Mobile Print, it'll cost you $12.95 but is worth every penny if you're traveling without a laptop.
















Part II. Watching and Listening






Chapter 5


Chapter 6


Chapter 7















Chapter 5. Watching TV and Movies










IF YOU'VE GOT A kid or commute in your life, you'll love the Fire's talents as a video jukebox. With its growing lineup of mainstream TV shows and movies, Amazon is giving Netflix and Apple a reason to look over their shoulders. It's all part of Jeff Bezos's master plan to turn what began as an online bookselling site into something much bigger. He's also fixing to put the competitive scare into your local cable company. Consider, for example, what's playing on your local Fireplex:



TV shows. Networks big and small have signed on—everyone from ABC to VH1, and most of the alphabet in between. BBC, CBS, and Comedy Central are among those who've licensed at least a decent chunk of their catalog. All told, you have about 10,000 shows to pick from, most of which you can buy; some are available for rent.


Movies. The lineup here is much bigger—you can choose from about 55,000 flicks. Sure, some are straight from the discount bin, but there are also plenty of A-list options featuring big name stars and directors. Rent or buy, the choice is yours.


Prime Instant Videos. Here's where Amazon gets really clever. Subscribing to the $79-a-year free-shipping service gets you unlimited, commercial-free access to a library of 15,000 TV shows and movies. Everything here gets streamed. You can't download any of these files, so it's not a substitute for the in-flight movie. But it's a huge addition to your living room lineup.



This last category may turn out to be Amazon's biggest lure—especially for those thinking about signing up for (or renewing) a Netflix subscription. It may even siphon off a few million potential iPad buyers, thanks to how it stocks any Fire with an incredibly large collection of things to watch. Add in the clever new X-Ray for Movies feature—tap the screen to learn more about cast and crew (X-Ray for movies)—and you can see why this show is starting to attract a crowd.

Note
Since mid-2011, Amazon has been aggressively inking deals to bulk up its video catalog. By the time you read this page, the actual number of titles available will surely be larger than what's listed above. Check http://amzn.to/kfmm117 for the latest lineup.



UP TO SPEED: Now Playing on Amazon Prime: TV Shows, Movies, Ebooks
One way to get lots of stuff on your Fire requires no downloading whatsoever. Amazon's $79 per year Prime service is morphing from a free shipping proposition—all-you-can-order, two-day deliveries—into a well-stocked media buffet. Amazon keeps adding deal sweeteners aimed especially at its new tablet owners. Most attractive is the Prime Instant Video service. The heart of the deal is that Prime subscribers get streaming access to a growing library of 10,000-plus TV shows and movies. None of these movies are the latest releases, but there's enough that you'll likely find something worth watching. Another new Prime subscriber benefit: ebook library lending. Once a month you get to pick from a small but decent list of lendable ebooks. Keep each one for as long as you like, and 30 days later you're free to check out a new title (see Borrowing and Lending for details). Amazon's hoping to lure at least a few Fire fence-sitters by tossing in a month of Prime for free to any new device owner.
Quick caveat for Prime veterans: These perks only go to those individuals who fork over the $79 annual fee. That means anyone who enjoys free Prime shipping thanks to programs like Amazon Mom, Amazon Student, or even because they live under the same roof as a paying Prime member—all those folks are out of luck. No Prime media freebies for their Fires unless they pay their own $79.





Browsing and Downloading



Finding something to watch on your Fire is easier than navigating that 500-channel grid prison most TVs confront you with. On the Fire's home screen, tap the Videos Library and, if it's not yet selected, head into the upper-right Store link. Here you see a shelf full of rows: featured TV shows and movies; Prime Instant Video; Your Watchlist (titles that you've flagged); For the Kids; and so on.
Each of these buckets gets its own horizontally swipeable row and a "See more" link for deep dives. On the "See more" screen, the listings are chunked into categories to make it easier to find the type of thing you feel like watching. If you're in TV-land, for example, you get top-level sections for Popular TV Shows, Latest TV Episodes, Editor's Picks, All Genres, and so on. The choices here vary based on whether you're looking at movies or TV shows. Most of these sections are self-explanatory, but four in particular are worth paying a regular visit to:

Tip
Show or hide Prime choices by toggling between those two adjacent tabs—Prime and All—on the top of most higher-level browsing pages in the Store. Tap Prime, for example, and the only thing you'll see are Prime freebies.











Recently Added. You won't get what's opening at your local cinema this weekend, of course. But this section is a reliable way to track what's emerging from Hollywood's staggered release chute (followed by theaters, then DVD releases, then cable, and so on).

Tip
Another way to keep an eye on the new release radar: Sign up for one of the periodic newsletters that Amazon sends out. Head to Amazon.com's Communications page (open the Your Account link using any web browser and, in the Settings section, choose "E-mail Preferences & Notifications"). Then sign up for the weekly Movies & TV email to hear about new releases.



Editor's Picks. This one's a fun, idea-tickling batch cooked up by someone at Amazon HQ. Sub-categories include choices like Built-in Babysitter, Cops & Robbers, What We're Watching, and From Page to Screen.


Genres. Head here if you want to browse the aisles like you did during Blockbuster's better days. When you tap this option, further choices appear for Action & Adventure, Comedy, Documentary, Drama, Foreign Films, Horror, Romance, and Sci-Fi & Fantasy.

Tip
Spot something you like, but not ready to watch right now? On every movie and TV show's buying page, there's a big "Add to Watchlist" button. Tap it, and later on you can review your findings in the menu of the same name in the Options bar.



Deals. Worried about all the money you're spending filling up your bargain-priced Fire? Here's a place to sort through just the $1.99 and $2.99 movie rentals, and, among the TV shows, the 99-centers, and season packages under $10 and $15.



Finally, if you've got a particular title in mind, forget all this swiping and tapping. Head to the screen-top search oval and tap to summon the keyboard. Begin entering what you're looking for and, as you type, a list of suggestions appears in a list below the oval. The choices here adjust on-the-fly; as you enter more letters, the list adjusts to reflect what you've typed. Will, for example, gets you a handful of choices including willy wonka and the chocolate factory and will farrell (yep, the search tool accepts actors, movies, and TV shows alike). Tap to pick whichever suggestion you want or hit the keyboard's magnifying glass icon to search for exactly what you've entered.

Tip
Did you know that with these suggestion-powered search ovals—on Amazon, Google, or pretty much anywhere else—you don't have to pick one of the auto-suggest options? Perhaps you're searching for something extraordinarily rare, something that no one else has entered before. (After all, these lists simply draw from what others have previously searched for.) If you don't like the choices on the list, just keep typing.












Buying and Renting Options



Once you've found something that looks good, tap its title-card icon. The page you arrive at is filled with extra info like a synopsis, show details (cast, director, length), and an abridged version of its IMDb entry—that being the movie- and TV-encyclopedia database that Amazon owns. (If you tap a TV show, your first stop is a list of episodes; tap any one of these to get to the individual show page.)







You'll also see one or more buttons with your buying and rental options. Truth be told, while you'll run into many pricing variations, most of your options have already been decided for you. Some TV shows you can rent; most you can buy. Some shows let you grab the full season; others only offer individual episodes. But as far as actual decision making goes, your work mainly boils down to: finding what you want and then deciding whether to get the HD version or the lower-quality standard definition. And even that's not always an option.
Bottom line: If you're looking to write a market research report or an, uh, advice book, the minutiae of subtle differences in this realm is maddening. But if you're just a regular Fire owner looking for something to watch, your decision should be pretty simple. Ahead, an overview of the range of pricing and availability options in both TV and movies.

Note
Is it worth ponying up for HD? Well, you can only watch the HD version if your Fire is one of the HD models; if it isn't, you'll get the standard-def version. But this being the land of clouds and syncing, when you do get back to your Amazon-compatible HDTV (full details on Making the Cabled Connection), there you can watch the extreme def in its full glory.





TV Shows



The range of prices, and rent vs. buy options, is relatively consistent here, at least compared to the Wild West of online movies. Most shows are available for purchase only, although a few let you rent episodes. Single episodes cost a buck or two for standard definition; usually $3 for HD. The prices of full-season packages vary widely based on how many episodes there are and which quality you pick. Any show that's part of the Prime Instant Video package is free to Prime subscribers, who see a nice trio of zeroes next to its name.

Note
Some shows list seasons that, frustratingly, aren't available. The clue? There's no button next to each individual episode's title (for example: Survivor, season 12).






Movies



Simply put, the number of different pricing tiers, rental duration periods, and you-can-buy-but-you-can't-rent restrictions here is insane. Imagine, for example, randomly picking five different movies to get a general sense of how much things cost, what's for rent, what's for sale, and so on. Now imagine that each title were priced differently and were available for different periods of time. (Actually, you don't have to imagine, because that's the case for these films: Super 8, Spy Kids 4, Winnie the Pooh, Cars, and Limitless.) Pity the Amazon accountants who have to track all this stuff!
Fortunately, none of this really matters to you, Fire owner. All you need to do is find what you want and then decide whether any of its pricing packages match what you're prepared to spend. Rentals cost between a buck and $5. HD costs more, standard definition costs less. To buy will cost you between $5 and $20.
Got it? Now, go get it.






Downloading and Playing



To buy something, tap the button. The Fire then asks you to confirm your intent to purchase, at which point you get two buttons: Watch Now and Download. The first lets you stream the show to the Fire, which offers the advantage of not occupying any of your Fire's limited storage space. That's important, considering that a single HD movie can exceed 3 or 4 GB. Streaming does, however, require a working WiFi connection; the video starts about 10 seconds after you tap the button.

Note
If you'd like to fine-tune the size of your downloads, head to the Video Store's Settings menu (Options bar→menu icon). Choose between HD Download Options and SD Download Options. The first lets you download only SD files. It's just the ticket if you've got a non-HD Fire and don't want to bother hauling down all those extra bits; the HD version is still yours for viewing on a HD TV (Making the Cabled Connection). The SD options let you choose between Fastest and Best; the first trims down file size to speed the process up, while the second gets you the full SD file.

Go for the Download button if you'll be out of WiFi range when it comes time to watch. Once tapped, this button sprouts a little Options button, which you can use to pause or cancel the download, or toggle between a high-quality version and a faster-downloading compressed format. Full download times vary widely, depending on the speed of your Internet connection and the length of what you're downloading. Feel free to browse the Web, check email, or play a game while this is happening; the download gremlins happily work in the background.








Tip
Playing a downloaded video isn't always as one-tap-simple as you might expect. If you decide immediately after buying to play it, tap the Watch Now button on its purchase page. If you wait till later and navigate to Videos→Device and then tap it, the show doesn't start right away. Instead, you're taken back to the video store and, if it's a TV show, dumped on the season page it came from. Now you need to scroll down and find the episode you bought—you'll see a Play button to the right of its title. Movies work the same way, except you're taken to a dedicated viewing screen. Tap the Watch Now button to start.

Renting works similarly. Tap the orange button with the price; it turns green and says Rent. Tap again, and you see the Watch Now and Download buttons. A green bar at the top of the screen reminds you when your rental period expires (see the box on Your TV and Movie Viewing Rights for the legal nitty gritty). When you tap Download, that button is replaced by a progress indicator and a small Options button, same as you see when buying a video. Tap that and, from a pop-up menu, you can either pause, cancel, or pick between shorter download time and higher quality.
Many titles sport a Purchase Options button. Tap it, and a pop-up window gives you whatever choices are available—buy, regular rental, HD rental, and so on. After you make your choice, the window asks you to confirm your purchase. Now you're back facing the options already described: two buttons, one saying Watch Now, the other saying Download. If you tap Download, you get a pop-up window notifying you that you're about to start the 48-hour (or however long) rental period.

Tip
Want to skip ahead while watching any video? Tap anywhere on the screen to display the player controls, then hold and drag your finger along the progress bar. Stop wherever you want and lift your finger off the screen when you're ready to watch.



MESSAGE FROM THE LAWYERS: Your TV and Movie Viewing Rights
As you've probably noticed, when it comes to deals made between Amazon and the TV and movie studios, the word "simple" rarely enters the conversation. You can tell by the wide variation in prices and rental times on the site's video catalog pages. If the label next to the button says "48 Hour Rental," there's your answer for how long you can play it. Then there's the matter of the fine print waiting behind the "Rental & Purchase Details" link (also found on the same screen as the buying and rental buttons). Here's a briefing for all non-lawyers out there:



Rentals. Once you hand over your money, you get a 30-day window during which you can watch the movie. The stopwatch begins—for 24 hours, 48 hours, or however long your video's rental button says—the moment you tap either the Watch Now or Download button. You can watch the show on multiple devices (your Fire, your PC, your big-screen TV), but you face a few restrictions. If you stream it (by tapping the Watch Now button), you can only do so to one device at a time. You can, of course, stream the first half to your Fire and then watch the second half on your TV—that's the whole point of Whispersync, as explained on Reading on Multiple Devices. If you download the video to your Fire, you can't download it to another device, but you can stream it to a non-Fire device.


Purchases. In most cases, you're free to watch any video you buy as many times as you like. One caveat: You can watch only on Amazon-approved hardware, like the Fire, your computer, or the living room gadgets listed at http://amzn.to/kfmm119. If you don't want to download a purchase to your Fire and prefer instead to stream it, here's the deal: You can't stream the video to another device while you're streaming to your Fire. And if you do want to download it, you can only do so to two devices at a time. So if you've downloaded a flick to your Fire and PC and now want it on your TV, remove it from your tablet or computer first. On the Fire, just tap, hold, and select Delete Download.








X-Ray for movies



Amazon is trying to distinguish its video store from all the other options out there. Here's one feature where they've got no competition. Tap the screen while watching a flick, and up pop links to mini-bios of every actor in the scene you're watching. It's perfect for those "I know I've seen her before" moments.







How it works is simple. At any point while you're watching, tap the screen. On the left side a slim column of character (and actor) names appears. Tap the one you want to learn more about, and you get a dossier pulled from Amazon subsidiary IMDb. Each entry includes a list of the actor's best-known movies, a biography, and a horizontally scrollable row of ready-to-tap flicks (featuring the actor's complete film resume).
X-Ray is wicked cool when it's available, but only a few hundred titles are currently X-Ray-ready (see http://bit.ly/kfmm204 for a browseable list).







App Spotlight: Netflix and Hulu



Amazon, of course, isn't the only show in town. Both Netflix and Hulu have joined the fun with Fire-friendly apps. Each of these streaming media services have fairly substantial catalogs. Netflix is best for movie lovers, while Hulu specializes in TV. (Both, however, offer plenty of titles from big- and small-screen entertainers alike.)
Is it worth signing up for either—or both? That's a tough one to answer. Both Hulu's and Netflix's lineups overlap quite a bit with each other and with Amazon's listings. And both cost money, so you probably won't invest unless one of them offers something you can't get any other way. If you're game to use these apps, here's a quick tour of what you'll find and how things work.








Note
Both services are app-only affairs. You can't watch the goodies on either site using the Fire's web browser. Both also offer free trial accounts. You can find more info on signup and lineup at www.netflix.com and www.hulu.com.





Netflix



The app is free to download from Amazon's Appstore (Installing Apps), but you'll need a Netflix account to actually watch anything. Plans start at $8 per month. After opening the app, log in using your Netflix name and password. The opening screen puts your two main finding methods in front of you:



The main grid. This screen is Netflix's best effort to whet your whistle. You can swipe each row horizontally to explore it, and scroll vertically to see more categories. In other words, scroll down through categories like Instant Queue (more on that in a moment), "Steamy Romantic Movies based on a book," "Dark TV Shows," and so on, and then swipe across when you want to explore more than the three or so titles that appear at a time. You'll also see rows custom built around what Neflix's software predictors think you'll like: "Top 10 for Tom." Finally, don't miss the groupings that Netflix builds around what you've recently watched. For example: "Because you watched Life in a Day."









The Browse button. Tapping this upper-left button pops up a list of categories you can explore—everything from Anime to Sci-Fi & Fantasy. Tap any of these, and the home page's grid gets broken up into sub-categories. Enter Children & Family, for example, and you get: Suggestions for You, Recently Added, Ages 2-4, and so on.











Note
There's also the search oval. It works just as you'd expect. Tap to summon the keyboard and enter what you're looking for.

Don't miss the Instant Queue, which lets you build a list of want-to-watch faves as you browse. You can add to it on Netflix's website or in the app. Tap or click a movie's "Add to Instant Queue" button, and this ever-updating playlist is waiting for you on the app's home screen.
To play something now, tap its title card. On the detail window that pops up, tap the red play button on the cover art (or add it to your Instant Queue for watching later). Once the flick begins, tap the screen once at any time to summon the progress slider. Tap, hold, and slide it to move to a different point, or just tap wherever you want to go to.
Some titles have non-English dialog available; tap the speech bubble in the upper-right corner; a pop-up window lets you know whether options exist. You can turn on subtitles if they're available.
Netflix is best known for movies, but they also have a decent TV show catalog. Explore via the Browse button—TV Shows is the first genre listed. Tap that, and you get a new main screen grid with suggestions, new arrivals, and lots of specific sub-categories (British TV Shows, Classic TV). If the show's got multiple seasons, when you tap its title card, you get a drop-down menu that you can pick from. Play any episode below that by clicking the red play arrow to the far right of each title.

Tip
Want to download videos you run across online? TubeMate (free; download from the Appstore, as explained on Installing Apps) is one good option. It lets you save YouTube videos for later viewing on your Fire.






Hulu Plus



Hulu's TV shows and movies run ya 8 bucks a month. To sign up for the real deal, do so from a real computer if you can, since the Fire doesn't get along particularly well with Hulu's website. Return to the app and log in.







To find something to watch, scroll down through the list of category rows (Featured, Recommended for You, Popular TV). Above those choices, the top row is stocked with lots of sub-categories: TV, Movies, Clips (a fun batch of plucked gems). Tap any icon to see which episodes are available (for TV shows). If it's a movie, you get an info page from which you can start playing it. At the top of the screen there's also a magnifying-glass search icon.







When you find something you like, tap the show's title and then hit Play Video. Or you can choose Add to Queue to stockpile choices for later viewing. The choices you make show up in the top-of-screen Queue menu.
Once you've got something playing, tap the screen to summon the bottom-of-the-screen progress bar. Then you can tap and hold anywhere to see the time spot you'll jump to if you release your finger. Drag to a different position if you want to go somewhere else, or drag up and off the bar to stay where you are.
Hulu does have one big annoyance: Ads are a big part of the lineup. Even for paying customers, they show up frequently. Switch around between TV shows, and before each one plays, you have to sit through 30 seconds of commercials or so. Same happens again, later on, during longer shows. Gets old, quickly.






Syncing and Sharing



Sorry, you can't share your shows and flicks—at least not in the same way you lend print books and DVDs. Instead, Amazon provides Fire owners with a video-friendly version of its Whispersync service (Reading on Multiple Devices). Start watching Top Chef on the train home, for example, and then pick up where you left off on the big screen.
It takes a bit of work to set up, but here's one big reason to read on: You need to follow these same steps to get your Amazon videos from your Fire onto your boob tube, so it's a good way to beef up your living room lineup. To Amazon's credit, they've done deals with almost a dozen big-name consumer electronics companies (including Sony, Samsung, and TiVo). If you've got a relatively recent model HDTV, Blu-ray player, DVR, or media-streaming device, there's a decent chance you can use it for your Amazon video downloads.
Start by heading to http://amzn.to/kfmm119 to see if your device is listed. If so, click Register and then follow the instructions for your unit. Next, buy or rent the video you want (use your Fire or shop on the Web from a regular computer). To get the video onto your TV, go to Amazon.com→Amazon Instant Video→Your Video Library (http://amzn.to/kfmm121). Click to open the show you want. Expand the plus (+) button next to the show's name and then click the same button next to Download; choose the device you just registered. The next time your TV or DVR syncs, the download begins.







Having done all that, the video-friendly Whispersync feature now knows where you start and stop, and makes the switching between devices seamless—usually. Some devices don't always cooperate (the TiVo Premiere, for example). The manual workaround is less sexy but fairly simple. Assuming you're shifting from Fire to living room TV, take note of the time marker on your Fire-watched show (tap the screen to see the progress slider). On the big screen, fast-forward till you get close to that point. Kick off your shoes, press Play, and be thankful you're not an Amazon engineer.




Making the Cabled Connection



What to do if your TV isn't on Amazon's anointed device list? If your Fire is one of the HD models, good news. The micro-HDMI port on its side (Parts and Ports) offers a simple, high-quality route between Fire and big screen. Start by making sure you've got the correct flavor of HDMI cable (you want one with the "micro-D" connector on one end; http://bit.ly/kfmm203 is one example). Plug the tiny end into the Kindle, and the larger plug into your TV or receiver. Now everything on your Fire's screen shows up on the big screen: the Web, photos, games, and, of course, movies, and TV shows. The Fire's display and controls remain active; you can control everything from the small screen. Ladies and gentleman, introducing Amazon's 42-inch, 55-inch—anyone out there got a 110-inch TV?—Fire!















Chapter 6. Photos and Home Videos










EVER SEE A KID these days swipe a photo on a laptop screen? When the thing doesn't budge, the ensuing look—part puzzled, part frustrated—says it all. Pictures in the Touchscreen Age were meant to be swiped, pinched, and tapped. It's just so darn fun zooming in and out and flicking across huge collections. Is it really a surprise that we rarely rummage through photo-filled shoeboxes anymore?
For its part, the Fire makes picture browsing lots of fun. Thanks to the top-level Photos Library, your Fire is ready to serve as a portable memory machine—a showcase for the best pictures (and videos) in your collection. This chapter puts it all into focus: from moving your memories onto the Fire, getting (and keeping) them organized, and sharing and showing 'em off.

Note
There's a basic picture-taking tool built into the 8.9-inch model's Photos app. To use it, tap the camera icon in the upper-right corner. A screen appears showing you the view from the front-facing camera. Tap the fragmented-circle icon on the left side to snap a pic, which then gets saved in the right-hand column and in a photo collection in your Library called Camera.





Getting Pictures and Videos onto the Fire



Four different approaches await for when you're ready to transfer images to the Fire. All these methods are worth knowing about, but the one you'll want depends on how much you're moving. Email is best for small batch transfers; Amazon Cloud Drive uploads and PC-to-Fire connections work well for a few dozen pics, or even slightly larger collections; and a dedicated, web-syncing app is what you need to handle large and constantly changing photo galleries.




Email to Your Fire



Got just a few photos, or a couple videos, you want to pop onto the Fire? Email 'em. This method is great for when your spouse forwards an adorable kid photo, you snap a showstopper on your cellphone, or you're about to head to Home Depot for a sink faucet replacement and want to show the salesperson a picture on your Fire.
Whether you use the Fire's built-in email app (Email and Address Book Setup) or a third-party alternative, the benefit of this route is its simplicity. When you open the email on the Fire, simply save the attachments. How to do this varies depending on the email app you're using.







In the Fire's built-in email app, tap the attachment icon to download the file. If you just want a quick look, tap the icon again to choose which app to view the photo with. To save the file, tap and hold the attachment icon and then choose Save from the pop-up menu. The Fire shuttles the item over to the Photos Library and sticks it in a photo stack called Attachments. (If you're moving videos, you'll find them in the Personal Videos app; more on that in a moment.)





Amazon Cloud Drive



This ultra-handy service is an online storage bin for practically anything you'd want to listen to or look at on the Fire—including photos. Amazon Cloud Drive covers how to install a simple utility program on your Mac or PC for easy Cloud uploading.

Note
You can transfer and store videos on the Cloud Drive but, frustratingly, you can't download them onto the Fire. If you use the Cloud Drive utility to upload videos, they end up in the Uploads folder; if you navigate there using the Fire's web browser, you can watch anything that's in Fire-compatible .mp4 format (see the note on Note), but you can't pull down the files onto your device. So how do you get personal videos onto your Fire? The next section has two solutions.









Tip
If you're an iPhoto fan, good news. Amazon equipped its Mac-based Cloud Drive utility with a special treat. Look for the little cloud icon in your screen's menu bar. The first option in this menulet is "Import from iPhoto." From there you get a custom portal into your iPhoto collection. Select the photos you want to import and then click "Upload photos" to send them up to your Cloud Drive.













USB Cable and WiFi Transfers



For truly big batch transfers, email and Internet connections are just too slow. The best method for ginormous, multi-picture loads is via cable. You'll need one of the Fire-friendly "micro B" USB variety. Hook it up to any computer and you can move hundreds of pictures and videos in a matter of minutes. Transferring Files from Your Computer guides you through the process.
Sometimes, though, you don't have a cable handy. Or perhaps your computer's USB ports are all occupied. With the help of a handy app called WiFi File Explorer PRO, neither is a real obstacle. This app creates a virtual WiFi bridge between computer and Fire. Use it to move as many files as you like, as often as you want. Once you've downloaded the $0.99 app from the Appstore (instructions on how to do that begin on Installing Apps), the following steps explain how to put it to work.








Note
Why would you ever go the wired route when you've got this cordless alternative? USB's quicker, for one, which can make a difference if you're moving a lot of stuff. And, as you'll see in the following steps, the WiFi File Explorer app gets just a tad geeky. Technophobes may not want to get unplugged.




On your Fire, launch WiFi File Explorer. The first screen you see lists the WiFi network you're on. The blue box below that name starts off saying "Starting..." and changes to "Serving..." a few seconds later, when the computer and Fire see each other. A message window pops up listing one key bit of info you'll need in a moment—the web address of your newly WiFi-connected Fire. Write that down (including the http:// part) and then tap the window's Done button.








Tip
Transcribing the web address is a pain. Avoid the hassle by emailing it to yourself. Simply tap the sharing symbol (two line segments, connected by three dots) to the right of where it says File Explorer Web URL. Once you've finished the next step, save yourself even more time by saving it as a bookmark in your web browser. (For this step to work, you need to have at least one email app up and running; Chapter 8 helps you make that happen.)



On your computer, open a web browser and enter the Fire's web address. The page that appears is a folder-by-folder listing of everything that's on your Fire. Unless you're a certified computer science jockey, don't futz around with anything you see here. You probably know this, but it's worth pointing out: Willy-nilly deletions are a quick way to turn your Fire into a 20-ounce paperweight. Stick with the instructions ahead, and you'll do no harm.

Tip
Attention Dropbox fans. Everyone's favorite file-storage and sharing service recently added a "camera upload" function. It's a simple way to get photos onto the Fire. Once your pictures appear in your Dropbox "camera upload" folder, simply export them to the Fire. Works for videos too.










Open the Pictures folder or navigate to one of its subfolders. The folder you open is the one you'll transfer files into. That's important because later on, back on your Fire, the Photos Library organizes its contents into folder-style collections. So you want, for example, all your Nepal Trip photos to be in a folder of that name within the Pictures folder. To create a new folder, in WiFi File Explorer, click the Create Directory button (in the Statistics and Action section).

Note
If you're transferring videos, you want to be in the Video folder.

In your web browser, you may need to scroll down a bit to see the folder you want. Double-click the folder's name to open it. Now you see all the files in whichever folder you clicked.


Pick the files on your computer you want to transfer. You need to knock out two tasks here: First, click Select File (lower-right corner) to open a file-browsing window on your computer. From there, navigate to where you store your photos or movies. To select more than one file at a time, press Ctrl (⌘ on a Mac) as you click each file's name. Click Open when you've picked everything you want.







Second, click Upload Files (turn on the Overwrite checkbox if you're replacing a file that's currently on your Fire). A progress bar replaces the Upload Files button and shows how quickly things are moving.


To transfer more files—from another folder on your computer, or to pick a few home movies if you initially moved over pictures—make sure you're in the appropriate folder. Use the folder list at the top of the window (where it says /mnt/sdcard/) to navigate between folders. For example, to move from Pictures to Video, click sdcard/ and, on the page that appears, navigate down to and click Video.









Close the web browser window and the WiFi File Explorer app. Close the window just as you would any other web page (don't hide or minimize it—choose File→Close Window, or whatever choice your browser offers). On your Fire, tap the Option bar's menu icon and then choose Exit.



Whatever you've moved over is now ready for viewing in one of two spots: the Photos Library (Browsing Photos has details on how to look and move around there) or the Personal Videos app. That's a single-purpose app that's already installed on your Fire (find it in the Apps Library in the Device section).

Note
File format-compatibility is a bugaboo for any home video veteran. What plays on one gadget or operating system doesn't always work on another. Fire-friendly video file formats form a short list: .mp4—that's it. Unfortunately for veterans of format wars past, .mpeg, .mov, .avi, .wmv, .3gp, and .webm didn't make the cut. If you've got some converting to do, Handbrake (http://bit.ly/kfmm206) is a free Windows- and Mac-compatible tool that, while slightly geeky, can help tackle most conversion projects. Miro Video Converter (Mac-only, free; www.mirovideoconverter.com) and DVD Catalyst 4 (Windows, $10; http://bit.ly/kfmm141) are also good options.



POWER USERS' CLINIC: Creating and Organizing Folders in the Photos Library
How do you keep what's inside your Photos Library organized? The Fire starts you off with one simple folder—Pictures. A few new ones get automatically added as you start spending more time here—Mobile Uploads, Shared, and so on—but someday you may want to create a few of your own or subdivide your photos into related groups (Kids, Pets). Or maybe you haven't even done anything yet, and you're starting to see image groupings appear with oddball names like sdcard (1) and Download (24). What the...?
To be frank, Amazon doesn't make it very easy to customize things—at least not without a little fiddling. Is it fun to swipe through any pix you move into the Pictures folder? Absolutely. Does the device make it simple to organize that collection? Nope. Here are two ways to combat the clutter.



Organize from your computer. Your first step is to connect the Fire to your Mac or Windows machine, as described on Transferring Files from Your Computer. The Fire appears like any other external hard drive, and you're free to navigate its various folders: Books, Documents, Pictures, and so on. Here's where you can really roll up your sleeves and stick things where you want. Inside the Pictures folder you might want to create subfolders for Kids and Pets. Once you disconnect and enter the Photos Library, you may notice one puzzling thing right away. Those two new subfolders aren't inside the Pictures folder—they're at the same level. That's one of Fire's quirky organizational rules. In Photos, every folder you create on the Fire when it's mounted on your computer appears as its own image collection. So no matter where you create new folders—inside other existing folders, at the same level as Pictures and Videos, wherever—what you'll see inside Photos are image buckets, one for each folder.


Organize using an app. As with transferring files, the advantage here is you don't have to mess with a USB cable. Use an app like WiFi File Explorer, which lets you create new folders on the Fire once you've launched a view of the device's contents in your computer's web browser (USB Cable and WiFi Transfers). Or, for even more power, try an app like ES File Explorer; it lets you burrow seriously deep into your Fire's innards and do things like move files between folders. But beware that with convenience (namely, of not having to manually connect using a USB cable) comes responsibility. The Fire doesn't always like having these apps reapportion and add to its innards. If you notice anything funky or sluggish, the best thing to do is quit the app you're using and restart the Fire.












Note
You can also download videos using the Fire's Silk web browser; tap and hold the video, or a link to it, to do so. The file gets stored in the Personal Videos app.






Photo- and Video-viewing Apps



All this file transferring and organizing....who needs it? Perhaps you're thinking: "Hey, I've already paid my dues to Picasa (or Flickr or Photobucket). Do I really have to go through the agony of uploading and organizing again? Isn't there an easy way to view images on the sites I already use?"
Thank heavens, there is.
Millions of people today already post their favorite photos and videos online. Recognizing this, a few savvy app makers have released tools for tapping into, browsing, and sharing these collections directly from the Fire. If you've heavily invested time or money in one of the big sharing sites—Flickr, Facebook, Picasa, or Photobucket—you'll be happy to know that a nice selection of apps is ready to help. What follows, then, is a Fire-friendly tour of those four biggies:

Note
What about SmugMug, Snapfish, or SamsPhotoShop? If you have a vast image or video collection in an off-brand site not covered in this section, you have a couple options. First, check Amazon's Appstore. Developer interest in the Fire is growing fast, with new apps arriving every week. Go to Amazon.com→Appstore for Android→Apps (http://amzn.to/kfmm123) and search under your service's name, or search the Fire's App Store. Second, you can always open up the Fire's web browser and view your pics on the site where they live. True, you need a live WiFi connection, but it works for basic browsing.




FlickFolio for Flickr HD. Costs a bit more ($3) than some of the freebie viewers available for other services, but it's a great tool if you're a hardcore Flickr user. With it you can browse yours and your friends' photo collections; search by keyword; add ratings and comments; play slideshows; and save to your Fire (tap, hold, and pick Save Locally). You can do most of these things by tapping any photo (yours or others') and picking from the list that appears: Info, Comments, Add to Favorites, Photostream, View Favorites, Save Locally, View on the Web, and Send URL. Nice extra: Tap the search icon in the upper right and enter any word or phrase (cow, Terre Haute) into the search box and get a collection on your Fire of public Flickr photos that match what you're looking for.








Note
Facebook photos get their own special treatment on the Fire. You can import all of them (sorry, no picking and choosing) right into Photos. Head to its Cloud tab and, on the Options bar, tap the menu icon. Choose Import and, in a few minutes, all your Facebook albums get whisked over to your Amazon Cloud Drive (Cloud vs. Device), where you can now view them just like any other photos in that collection. Bummer caveat: You need to repeat this process each time you add new photos to Facebook.
If you just want to browse your pix, install the free Facebook app (which you can download from the Appstore; see Installing Apps). The three horizontal stacked lines in the upper-left corner are worth checking out; tap that icon, and then scroll to the Photos link to review your photos. Tap any of the thumbnail pictures in each of your albums, and from the page that appears, you can add comments or tap to download and save a pic to your Fire.



PicFolio for Picasa HD. From the same developers as the FlickFolio app, this $1.50 utility does almost everything its sibling does, except it's for Picasa users. Browse albums, play slideshows, search, and add comments and ratings. Plus, you can email photos and create new albums, neither of which you can do in FlickFolio.









Photobucket Mobile. Nice free app, and an easy way to tap into this popular online photo-sharing service. It features simple in-album browsing (swipe or tap the forward-arrow button), and you can upload pix if you like, share on Facebook or Twitter, or send via email. It's also a snap to download any pic to the Gallery app. Open the pic you want to save, then tap Options bar→Menu→Download. What you grabbed gets saved in Photos Library→Camera.











Tip
In the Fire's web browser you can tap, hold, and save most images. Choose "Save image" from the pop-up menu and then find what you've picked in the Gallery app's Download collection.







Browsing Photos



You've gotten your photos onto the Fire, organized them (or not), and, lo and behold, here comes Mrs. Kreplach from apartment 4H, always ready to show off her grandkids. Now's your chance to do a little photo bragging yourself. On the Fire's home screen, tap the Photos Library and head into whichever tab you like: Cloud (for photos stored up on the Cloud Drive) or Device (for those right on your Fire).
Browsing works just as you'd expect. Tap an album to view its contents. Within an album, tap a photo to enlarge it. Spreading and pinching (Tapping, Touching, Typing) let you zoom in and out. Buttons to email and delete pictures are down in the Options bar. To share an image (on Facebook, Twitter, and so on) open that bar's Menu icon and choose Send. A list of all the photo-friendly apps on your Fire pops up.

Tip
When the Fire is upright, all the photos in an album occupy same-sized mini squares. Turn the device sideways to get a neat-looking grid of differently sized photos. You can't control which pix appear in the jumbo blocks, but it's fun to view this asymmetrical layout.








To move photos from Cloud to Device—that is, to download for viewing without an Internet connection—tap and hold any album or photo and pick Download from the pop-up menu. That's also where you can rename albums or add them to Favorites (The Home Screen) by picking those tasks from the pop-up menu. To get rid of any photo, tap and hold it and then, from the pop-up menu, select Remove From Device (for photos stored on your Fire) or Delete (for those stored in the Cloud).

Tip
One quick route back to the Photo Library's highest perch—the grid of top-level photo stacks—is tapping the word Photos in the upper-left corner.















Chapter 7. Listening to Music










SHHHH, DON'T TELL APPLE, but Amazon's built up one heckuva well-stocked, bargain-priced digital music service. Everything you buy comes with free online storage, which means never having to worry about backing up your purchases. And they've even designed a simple music-playing program that's less cluttered than iTunes and that can import most of the songs stored there. Take that, Cupertino.
The Fire, as you'd expect, takes full advantage of all this groundwork. And the device overcomes any storage concerns those of us with massive collections might have by tying its music player into the Amazon Cloud Drive (which, as Cloud vs. Device explains, is where all your music gets stored). When you're in reach of a good WiFi connection, you barely notice—and don't even need to understand—the difference between songs streaming over the air and songs stored directly on your Fire. If you can make your way past the hours-long task of moving your music off your PC and up onto Amazon's online music locker, you'll be in tune heaven. This chapter shows you how to orchestrate everything: from finding and buying to organizing and listening.

Note
New Fire Feature of the Year award (Music Fan Edition) goes to Bluetooth. It's on all the HD models so you can play your songs on a wireless speaker. See Connecting Bluetooth Devices for details.





Getting Music onto the Fire



Before hitting Play, you have to load up your virtual jukebox. You can pick from (and freely switch between) three different methods:

Note
The Fire is happy to play a long list of different audio file types. This includes .mp3 and .m4a (the variety dispensed by iTunes). For a look at the complete alphabet soup collection, point your browser to http://bit.ly/kfmm208.




Transfer music from computer to Fire. Got a well-stocked digital music collection already set up at home or in the office? Transferring files from one machine to the other—called sideloading—is simple. It's a quick way to load up an album or two. And if you haven't yet signed onto the idea of Amazon's everything-can-be-stored-in-the-Cloud philosophy, it's an easy way to quickly test out the Fire's music-playing abilities. Just plug the Fire into your PC or Mac and drag over the songs you want. Transferring Files from Your Computer has a step-by-step guide.


Cloud Drive storage. Long term, this route is the most convenient for most people. Upload your iTunes or Windows Media Player library to Amazon's web-based music locker and everything's ready to stream or download to your Fire. (Fringe benefit: You can play this cloud-stored music from any computer and most smartphones.)
Two issues worth considering if you're thinking of going this route: time and money. If your music weighs in at multi-megabytes (anything north of, say, 20 albums), moving the load up to the Cloud Drive can take dozens of hours. It is, however, a one-time process, and Amazon's free utility program, the Music Importer, offloads most of the work to computer gremlins while you work or sleep. The next section has the scoop. How much this'll cost varies. Amazon gives everyone free space for 250 songs. Want more than that? It'll cost ya 25 bucks a year for a whopping 250,000-song locker. A related concern for owners of the 4G/LTE-capable Fire: stream too much music, too often, and you can easily exceed your monthly data allowance (see Appendix C for details).


Buying songs from Amazon. Any music you buy from Amazon is ready to play more or less automatically on your Fire. Full coverage of your different buying options—on your Fire and on your regular computer—starts on Browsing the Store and Buying.




Note
It's also possible to email a song or two to yourself. Given the size of these files—anywhere from 2 to 10 MB for a typical song—you wouldn't want to go crazy with this method. It's nice, though, in a pinch. Simply attach a song to an email message addressed to yourself. Use any email app on the Fire to open the message. (Chapter 8 is all about email.) From there, the exact steps vary based on which app you're using, but basically, you want to open or save the attachment in the Music folder. In the Fire's built-in email app, that's what happens automatically after you tap the "download attachment" icon, and then tap again and pick Save.





The Amazon MP3 Uploader



Amazon is no dummy. The company is aware that, over the past decade, many digital music fans use Apple's iTunes software and spend money in its companion store. Others use Windows Media Player, shop at places like eMusic, or just spend time ripping (that is, transferring) their CD collections onto their computers.
However you've gotten your music, chances are you store it on your computer and thus the challenge: how to get a collection that can easily weigh in at 5 or 10 GB or more off your machine and onto Amazon's servers? Amazon's Music Importer is the company's way of saying "Please, let us help." This one-trick pony includes a few extras that make it especially attractive. For example, if you've painstakingly created playlists, it can preserve them. If you don't have a continuous 83 hours to finish your upload, it does a nice job of stopping and then restarting where it left off (allowing you, for example, to start with your speedy work connection and finish off overnight at home). The tool also makes it simple to pick only those artists and songs you want to upload (why post duds you're never gonna listen to?).




Installing and launching the Music Importer



The program is free. Here's how to get it onto whichever computer has your music (you can install it on multiple machines if you've got tunes scattered about):



Start by visiting the Amazon Cloud Player (http://amzn.to/kfmm102). This is a web-based music program, ready to play your uploaded tunes from any computer, smartphone, or tablet. For now, however, this site is simply where you get to the Importer. If it's your first time visiting the Cloud Player, you need to agree to some legalese before passing Go.


In the upper-left corner, click "Import your music." Is the link, by any chance, dimmed out and not responding to your click attempts? Quit and restart your web browser. If that doesn't work, restart your computer. Once you've clicked the link, a small window launches; on it, click the "Download now" button.









Find the file that you've just downloaded. In many cases it will show up right on your desktop. Or you may need to look in your Downloads folder (which goes by the same name on both Windows and Mac). The file you're looking for is called something like AmazonMusicInstaller-2.0.1._V164137419_.exe (on a Mac it ends with the letters dmg).


Double-click and install the Uploader. Inside the folder that opens, double-click "Install Amazon Music Importer". An Application Install window appears, including a note about a helper app called Adobe AIR. (This is software that Amazon uses to run the Uploader.) Change the installation location if you like (to do so, click the yellow folder icon) and then click Continue. Amazon caps the number of computers you can import music from at 10. The next step, therefore, is designating the computer you're currently using as one of those 10; enter its name—Bob's Mac, Sue's Windows Machine, whatever you like—in the Device Name box. Now—finally!—the Importer appears.








Choosing what to upload



The Music Importer offers two routes to picking: auto-sniffing (whereby it searches your iTunes or Windows Media Player collection), or manually (whereby you direct it to specific music-bearing folders). Option one is best if you use either iTunes or Windows Media Player to organize your music. Resort to option two only if you've purposely avoided those services and have your own music filing system.
If you've let the Importer comb through your collection, you'll soon get a window summarizing its findings. Choose the free, 250-song route (click the button "Select up to 250 songs for free") or sign on for the paid service via the "Upgrade to Cloud Player Premium for $24.99/year" button. If you buy the Premium package—payment happens on a separate web page—head back to the Importer to resume where you left off. Either way, the Importer presents you with a selection screen where you can choose which songs to upload. If you go the free route, you'll probably need to pick and choose to stay within the 250-song limit. With the Premium plan, you can do the same or upload your whole collection.
Once you've made your choices, click the "Import selected" button to start the upload.








Tip
Get a message from the Importer telling you "No music found"? Click "Browse for music stored elsewhere on your computer" and navigate to whichever folder you know has your music. On a Mac, for example, you'd go to Music→iTunes→iTunes Media, select the Music folder, and then click Open. Now the scanning process begins.

If you're uploading a huge collection, consider a few timesaving tips:



Use Ethernet rather than WiFi. Connecting your computer to the Internet via a physical cable almost always boosts upload speeds. If you've been WiFi-only since the last Presidential administration, making the link isn't hard. You'll need, of course, an Ethernet cable (these are the ones whose plugs look like oversized telephone jacks). Insert it into your computer's similarly sized port and then do the same on the back of your WiFi router. You should notice the required transfer time shrink. In some cases, you may need to restart your computer for the boost to kick in.


Find a faster Internet connection. Your workplace bean counters may not be thrilled, but the fact is, most at-work Internet connections are speedier than those at home. The Importer makes it easy to shift between both spots. Start, for example, at home, and when it's time to head off to the coal mines, click the Pause Import button (which appears after you click "Import selected"). Once you're at work, click Resume to pick up where you left off.


Run the importer overnight. Let the transfer mules work while you sleep. Run through the steps outlined starting on The Amazon MP3 Uploader. When you're just about ready to pull the trigger, hold off until bedtime; then, press "Import selected" and let the files fly through the wee hours.





UP TO SPEED: From Cloud to Device: Downloading for Road Trippers
Transferring a song or album from the Music Library's Cloud section to the Device tab—for a long, WiFi-less car trip, say—is easy. Tap and hold any title (song or album).
From the pop-up menu that appears, tap Download Song (or "Album"). Once you start a download, you'll see a message appear briefly at the bottom of the screen: "Song added to download queue" (or whatever you're downloading). Tap the Options bar Menu and pick Downloads to see everything that's coming down (press the pause button to halt the proceedings) or the "See completed downloads" list below that to get a look at everything you've hauled down.
Should you wish to clear some songs off your Fire, you've got a few options. Tap and hold any song name and, from the pop-up menu, choose "Remove from device." Serious spring cleaners may find it quicker to remove music in batches: by playlist, artist, or album. Tap and hold any of these items, and you get one of those "Remove...from device" choices in the pop-up menu that appears.















Browsing and Searching



Once your music is on the Fire (or within streaming range of it), head to the Music Library to start listening. Your first decision is whether to look behind tab #1 (Cloud) or tab #2 (Device). Tap either one to explore it, but keep in mind that these are separate collections. There's no way, in other words, to look at all the albums you own—you have to decide whether to look online or on device.

Note
Switching between Cloud and Device is simple enough, since those two tabs are visible on almost every screen in the Music Library. But wouldn't it be easier if Amazon subscribed to the Unified Theory of Music, in which all songs unite? Probably, but that's not how things work on the Fire, for now, anyway.

On the plus side, both areas are organized identically. Playlists, Artists, Albums, and Songs are the main browsing categories in both tabs. Each gets its own tour in the following sections.




Browse By Album, Artist, or Song



These three categories present similar-looking lists (or grid view; toggle between the two in the menu icon in the Options bar). Scroll or flick to navigate from top to bottom in any list (for a refresher on both gestures, see Tapping, Touching, Typing). As soon as you start moving downward, notice the gray tab that sprouts up on the screen's right side. Hold your finger on that little guy to move quickly, up or down, through large lists. A nice big letter, framed in gray, appears indicating where you'll stop. Handy.







Tap any artist's name, and the screen that appears lets you browse by song or album. Tap an album and you'll see a list of however many songs you've got. Most albums, of course, have about a dozen songs, but the only ones that show up on your screen are tracks you've stored on the Fire or up on the Cloud. When you see a song you like, tap it to play. (More details on various music-playing tips, tricks, and tactics in a moment.)

Note
Playlists are custom song collections that you create—think of them as albums that you design. They're special enough to get extended coverage, which begins on Playlists: Be Your Own DJ.






Search



As your collection grows, browsing to find a particular song can be a pain. Sometimes it's easier to get it Google-style. Tap the search monocle on the Options bar. Truth be told, this feature's not quite Google quality. What you can hunt for is pretty basic: artist, album, track, or playlist name. But you can peer into a top-level tab collection that you're not currently in. For example, if you're in the Device section, the monocle pays attention to what's in the Cloud. Another way to get a birds-eye view of all your tunes: Tap out of the Music Library and head back to the home screen. Using the search oval up top, you can pull results from both Device and Cloud.






Listening



Finally, the reason you came to this chapter in the first place: to play music. Whichever way you find the song you want—by searching or browsing—the Fire strikes up the band when you tap a song's title. That leads to a big snapshot of the album art front and center, surrounded by all the control buttons and status indicators you'd expect. From top to bottom, you get:



Track number/total tracks. The first number indicates the slot this song occupies in its playlist or album. The second shows the total number of tracks in that collection.


Song title, artist, album. Back when you were a hip youngster, understanding what was what was easy: Gimme Shelter was the song, The Rolling Stones were the band, and Let It Bleed was the album. Nowadays you might want to bookmark this page so you can help decipher which is which: Chrome Posse; Jug Mine; Stuperific. For the record: On top is the track name, below that comes the artist, followed by the album.


Album art. Looks great on the Fire's big screen, but it's not just for gawking. Tap quickly to play or pause. Tap and hold to get a useful pop-up menu with these choices: "Clear Player" (flush out everything in the Fire's "what to play next" short-term memory, including the currently playing song); "Add Song to Playlist" (tacks this track onto an existing playlist); "Shop this Artist" (Amazon's tour of everything it sells related to the song you're playing); and "Download song." (You get this last one if you're streaming something off the cloud. It changes to "Remove from Device" if you're playing something from that tab.)


Progress bar. Time lapsed appears on the left end, total time on the right. Press, hold, and move the white dot to hear a different part of the song; a time stamp pops up to indicate where, exactly, you're moving to.









Previous/next track, pause/play button. All of 'em work just as they have since the first cassette recorder. Missing in action: rewind and fast-forward options. To skip forward to back, drag the white button in the Progress bar.


Shuffle. Tap these crisscrossing arrows to randomize the order of whatever collection you're currently in (playlist, album). The first tap turns the arrows orange and signals that the shuffle is on. Tap again to return to white; everything once again plays in order.

Tip
Want to access these controls when you're in any non-music playing app on the Fire? Drag down from the top of the screen to open Quick Settings and, if you've got music playing, a mini-player appears sporting the most common play controls you'll need. Tap and hold it to return to the Music app for complete, fine-tuned control.



Repeat. Looks like two arrows chasing each others' tails. Tap once to loop, over and over, whatever group you're playing. (That is, once the last song finishes, the first one starts, and the cycle repeats.) Tap again and you'll see a tiny "1" inside a circle; that's the signal that the current song is set to play again and again and again.


Volume. This slider works identically to the one in the Quick Settings menu. All the way to the left mutes the sound; the opposite end is as loud as it gets.





UP TO SPEED: SkyTunes: The Amazon Cloud Player
If you store songs in Amazon's Cloud Drive, you can play this collection from any computer thanks to the Amazon Cloud Player (http://amzn.to/kfmm143)—a web-based jukebox. If you've ever used iTunes, Windows Media Player, or just about any other music-playing program, you'll have no trouble getting the hang of the Amazon version. Cloud Player's main attraction is ease of operation. It's lean and frill-free. What you get is what you need: playlist creation, basic browsing (by album, artist, genre), sharing (to Facebook and Twitter), and, of course, tune-playing.
That said, you may never have to use this thing. If the Fire and, say, the Amazon Cloud Player app on your smartphone are your sole virtual turntables, then feel free to skip this box. You can do everything you might want to do on those devices—make and edit playlists, listen to music, and so on. But given this puppy's cloud-friendly talents, you may appreciate a quick tour if you ever find yourself in a musical mood, say, at work. That way, you can play DJ wherever you are. Its main offerings:



Playlist creation. The lower-left Create New Playlist is where to start. See Playlists: Be Your Own DJ for more on how playlists work and why they're handy. To make one, enter a name in the New Playlist pop-up window and then click Save. Next, fill it with as many songs as you like. Sweet feature: In the Your Music section (upper left), click Songs. From here, you can turn on the checkboxes next to as many songs as you like, and then drag the whole schmeer into the list you just created. To edit any playlist, click its name. As you move your mouse over its song titles (without clicking anything), notice the downward-pointing arrow next to each entry in the Artist column. Here's where you can delete a song from a playlist (it remains in your overall collection) or add it to a different playlist (pick "Add to Playlist" and then choose from the drop-down list). To reorder songs: Click, hold, and drag to any position you like. Any playlists you create here automatically appear in the Fire's Music Library—in the Cloud section, of course.


Collection pruning. One thing you can only do in the Cloud Player: Get rid of songs. If the presence of some tune or album is bugging you, click the Songs list, turn on the checkboxes next to the offending titles, and then click Delete. You can do the same in any playlist (the button you want there is labeled Remove). A handy shortcut for selecting lots of songs: Turn on the checkbox on the top left of any list (next to title); that immediately turns on all the checkboxes below it. Remember: You're deleting these songs from Amazon's servers, so make sure you've got a copy somewhere else, if you want them.















Connecting Bluetooth Devices



Amazon has opened up new worlds of fun and functionality by adding Bluetooth networking to the HD model Fires. With it you can wirelessly connect to Bluetooth-capable speakers and keyboards. All it takes is a one-time "pairing" ritual, whereby you introduce the Fire to its new auxiliary pal. The exact procedure depends a bit on how the device manufacturer designed the pairing procedure. But the typical sequence goes something like this:



Turn the external device on and set it to pairing mode.
Do this step on your Bluetooth speaker or keyboard. Here's where you're likely to run into steps that differ from device to device. Best bet is to visit the product page for your gadget on the manufacturer's website and look for something like a user manual or a pairing guide.


On the Fire turn Bluetooth on.
Swipe down from the top of the screen to reveal the Quick Settings menu; tap Wireless and then, in the Bluetooth menu, turn "Enable Bluetooth" on. The universal Bluetooth icon—a tiny cross hatched pair of flags appears in the Status bar at the top of the Fire's screen.


Pair the Fire with the Bluetooth gadget.
On the Fire, below where you turned Bluetooth on, a list of "Available devices" appears. Tap the name of the one you want to mate your Fire with. If no gadget names appear, tap the "Search for devices" button at the bottom of the screen. (In some cases you may even have to tap "Search for..." a second time.) Once the connection is made your device's name scoots upward into a newly created "Paired" list.



That's it. Now you can start playing music or typing on your physical keyboard and the Fire knows to use its new partner in gadgetry.

Note
What happens to the onscreen keyboard if you're linked up to a Bluetooth one? It ceases to be, on the assumption that you don't need to give up that valuable screen real estate, now that you've got a physical input option.







Playlists: Be Your Own DJ



Half the fun of the digital music revolution is the ability to instantly download almost any song you want. The other half? Playlists. These custom-made song collections are great for matching any mood you're in. Name 'em whatever you like: Hip Hop Hooray; Music for Onion Chopping; Xavier's Turning Two! You—not some oddly opinionated artist or album-stuffing music industry executive—get to decide what songs the playlist contains. The best part is you can make as many as you like. Each occupies practically no space on your Fire or the Cloud Drive, since they're just a list of virtual pointers to whichever songs you pick. That means you can put that favorite track of yours on ten different playlists and you still only have one copy of the song.

Note
Browsing through playlists works pretty much the same as exploring Artists, Albums, and Songs (covered back on Browsing and Searching). On the Fire, tap the Playlists tab to see your collection of custom songlists; tap any playlist title to see what's on it. Two special entries that get added to everyone's Fire: Purchases and "Recently Added to Cloud." Both contain just what you'd expect.








To build a playlist right on your Fire, head to wherever you've got music (the Cloud or the Device tab in the Music Library), choose the Playlists tab, and then tap "Create new playlist." A box pops up for you to name the playlist. Then you get taken to a screen called "Add to Ironing Songs" (or whatever name you've come up with). Use the search oval to hunt for particular songs or browse through the list of everything that's stored on your Fire, or in the Cloud. Tap the plus (+) button on the right side to add the songs you like. Tap the upper-right Done button when you're finished.

Note
Playlists can only be made from whichever collection you're in when you tap "Create new playlist." So if you start out in your Device collection, you don't get to add songs from the Cloud.

If you'd like to rename, remove, or quickly add songs to an existing playlist, just tap and hold the playlist's name; a pop-up window shows you your options. Any playlist you construct out of your Cloud-based tunes automatically gets added—you guessed it—to the Amazon Cloud Player. (One extra step that's sometimes necessary to get Cloud-based playlists to show up on your Fire: Pull down the Quick Settings bar from the top of the screen and then tap the Sync button.)
Editing an existing playlist is a snap. Navigate to one you want to change and then tap Edit at the top. An "Add songs" button appears, which you can use to search or browse through your collection. Tap the plus sign (+) next to any song you want to add; it gets pinned to the bottom of the existing playlist. To reorder the list, grab one of the left-side handles (two rows of four dots) and drag to whichever position you like. Use the right-side minus sign (-) to whack a title off the list. Tap the Done button when finished.

Tip
You can add albums or playlists to your home screen's Favorites shelves. Just tap and hold the name and pick "Add to Favorites." There's no way to add individual songs—well, there is if you're willing to do something a little silly: Construct a one-song playlist and add that to your Favorites list.













Browsing the Store and Buying



Amazon—surprise, surprise—makes it easy to shop for music. Whether browsing the regular web store (official name: Amazon MP3 Music Store) or Fire's built-in catalog, it's awfully tempting to spend lots of time...and money. You've been warned.

Note
Regardless of where you shop, you need to decide where to store the songs you buy. All of 'em get stored automatically for free on Amazon's Cloud Drive, which is nice. You'll always have a "master" copy up there and can then download or stream it to the Fire. If you do want a copy automatically downloaded to your Fire or your regular computer, it's easy to flick a setting to make that happen. On the Fire, open the Quick Settings bar (The Home Screen), and navigate to More→Applications→Music; turn on Automatic Downloads. On a computer you use regularly to buy music, go to the Cloud Player, click Settings→"Your Amazon MP3 settings" and then turn on the radio button next to "Automatically download MP3 purchases made on this computer..."





On the Fire



The shortest distance between you and new music is the Music Library's upper-right Store button. You'll see it on almost every music-playing screen. Tap it, and you get whisked off to a special Fire-only version of Amazon's music aisles. (Good news: You can keep playing songs from your own collection as you shop.)

Note
Got an Amazon gift card or promo code? Enter it on your Fire before you start shopping. Do so by going to Options bar→Menu→"Gift Cards & Promotions."

Once inside the store, you get a handful of different ways to search and browse. The theme here is simplicity. The inch-high top row (swipeable from left-to-right) posts a lineup of changing promo offers: "$5 This Week Only," "100 Albums," "$5 Each," "Songs: $0.50 Each," and so on.
The biggest chunk of the screen is occupied by Recommended For You selections. Choices here vary widely based on your recent purchases. It's all hip hop if you just bought Drake's latest; it's bluegrass if you recently got yourself some Alison Krauss.
Sandwiched between the top row and the recommended list are three links designed for browsing: Bestsellers, New Releases, and Genres. Tap either of the first two, and you get a list topped by tabs showing Albums or Songs. Head to the Genres section for deep dives. It's got about two dozen sub-categories (from Alternative Rock to Soundtracks), each of which gets broken down into further sub-sections. Hard Rock & Metal fans can celebrate the wonders of a world that includes everything from Death Metal to Live Albums. Christian & Gospel devotees get choices that include Christian Alternative, Christian Rap, and Praise & Worship. Hallelujah.







Finally, there's a search oval on the top of the screen. Enter a word or phrase (rolling, or let it) and a half dozen or so results drop down. If you've got serious searching to do, read ahead to the next section for the web version of Amazon's MP3 Store.







Once viewing an album or song, check out a 30-second preview by tapping the play triangle to the left of the song title. To buy, or download a freebie, touch the orange button with either the price or the word FREE on it.

Note
Some albums in the Fire's music shop feature an untappable Album Only message instead of the orange Buy button. Sometimes these are hit songs that you can only get by buying the whole collection. Sometimes they're digital extras that aren't, for whatever reason, Fire-friendly. For example: "digital booklets"—liner notes in PDF format. But wait! Didn't Adding and Reading Documents say that the Fire can display PDF files? And shouldn't you at least be able to view these booklets in the Docs Library? Yes and yes. But, alas, you can't. Instead, head to the Amazon Cloud Player (see the box on SkyTunes: The Amazon Cloud Player) on a regular computer, download the PDF, and then transfer it over to the Fire using one of the methods explained starting on Transferring Files from Your Computer.

A few other services you won't find in the Fire's minimalist music store: the ability to add your own ratings (you can, however, browse other shoppers' reviews); the ability to share song and album listings (via email, Facebook, or Twitter); gift-giving or wishlist-adding buttons; and detailed information about the album (its length, and the publishing label). For all this, and more, you need to head to the Web.





On the Web



No question: The Fire's music store makes shopping simple. But it's no match for the seriously fine-grained searching and playful categorization options you get in the full-fledged store. Oh, and another reason to visit the web shop: It's often got outrageously cheap (sometimes free, often heavily discounted) deals that you won't always, or easily, find on your Fire. Start by pointing your browser at Amazon's MP3 Music Store (http://amzn.to/kfmm110). Some of what you see here changes to match seasonal events. 25 Days of Free Holiday Music, for example, helps get your jingle on for nothin'. Other web-only sections worth checking out are "Free Music from Rising Artists" and "MP3 Albums by Price" ($3.99 and under; $4 to $4.99; and so on). Links to all these are on the left-hand column of the Music Store's main page.








Note
While it's possible to use the Fire's web browser to shop the MP3 Music Store, it's kind of a pain. The pages feel cramped on the Fire's small screen. If you do soldier on and buy a song or album there, the Store will suggest you "Launch Amazon MP3 app." That's geek speak for launching the Fire's Music library (which is, technically, actually an app). Follow this suggestion, and you'll find your music alongside all your Fire's other tunes.

Your searching options on the big web store are plentiful. Type a word or phrase into the Search bar, and you can focus on any particular genre by picking from those listed on the left side of the page. So if you're looking for tainted love, you can choose to look at only the 11 country versions rather than all 811 results. You also get a handy grid of song titles, topped on the upper right by the super useful "Sort by" pop-up menu. Click that, and you can pick from listing options that include Popularity, Song Title (A to Z or vice versa), Price (High to Low, ditto), and Average Customer Review.







Tap any song's play button to hear a 30-second sample. When you're ready to download a song, what you see after clicking either the Buy or the Get MP3 button (the latter's for freebies) depends on the choice you made earlier about where to store your music (see the note on Note). If you opted to store everything in the Cloud, that's where your tunes automatically reside. Play what's there using your web browser to launch the Amazon Cloud Player (see the box on SkyTunes: The Amazon Cloud Player). On your Fire, downloads await in the Music Library's Cloud section.
If you want to download the music files to your computer, you need to install a freebie utility program called the MP3 Downloader. This software grabs any music you get on the MP3 Store and automatically stashes it in your iTunes, WMP collection, or wherever you like. See http://bit.ly/kfmm209 for simple instructions on how to make this happen.


UP TO SPEED: Other Tunes, Other Voices
What's in your Music Library isn't the only audio game in town. Audiobooks, for example, are a popular listening option; they get full coverage starting on Audiobooks. But even when it comes to music, you gotta give Amazon credit: They've opened the Fire to all sorts of music app purveyors—many of which supply you with tools to shop somewhere other than Amazon. Below, a few of the more useful options you'll find in the Fire's App Store.



Pandora (free). One of the oldest and most popular online music sites. It lets you pick artists you like and then builds a customized radio station around your choice. As with regular radio, you can't specifically search for and play a song. But if you don't like what's currently on, you can tap the "next track" button (for a maximum of six taps an hour due to licensing restrictions). Pony up for a $4 per month subscription if you want to nix the visually annoying pop-up ads.









Rhapsody (free to download; subscription, starting at $10/month, required). This app's great for those with a deep need to listen to a li'l bit of everything. Search through or browse a catalog of 13 million songs. Create and even download playlists—perfect for away-from-WiFi trips. Here's something neat: When you search for an artist, the results list is topped by Play Artist Radio, a custom-station brewed up from bands or singers who resemble your chosen artist's music profile. There's also a lineup of Internet radio stations that's not overwhelming to browse. Like what you hear when listening? If the tune is in Rhapsody's catalog, you can tap to add it to your library or a specific playlist.









Stitcher (free). A must for serious podcast fans, this is a huge, random sampling of high-profile shows, all for free—ESPN: The B.S. Report with Bill Simmons, This American Life, TEDTalks, Car Talk, This Week in Tech—the list is really long. It doesn't quite match every last item in iTunes, but most of the biggies are here, plus you get a built-in list of terrestrial radio stations. Look up whatever station you like by state. Two weak areas worth noting: You can't download podcasts, and if you're a world music or radio fan, pickings here are slim.









Slacker Radio (free; subscription gets you extras). This app's best for people who have a specific genre in mind—60s rock, house, or classic jazz, for example—and don't want to spend much time browsing. Instead, simply dial up a hand-picked Internet radio station built around that preference. So if you're into alternative, you get a list of 13 choices (Indie Chill, 90s Alternative, Punk). Choose the one you want and if it's, say, 80s Alternative, you get a hand-picked mix of The Cure, Depeche Mode, New Order, and so on. No signup is necessary for basic service, but some of the best goodies are available only to paying subscribers. The Radio Plus service costs $4 per month and eliminates all ads, lets you skip any song you don't want to hear, and shows song lyrics. The $10 per month Premium Radio plan gets you all that plus any song on demand, single-artist stations, playlist creation, and caching (saving) albums and playlists for offline play.









TuneIn Radio (free; Pro version, $0.99). A great way to turn your Fire into a radio replacement. Dial up all your local faves or browse some pretty ginormous categories dedicated to news, sports, and talk—each of which gets a slew of sub-categories. Also browse worldwide or according to language. The Pro version lets you record stations and shows.









Scanner Radio (free; Pro version, $2.99). If you've had enough music and news, why not spend some time listening to WKR-Cops? Scanner radio fans have made the Web a rich source of these streamed feeds. This simple app has newbie-friendly tools for finding action-packed stations (Top 50) as well as browsing and search tools for veterans of these sometimes riveting, often boring channels. Bonus treat: In the Options bar, the 10-Codes tab has a list of common police radio shorthand. It's not just the ones you know like 10-4, but some (hopefully) less common variants: 10-45, Animal carcass at...; 10-54, Livestock on highway; and 10-98, Prison/jail break. Archived call logs are available with a paid subscription to RadioReference.com, and an ad-free experience is yours if you spring for the Pro version.


























Part III. Communications and Browsing






Chapter 8


Chapter 9















Chapter 8. Email, Contacts, and Calendar










NOWADAYS, EVEN AUNT IDA'S barebones phone can do email and serve as a digital date book. And if you're like most Fire owners, you probably pack an Android or iPhone that works fine as a portable secretary. Just because Amazon included these functions on the Fire doesn't mean you have to use them. Why would you want to? Two reasons:



Bigger screen. As much as thumb-calloused BlackBerry veterans love their speedy little keypads, even they'd admit their phone's mini screen makes tasks like attachment reading and long-term calendar browsing tough. The Fire's jumbo display (at least in comparison) makes these tasks much more pleasurable. And the nearly adult-sized keyboard is souped up with some helpful typing aids (see The Keyboard for the full scoop).


Sharing. The Fire may earn its bread as a personal media center, but we live in a social age, right? Everywhere you swipe—in the Photos Library, the Silk web browser, while shopping—you get a chance to send digital dispatches to email pals. Amazon's built-in email app ensures that, pretty much wherever you are, you can send off a quick note.



Amazon thankfully resisted the temptation to saddle you with yet another email account. The built-in app plays nice with big email providers like Gmail, Yahoo, and AOL. Support for Microsoft's Exchange system—popular at big companies—is now part of the package, too. And if you use a service that's not on the ready-to-use list, you can easily add it. (For example, some third-party apps cover Microsoft's Exchange email.) The companion Contacts and Calendar apps are similarly friendly and ready to do helpful things like work with your Google-based info. Read on to find out how to get it all connected.

Note
If your communication methods have moved beyond email, the Fire is ready to move with you. Twitter, Facebook, and Skype all now have Fire-friendly apps. Skype and Amazon even cut a deal so you get free video chats with other Skypers—assuming, of course, your Fire is one of the HD models (which include a front-facing video camera). Download any of these apps in the Appstore (Installing Apps).





Email and Address Book Setup



Like any email program, the one that comes on every Fire—called E-mail, as it happens—needs info from you to perform its postal duties. Setup is a snap for your Google, Yahoo, Microsoft (Hotmail or Exchange), or AOL account. Follow these steps:



In the Fire's Apps Library, tap the E-mail icon. You'll find E-mail already installed in the Device section of Apps.









Choose your email provider from the list. A screen appears showing the five ready-to-go email providers. If you use one of these services, tap its name. If someone else handles your email, tap "Other provider." You'll have to round up a bit more information about your account. Amazon's put together a handy chart (http://bit.ly/kfmm210) listing most of the info you need to gather. See the next section on manual setup to find out the remaining hoops you need to jump through.








Note
Setup for Microsoft Exchange works almost exactly like Gmail, Yahoo, and the other services. There are a few differences, though. First, you need your Exchange-specific "Domain name," and you'll need to turn on a lock-screen password (Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids). Finally, if you run into any trouble getting started, try turning on the checkbox next to "Accept all SSL certificates" in the Security Settings section of the "Incoming settings" screen.



Enter your name, email address, and password for the email account you chose in step 1. If you have more than one email service, don't overlook the Description box. The name you enter here tells you which account you're checking. (Need a Keyboard 101 refresher? The Keyboard has the basics.) When you're done here, tap Next.


Turn on either (or both) of the checkboxes next to Contacts and Calendar to import your calendar and contacts info. Consider taking advantage of this incredibly useful service. The Fire doesn't simply do a one-time download of this data. As the "Synchronization options" label implies, you get a live feed. Make a change on your work computer to your Google Contacts, for example, and the new info shows up automatically on your Fire. When you're done, tap Save.

Note
Calendar and contact synching don't work for all email services. Yahoo doesn't give you calendar synching. AOL offers neither.



Finish up by tapping View Inbox. After a few seconds of email fetching, E-mail presents you with a list of the most recent messages you've received. Tap any message to read what it says. (How to check and send email is covered on Checking and Reading Email.)



To add another email account, in E-mail tap the upper-right Menu icon (three horizontal lines) and pick Settings. Choose Add Account. Go back to step 2 and repeat the cycle for each additional account.




Manually Adding Account Information



If your email provider isn't on E-mail's quick setup list, you'll need to track down and enter a few details yourself. Tap "Other provider," as described in step 2 on the previous page, and then do the following:



Enter your login details, including your email address and password. Tap Next when you're done. If you're lucky, Amazon's software gremlins will be able to gather and automatically fill in the details standing between you and your email. If they succeed, you get a screen that presents you with the same View Inbox button described in step 5, on Manually Adding Account Information. Congratulations. If you instead see a pop-up window saying "Unable to finish account setup," tap "Manual setup" and move onto the next step.


Choose your account type: POP3 or IMAP. The simplest route to an answer is checking the Help section on your email provider's website. The difference between the two account types is interesting mainly to email historians. IMAP has won this standards battle and provides one key convenience not available to POP3 users: It coordinates everything you send and receive across all the various smartphones, tablets, and computers you use to do email. Send or delete a message from one gadget, and that change gets mirrored instantly across all your gadgets. With POP3, you have much more work to do. You must manually coordinate your email across multiple devices. (A decade or so ago this wasn't a problem, when most people used only one computer to check email.) Tap Next.









Fill in the "Incoming" and "Outgoing server settings" boxes. The boxes and pull-down menus on this screen all work together to send and retrieve your email. In many cases, the E-mail app will try to automatically enter all the correct settings info here. In practice, this is a mixed blessing. If, after tapping Next, you get a message saying "Unable to finish account setup," then tap Edit Details. At that point you have a few options. First, consult Amazon's Help page (http://bit.ly/kfmm210) for a chart listing common settings. If you can't find the magic numbers you need there, your best bet is to call your email provider or visit its Help page. Even with the most lucid explanation ever written of these options, without the specific settings chosen by your company, you'll never figure out what to enter.







Once you've filled everything in, tap Next and, on the following screen, Save.


Check your email, or customize your setup a bit further. To do the first, simply tap the View Inbox button. To tweak details—like the signature that gets appended to every email you send or deciding how often you want E-mail to check this account—tap E-mail→Settings (in the upper-right Menu icon) and read on for details.




Note
To get rid of an account, go to E-mail→Settings, tap the name of whichever one you want to delete, and then pick Remove Account from the bottom of the screen.






Fine-Tuning E-mail's Settings Options



The E-mail app's standard settings are what most people will want, most of the time. Occasionally, though, some fiddling is called for. Perhaps you want to change the font size of the emails you read, or decide how long to store email on your Fire. For all this and more, open either E-mail's Combined Inbox (Checking and Reading Email) or any individual email account you have, and then head to Settings (tap the Menu icon in the upper-right corner).
E-mail General Settings offers a few straightforward options that apply to all the accounts you've set up. You get five text size options, plus On/Off buttons for Show Embedded Images (automatically displays graphics in any emails you receive), Automatically Download Attachments, and Include Original Messages in Replies. Including the full text of the original message in a response is helpful for recipients who, a week after emailing you, are trying to figure out what you mean by "Great! Let's go with option 2."
You also get a collection of settings choices for each individual email account you've set up. Choices vary based on the email provider you're using, but common options include:



General settings. Your name is what your recipients see in the From line. Description is the for-your-info-only header that appears on E-mail's Combined Inbox. Tap to revise the one you initially created. Default account is meaningful everywhere else on the Fire, outside of the E-mail app. It's how you choose which email account is used to to share photos, web page links, and so on. Stick a checkmark in this box to dub this account the chosen one.


Inbox check frequency. Here's where you control how often E-mail looks to see if you have any new messages. Automatic (push) grabs new notes whenever they're available. All the other options—Manual, Every 5/15/30 minutes, Every hour—either let you check for yourself (by using the Refresh button under the upper-right Menu icon) or set a fixed interval.









Store messages. Decide how long your emails remain on the Fire.


Signature. Whatever you include here gets added to the end of every message you send from this account. Tap Return if you want to create a signature that runs across multiple lines.


Incoming/Outgoing settings. Your path back to the sending and receiving settings you specified in step 3 on Manually Adding Account Information.








Filling Up the Contacts App



Earlier in this chapter you learned how to quickly download an online contacts collection (Email and Address Book Setup). But what if you've got an email account—from AOL or Yahoo, for example—that the Fire doesn't auto-sync with? The news isn't great, at least if you want to stick with Amazon's built-in Contacts app. Amazon has nixed the feature on the original Fire that let you manually import a contacts collection. That leaves you with two options:










Method one: Manually add individual contacts. Hit the New button (upper right). The boxes that appear in the Name section are self-explanatory: Tap each one ("First name," "Phone," and so on), enter what you like, and then hit Save (upper right). The labels in both the Phone and E-mail sections (both of which initially appear saying Home) are tappable; do so to pick from a long list of options (does anyone still have a "Car" phone?). One useful choice at the end of the E-mail label list: Custom. Tap it to create a category for pals with more than just work and home email addresses. To add multiple phone, email, or address entries, tap the "Add new" link that appears below the records you enter.
Finally, add a picture to any contact by tapping the upper-right corner's image icon. The Fire switches you over to the Photos Library or lets you pick from any other photo-bearing app you have installed. Navigate to the picture you want. When you're finished entering info, tap Save in the upper-right corner.








Note
The Contacts app may prompt you to pick an account to sync this addition with. That's the case, of course, only if you're currently syncing your contacts with some online source (your Google Contacts, for example). If that's so, you'll see a one-time-only pop-up window listing all of your sync-ready online contacts, including the one Amazon created if you chose to back up your contacts to Amazon's Cloud Drive (see Cloud vs. Device). Later on, if you create more new contacts and want to sync them with a different account, tap the pull-down menu at the top of the new contact entry screen and choose from the list that appears.



Method two: Use a third-party app. The best option in these early days of the Fire is something called DejaOffice. If you're a BlackBerry or Outlook veteran, it links up your Fire with those contacts. The downside? You need to buy and install a program on your computer. Go to CompanionLink at www.companionlink.com; prices start at $40.










There's not much to actually using the Contacts app. It's a big list that you can scroll or search through. For a tour of its main talents, see The Contacts App.

Note
To empty out everything stored in Contacts, pull down the Quick Settings bar (The Home Screen), choose Applications→Installed Applications, and then scroll down to and tap Contacts Storage (not the one before it, Contacts). In the Storage section, tap Clear Data and—woosh—everything's gone.







Checking and Reading Email



Once you've got your message machine humming, it's time to see what the inbox holds. Launch the E-mail app by going to the Device section of the Apps Library. (Want to make it a home screen favorite for faster access? The Home Screen explains how.) Most of the time you'll arrive on the Accounts page—a simple list of every email account you've set up. Even if you make do with just one email address, you'll still see this page, which is topped with the super useful Combined Inbox. Tapping this option shows you an aggregate tally of all your email, regardless of which address it was sent to. Below that are listed one or more individual email accounts, each containing all the messages sent to that address. Dive in wherever you like: Combined Inbox or an individual account inbox.







Opening any inbox automatically triggers a go-fetch command. If the app finds something, new arrivals appear at the top of the inbox.

Note
The next time the E-mail app checks depends on the schedule you set back on Fine-Tuning E-mail's Settings Options. Or you can check anytime you like by tapping Refresh (tucked inside the upper-right Menu button).

Tap to open any message. If it's too long to fit on the screen, scroll down to read to the end. If it's too wide, rotate the Fire and see if the 90-degree shift fits everything onscreen. If not, tap the leftward-pointing triangle on the message's left side; that gives you a full-screen view of the message. To see who else, if anyone, got this note (either as a top-tier To recipient or as a Cc spectator), tap Details in the upper-right corner of the email.














A couple of options await for plowing through a big batch of newly arrived notes. If you've got an email message open, buttons at the bottom of the screen (Newer, Older) put you one tap away from neighboring messages. To look at your inbox from on high, either tap the Back button in the Options bar, or the name of the email account (upper-left corner). Back in this list view, you see a stack of messages, each with enough info showing to reveal who sent it, when it was sent, the subject line, and the first sentence or so.
The E-mail app gives you a few ways to organize what you see in this list, or quickly weed out messages that aren't worth your time. Tap to turn on the checkbox on the left side of any message, and three new buttons appear on the top of the screen: Delete, Move, and Mark. The first does what it says. Move launches a pop-up menu listing any subfolders available in this email account; tap any folder to file away the message you've selected. (These are folders you created in your email account prior to your life with the Fire. Some people create elaborate subfolder systems—Art, Art-History, Art-Friends—others never go beyond the usual assortment that most email providers create—Drafts, Inbox, Sent, Trash.)

Tip
Don't waste time trying to tap directly on that dinky little checkbox container on the left edge of every message. Just tap and hold anywhere on an email in list view—that pops a checkmark into the empty box.

Mark lets you toggle an email back to its unread state (that is, showing the sender's name in boldface) or flag it as important by adding a big star next to it. You can perform these actions on one email at a time, or—more usefully—in batches, by turning on the checkboxes of as many messages as you'd like to affect.
To track down a specific message, use the E-mail app's search tool by tapping the search monocle in the Options bar. Searching works just as it does everywhere else on the Fire: Tap the oval to bring up the keyboard. Type to enter your word or phrase and use the radio buttons (Subject, From, To) to indicate which of those three buckets you want to scour through. (Sorry, you can't search the contents of your email.) As you enter letters in the search oval, the list of emails gets whittled down, on the fly, to show matches.

Note
To get to Trash, or any other folder mentioned in this section, head back to the Combined Inbox screen (Checking and Reading Email).

See a web link you want to visit? Tap it and the Fire's web browser whisks you off to where it's pointing. To copy text from a message, press and hold the screen till a pop-up menu appears.







Now you can copy or share (to Facebook, for example) whatever text you've selected. The More option lets you conduct a search either within the message or on the Web for the selected text. If you want to copy more than one word, first tap any word in the phrase. Once the selection handles appear, tap/hold/move either handle to extend the selection band.

Note
You can't copy an image from your email—at least not on the Fire. If there's an embedded figure you really want to hang onto, forward it to your computer's regular email program and grab it from there.

The E-mail app tries to guard against overstuffed emails clogging the Fire's limited storage. If a message arrives bearing cargo—attached photos or a PDF, for example—you see a paper clip icon next to the sender's name in the full list view. To open an attachment, open the message and then tap its down-arrow icon. Once the attachment is downloaded (when the arrow icon turns into a tiny checkbox), tap the icon and then choose from the pop-up menu to select which app you want to view it with.








Note
Thanks to Amazon's deal with Quickoffice, Inc., every Fire ships with a freebie version of its flagship app. It's a Microsoft Office-fluent app that lets you open and read (but not edit) Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files. For more on a power user's version of this app, which includes file creation and editing capabilities, flip back to Quickoffice.





Replying



When you're ready to reply, you face the same to-do list as when you compose a message from scratch. Read on to the next section for everything you need to know about that. To get your reply started, tap the Respond menu at the top of any open message and pick Reply (to respond to just the sender) or Reply All (includes those in the To box as well as those in the Cc field). That same menu is also where you find Forward; tap it and add one or more email addresses.

Note
If you don't want to include the sender's message when replying, look for the "Quote original message" checkbox near the top of the message composition field. Turn it off to delete everything from the original email. Now you're typing on a fresh sheet, but the subject line still has the telltale "re:" tag.







Composing a Message



Ready to write? Head into the list view (Checking and Reading Email) of the account you want to send your email from—no choice to make here, of course, if you've only got one email address. Grab a blank page and virtual pen by tapping the upper-right corner's New button. Then:



Decide who's going to receive it. Start in the To box. Either use the virtual keyboard to enter someone's address or tap the plus (+) button to pick from your Contacts list. To choose an address book entry, scroll down the list, or drag the black scrolling bar in the right-hand margin. Tap the big alphabet letters to skip to that point in your address book and then tap to pick the name you want. To add multiple recipients, repeat the process: Tap the plus button and pick another name.

Tip
Start typing a contact's first or last name, and a list of matches drops down from the To box. Tap to select the one you want.









Note
To remove a name that you've added, tap the cursor and hit the Delete key until it's gone.

Tap Options for the extra choices you may use occasionally. You probably know the drill regarding that Cc/Bcc button. Tap it to add those boxes to the message window—both work the same as the To field. Cc is for recipients you want to include, and keep informed, but don't necessarily expect a reply from; Bcc is a sly, but totally legitimate way of sending someone a message without letting any of the To or Cc recipients know that someone else is also getting the same email. One especially good reason to use this cloak: when sending a message to a huge list (baby announcement, change of address). Many Internetians consider it bad form to publicly expose so many email addresses. After all, everybody already gets enough spam; why hang everyone's address out like that for cherrypicking? The solution lies in the Bcc box. Address the email to yourself and hide all the recipients' addresses in the secret box.


Add any attachments. If you've got a document or image you want to send along with your message, tap the Attach button. The choices that pop up in the Choose Attachment list vary based on which file-managing apps you have installed on your Fire. At a minimum, you'll see Photos (for pics) and Quickoffice (for Word files). Choose the one you want and then navigate to and tap the file you want.


Change, if you want, the account you're sending from. This applies only if you've set up multiple email accounts (for work, home, and so on). A pull-down menu appears next to the From label. If you want to switch to a different account, pick it here.


Fill out the Subject line. There's no law saying you have to include a subject. But, again, a best practice ritual has emerged. Recipients who face the Problem of Too Much Email find short, descriptive blurbs here helpful for wading through their daily message load.


Compose your message. Tap the big empty box. Using the onscreen keyboard, type just as you would on a normal keyboard. Turn the Fire to landscape mode if you want bigger keys. (The tradeoff? A smaller writing window.) For a refresher on keyboard basics, turn back to The Keyboard.


Send your message. If you want time to polish (or reconsider), tap Cancel and then Save Draft. When you're ready to get back to it, in list view, tap "Show folders" and select the Drafts folder. Otherwise, tapping Send dispatches your note off into the ether. Delete Draft, of course, is for bailing out entirely.




Tip
In a hurry to send off an email? On the Fire's home screen, if the icon for either the E-mail, the Calendar, or the Contacts app is showing in the Carousel, you get a New Message shortcut button at the bottom of the screen.






The Contacts App



One upside to the built-in Contacts app's simplicity: Searching through it and other operational maneuvers is a breeze. Once you've filled it up, the thing looks like any other long list on the Fire. Swipe up or down to traverse the entries; tap the right side slider to quickly jump to a different part of the alphabet.







Tap the monocle on the Options bar to search. The app looks for matches everywhere in each contact entry: first and last name, city, notes, and so on. For example, if you enter Ne you'll see your pal Nellie plus any friends who live in New York City. Keep typing if you want to whittle down the list.
If your little black book is especially thick, consider making it easier to find frequent correspondents by tagging them as "favorites." Do so by tapping to open an entry, and then touch the dim star in the upper-right corner.
You'll find a few miscellaneous choices in the upper-right corner menu (the one that looks like a bullet list). First is Settings, which takes you to a page where you can choose Contacts General Settings. From there you can choose to store a backup copy of your address book on the Amazon Cloud Drive (Cloud vs. Device). You can also control how you sort and display your contacts. Tap Sort Order of Contact Name to pick between first or last name. The next option—Display Order of Contact Name—lets you choose between showing first name first (George Washington) or last name first (Washington, George).
If you've got an individual contact card open, the upper-right icon also has a Share option. Tap it to email the card info to someone else.

Tip
Want to see a map showing a contact's address? First, of course, you must have a street address in the person's entry (see Filling Up the Contacts App for instructions on editing contacts). You also need to have some kind of maps app on your Fire. MapQuest is one decent option; see Installing Apps for how to install apps. Finally, tap and hold any address in an open contact. Pick "Copy to clipboard" from the pop-up menu that appears, launch MapQuest, and then paste it into the search box at the top of the screen.



GEM IN THE ROUGH: Typing Tips and Tricks
Even though it's just you tapping, the Fire can help you make text more quickly and accurately than you could on your own. For starters, there are the three biggies that every touchscreen typist nowadays expects: the Fire auto-inserts an apostrophe in common contractions (I'm, Don't); two taps of the space bar gets you a period; and you get auto-correct for common misspellings ("teh" gets changed to "the").
Keep an eye, as well, on the row above the traditional QWERTY keyboard. Here's where you get an ever-changing lineup of handy helpers. Before you start typing, this row sports a lineup of commonly used punctuation (exclamation point, question mark, ⌘ sign, and so on). When you start typing, those guys disappear and in their place a trio of best guesses at what you intend to write next appears. So if you've already written I love and follow it with rag, you get rage, rag, and art. The middle option—in this case, rag—has three dots beneath it, indicating it's the one you'll get if you hit the space bar. You can also tap and hold any of the three choices to see a pop up window with 15 other guesses.
Bad spellers get special help. A red line under a word means the Fire has a suggestion. Tap the word, and a list of correctly spelled alternatives appear. If you want to overrule the Fire—perhaps you prefer birdseye to the suggested birds eye—then tap "Add to Dictionary." A pop-up box appears giving you a chance to either accept your preferred spelling (tap OK), or edit it further. Behind that pop-up box, you'll also see any other spellings you've added to the Fire's built-in dictionary. Tap on any red X to delete one of these entries. Once you do that, you can also tap the Menu icon in the Options bar to add in as many special spellings as you like. Finally, owners of 8.9-inch model Fires get a few extra typing helpers; see Appendix C for the full rundown.













Keeping Your Calendar



Alongside email and address book, the third musketeer, is the calendar. The Fire now comes with its own built-in app dedicated to that time-keeping task. It's simple to use and compatible with a few of the most popular online calendar systems. That last point is important. You need an existing calendar account somewhere—connected to your Google or Hotmail account, or from work—to use the Fire app. In other words, you can't create a digital calendar from scratch on your Fire; you use the Fire to sync up with a calendar you've created elsewhere.







If you don't have an online calendar and your new Fire is inspiring you to get into digital calendar keeping, don't worry. It's easy. The two available options for non-corporate workers are Google Calendar and Microsoft Hotmail. Both let you keep your calendar online and sync it with almost any smartphone or gadget including, of course, the Fire. That way, you can enter and view appointments at work, on the go, or on your Fire, and you always get the latest and greatest version of your schedule.

Note
Microsoft Exchange is the one corporate-friendly calendar system that the Fire syncs with.

If you followed the email setup steps at the beginning of this chapter, you may have already turned on the checkbox that populates the Fire's Calendar app. If not, open the E-mail app and head to Settings (in the upper-right Menu button). Open the email account whose calendar you want to sync with and turn the Sync Calendar switch On.




Viewing Your Calendar



Job number one of any calendar—print or digital—is showing your schedule. The Calendar app gives you four different vantage points: list, day, week, and month. Buttons at the top of the screen let you quickly switch. Get a close-up look at what's in store over the next few hours by picking Day, for example, and then zoom out to Month for longer-term planning.

Tip
Prefer to see your weekly calendar start on a Monday, with Saturday and Sunday paired up at the end of the week, rather than split up on either side of the weekdays? To make that happen, go to Calendar General Settings (in the upper-right Menu icon) and tap Week Starts On.






Creating and Editing Events



Anywhere in the Calendar app, tap the upper-right Menu and choose New Event to enter a new appointment or event. On the screen that appears, fill in as many of the details as you'd like to keep track of. Simple pull-down menus let you do things like choose start and stop times (turn on "All day" if it's an occasion with no set time), schedule recurring events (every day, once a year), and trigger reminders. Head to Calendar General Settings under the Menu icon to fix a standard reminder (from "At start of event" to "1 week before"). You can always change this for individual events, but picking something here is a good way to start each entry with a time that you frequently use.








Note
If you do set a reminder, the sound your Fire emits is not exactly deafening. Pick the sound style you want by going to Settings→Sounds & Display→Notification Sounds. Make sure the volume on your Fire is turned up for maximum audibility. Good news: If your Fire is asleep, it's smart enough to sound the reminder while snoozing. To dismiss a reminder, tap, hold, and pull down the notification circle at the top of the screen. You'll see the event listed; tap its checkbox to make it go away.








Boxes labeled Where and Notes let you remind yourself where you need to go and keep track of little odds and ends ("bring a bottle of red"). The Invite option is neat for those of us who keep company with other digital-calendar-using types. Tap the plus-sign button, and you can dispatch a calendar entry to your pal. Once they get it, their calendar tool lets them respond Yes/No/Maybe; that answer gets recorded in the event listing on your Fire.

Tip
In Day and Week views, another quick add option is tapping any empty spot on your calendar. A plus-sign button appears; when tapped, it leads you to the New Event screen, same as the one just described.








Tap any calendar entry to view its details, respond to an invite, or delete it. The upper-right Edit button lets you revise an entry. Tap the Details link (right side, gray text) to reveal even more nitty-gritty: a record of who has (and has yet to) respond to an invitation, whether a reminder's been set, and which email account this event is associated with.

Note
If the calendar syncing—between the online version and the one on your Fire—doesn't happen as quickly as you'd like, give it a little nudge. In the upper-right Menu icon, tap Refresh. And on that same list you'll also find "Calendars to Display." If you've loaded up multiple calendars (for example, a Microsoft Exchange one for work, and a Google Calendar for personal stuff), this item has checkboxes for both. Toggle either on or off to temporarily show or hide them.
















Chapter 9. Browsing the Web










SILK—THE FIRE'S WEB BROWSER—PROVIDES a nice ride for your online travels. It's Amazon's home-grown version of Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, or whatever you use to bop around the Internet. Everything you'd expect is here: bookmarks, shareable pages, built-in search, and tabbed browsing (so you can quickly switch between multiple open pages). And Amazon's engineers put extra effort into the first version's number one flaw—sluggishness. The new edition is noticeably snappier, loading pages much more quickly. Other improvements and new features include better support for HTML5 (the increasingly popular coding system for app-like web pages) and a dedicated section for the pages you've recently visited.

Note
Amazon giveth and Amazon taketh away. New to the Fire is a home-screen link called Shop, which offers a customized web browser dedicated to Amazon shopping. Meanwhile, Silk's ability to play Flash video and games has gone away. Flash support used to be one of the Fire's marquee bragging points against the iPad, which has never displayed Flash. But apparently Amazon came to agree with Apple: Flash has a tendency to slow pages down and is losing popularity to HTML5 anyway.





Visiting a Website



The first time you tap the home screen's Web link, you arrive at Silk's newly designed opening screen: the Starter page. Here you'll find a collection of different and useful ways to start surfing:










Enter a web address. Tap the box where it says "Enter search term or type URL" (the latter's a geekonym for "web address"—it stands for universal resource locator). Now enter www.cnn.com, yahoo.com, or wherever else you want to visit, and then tap Go (the orange keyboard button). You don't need to type the http://—Silk fills it in for ya. Here's another timesaver: Hanging from the search box you'll see an ever-changing list of sites that Silk thinks you're heading for. As you start typing, for example, www.cnn, the list below suggests www.cnnmoney.com, www.cnnsi.com, and a few other pages from the CNN family. Each gets a globe icon next to it, indicating it's a web page. Listings paired with a magnifying glass icon indicate web searches that Silk is offering to carry out. (Two other icons you'll see at some point: a ribbon for sites in your Bookmarks collection and a clock for pages you've previously visited.)








Tip
Don't know the site's web address? Type a name, like red cross, IHOP, state department to run a Web search. If what you're looking for is common enough, the first result is usually what you want. The note on Note has info on switching from the Silk's factory-set search tool—Bing—to Google or Yahoo if you'd rather.



Use a bookmark. Tap the Bookmarks link below the search box and you'll see a lone, ready-to-tap shortcut to Amazon's home on the Web. Favorites and Recently Visited Sites shows how to add your own.









Head to a page you recently visited. You can use this option after you've surfed the Web a bit. At that point, when you launch Silk, a row of mini-web-page icons labeled Most Visited appears at the top of the screen. Swipe left to right to see the pages you've spent the most time on. Tap any icon to head directly to that page. (If this icon-filled page doesn't appear, tap the upper-right corner's plus [+] button.) For a complete list of every page you've been to, tap History. Here's a record of what you've viewed over the past month or so (or until the Fire fills up and starts flushing out old bits).


Need inspiration? Perhaps you're just in the mood to do a little surfing. Two more rows of shrunken page snapshots at the bottom of the screen—Trending Now and Selected Sites—are Amazon's aim to help. The first lists pages that other Silk users like. The second are, according to Amazon, "up and coming or otherwise noteworthy sites that our customers might find interesting." You be the judge of that. Swipe either row from left to right to see more choices.








Navigation and Viewing Basics



What to do when you land on a page? Perhaps you'd simply like to read a bit? Chances are the onscreen text is too small. Double-tap whatever looks good for a closer look. This gesture actually works for anything on the page, not just text: a picture, an ad, a video player, and so on. Once the page's content is a little more legible, place one finger on the screen and, as you hold it, move it around. The page sticks to your finger like a magnet. You can traverse left, right, diagonal, wherever you like. You can also flick the page in any direction. To zoom back out to full page view (or as much of it as will fit on the screen), double-tap again.
All it takes is a bit of practice: Double-tap anywhere to move in; repeat to move back out. To exert a bit more fine-tuned control, pinch and spread two fingers. The first zooms you in, the second zooms you out. What's the difference between this and the double tap? Pinching and spreading lets you stop exactly at whatever magnification level you prefer.
Following a link works just as you'd expect—tap it. The web address bar you met earlier drops from the top of the screen to show where you're heading. A spinning circle on the left edge indicates that Silk is fetching the page you requested. Remember, you can click more than just the standard blue, underlined text. Most buttons, photos, and icons, when tapped, will transport you somewhere, or at the very least present an enlarged version of themselves.








Tip
Accidentally tap a link you don't want to follow? You get a second or so in which to change your mind and issue a "stop!" command. In the web address oval, tap the right-hand "x" icon, which slides down from the top of the screen as Silk gets ready to fetch a linked page.








The Back arrow in the Options bar serves the same role as the one in your computer's web browser, returning you to the page you just came from. (If you've just launched Silk, tapping Back pops you back out to wherever on the Fire you came from.) To its right, the Forward arrow lights up and is ready for duty any time you've tapped Back. Prior to that, Forward appears on the Options bar but is dimmed out.
One limitation to early web browsers—those from the mid and late 90s—was how messy things got when you started clicking lots of links. Before you knew it, 15 separate web browser windows crowded your monitor, making navigation a mess. The solution? Tabbed browsing, which arranges multiple sheets in a single browser window with tappable tabs for easy navigation. Silk's got it, too. Tap and hold any link and, in the pop-up list that appears, pick "Open in new tab." On top of the screen you've now got two rectangles—the link you just tapped on in full view, and the page you were previously viewing standing by. Tap either tab to switch back and forth between web pages. If you want a new tab but are not yet ready to read its contents, tap "Open in background tab."
Add up to ten of these tabs, either via the tap-and-hold method or by touching the upper-right plus (+) button. That gets you a ready-for-your-command search/web address oval.

Tip
Tap and hold any tab for a pop-up list of quick shortcuts: for closing one or more tabs, for turning that tab into a bookmark, or for adding its page to your Fire's "favorites" list (The Home Screen).









Note
Every so often you'll run into a PDF or Word file posted on a website, ready for downloading. To do so, tap the link, and Silk grabs the file off the Web and stashes it in its downloads folder. Head there (Options bar→Menu→Downloads) and then tap it again. A pop-up list shows all the apps on your Fire that can view it. Pick the one you want and now you're looking at it.





Reading View



Here's an absolutely fantastic new addition to Silk. Reading View is a one-tap way to declutter any web page so you can focus on its text. Just tap the eyeglass icon on the left edge of almost any tab. Up pops an easy-to-read page filled with good-sized words.







You also get a helpful palette of text- and layout-tweaking tools. Tap the tiny tab icon at the bottom of the screen and then choose "Aa." You get a pop-up window full of controls for adjusting font size, background page color, margin width, and alignment. (Left alignment makes the text look like it is in this book—jagged endings on the right side—and Justify makes both edges neat and uniform.)
To return a page to its full multimedia, ad-packed glory, tap the X button in the upper-right corner.

Tip
Silk's Full Screen view is a cousin to Reading view. Tap the four-arrowed icon in the Options bar, and the current web page takes over the entire screen. Gone are all the tabs, the Option bar items, even the Fire's top-of-screen icons.







Favorites and Recently Visited Sites



You probably have at least one or two websites you can't live without. Save yourself some time and go straight to those spots by bookmarking them. First, use any of the techniques described back on Navigation and Viewing Basics to navigate to a favorite page. Then, in the upper-left corner, tap the bookmark icon. In the dialog box that pops up, tap OK to accept the suggested name and web address.







You'll probably leave the page address alone—you just picked it, after all. You may, however, wish to shorten the highlighted text in the Name box. Whatever you enter there shows up as a label beneath the page thumbnail on the Bookmarks screen. Really long titles, which is what you often get, only fit on one view of the Bookmarks' views—list view, when your Fire is held horizontally. Better to shorten things so you can make out what's what when you're in, say, the Bookmarks' grid view. There you get about 16 characters max. So, rather than Album | We Bought a Zoo (Motion Picture Soundtrack) | eMusic, edit that down to something like We Bought a Zoo. To visit any of these favorite places, tap the Menu icon on the Options bar, choose "Starter page"→Bookmarks. Tap a bookmark to head to its page.
The History page (its tab sits next to Bookmarks) is like the Recent button on your cellphone. It shows a plain-text list of all the pages you've visited in the past month or so, split up into four categories: Today, Yesterday, "Last 7 days," and "Last month." Tap any item in one of these sections to pay it a return visit; the new page replaces whatever is currently in the frontmost tab.
Tap and hold any page name on the History list to see a pop-up menu with a few related options. The first choice—Open—does the same thing as tapping an item in the History list. "Open in new tab" displays the page in a fresh tab; "Open in background tab" does the same but stashes the tab behind the currently visible one. "Share link" lets you email, tweet, or otherwise publicize the web address. "Copy link URL" sticks a copy of it on the Clipboard. "Add bookmark" gives you a permanent shortcut to the page. Don't want everyone who uses your Fire knowing where you've been? Pick the final choice—Delete. In related news, the lower-left Clear All button does just as it says.








Tip
Another option for clearing out individual page bread crumbs: Tap the X on the item's right edge, and then tap "Delete marked items" at the bottom of the screen. Security and Other Advanced Settings explains how to make your browsing totally breadcrumb-free.






Searching



What would the Web be if you couldn't search it? Silk lets you conduct searches directly in the web address oval. You first met its finding powers at the start of this chapter (Visiting a Website), but it also has two other hunting tools:



Basic searches. To recap guidance from earlier in this chapter: Tap any tab to summon the search oval and then touch the oval to start typing. The auto-suggest helper kicks in as soon as you hit the keyboard. Begin with pe and you're likely to see a list of recently visited pages that, somewhere in their titles, have those two letters. Tap ahead to pepp and suddenly all that history makes way for search suggestions: pepperidge farm, peppa pig, pepperdine, and so on.

Note
To replace the factory set Bing with either Google or Yahoo, head to Options bar→Menu button→Settings→"Search engine" to make your pick.



Search inside a page. Sometimes you want to pinpoint a word or phrase on a (usually long) page. Use "Find in page" (Options bar→Menu), type your query into the search oval, and then tap the downward-pointing arrow, to the left of what you just typed. If it finds a match, Silk highlights it in orange. To find the next occurrence, tap the same arrow again. To reverse course and return to an earlier match, touch the upward-pointing arrow.

Tip
Dismiss the keyboard and free up more onscreen space by tapping its lower-right "Done" button. When you're finished, hit Done in the lower-right corner of the screen.
















Copying Text and Images



To copy any text on a web page, hold your finger on the screen till you see two selection handles surround the word you've picked. To extend the selection, tap, hold, and move either handle to grab as much extra text as you want. When you're done, tap Copy. Now it's sitting there for you to use in some kind of writing app (E-mail, for example; see Composing a Message) where you then tap and hold any blank writing space and then pick Paste to grab what's on the Clipboard. Tapping Select All grabs everything on the page.
Most web pages let you download and save pictures from them. Tap and hold the image you want till a pop-up list appears with choices to "Save image" or "View image." Choose the first and then switch over to the Photos app (Browsing Photos) where it now awaits in the Download picture collection. The latter gets you a web page devoted exclusively to the image you're touching.








Note
Don't love the idea of the Fire keeping a record of all your downloaded images? Head to Options bar→Menu button→Downloads, put a checkmark next to any item you want to vanish, and then tap the upper-right trash can icon.






Sharing and Saving Web Pages



The Web is the most connected document library in human history, which may explain why folks want to share pages with each other so often. Doing so on the Fire is easy. Tap the "Share page" button (Options bar→Menu) and pick one of the apps on the pop-up list to send the web address to. The apps that appear on your screen depend, of course, on which ones you've installed. At a minimum you'll see the Fire's built-in E-mail app. Now what about those cases when pushing out a simple link is not enough? Two good options for those who wish to grab everything that appears on a page from head to toe:



Web Snapshots. This nifty li'l app (free or, without ads, for $1) does one thing: makes PDF replicas of any page you visit. Once you've downloaded it, the grabbing process works hand-in-hand with the Silk browser. Find a page you want and go through the "Share page" routine as described above. From the pop-up list, pick Web Snapshots. That launches the app, where you'll see your captured page. Tap the lower-right Full PDF button and, on the page that appears, tap the "view" radio button and the name of the page you just saved. (When you tap "view," the button doesn't appear to turn on, but it is working.) Next, pick any PDF-viewing app on your Fire. Skip the Kindle Fire (it doesn't display Web Snapshot's PDFs very nicely) and go for something like the free Adobe Reader. You can also email the PDF by tapping the "share" button rather than the "view" button.









Pocket. This $2.99 app, formerly called Read It Later, gives you much more control over the web pages you save. And it teams up with a little utility button you can add to your regular computer's web browser, making it easy to spot and tag web pages at work that you don't have time to read. Later, call 'em up for perusing when you're at your Fire. Start by installing the app on your Fire. Create an account and come up with a username and password. That's it: You're good to go. In the Fire's Silk browser, just follow the "Share page" instructions on Sharing and Saving Web Pages; in the list of share-friendly apps, you see Add to Pocket. Tap its name and then return to the app to read it even when you don't have a WiFi connection. To add a button to your regular computer's web browser (or iPhone, iPad, or other Android device), visit http://getpocket.com/welcome. Simple instructions are there for sticking Pocket buttons on all your favorite web browsing tools. You'll find more than 300 apps that provide Read It Later options for Twitter, RSS readers, and so on.











Tip
For really quick page sharing, tap and hold a site's web address for a pop-up list with two choices: Copy and "Share page."






Security and Other Advanced Settings



Most people can have a long and happy relationship with their Fire without ever reading this section. For some, however, an opportunity to fine-tune some of the more obscure corners of their latest gadget is too strong to resist. If that sounds like you, in Silk, head to Settings (Options bar→Menu) and check out these options:










General. Requested website view lets you control which version of a website you get. Some websites present small-screen-friendly variations of themselves when you visit using a mobile phone. Software-sniffing agents can detect what kind of hardware—PC or mobile phone—is behind the web browser used to view the site. But what makes sense for the Fire? The stripped-down, mainly-text mobile version? Or the big kids' full view, multimedia-powered edition? If you do nothing, you'll get whatever the website decides. Some sites trot out the mobile view for Fire-using visitors. To force them to show the regular desktop edition, pick Desktop. The factory setting is Automatic, which cedes the decision to the website; Mobile crunches sites into their mini versions if available.
Block pop-up windows. Want to block those annoying pop-up windows that spring up every so often? In the "Block pop-up windows" setting, take your pick between Ask (you get to decide each time one is ready to spring), Never, and Always.
Accelerate page loading is a no-brainer. Leave it turned on. Amazon has put a ton of engineering effort into making Silk as fast as possible. Part of this work involves using some of the company's enormous fleet of servers to handle behind-the-scenes page building that happens each time you view a web page. So why is this choice even an option? While in theory this approach should make pages load faster, in practice, especially in the Fire's early days, this didn't always seem to be the case. Amazon did not quite go so far as to verify these claims, but did admit that Silk's performance would at least partially depend on more people using it more often. If by some chance you are unhappy with the Silk browser's speed, try turning off this setting and see if it makes a difference. If not, flip it back on. In the long term, it should speed things up.
Optional encryption is your maximum privacy option. Page-acceleration works partly by storing pages you frequently visit on Amazon's servers. If you don't like the sound of that, turn this checkbox on, and a specially protected version of each page makes the trip instead. The tradeoff is that this preference usually ends up slowing down your web travels.


Saved Data. The first item—Display most recent page in Carousel—places a mini-web page icon on your Fire's home screen. Great for quick access to pages you browse, lousy if you who don't want a blaring reminder of where you've been. In related news, Clear history empties out all the web pages you've visited over the past month or so; Clear cache deletes your storehouse of items that web publishers frequently use (logos, for example).
The next two items—Accept cookies and Clear all cookie data—have nothing to do with snacks. Cookies are small record-keeping text files that websites deposit on a computer any time you visit them. They hold, for example, your username and certain browsing activity on a site like Amazon.com. They also help some Internet advertising firms serve up ads that match the sorts of sites you've visited. If the intrusiveness of the latter outweighs the convenience of the former, you may want to remove the checkbox from "Accept cookies" and, for good measure, hit "Clear all cookie data." (That's also one way to flush out all cookie-tracked info without permanently forbidding the use of cookies.)
When Remember form data is turned on, many sites will retain personal info you've entered into other sites (name, address, phone number, and so on). Even when turned on, this service doesn't always work—its success depends on consistent form design, something that doesn't always happen. The Remember passwords checkbox does the same thing but focuses only on usernames and passwords. Especially if you've got a media-hungry kid borrowing your Fire, you may want to leave this option turned off. If you're especially cautious, tap the next item—Clear passwords—prior to sharing your Fire with anyone you don't fully trust.
Enable location lets websites like Google and Yelp serve up results that take into account where you are. Even if you keep this checkbox turned on, this customized content delivery doesn't happen automatically. It just means that the site displays a small message window at the bottom of the screen asking whether it's okay to use your location.








Note
The Fire reckons your location using its built-in cellular connection, if you've got the 4G/LTE model. Other models use WiFi.

Clear location access flushes out that info. Tap Individual website data to see a long list of every site you've ever visited. Tap any site's name and you get a chance, by tapping again, to clear any of the data this site has deposited on your Fire.


Advanced. If picture overload is proving distracting, or your pages take too long to load, you may want to consider turning off Load images. Doing so blocks photos and artwork; problem is, though, you're left with a web page also devoid of any useful illustrations. Enable JavaScript is an option you'll probably leave turned on, since so many sites use JavaScript technology to beef up their interactivity. Yes, miscreants can use JavaScript to do harm, but by turning it off, you're disabling the features that make today's websites useful. If you leave the Show security warnings checkbox on, Silk raises a flag (actually, a message window) when you're about to visit a website whose behind-the-scenes documentation looks fishy or non-existent. Finally, there's Reset to default. If you ever regret all your fiddling around, this feature gives you back the Silk you met when you first opened the box.

















Part IV. Kindle in Appland






Chapter 10


Chapter 11


Chapter 12















Chapter 10. Playing Games










YOU DON'T HAVE TO be a Doritos-munching, Red Bull-chugging teenager to cheer the news: The Fire is one wicked fun gaming machine. Whether you're into angry avians or just like your morning Sudoku, the Fire is ready to frolic. Especially for owners of the 7-inch models, their easily graspable size is a big factor here. You can pull 'em out of a shoulder sling or pocketbook any time the mood strikes. And thanks to the hard work of developers worldwide, the range of titles in Amazon's Appstore for Android is quite plentiful. Dozens and dozens of choices await (yes, including Angry Birds) in categories like arcade, educational, racing, and sports. In fact, selection overload is precisely the problem that stumps some fans eager to get their game on. Where to start? That's what this chapter is designed to help you with. Consider it your own guided tour of the Appstore's recreational aisles.

Note
A handful of the app profiles in this and the following two chapters are based on reviews written by yours truly in another book, Best iPad Apps (O'Reilly). All apps in these chapters have been re-tested on the Fire, and operational descriptions have been tweaked accordingly, but if you've perused that earlier work, you may recognize some highlights and shout-outs.





Making Shapes



Touchscreens mean you no longer have to mess with menus and mice to indicate what you want to put right here. The intimate connection the following apps offer between finger and object-under-construction make it easy to unleash your inner builder.



Doodle Fit ($0.99). This charming little shape puzzler separates the world, more or less, between those who pack luggage in a car trunk efficiently....and those who don't. Your job is to fill the oddly configured, empty geometric shapes with smaller component blocks (also oddly configured). Do so by dragging the latter into the former. Sounds easy, and at first it is. But soon these increasingly intricate visual challenges make you realize that playing with blocks isn't always so simple. The hand-drawn canvas and shapes add to the game's apparent simplicity, but don't let that fool you. With 100-plus levels, you can spend hours in DoodleLand.








Tip
Want to see a list of only your game apps? The Fire has a top-level Games Library on the top row of the home screen. Tap it, and you get a full tally of all the games you own. Once you're there, the Store icon (upper-right) is another games-only portal into the Appstore, with handy rows dedicated to free games, those that are most popular, and new releases.



X Construction ($1.49; free Lite version). Calling all wanna-be and real-life civil engineers. Build the bridges your people need so their trains can cross chasms, gulleys, and other gaps safely. The app starts off each test supplying you with a fixed number of steel girders, concrete struts, and supporting cables. You need to figure out how to assemble them in a sufficiently sturdy way. If you build the bridge incorrectly, the test train that crosses tumbles off the rickety structure. The ensuing screams—and they do really seem like they're coming from inside the falling train—are disturbingly amusing. The paid version is ad free, offers ten more levels (25) than the free edition (available only for the non-HD Fire), and gives you a dozen "sandbox" testing areas to practice your bridge-building skills.















Finding Paths



Path finding has been a common theme in video games ever since the first version of Pong. The central task often comes down to mentally calculating trajectories and doing so quickly. That's what these games offer, except here they're updated with 21st-century sights and sounds.



Quell ($0.99). Probably a fitting choice, this game's minimalist name, but you could just as well call it Gobble the Bubbles While Listening to Soothing Music. Whatever its title, the game's challenge lies in figuring out how to push your one precious blue bubble around the board so it sops up all the gold nibblets in sight. In your way are various mortal obstacles (sharp-toothed counter-gobbly creatures; green dots that morph into impassable blocks; endless, inescapable loops). The Winter Hill-style soundtrack makes it almost easy to forget about these threats; it's easy to imagine you're about to settle in for a nice long massage. The 80-plus challenge levels offer enough variety for many, many hours of path-finding entertainment. Or bring it out for breaks between (during?) conference calls, on the train home, or while waiting for the kids.









Cut the Rope ($0.99). Amazon's Appstore is loaded with so-called physics games, which invite you to replicate real-world actions: Pull a slingshot back and release it; bolt together sturdy bridges; squeeze air from a balloon at a rope-dangled lollipop, causing the candy to swing in a certain direction so that when you cut said rope its sugary charm drops into the mouth of a waiting frog. Sounds ridiculous, true. But this wildly popular game has taken off for reasons that are as clear as they are charming. You really end up exercising your noggin trying to plan out how and when to cut the rope. Prior to feeding the frog, you need to rack up points. Do so by moving the dangling candy into the yellow stars—using balloon-pushed air, altitude-boosting bubbles, or other similarly silly methods. Spiked barriers that you need to navigate your shiny red circle around often protect the frog; unending descents are what'll kill ya. If you send your circle southward and it misses the frog's target mouth, it's game over.









Paper Toss (free). This app stages its namesake activity every place you've ever imagined doing it: Waiting in an airport, down in the basement, and, of course, in your office cubicle. The variables that separate champs from chumps are distance and wind speed (the latter controlled by a fan whose direction and velocity are represented by onscreen labels that change with each throw). For fan speeds under 1.00 or so, aim head on. More than 4.00, and it's time to summon your inner geometer. Like golf putters who aim up-slope, you must flick your trash drastically off course (or so it would seem). Then watch as the breeze catches your shot and curves it right into the receptacle.












POWER USERS' CLINIC: Get Your GameCircle On
Do your competitive juices flow extra fast during races, scavenger hunts, and at playoff time? You'll love GameCircle. This newly-added feature lets you compare your app game scores against other Fire-owning players. It also gives you the chance to earn reputation-boosting Achievements. These are motivational milestones designated by the game-makers, like Golden Scissors (for collecting 300 stars in Cut the Rope), Aerial Attack (for knocking down an opponent in mid-air in Asphalt 7), and so on. These public rankings and badges will mean precisely nothing to the non-gamer, but in the world of gaming fanatics, they are an awesome and precious currency.
Amazon automatically starts you off with a GameCircle profile, which consists of an automatically generated nickname and public icon. You can change either by heading, in the Games Library, to the Menu icon (in the Options bar). Pick Profile and then tap the Edit button. Flick left or right on the icon carousel to select, if you like, a new picture. In these early days of GameCircle, all you have are ready-made choices; no uploading a real photo or custom image. Sorry. Edit your nickname in the oval, and then tap Update to input these changes.
GameCircle's main attraction is its Leaderboards feature, where your point tally gets ranked against all other GameCircle users. As with Achievements, each game-maker customizes its ranking categories. Some apps have only one (Asphalt 7 has simply Score). Others have a dozen or more (Cut the Rope has one for each of its levels: Cardboard Box, Fabric Box, Foil Box, and so on).
GameCircle is available only if the app developer decides to program it into the game. A special ribbon on a game's Appstore icon shows that it's in; for a full list, check out http://bit.ly/kfmm212. Another way to tell: In your Games Library, switch to Options bar→List View, and you'll see a group of blue icons indicating, from left to right, how many of your friends have the same game, Achievements, Rankings, and a summary.







Tap any of these icons for a deep dive into their respective categories. For example, if you tap the Achievements icon in Asphalt 7, you see a full list of all 50 badges, along with details of what you need to do to earn them. Tap the Friends icon, and you see a list of your pals; then tap Compare to see where you stand. Select Add Friends, and you can type a friend's GameCircle nickname and send off an invite. Another good way to round up your pals is via Menu→Settings. Turn on the Facebook option, and GameCircle includes your Facebook buddies.
Settings is also where you can activate the upcoming "Whispersync for Games." With this feature, you'll be able to play GameCircle apps on as many Fires as you own and you'll never have to plow your way through 24 levels all over again. GameCircle monitors your progress and, just like Whispersync for ebooks, coordinates your games on all your devices. You may have no use for such a feature right now, but if Amazon releases more gadgets (a FirePhone?), it could come in handy.






Falling Objects



The Fire's not 3D (yet...give it time), so in these games the objects won't make you duck. What they will do is fill you with the same anxiety that I Love Lucy's star had watching all those chocolate cherries speed past her on the candy factory's conveyor belt. Hurry up and catch 'em!



180 Ultra ($1.99). A cascade of multicolored coins descend slowly and in columns down your screen. From your own little change purse you pull similarly-shaped discs, trying to build out patterns—three across, four down—that zap away the coordinated coins and earn you points. All this starts getting harder as the colors and speed increase and you try to keep any column from descending too low and ending the game. A bunch of different play modes give you different ways to test out your tapping skills. Endless, for example, pushes you to go for as long as you can live. Score, Time, and Drop Attack mode pit you against fixed limits (250 matches to win, max number of matches in 90 seconds).

Note
Some apps let you buy so called "in-app" extras: real-money purchases for virtual goods like special powers, extra filters, additional content. If you want to shut this option down, head to Quick Settings→Applications→Apps and turn off the In-App Purchasing checkbox.










Fruit Ninja ($0.99; free basic version). The object here is deceptively simple: Finger-swipe your sword through each banana, strawberry, and other fruit salad ingredient that some unseen juggler is tossing in front of you. If you clank on one of the randomly appearing bombs, your ninjaness is no more. Wanna pimp your sword collection? Visit the Dojo to select new styles, more of which become available the more you play.















Quizzes and Brain Teasers



Rest your fingers. Time to exercise your mind. Video games meet education in these brain-building apps.



The Secret of Grisly Manor ($0.99). This app is one of the best examples of what some predicted would happen to novels in the Computer Age: They'd turn into audience-piloted explorations of richly illustrated worlds. Behind each door, and within each room, users can inspect objects, chew on clues ("There's something hidden underneath the grate"), and decide how to navigate the storyline. Needless to say, Stephen King still has a job. But the puzzle adventures on display in Grizzly Manor are still a remarkable achievement in interactive entertainment. The heart of the story revolves around a letter from your dear old grandad, pleading for help to come rescue him. His mansion is chock full of questions, clues and, perhaps, grandpa himself.









Monkey Preschool Lunchbox ($1.99). A large part of owning a gadget like the Fire guilt-free lies in justifying its usefulness. If you've got toddlers in your life, here's one solution. Apps like this offer a collection of fun but challenging tasks. A half-dozen activities are included: color matching (tap all the green fruit), simple jigsaw puzzles, Concentration-style memory games. The game cycles through variations of all these and rewards players with virtual sticker selections each time they get a few in a row right. No good deed goes entirely unpunished: For example, the game has no built-in "kill the annoying music" option. But you're helping educate the world's next generation if that makes you feel any better.















Word Puzzlers and Number Boards



Word lovers have fallen in love with the touchscreen editions of their favorite board- and paper-based games. The best part of these digital versions are the worldwide matches they provide when you're looking for a partner.



Scrabble ($2.99; Kindle Fire Edition). The competition in this category is slim: Hasbro's lawyers made sure only one app gets to use its eight-letter moniker. But the company justifies this solo slot. The number of playing options is huge: against the computer, by yourself (odd, but possible), "pass and play" with up to three other competitors (opponents' racks are hidden between turns), against Facebook friends, or matched up with random opponents.
Three types of game styles are on offer: classic (the play-till-you're-finished mode of yore), point-based (first to reach 75 or 150 points wins), or a fixed number of rounds. The Shuffle button is a helpful way of juggling the letters in your rack, if you're having a hard time envisioning words. You can also consult an in-app dictionary. Those in search of greater aid can tap the heart-shaped Best Word button. The app software magically figures the highest-scoring play for your current board.








Tip
Like doing crosswords? Plenty of app options await, but the consensus fan favorite is the one named, simply, Crossword, produced by an outfit called Teazel Limited. The full version runs $1.99 and gets you 250 puzzles; the freebie edition comes with 16 puzzles.



Words with Friends (free). Credit John Mayer for much of this Scrabble knockoff's skyrocketing popularity. Back in 2009 the rocker tweeted, "Words with Friends app is the new Twitter." Traffic exploded. Good news for the developer (since scooped up by gaming giant Zynga) and good news for those not ready to shell out for the official Scrabble app. Beyond the no-brainer price, the main lure of this no-nonsense app—you won't find nearly as many gaming options as in Scrabble—is found in the "Friends" part of the title. More than 20 million people have accounts. In an instant, any one of them can be tapping tiles with you. And with a Facebook login option, you can now reach them on The Social Network, other Android devices, and anyone using an iPad or iPhone.









Enjoy Sudoku ($2.99; free Daily version). Facing a hugely crowded category, this app excels by offering maximum variety and, for Sudoku newcomers, a little bit of hand-holding. You get more than a dozen difficulty levels, several tutorial lessons, and a healthy dose of in-game hints, some of which link to in-depth lessons on the Sudoku reference guide site (http://Sudopedia.org). Most edifying is the way hints unfurl from slightly cryptic, gentle reminders to a detailed explanation of why, say, a 6 goes in the 8th row, cell 1. The graphics won't win any app art awards, but for turning your puzzling hobby into a mind-improving habit, you can't do much better. The paid version is ad-free, offers an unlimited number of variations (as opposed to the freebie edition's one per day), and gives you more practice games to hone your craft.




Tip
Another worthwhile contender in the Sudoku scrum: Andoku Sudoku 2. It comes in both an ad-supported free version and a $2.59 paid edition. Number crunchers will love the many variations here, which include fun choices like Hyper Sudoku, Percent Sudoku, and Squiggly Sudoku.






Driving and Flying



Up, up, and away! Or: Vroooooom. Take your pick. When you have the need for speed, check out either of these apps.



Asphalt 7: Adrenaline ($0.99; Kindle Tablet Edition). For old-school purists looking to log serious hours behind the virtual wheel, this app is a no-brainer. The graphics alone are stunning, proof that the Fire is capable of riding alongside, if not quite exceeding, the iPad and Sony's PSP. What you get in Asphalt 7 is plenty: dozens of car and track options (more of which open up as you rack up victories), escalating racing challenges (some races cut the laggard after each heat), and multiplayer options (either against online opponents or other Fire-owning pals).
Your Fire serves as a steering wheel—tilt it in the direction you want to turn. Acceleration is managed automatically by the app in the factory-set steering mode. Or, to handle acceleration (and other controls like braking) manually, tap the pause icon, and then the lower-left setting icon. One sizeable downside is worth noting. After the app's initial 2.4 MB download, the opening screen informs you that another 540 MB of graphics need to come on down to make this thing fully functional. Oddly, there's no mention of that on the game's Appstore page. If you're up for carrying such a big load, by all means spend the money, and the 15 minutes it takes to download those extras. Then grab your driving gloves and hit the track.









My Paper Plane 2 (3D) (free). One thing that racing newbies may not like about Asphalt 7 is how fast those darn cars move. For a more leisurely ride, lose the engine and take to the sky. That's right, a plane-flying app—okay a paper plane game, but still—is one way to steer the Fire in a more leisurely manner. This app couldn't be simpler to operate. As in Asphalt, you tilt left and right to steer and move the Fire toward and away from you to control altitude. But because you're not riding in a nitro-powered vehicle, the trip unfolds in a way that many, novices especially, will find easier, and more pleasurable to control. (Gaming vets will want to pass wide of this app for that very reason.) The app includes a helpful tutorial and one terrain to play around with (the object is to collect stars scattered around an obstacle course). An in-app upgrade to four more complex landscapes (Canyon Town, Evening City) will run you $1.98.











Note
One thing a chapter on app games doesn't need is a write-up of Angry Birds. That's old news by now to pretty much everyone. The only extra advice worth sharing is about all the various editions in Amazon's Appstore. No fewer than ten different Fire-compatible versions exist. They range from totally free with ads (Angry Birds Seasons Free) to cheap—$0.99—with just a few ads (Angry Birds Ad-Free; Angry Birds Rio Ad-Free; Angry Birds Seasons Ad-Free). The latter trio offers thematic variations on the original concept—good for anyone whose addiction needs multiple outlets. For serious fans, there's also a version that's specially made just for the Fire: Angry Birds HD ($1.49) and Angry Birds Seasons HD ($2.99). The graphics are better, but not spectacularly so, compared to the regular editions.















Chapter 11. Creative Corner










THE PUNDITS SEEM TO AGREE: the Fire's main job is to serve as vending machine for Amazon's digital merchandise. And plenty of people will, no doubt, step up and start buying. Between movies and music and ebooks and TV, the Fire's tap-and-shop allure is compelling. And yet...in every class there's that kid who can't stop drawing. And in conference rooms worldwide, while meetings are underway, amateur doodlers work at their art. Add in the singers and songwriters and it's clear: Artists will use the tools at hand to make what they love. Is the Fire the best canvas for all these endeavors? Probably not. But its appeal as a handy, surprisingly powerful multimedia playpen is starting to come into focus. This chapter rounds up a few of the most promising tools that creative types will want to check out.




Painting and Drawing



Quick: What do you get when you put a touchscreen in front of someone who likes to draw, sketch, or paint? Someone who will figure out a way to get this new kind of sketchbook to work—no matter what the pundits say. Some of the tools in this realm are basic, some are already seriously powerful. All are guaranteed to lead to some really fun results.



Text Picture (Ascii Art) (free). This one won't win any prize for encouraging originality—it's essentially a collection of alpha- and numeric-character drawings that you can grab and use. But for free, who's complaining? You can create your own Ascii art (named for the keyboard symbols that some early computer artists used to make these digital figurines), but don't expect any help. All you get is a blank canvas. The main attraction, for most people, is the depth of the premade choices: dozens of ready-to-use—or, perhaps, modify—Ascii art models spread out across categories like People, Romance, and Vehicles. At a minimum, it'll put a:) on your face.









Drawing Pad ($1.99). This kid-friendly app is so easy to use, your child may fall into a gleeful vortex of creative expression. The app's designer made the brilliant decision to forgo options you'd find in painting programs for grownups: a separate color palette, layers (a concept many adults don't understand), and brush size controls. Instead, Drawing Pad shows the tool as-is: paint it or leave it. The main choices include paint brushes, colored pencils, crayons, markers, pattern stamps, stickers, and paper. The stickers are especially fun for the little ones. They can resize and rotate any of these guys by pinching, spreading, and twisting their fingers.









Sketchbook Mobile ($1.99; free Express version). AutoDesk, the firm behind this drawing and painting app, is the same company that sells high-powered 3D, animation, and design tools. So it's no surprise that they give you something more than a simple sketchpad with a few pen and brush choices. Specifically, you get: 40-plus different brush shapes, each with fully customizable settings like opacity, radius, and splatter effects; layers (virtual, transparent sheets that you can position different elements of your drawing on); blend modes (to control how adjacent layers combine with each other); and the ability, in the paid version, to export in popular file formats, including JPEG, PNG, and the Photoshop-ready PSD (with any layers you've created still intact). They've also, thankfully, equipped this app with 20 levels of undo/redo so no matter how much you experiment, you can always get back to where you started.









Skitch (free). This one's for adults who don't have time to learn all that's under the hood of an app like Sketchbook Mobile. Drop-dead simple, this app comes from the Evernote (To-Do Lists and Notes) family. Skitch makes it easy for the artistically average to add arrows, lines, circles, and text to existing images and photos. But don't just waste your time drawing antlers on your college roommate's baby—the app's got business and design value as well. You can mark up the changes you want to see on the next version of your website or point out something a competitor is doing well. A simple built-in web browser helps you pull off that trick. Drawing dropouts will especially like the helpful collection of shape-making tools (rectangle, oval, circle). Other nice touches: The typographical tools are fun to play with and it's intuitive to select, move, and stretch any lines or shapes you've created.















Photos



Would you really want to edit photos on the Fire? The answer's probably no, given the wealth of options available on a regular computer with a larger screen. And yet, again, there's being able to touch the thing you want to tweak that offers a concrete, common-sense appeal.



PicSay Pro ($3.99). This app lets you do things like add word balloons and stickers to any photos you've got stashed in your Gallery app. (PicSay Pro creates duplicate copies so your originals stay intact.) The word balloons let you turn fun pictures into hysterical cartoons; the stickers let you add hats, hairstyles, beards, and so on to your pals and frenemies' mugs. Use various tap, pinch, and spread gestures to get everything looking just how you like. And for less frivolous editing, there's a fully stocked Effect menu that lets you adjust photos along every dimension you'd expect: exposure, saturation, tint, and red-eye fixes (to name just a few). A couple dozen filters, frames, and distortion effects (neon, rainbow) add up to a seriously fun way to get more for $4 than a mere cup of coffee. Photo fans will end up spending loads of time playing with this thing.











Tip
If your model Fire has a built-in camera (Parts and Ports), why not put it to use for something other than video chats? Camera Fun Pro ($0.99) is a nifty little virtual camera that comes with 30 or so different "lenses" (oil brush, water color, x-ray, to name a few). It's even got a plain ol' normal option, which may come in handy if you just need to email a photo of yourself.






Music



You can play thousands of pro-quality tunes on the Fire, right? So why not use this machine's musical talents to compose some of your own sweet sounds? Well, app makers in this department aren't quite as far along as their visual art counterparts, but a few examples exist to show where things are heading.



Little Piano Pro ($0.99; free basic version). To be sure, this app isn't a real instrument or even a halfway decent digital replica of one. It is good enough, though, to turn your e-reader into a delightful toy for any two- to four-year-old. Although it's far from a full-fledged piano (you can't hold a note, the range is only one octave, and so on), it does give kids of all ages the fun of tapping a screen and getting it to play something that resembles music. Instrument choice goes beyond the piano: You get faux trumpet, guitar, bells, percussion, choir (fun!), and so on. You can load up a dozen or so pre-programmed songs (Jingle Bells, Amazing Grace), and tap the keys as they light up. Suddenly, you're playing...okay, not really playing, but still having fun.








Tip
Ready for an entirely different approach to piano playing? Magic Piano (free) is worth a whirl. Half game, half musical instrument, this app prompts you to play tunes by dropping glowing dots down the screen. Tap each falling circle—sometimes they come two, three, or even four at a time—and if you hit them on cue, you play one of many different songs.



Chordbot Pro ($1.99). If you have more serious musical needs, this app could come in handy. Thousands of fans have already given it four- and five-star rankings (on Google Play). Chordbot does one thing really well—play a hugely customizable collection of piano and synthesizer chord progressions. You'll need some musical background to get any use out of this app. But for its intended audience—songwriters interested in doing a little bit of experimenting or soloists looking for some accompaniment—it's an incredible example of what the Fire can do. It works by letting you pick from a list of chords, selecting a tempo, and then hitting Play. After that, it's show time.















Cooking and the Kitchen



Smartphones are too small to prop up and read across the kitchen, but the Fire's screen is just about big enough. Prop 'er up against the toaster, dial up your favorite recipe, and get cooking with these apps.



Allrecipes.com DinnerSpinner ($0.99; free basic version). Gourmet chefs and those who can saunter confidently into the kitchen and whip up a meal, move along. For the rest of us food soldiers, though, facing five empty tables a week, this one's a no-brainer. Stocked with 40,000 dishes from the volunteer brigades at this popular website, it's perfect for finding your next meal. Start either by browsing the top-10, highly rated "featured" recipes or give the DinnerSpinner a twirl. The latter is an incredibly helpful way to tap choices in three big categories: type of meal (appetizer, soup, main), ingredients (from beef or cheese to shellfish or vegetable), and time available. There's also a traditional search tool. Once you've found a good match, either read it on your Fire or email it to yourself to print. The Pro version lets you tap into your online Allrecipes.com account and nixes the ads. Bon appetit.









Jamie's 20 Minute Meals ($7.99). Are crowdsourced recipes, like those in the Allrecipes app, always crowd pleasers? The thing is, you never know. Even with ratings and comments, you just can't be sure that what satisfies one cook is going to work for you. For a nearly surefire collection, consider springing for this relatively pricey entry from British super-cook Jamie Oliver. The catalog here's not huge—60 recipes, spread out across common categories like soups, pasta, stir-fry, and curries. But his engaging teaching skills work well with the multimedia talents that a digital cookbook offers.
Each recipe starts with a two-tabbed list of the ingredients and equipment you'll need (at the tap of a button you can save and, later, email the list). Next come illustrated step-by-step instructions. The app also includes two dozen or so short-to-medium length videos (they top out at around 10 minutes) giving visual tutorials on topics that aren't always easy to explain in prose: preparing an avocado, chopping an onion, what to look for when buying fish. This app costs more than most, but for those looking to cook well, and quickly, it's a good deal.









Kitchen Unit Converter ($0.99, basic version free). Plenty of all-purpose conversion apps can be found in the Appstore. But if you're looking for one that focuses on cooking-related tasks, here's the one you want. Three conversion tabs let you pick between Volume, Weight, and Temperature. Whatever you select controls the choices that appear on the "convert from" and "convert to" wheels on either side of the screen. When you've got everything set just right, tap Convert, and the info you need shows up in the Results box. No muss, no fuss. A simple app for a simple task. (The free version comes with ads; the paid version slices those off.)
























Chapter 12. Managing Time, Tasks, and Travel










WHEN IT COMES TIME to hit the road, your Fire, of course, is coming along for the ride. Why not put it to work? Beyond its ebook, music, and video collections, Amazon's most powerful Kindle offers thousands of apps that can help when you're away from home. The first big bucket under review in this chapter—clocks and soothing, snooze-inducing melody makers—are tools that will help regardless of how far, or not, your travels take you. Further ahead, you'll meet some reliable to-do list helpers, general-purpose notetakers, and itinerary tracking tools. You'll also see how to find the best places to chow and bed down. And, finally—because somehow you'll need to pay for all these adventures—you'll get the latest on mobile bookkeeping tools for the Fire. The best way to truly enjoy your time away from home is to know, with a tap and a swipe, that there's money in the bank for your return.




Clocks



Forget about struggling with hotel clock radios. Turn to your Fire for wake-up (and bedtime) duties.



Alarm Clock Xtreme ($1.99; basic version free). Wake yourself up or keep yourself honest. An alarm clock app is a great way to remind you to get up and stretch or check on the baby. This attractive, easy-to-operate tool does all the basics and more. It lets you set multiple alarms for different times, schedule ones that repeat (every weekday morning, for example), and greets you with either a silent blinking screen, dozens of ringtones, or any music stored on your device. A snooze feature is included, whose duration you can customize anywhere from one to 60 minutes. Best of all, Xtreme stays on duty even when your Fire's asleep. The free version has ads; the paid version doesn't.








Tip
Turn your Fire into a handy flashlight with Tiny Flashlight + LED (free). It's perfect for nighttime trips to the baby's room. Or use any of the fun alternative light source modes—Police Lights (flashing), Color Light (pick your hue), plus a few others.



Relax Melodies Premium ($1.99). The name of this app perfectly captures the special service it aims to provide. Yes, it's got a bunch of mechanical noise replicas (white noise, train tracks), but it really excels at all things melodious. Pleasant tones like wind chimes, Zen bells, flutes, and more interpret themes like Astral, Tribal, and the baby-friendly Melody. Play each sound separately or mix 'em together by using the simple tap-to-activate controls. A built-in sleep timer and Favorites list make this some easy listening that you'll actually want to turn on.















To-Do Lists and Notes



"Getting things done" is a mantra for many people. Whether you follow the rigid methodology of a professional task-slaying guru (like David Allen, the brains behind the so-called GTD movement) or just want a way to digitally jot down your lists, these apps will help you stay on track.



ColorNote Notepad Notes (free). The only thing overdone in this app is its repetitively redundant name. Much more important, it's a great barebones list-maker, providing a sheaf of virtual paper on which to capture reminders, to do lists, and random ideas. You can create two kinds of lists: checklists and plain notes. The first come with a gratifying feature: Tap any item and it gets crossed off. Plain notes look like a big yellow pad stuffed onto your Fire. A built-in sharing tool makes it simple to append any list to an outgoing email.









Out of Milk Pro ($1.99; basic version free). An app dedicated to supermarket shopping is one way to justify bringing your Fire out and about on your daily errands. This specialized utility sets its sights on everything you might want to get at the grocery store. An auto-suggest list built around common supermarket items means you usually get what you want by tapping the first couple of letters. Quantity and unit fields make it easy to specify amounts. Simple email sharing is available for everyone, but for real shopping power, spring for the Pro version. That creates a web-based record of everything you type on the Fire. You can edit and add in both directions and—for some serious household efficiency—partner up with a mate and take advantage of real-time list sharing: Rocky Road, 1 pint, stat!









Evernote (free). Evernote is much more than a souped-up notes app. With it you can capture any idea worth saving (like a web page snapshot, audio note-to-self, photo, or essay outline), group these into searchable collections, and sync the whole schmeer, automatically, among pretty much every device known to gadgetkind. But this app's real power lies in how it coordinates with other Team Evernote players: desktop software, a web-based version and browser plug-in, and lots of different smartphone and tablet apps. All of them are free, and all are ready to take a multimedia memo whenever the whim hits. Speaking of coordination: The app's "shared notebooks" feature lets you and one or more pals contribute to and view a common collection of notes. As you move through your digital day, grabbing and adding, the service is both scribe and personal library.
Shell out for the premium version ($5/month or $45/year) and you get extras like the ability to attach and sync video, Word and Excel files, more storage, and no ads. Either way, though, your stuff is yours to keep. The PC and Mac programs both let you export what you've input either as HTML files or a geek-friendly XML package.











Tip
Want a note-taking tool that lets you compose via handwriting, rather than a keyboard? Handrite Note Pro ($2.99) is an ingenious solution that lets you use your finger—or a stylus—as a kind of fat pencil. Its main innovation: a secondary, zoomed-in-view writing pane that lets you compose on a magnified section of the canvas. It's kind of like having a magnifying glass to write on. You write in the enlarged area, and what you add simultaneously appears, normal sized, on the main canvas.






Dining Out



No matter how much you love your Fire, at some point, you gotta eat. Find the best spot for noshing, using a pioneer in the food-finding field.



Urbanspoon (free). About five years ago, Urbanspoon began its quest to add slot-machine-style fun to the chore of restaurant picking. Not sure where to eat? Click the Shake button and get a randomly selected recommendation. The service started on the iPhone, where its popularity exploded (you could shake to spin). Now's your chance to whirl the famous wheel on the bigger screen. Truth is, the fancy finding mechanism is only a small part of what makes this app a winner. It's really the huge database of listings this service draws from that makes it a useful tool. About 800,000 restaurants are covered, and not just in big cities: From Altoona, Pennsylvania to Zephyrhills, Florida, good eats await. The Fire app gives you three main searching methods: plain ol' text entry (use the search monocle), browsing a list of categories, or spinning the famous slot machine wheels. When you launch the app, it asks you to pick which city you're looking in—a choice that you can always change. Rezbook, available in big cities like New York and Los Angeles, is a built-in reservation system, integrated with the booking software of select restaurants. When it's available, it's a nice way to lock in a table before you head out.















Travel



About to go on the road again? Sure, you're packin' your smartphone, but what a pain that is when it comes to reading through itineraries, brushing up on your tourist trivia, or spotting weather patterns. You've got the Fire's big(ger) screen. Make use of it with these traveler's aids.



TripAdvisor (free). This outfit's website has become one of the most popular sources for hotel, restaurant, and other travel-related info. Composed almost entirely of its members' contributions, it's become a kind of Wikipedia for the travel set. On your Fire, the app is more or less a repackaged version of the website. More interesting are a couple dozen city-specific TripAdvisor guides (from Amsterdam and Barcelona to Rome and Washington, DC). These are also free and, best of all, work without WiFi. So you can pack your Fire, open it on a park bench, and make spontaneous itinerary changes whenever you feel like it. Each one of these titles is packed with enough tips to send shivers down the spine of a travel guidebook publisher: self-guided tours, neighborhood previews and histories (written by TripAdvisor volunteers), and an "interactive" map, tagged with popular destinations.









TripIt (free). Here's the best way to get Fire to virtually suck down all those random trip logistics (flight info, hotel confirmation, car rental details). What you can track and view with this app is pretty comprehensive. All the usual suspects like flight, hotel, and car info are there, but you can also keep watch on a secondary cast of characters: meeting and expense notes, directions, and even those random activity details ("relish factory tour starts at the pickle stand"). Set up a free account on www.tripit.com, and everything gets piped from Web to app. Don't miss some of the service's best, timesaving detail-entry tools, like a feature that lets you forward confirmation emails to a special address, which plucks out and records in your account all the key details. The app is capable enough to let you add and adjust plans once you've left your computer. And, of course, it stores all the info on your device (as opposed to pulling it off the Web each time). That way, you don't need WiFi running every time you want to review where you're going next.









ConvertPad - Unit Converter (free). When you're away from home—especially far away—figuring out how many dollars you're about to spend or how far, exactly, you're about to walk can be tough. This app is ready to translate from one country's measures to another's. It's got all the common questions covered: length, currency, cooking units, temperature. And it's also prepared to field a few dozen minor measures that will surely appeal to the needs of some traveler at some point (radiation exposure? magnetic flux density? you're covered).









AccuWeather Platinum ($2.99, ad-supported version free). This app is for weather geeks and civilians alike. The basics are here, of course: a home screen with info on current conditions and swipe-to-view additional screens filled with detailed, hourly forecasts. You also get a seven-day forecast, a radar map (including a fun-to-play-with animation depicting recent weather system movement), and practically up-to-the minute video feeds from the company's extensive network of meteorologists, who serve around 175,000 business, government, and other serious-about-weather clients around the world. Add as many favorite locations as you like for the easy one-tap scoop on your most frequent destinations.















Bills and Banking



Keeping tabs on your spending is no vacationer's idea of fun. Options tend to range from blowing it off and hoping you're staying on budget to shoving receipts in an envelope. These apps make on-the-run money tracking much simpler.



Mint.com Personal Finance (free). This popular, free service, run by finance software biggie Intuit, helps you monitor your money. You don't use Mint to pay bills; instead, it pulls in the transaction info from any account you designate (checking, credit cards, loans, investments) and gives you lots of ways to track how you spend your money. Easy-to-understand pie charts, budgeting tools, and notification alerts (you just spent 187% more this month on tanning than usual) give you a clearer picture of what's going where. A huge timesaver for categorizing expenses is Mint's auto-tagging feature. As it slurps in transactions, it assigns them labels—salary, mortgage, dining, and so on—so you don't have to spend too much time entering them by hand. If you're not already using the service, you can also get started right on the Fire (but it's easier to sign up on the Web). The app doesn't have all the fine-tuning capabilities and bells and whistles you get on the web version (transaction history lookups for specific merchants, pretty graphs). But you get an on-the-go ledger and helpful budget overviews to keep you honest.









PocketMoney ($4.99; Lite version free). If the power of Mint lies in its everything-stored-online convenience, this app's all about staying off the Web. Its main attraction, for many home bookkeepers, is the link it provides to Quicken and Microsoft Money fans who want their data on the Fire. This app is a handy way to move transaction data in both directions: from a regular computer (equipped with PocketMoney for Desktops; $19.95) to your Fire, and vice versa. Mind you, Quicken and Money aren't actually required—PocketMoney packs most of their core features (track expenses and income, create budgets, and so on). So if you're looking to ditch those tools, here's one reason to make the switch. Another bonus is the app's syncing talents. You can rig up a partner's Fire, Android phone, or iOS device and funnel everything into one master account. PocketMoney's paid version is ad-free and lets you track as many accounts as you want and do things like track repeating transactions. The free version includes ads and comes without those extras.








Note
Intuit makes a free Fire-compatible app for Quicken users, but it only works with the Windows version of Quicken 2013. Sorry, Mac fans.



Office Calculator Pro ($1.69; basic version free). Who even buys calculators anymore? Engineers, sure. But sometimes even (or perhaps especially) English majors need a hand when it's time to tally a list of figures. This app is simple to use and, weighing in at about 1/3 of a megabyte, occupies just the right amount of space to justify keeping it on your Fire fulltime. It's got a handful of customization options, from cosmetic (button colors) to operational (how many decimal places do you want?). And it's got a nice virtual tape to review calculations post-entry. The free version comes with ads; the paid edition is ad-free.
























Part V. Appendixes






Appendix A


Appendix B


Appendix C















Appendix A. Settings










THE BRIGADE OF HELPERS that drop down when you tap the home screen's Quick Settings icon (Volume, Brightness, WiFi, and the others described on The Home Screen) are usually all you need to adjust your Fire. Sometimes, however, further tweaking is called for. When you've got misbehaving apps or you think you're running out of storage room or power, for example, a trip to the Quick Settings' More button is in order. This Appendix gives you a guided tour through its many options.




Help and Feedback



Four links' worth of help documents and contact links greet you here: Getting Started; User Guide; Customer Service; and Feedback. Use the last two to reach an Amazon rep and submit questions and comments about the Fire. The first pair of links list about two dozen support topics, ranging from "Amazon Prime" to "Wireless." Is there anything here that you won't find in the preceding pages of this book? Probably not—it's just a copy of what you'll find online at http://bit.ly/kfmm225. Nothing wrong with any of that, of course, but don't expect to find advice on real-world workarounds or commentary on what's worth your time and what's still a work-in-progress. To be fair, though, Amazon does win one round in this particular help-off: It can update these help files in a way that's not possible with a published book. As Amazon adds new features to the Fire, you can expect to find some basic coverage in these online help guides.





My Account



A few items of note in this section. The dedicated email address is where you send Word and PDF files you want to read on your Fire (Adding and Reading Documents). The Deregister button is how you uncouple a Fire from your Amazon account. You may want to do that if you give away or sell the gadget to someone else. That way, the new owner sees the digital items he buys from Amazon on his new (that is, used) Fire. And "Manage Social Network Accounts" is where you can link—or unlink—the ubiquitous Twitter and Facebook sharing options you see any time you tap the Share icon (generally in the Options bar) in an app.





Applications



Anyone who's familiar with Windows' Task Manager will get the gist of this section.
Every app on the Fire gets its own page here, filled with a common set of controls for doing administrative things like force quitting, uninstalling the app, or flushing out its contents (all the entries in the Contacts app, for example). Amazon's homemade apps (E-mail, GameCircle, and so on) are listed together under the Amazon Applications header; all the other apps you've downloaded appear behind the Installed Applications submenu. Every app comes with a dedicated page that almost always includes the following sections:



App name. Aside from its official name, you find the app's version number (the version you currently have installed, that is). Two buttons—Force Stop and Uninstall—let you do just what you'd expect.


Storage. Here you can check how much memory the app and its associated contents are taking up (the latter is reflected in the line that says Data). Tap the Clear Data button to keep the app on your Fire but empty out any files, contact listings, to do lists, and so on.


Cache. Apps use this temporary memory storage bin to access frequently needed info or recently visited content. The Silk web browser, for example, keeps its History list (Favorites and Recently Visited Sites) stored here. Tap Clear Cache to empty this receptacle.


Launch by default. Some tasks on the Fire require the help of an app—opening a picture, for example, can be done with the built-in Gallery app or any third-party app that's image friendly. Here's where you can unpick an app that's currently selected as the chosen helper. Next time the Fire needs help showing a picture (attached to an email, say), you can pick from a list of available choices.


Permissions. The list shown here details everything an app can—or can't—do with your Fire. Typical entries include things like "modify/delete Internal storage contents," which simply means that the app can save or change files. That's useful for any of the Office apps detailed in Chapter 5. The information is strictly read-only. In other words, you can't actually prevent an app from performing any of the actions listed here.




Note
If you poke around these lists and see some apps with oddly familiar names, recall that pretty much every feature on your Fire—the search oval, the Status bar, the Music Library—is its own app. In other words, the apps named Search, Status Bar, and Amazon MP3, respectively, control each of those three functions. You never have to actually launch apps with those names; instead, they automatically kick in every time you turn on the Fire.

Two miscellaneous but very useful options are also tucked into this area of Settings. Notification Settings is a list of On/Off switches for every single app on your Fire. Toggle any app to Off if you want to mute whatever reminders or beeps it issues. And Amazon Home Recommendations is where you can silence Amazon's home screen marketing clatter. Change it from Show to Hide, and you'll no longer see the related product suggestions under the home screen's Carousel.





Parental Controls



Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids has the full scoop about how to activate this lock. In essence, it's a collection of virtual fences that are helpful for parents who want to keep kids from wandering around everywhere on the Fire.





Sounds & Display



A volume slider lets you control sound level—though you can get to the same control much faster by pulling down the Quick Settings menu (The Home Screen) on the home screen. Turn on the checkbox next to Mute All Notifications before heading into an important meeting, a house of worship, or anywhere else you want complete silence. In the Notifications Sounds menu, choose from any of the two dozen or so engagingly named options—Capella, Iridium, Plastic Pipe—to control the noise your Fire emits when an app wants to notify you that something's just happened (a newly arrived email or tweet, for example). Turn on the Auto Brightness switch, and the Fire adjusts screen brightness to match whatever level its built-in sensor judges is optimal. The Display Brightness slider lets you manually control this setting when Auto Brightness is set to Off. Screen Timeout lists eight options—ranging from 30 seconds to Never. Choose one of these to control how quickly your Fire falls asleep (Turning the Fire Off) if you don't touch it. The longer the screen remains lit, of course, the quicker your battery drains.





Wireless



Here's your command center for WiFi, Bluetooth, and 4G/LTE (if your model has that connection option). To disable all these virtual links—when getting on an airplane, for example—turn Airplane Mode to Off. Each connection method gets its own submenu with controls that let you do what you learned about elsewhere in various spots throughout this book: Connecting Bluetooth Devices for Bluetooth, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours for WiFi, and Appendix C for 4G/LTE connections.





Device



This section has a long list of mainly read-only status reports on the state of your Fire. The first—About—holds a collection of virtual ID cards: serial number, and the MAC address used by WiFi and Bluetooth connections. You may occasionally encounter an IT person who wants to know that info in order to get your Fire onto, say, a WiFi network. You also see the version number of your Fire's system software; tap Update Your Kindle if its button is illuminated to install the latest version (although the Fire usually does this automatically). Storage is a long list tallying how much memory you've used up, and how much remains. The Battery charge indicator comes next, followed by Date & Time (two choices here: time zone and whether to display the Fire's clock in the 24-hour format, like 14:24, or the more common 2:24 pm). Turn on "Allow Installation of Applications" only if you're following the app-loading procedure described in the Note on Note. And tap the final item—Reset to Factory Defaults—only if you'd like to wipe your Fire clean and start from scratch. Tapping this option gets you a pop-up box containing two buttons: "Erase everything" and the no, thanks, I changed my mind Cancel button.





Location-based Services



Some apps and websites customize the info they provide if they know roughly where you are. Do a directions search using the MapQuest app, for example, and it will offer to grab your Current Location from this service. In most cases this is a useful option to have, but some folks don't want to share this information. Your choices here are straightforward: On or Off.





Language & Keyboard



The first item here—Language—lets you pick from a half dozen or so choices (Deutsch, English [United Kingdom], English [United States], and so on). The language you select appears on the Fire's system-wide labels.
The second item—Keyboard—is where you customize how things work when it's time to type. Once you've tapped this word, tap the icon that looks like an equalizer (to the right of where it says Amazon Keyboard) for a series of choices. The Keyboard Languages menu is where you can choose a language for keyboard buttons like Delete and Return. Next, turn on Auto-Capitalization and, every time you type a period, the next letter you enter is automatically capitalized. Turning on "Sound on Keypress" gives you a tinny, clicking noise each time you hit a key. Auto-Correction is the Fire's version of Microsoft Word's auto-correct feature. It works nicely with the next option—Correction Suggestions—which displays the words the Fire thinks you mean to type directly above the keyboard. Activate or disable both these options via their respective On/Off switches. Same goes for Spelling Suggestions, which underlines any words you misspell; tap the word for a list of correctly spelled variants.

Note
On the non-HD Fire, this portion of Settings is labeled simply Keyboard; there are no Language options. You also get slightly different choices in the Keyboard section. Choosing "Show Correction Suggestions" launches a pop-up menu with three options: "Always show," "Show on portrait mode," and "Always hide." The first and last are self-explanatory; choose the middle one, and you only see spelling suggestions when your Fire is oriented upright.






Security



Turn the Lock Screen Password on if you'd like anyone who uses your Fire—including, of course, yourself—to enter a code before being allowed onto the home screen. The password prompt appears after you swipe the lock screen's orange arrow. Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids explains how to install this particular lock. The next few options—Credential Storage, VPN, and Device Administrators—are for those who want to join highly secured WiFi networks (ask your friendly IT person for what to enter to join a VPN network) and for third-party apps like the Exchange-friendly Touchdown that require a special password to control some under-the-hood functions of the Fire. Finally, Enable ADB is an On/Off switch that Kindle app developers use when testing their software.





Legal & Compliance



A message from the lawyers. Here is where Amazon lists all the patent, trademark, and copyright muscle protecting the Fire. You'll also find a shout out from Amazon to all the open source and other software it used to make this particular Kindle sparkle.














Appendix B. Troubleshooting and Maintenance










IT'S HAPPENED ON EVERY electronic device ever invented and it's probably going to happen to your Fire: the screen freezes up, a download gets stuck in mid-descent, something stops responding. The fixes come in two basic flavors—what's easy and what's obvious. That's because, unlike a regular computer, there's not much fiddling a non-engineer can do on the Fire. Maneuvers like a simple restart, a hard reset, and software updates usually will solve most problems.
When you stumble upon one of the half dozen or so typical glitches covered in this appendix, one of the following two remedies usually gets your Fire back on track:



Restart. Sounds simple, sure, but this procedure solves a heck of a lot of Fire's problems. Start by pressing the device's power button for a second or so (definitely longer than a quick tap, which only puts the Fire to sleep). When the Fire asks Do you want to shut down your Kindle? tap Shut Down. Wait about 15 seconds after the screen goes dark and then power back up by pressing, briefly, the same button.


Hard reset. The equivalent of pressing Ctrl-Alt-Delete on Windows or holding the power button down on the Mac. Here's where you're instructing the Fire to flush its short-term digital memory and reboot. To make it so, press and hold the Fire's power button for 20 seconds; the screen will go completely black and the Fire shuts down. Now restart the device by pressing the power button (briefly, not longer than a second). It will perform a normal startup sequence and bring you back to the regular welcome point, the lock screen.




Tip
Seeing a pop-up menu or anything onscreen (a dialog box, message window, and so on) that's keeping you from reaching the underlying app's main screen? Try tapping the Back button on the Options bar.





WiFi Not Working



The most common symptom strikes when you're waking the Fire up. You press the power button, swipe open the lock screen, and then launch an app. Up pops the telltale "No Internet Connection" message box. On the Status bar's right edge, check to see if the WiFi icon is on (one to four curved white bars, with more bars equaling a stronger connection). Often as not, the Fire just needs a few more seconds—sometimes as many as 10—to reacquaint itself with the WiFi network after waking up. If, after waiting, you're still not getting online, try turning the Fire's WiFi off and then back on (in the Quick Settings drop-down menu, tap Wireless and then, next to where it says Wi-Fi, tap Off; wait a minute, then repeat and flip the switch back on). A tiny "x" on the bottom row of the WiFi icon means you've got a link with the WiFi network, but it's not yet letting you on the Internet. The most common reason: You're at a restaurant, hotel, or airport and the network wants you to register or pay before passing go. Follow the instructions in the box on WiFi 101 to do so.

Tip
Want to forget a network that the Fire keeps connecting to? On the Quick Settings' WiFi list, tap and hold any network name. From the dialog box that pops up, tap Forget.






Unresponsive App



Before turning to the restart or hard reset, one fix worth trying out is buried in the Quick Settings→More→Applications→Installed Applications section. As you learned in the previous Appendix (My Account), here's where the control panel for each app resides. Find the app that's giving you grief (if necessary, in the "Filter by" menu at the top of the screen, pick All Applications), tap its name, and at the top of the screen, press "Force stop." A message box asks if you're sure you want to do so; tap OK and then reopen the app back on the Fire's main screen.





App Installation Problems



The typical sequence you see when downloading an app is to watch the button showing its price (or, in the case of giveaways, "Free") cycle through the following labels: Purchasing, Downloading, Installing, and Open. Sometimes things get stuck on the Installing phase. More often than not the app has actually finished its installation. The fix? Ye olde restart, as outlined on the previous page. You should then see the new app listed in the Device section of your Apps library.





Out-of-Date Apps



The word "apps" is just another word for "software." And as with the software on a regular computer, the manufacturers often issue updates. One of the best parts about owning a Fire, and using its apps, is you don't have to keep track of where to get these improvements and bug fixes, nor do you have to figure out when they're available. All you have to do is glance at the Notifications circle (up on the left edge of the Status bar). Whenever a new edition of any app is available, a number appears in this circle. Drag it downward, and under the Update Available tab, you'll see a list of whichever apps have new versions waiting.





System Software Updates



For the first year or so of your Fire's life, you can expect Amazon to periodically release new versions of the operating software (the Fire's equivalent of Windows 7 or Mac OS X Lion). Normally these updates get installed automatically, downloading as soon as they're available and your Fire is connected to a WiFi network. Your work in that case is pretty minimal: Turn the Fire on, watch the onscreen message inform you of a system update in progress, after which the Fire shuts down and restarts itself. (If the Fire is asleep and connected to WiFi, this entire process may take place without you even noticing.) In any case, if you learn via the Web that a new update is available and can't wait for it to roll your way, tap Quick Settings→Sync. The update will download automatically.

Note
These software updates can be hefty, weighing in at 200 MB or more. If you've got a speedy wired Internet connection (at work, say), you can download the update to a computer and then sideload it to the Fire, after connecting the two machines via a USB cable (Transferring Files from Your Computer). Follow the instructions here—http://bit.ly/kfmm230—for full details.






Battery Draining Too Quickly



If your battery seems to deliver less than a decent amount of juice, WiFi may be the culprit. If you're not getting a strong signal, the Fire may be working extra hard to stay connected. To check your signal strength, go to Quick Settings→Wireless→Wi-Fi and see how many curved bars are emboldened on the network labeled Connected. More is better; if you're only getting one or two, that may be the problem. If practical, move your Fire closer to your WiFi router for a stronger connection. Another option: Before going to sleep, turn WiFi off (on the same screen, above the network list, flip the On switch to Off).





Sharing or Selling Your Fire



Ready to hand over your Fire to someone else? Whether you're selling it on eBay or giving it to a relative, your best bet is to wipe it clean. That's not just for security's sake. Even if you're giving it to someone you trust, you want them to be able to hook the device into their own Amazon account (My Account) so that their ebooks, music, and so on show up when they power up. To wipe things clean, head to Quick Settings→More→Device and pick the final item on the list: Reset to Factory Defaults. You'll need to confirm that you really want to do this (tap Erase Everything on the pop-up box that appears), and then you've got a good-as-new Fire to hand over.





Where to Head for Help



A few helpful troubleshooting websites have popped up since the Fire's initial release.



Amazon's Fire Support page (http://bit.ly/kfmm235). Amazon's official online help desk. Nothing here qualifies as an undocumented tip or trick, but it's a useful site to bookmark for basic troubleshooting.


Amazon's Kindle discussion forums (http://amzn.to/kfmm157). This section of the retailer's site is loaded with active, opinionated, and often very helpful conversations. Use the search box on the lower right (Search Customer Discussions) to home in on specific topics.


Android Forums. This geeky site has a lively section devoted to the Fire (http://bit.ly/kfmm151). Advice seeker beware: Plenty of answers on here are home-grown and by no means street legal (or, for that matter, safe). But you will find a lot of step-by-step instructions and responsive, if not especially patient, feedback on almost anything you'd want to do with the Fire.


XDA Developers. Similar to the previous site, but geared slightly more to app developers. Still, the site has a highly trafficked and more or less consumer-oriented discussion area devoted to the Fire: http://bit.ly/kfmm240.

















Appendix C. 8.9-inch Model Special Features










The 8.9-inch Kindle Fire models don't just offer more real estate than their smaller siblings. They also deliver a handful of extra features. The biggest add-on comes in the high-end 4G/LTE edition: its built-in cellular antenna lets you browse the Web, do email, or perform any other online task pretty much wherever you like—no WiFi connection required. Another pair of extras—a souped-up keyboard for power typists and accessibility aids for those with viewing impairments—comes on all versions of the 8.9-inch Fire. This For Big Kindles Only appendix explains all.




Activating 4G/LTE Service



WiFi Internet hotspots are popping up everywhere: at home, in the office, at your local coffee shop. Sometimes, though, they're not available when you need 'em—on a car trip, for example. The 4G LTE model Fire offers a handy solution. Its innards include the necessary cellular antenna to connect anywhere AT&T delivers cellphone service.

Note
On the outside, all of the 8.9-inch models look pretty similar. How do you tell whether yours is equipped to make the Internet Everywhere connection? Pull down the Quick Settings menu (The Home Screen) and tap Wireless. If you see Mobile Network and AT&T ALLAccess listed, you're good to go.

Now, you don't have to turn on 4G/LTE. For one thing, doing so costs extra (details in a moment). But it's great to have the option when WiFi just isn't meeting your mobile road-warrior needs. To make it so, follow these steps:



Open the Fire's wireless settings. Pull down Quick Settings and tap Wireless.


Decide which data plan you want. The big choice here is between the low-cost, moderate-usage plan that Amazon promotes ($50 per year, 250 MB of data per month) versus one of the higher-priced options for those who need more data ($30 per month for 3 GB of data, or $50 for 5 GB). The yearly $50 plan offers pay-once-and-you're-done convenience. Buy this and you're covered for the next 12 months. The pricier monthly plans give you a much bigger data allowance if that's what you need.

Note
With the $50-a-year plan, Amazon throws in two extras: 20 GB of extra storage on its Cloud Drive (Cloud vs. Device) and a $10 credit on the Appstore (Installing Apps).

How do you decide which one's right? For most people, the yearly $50 plan is a good deal—with caveats. Amazon offers it for only one year; after you use up those 12 months, you'll have to switch to a presumably higher-priced plan, the details of which Amazon hasn't announced. Current market rates suggest it will be something like $15 per month for 250 MB of data. Also, there are plenty of ways to chew through that 250 MB allotment before your 30 days are up. Watch one HD movie (usually around 3 GB) and, zap, your data bucket's emptied out.


Activate the 4G LTE service. Tap to open the AT&T AllAccess menu and choose Activate Data Plan. If you don't currently have an AT&T account (on a cellphone, for example), tap Establish New Prepaid Account. Pick a username and password, choose the type of plan you want, and then tap Next. Enter your payment info, tap Next, and then tap Submit to finish up.
With an existing AT&T account, you'll follow a slightly different path. After selecting Activate Data Plan, pick "Add to an Existing AT&T Account." Type your AT&T username and password, tap Login, and then, on the Account Information screen, tap "Add a Device." When the "Add a Device" screen appears, tap "Save and Continue." Enter your payment info, tap Next, and then tap Submit to complete setup.




Note
To sign up for 4G LTE service, you need to be within range of an AT&T signal. Coverage is pretty extensive across the United States; for a map with details, head to http://bit.ly/kfmm250. Below the Coverage Type header, choose Data, and, for areas outside the United States, click the International tab.

The Fire provides two tools to help you keep tabs on how much data you've used. In the same AT&T AllAccess menu you visited in the previous step, a tally of your current data usage appears. To track individual app consumption (useful for seeing how much goes to email, for example), head to Quick Settings→More→Wireless→Mobile Network→Mobile Data Usage. Each app gets its own listing here.
The Mobile Network page is also where you can turn the 4G/LTE service off (next to Mobile Network, tap Off). You might do this if you're close to using up your monthly data allotment, for example.





Keyboard Extras



Back on The Keyboard, you learned pretty much everything you need to know about how to operate the Fire's onscreen keyboard. If you look closely, you may notice a few small differences in the keys of your big-screen Fire. That's because Amazon has programmed in a few extra ways of making the 8.9-inch keyboard easier to use and more powerful.




Splitting the Keyboard



When you hold your big Fire model sideways, you may have a hard time reaching some of the inner keys if you have smaller hands—your thumbs just don't quite reach far enough. In a nifty design feat, the Fire lets you break apart and dock the left and right halves of the virtual keyboard. Just tap and hold the comma key. Now it's simple to type using your thumbs.





Quick Edit Options



Imprinted on the lower-left ?123 key is a tiny pair of scissors; tap and hold the key to change the keyboard into a fleet of special-purpose keys that help with basic editing chores like cut, copy, and paste. This new layout is also good for quickly moving the insertion cursor around.







Select Text (an uppercase T key surrounded by a dotted-line box) is the magic key for using the cut/copy/paste options. Double tap the key to activate this mode; an orange line appears beneath it. Use the arrow keys to select the text you want, and then use the cut/copy buttons to grab and reuse the text.





Swype



Don't like tapping on the Fire's pint-sized keyboard? You have a handy alternative for entering text—the always-available Swype mode. Draw a path on the keyboard through the letters of the word you want to spell. Once you finish, the word automatically appears. It sounds complicated, and slightly wacky, but once you get the hang of it, you may never type normally again.
For example, say you want to type the word "fresco." Start by placing your finger on the "f" key, and then draw a path from there through r-e-s-c-o. Draw as quickly as you like. Take your finger off the keyboard when you reach the last letter. Swype marks your path as you go by drawing a rough orange line that disappears as soon as you're done. Your word then shows up wherever you're typing.
Swype also gives you a few gestural shortcuts—handy when you're in the groove and want to stick with motion control.









SWYPE GESTURE


ACTION PERFORMED






?123 to "a"


Select all




?123 to "c"


Copy




?123 to "x"


Cut




?123 to "v"


Paste




"." (period) to space bar


Inserts period, followed by space




?123 to "t"


Brings up keypad (keyboard with numbers showing)




*?123 to Delete


Hides keyboard











Accessibility



Amazon has included a pair of accessibility features. These tools are, in theory, aimed at helping folks with visual impairments. In practice, neither is yet implemented widely or well enough to make the device useful for those with serious disabilities. Voice Guide recites the actions you've performed ("Clicked," "E-mail") as a way of helping confirm you're navigating to where you want to go. But the feature doesn't yet support nearly enough of the Fire's nooks and crannies to make it reliable.
Explore by Touch is a slightly more polished aid. It includes a few special gestures to help you navigate. It recites a little more of what appears onscreen than Voice Guide. For example, when you tap the entry fields on a contact record (phone number, for example), the Fire reads that information aloud.
To turn either of these features on, go to the Quick Settings menu and pick More→Settings→Accessibility.














Index




A note on the digital index
A link in an index entry is displayed as the section title in which that entry appears. Because some sections have multiple index markers, it is not unusual for an entry to have several links to the same section. Clicking on any link will take you directly to the place in the text in which the marker appears.



Symbols

180 Ultra app, Falling Objects



A

Accelerate page loading setting (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings
accounts, Amazon, Rotation and Orientation


creating, Rotation and Orientation


AccuWeather Platinum app, Travel-Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking
Add Narration button, Read, Watch, Listen
Add to Watchlist button, Browsing and Downloading
address book, Email and Address Book Setup-Manually Adding Account Information, Email and Address Book Setup, Manually Adding Account Information, Filling Up the Contacts App-Filling Up the Contacts App, Filling Up the Contacts App, Filling Up the Contacts App, Composing a Message-Keeping Your Calendar, The Contacts App, Keeping Your Calendar, Keeping Your Calendar


Contacts app, Composing a Message-Keeping Your Calendar, The Contacts App, Keeping Your Calendar, Keeping Your Calendar
filling up Contacts app, Filling Up the Contacts App-Filling Up the Contacts App, Filling Up the Contacts App, Filling Up the Contacts App
setting up, Email and Address Book Setup-Manually Adding Account Information, Email and Address Book Setup, Manually Adding Account Information


Adobe magazine app, Two Ways to Navigate Apps-WoodWing, WoodWing, WoodWing
ads, removing from Lock screen, The Home Screen
Alarm Clock Xtreme app, Clocks-Clocks, Clocks
Allrecipes.com DinnerSpinner app, Cooking and the Kitchen-Cooking and the Kitchen, Cooking and the Kitchen, Cooking and the Kitchen
Amazon, Installing and launching the Music Importer, Listening, Browsing the Store and Buying, Manually Adding Account Information


Cloud Player, Installing and launching the Music Importer, Listening
Help page, Manually Adding Account Information
MP3 Music Store, Browsing the Store and Buying


browsing on Fire, Browsing the Store and Buying




Andoku Sudoku app, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards
Android File Transfer program, Sideloading
Angry Birds app, Driving and Flying
App Store (Fire), On the Web
apps, Installing Apps, Reading on Multiple Devices, Audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks, Apps vs. Kindle Editions-Apps vs. Kindle Editions, Apps vs. Kindle Editions, Apps vs. Kindle Editions, Browsing and Buying, Sideloading-OfficeSuite, Third-Party Apps, Documents to Go, OfficeSuite, Finding Paths, Finding Paths, Photos, Music-Cooking and the Kitchen, Cooking and the Kitchen, Clocks-Clocks, Clocks, To-Do Lists and Notes-To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes, Travel-Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking, Applications, Unresponsive App, App Installation Problems


Audible, Audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks
clock, Clocks-Clocks, Clocks
creating documents with, Sideloading-OfficeSuite, Third-Party Apps, Documents to Go, OfficeSuite
fixing unresponsive, Unresponsive App
GameCircle, Finding Paths, Finding Paths
installation problems, App Installation Problems
installing, Installing Apps
Kindle reading, Reading on Multiple Devices
music creation, Music-Cooking and the Kitchen, Cooking and the Kitchen
Newsstand navigation, Browsing and Buying
photo, Photos
settings for, Applications
to-do lists and notes, To-Do Lists and Notes-To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes
travel, Travel-Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking
vs. Kindle editions (Newsstand), Apps vs. Kindle Editions-Apps vs. Kindle Editions, Apps vs. Kindle Editions, Apps vs. Kindle Editions


Asphalt 7: Adrenaline app, Driving and Flying
attachments, email, Checking and Reading Email, Composing a Message
Audible apps, Whispersync for Voice-Shopping for Audiobooks, Audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks
Audible.com, Whispersync for Voice
audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks-Shopping for Audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks-Read, Watch, Listen, Read, Watch, Listen-Browsing and Buying, Read, Watch, Listen, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying


combining with ebooks, Read, Watch, Listen-Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying
player operation, Shopping for Audiobooks-Read, Watch, Listen, Read, Watch, Listen
shopping for, Shopping for Audiobooks-Shopping for Audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks


Auto-Capitalization setting, Language & Keyboard
auto-syncing to multiple devices, Reading on Multiple Devices
AZW format, Adding and Reading Documents



B

Back arrow (Silk browser), Navigation and Viewing Basics
Back button, The Back Button
backing up address book to Cloud, The Contacts App
banking and bills apps, Bills and Banking-Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking
battery drainage problems, Battery Draining Too Quickly
bills and banking apps, Bills and Banking-Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking
Bing search tool, Search...and Research, Searching
Bluetooth settings, Wireless
bookmarking, Visiting a Website


Bookmarks link (Silk browser), Visiting a Website


Books Library, Browsing and Buying
books, daily review of, Bookmarks-Reading on Multiple Devices, Reading on Multiple Devices, Reading on Multiple Devices
borrowing ebooks, Borrowing and Lending-Borrowing and Lending, Borrowing and Lending, Borrowing and Lending, Borrowing and Lending
brain teasers and quizzes apps, Quizzes and Brain Teasers
browsing, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying-Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Downloading-Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading, Netflix, Browsing Photos-Browsing Photos, Browsing Photos, Browsing and Searching-Listening, Search, Listening, Listening, Browsing the Store and Buying-On the Fire, On the Fire, On the Fire, On the Web, On the Web-On the Web, On the Web, On the Web, On the Web


Browse button (Netflix), Netflix
ebooks, Browsing and Buying
MP3 store on Fire, Browsing the Store and Buying-On the Fire, On the Fire, On the Fire, On the Web
MP3 store on Web, On the Web-On the Web, On the Web, On the Web, On the Web
Music Library, Browsing and Searching-Listening, Search, Listening, Listening
Newsstand, Browsing and Buying-Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying
photos, Browsing Photos-Browsing Photos, Browsing Photos
videos/TV shows, Browsing and Downloading-Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading


buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying-Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Buying and Renting Options, TV Shows, Browsing the Store and Buying-On the Fire, On the Fire, On the Fire-On the Web, On the Fire, On the Web, On the Web, On the Web, On the Web


ebooks, Browsing and Buying
movies/tv shows, Buying and Renting Options, TV Shows
music from MP3 store on Fire, Browsing the Store and Buying-On the Fire, On the Fire, On the Fire, On the Web
music from MP3 store on Web, On the Fire-On the Web, On the Web, On the Web, On the Web
Newsstand periodicals, Browsing and Buying-Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying





C

Calendar app, Viewing Your Calendar, Creating and Editing Events-Creating and Editing Events, Creating and Editing Events


creating/editing events, Creating and Editing Events-Creating and Editing Events, Creating and Editing Events
viewing formats, Viewing Your Calendar


Camera Fun Pro app, Photos
Carousel (Home screen), The Home Screen
charging Kindle Fire, Turning the Fire Off
Chordbot Pro app, Music
Clear passwords setting (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings
clock apps, Clocks-Clocks, Clocks
Cloud Drive, Amazon, Transferring Files from Your Computer-Sideloading, Sideloading, Amazon Cloud Drive, Listening to Music, Getting Music onto the Fire, Choosing what to upload, Browsing the Store and Buying, The Contacts App


backing up address book on, The Contacts App
downloading music from, Choosing what to upload
storing music in, Listening to Music, Getting Music onto the Fire, Browsing the Store and Buying
transferring files via, Transferring Files from Your Computer-Sideloading, Sideloading
uploading photos/videos to, Amazon Cloud Drive


Cloud Player, Amazon, Installing and launching the Music Importer, Listening, Listening
Cloud Reader, Kindle, Reading on Multiple Devices
Color mode (text), Playing Page Designer
ColorNote Notepad Notes app, To-Do Lists and Notes
Combined Inbox option, Checking and Reading Email
Comics app, Browsing and Buying
composing email messages, Composing a Message-The Contacts App, Composing a Message, Composing a Message, The Contacts App
ConvertPad - Unit Converter app, Travel-Travel, Travel
cookie settings (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings-Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings
cooking and kitchen apps, Cooking and the Kitchen-Cooking and the Kitchen, Cooking and the Kitchen
copying, Sharing, Checking and Reading Email


email text, Checking and Reading Email
notes, Sharing


Create Directory button (WiFi File Explorer), USB Cable and WiFi Transfers
Crossword app, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards
customizing page design, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray-Notes and Highlighting, Notes and Highlighting
Cut the Rope app, Finding Paths-Finding Paths, Finding Paths, Finding Paths



D

daily review of books, Bookmarks-Reading on Multiple Devices, Reading on Multiple Devices
DejaOffice application, Filling Up the Contacts App
deleting music in Cloud Player, Listening
design palette, Playing Page Designer-Notes and Highlighting, Notes and Highlighting
devices, Reading on Multiple Devices-Shopping for Audiobooks, Reading on Multiple Devices, Whispersync for Voice, Whispersync for Voice, Shopping for Audiobooks, Device


Device settings, Device
reading on multiple, Reading on Multiple Devices-Shopping for Audiobooks, Reading on Multiple Devices, Whispersync for Voice, Whispersync for Voice, Shopping for Audiobooks


digital editions of periodicals, Browsing and Buying
dining out apps, Dining Out
Display settings, Sounds & Display, Sounds & Display
documents, Documents and Spreadsheets, Documents and Spreadsheets-Adding and Reading Documents, The Built-in Docs Library, The Built-in Docs Library, Adding and Reading Documents-Transferring Files from Your Computer, Adding and Reading Documents, Transferring Files from Your Computer, Documents to Go


adding and reading, Adding and Reading Documents-Transferring Files from Your Computer, Transferring Files from Your Computer
Docs Library, Documents and Spreadsheets-Adding and Reading Documents, The Built-in Docs Library, Adding and Reading Documents
Docs viewer, The Built-in Docs Library
Documents to Go app, Documents and Spreadsheets, Documents to Go


Doodle Fit app, Making Shapes
downloading, Installing Apps, TV Shows, Choosing what to upload, Copying Text and Images-Copying Text and Images, Copying Text and Images, Copying Text and Images


apps, Installing Apps
images from websites, Copying Text and Images-Copying Text and Images, Copying Text and Images, Copying Text and Images
music from Cloud, Choosing what to upload
videos/TV shows, TV Shows


drawing and painting apps, Creative Corner-Photos, Painting and Drawing, Painting and Drawing, Photos
Drawing Pad app, Painting and Drawing
driving and flying apps, Driving and Flying-Driving and Flying, Driving and Flying
Dropbox, Third-Party Apps
DVD Catalyst 4 (Windows), USB Cable and WiFi Transfers



E

ebooks, Grab a Book, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying


browsing and buying, Grab a Book, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying


editing events (Calendar app), Creating and Editing Events
email, Adding and Reading Documents, Third-Party Apps, Getting Pictures and Videos onto the Fire, The Amazon MP3 Uploader, Email and Address Book Setup, Fine-Tuning E-mail's Settings Options-Filling Up the Contacts App, Fine-Tuning E-mail's Settings Options, Fine-Tuning E-mail's Settings Options, Filling Up the Contacts App, Checking and Reading Email, Composing a Message-Keeping Your Calendar, Keeping Your Calendar


checking and reading, Checking and Reading Email
Contacts app, Composing a Message-Keeping Your Calendar, Keeping Your Calendar
sending music via, The Amazon MP3 Uploader
sending photos/videos to Fire, Getting Pictures and Videos onto the Fire
setting up for common providers, Email and Address Book Setup
setting up for "other providers", Fine-Tuning E-mail's Settings Options
settings options, Fine-Tuning E-mail's Settings Options-Filling Up the Contacts App, Fine-Tuning E-mail's Settings Options, Filling Up the Contacts App
transferring files via, Adding and Reading Documents, Third-Party Apps


Enable location setting (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings
encryption setting (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings
Enjoy Sudoku apps, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards-Driving and Flying, Driving and Flying
EPUB format, Adding and Reading Documents
Ethernet connections, Choosing what to upload
Evernote app, To-Do Lists and Notes-To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes



F

Facebook, Sharing, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps-Photo- and Video-viewing Apps, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps


importing photos from, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps-Photo- and Video-viewing Apps, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps
posting Kindle text to, Sharing


falling objects apps, Falling Objects-Falling Objects, Falling Objects
Favorites, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites-Searching, Searching


bookmarking in Silk browser, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites-Searching, Searching


files, transferring from computers, Adding and Reading Documents-Third-Party Apps, Sideloading, Sideloading, Third-Party Apps, Third-Party Apps
FlickFolio for Flickr HD app, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps
flicking gesture, Tapping, Touching, Typing
FreeTime app, Kindle FreeTime-Tapping, Touching, Typing, Kindle FreeTime, Kindle FreeTime, Tapping, Touching, Typing
Fruit Ninja app, Falling Objects
full-screen views, Page Turning and Navigation, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites



G

games, Making Shapes, Finding Paths-Falling Objects, Finding Paths, Falling Objects, Driving and Flying


GameCircle apps, Finding Paths-Falling Objects, Finding Paths, Falling Objects
Games Library, Making Shapes
word puzzlers and number boards apps, Driving and Flying


gestures, summary of, Tapping, Touching, Typing
GetJar app, Installing Apps
Go To button (menu bar), Page Turning and Navigation-Page Turning and Navigation, Page Turning and Navigation, Page Turning and Navigation
Google Calendar, Keeping Your Calendar
Google Docs, Documents and Spreadsheets
Google Drive, Third-Party Apps



H

Handbrake video conversion program, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers
Handrite Note Pro app, To-Do Lists and Notes
hard reset function, Troubleshooting and Maintenance
hardware design (Fire), Parts and Ports-Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours
HD (High Definition) media, Buying and Renting Options, Downloading and Playing
Help websites (Fire), Where to Head for Help
highlighting, Borrowing and Lending


in borrowed books, Borrowing and Lending


History page (Silk browser), Favorites and Recently Visited Sites-Searching, Searching, Searching
Home Recommendations, Amazon, Applications
home screen (Fire), The Home Screen-Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids, The Home Screen, The Home Screen, The Home Screen, Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids, Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids
Hulu app, Hulu Plus-Syncing and Sharing, Hulu Plus, Syncing and Sharing, Syncing and Sharing


Hulu Plus, Hulu Plus-Syncing and Sharing, Hulu Plus, Syncing and Sharing, Syncing and Sharing





I

images, Adding and Reading Documents, Copying Text and Images-Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages


copying from websites, Copying Text and Images-Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages
formats, Adding and Reading Documents


IMAP accounts, Manually Adding Account Information-Manually Adding Account Information, Manually Adding Account Information
Immersion Reading feature, What's New in Fire-land, Read, Watch, Listen
importing music, Getting Music onto the Fire-Choosing what to upload, Installing and launching the Music Importer, Choosing what to upload, Choosing what to upload, Choosing what to upload
Improve Your Recommendations page, Browsing and Buying
in-plane switching (IPS) displays, Under the Fire's Hood
Individual website data setting (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings
installing, Installing Apps, Installing Apps, Installing Apps, Getting Music onto the Fire-Installing and launching the Music Importer, Installing and launching the Music Importer, Installing and launching the Music Importer, App Installation Problems


Amazon MP3 Uploader, Getting Music onto the Fire-Installing and launching the Music Importer, Installing and launching the Music Importer, Installing and launching the Music Importer
apps, Installing Apps, Installing Apps, Installing Apps
troubleshooting problems with, App Installation Problems


Instant Queue (Netflix), Netflix
iPhoto uploads to Cloud Drive, Amazon Cloud Drive



J

Jamie's 20 Minute Meals app, Cooking and the Kitchen, Cooking and the Kitchen



K

keyboards, The Contacts App-Keeping Your Calendar, Keeping Your Calendar, Language & Keyboard


settings, Language & Keyboard
tips and tricks, The Contacts App-Keeping Your Calendar, Keeping Your Calendar


Kindle books, buying from Amazon, Reading (and Listening to) Books
Kindle Cloud Reader, Reading on Multiple Devices
Kindle editions (Newsstand), Apps vs. Kindle Editions-Apps vs. Kindle Editions, Apps vs. Kindle Editions, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica-Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica-Adobe, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Adobe, Browsing and Buying-Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying


digital editions and, Browsing and Buying
Page view, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica-Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica
subscriptions, Browsing and Buying-Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying
Text view, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica-Adobe, Adobe
vs. apps, Apps vs. Kindle Editions-Apps vs. Kindle Editions, Apps vs. Kindle Editions


Kindle Fire, What's New in Fire-land-About the Outline, What's New in Fire-land, What's New in Fire-land, Under the Fire's Hood, About This Book, About the Outline, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours, Turning the Fire Off-Turning the Fire Off, Turning the Fire Off, Turning the Fire Off, The Home Screen-Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids, The Home Screen, Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids, Kindle FreeTime-Tapping, Touching, Typing, Kindle FreeTime, Tapping, Touching, Typing, The Keyboard-Installing Apps, The Keyboard, The Keyboard, Installing Apps, Sharing or Selling Your Fire


charging, Turning the Fire Off
Free Time app, Kindle FreeTime-Tapping, Touching, Typing, Kindle FreeTime, Tapping, Touching, Typing
home screen, The Home Screen-Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids, The Home Screen, Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids
keyboard, The Keyboard-Installing Apps, The Keyboard, The Keyboard, Installing Apps
new features in, What's New in Fire-land-About the Outline, What's New in Fire-land, What's New in Fire-land, About This Book, About the Outline
setting up, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours
sharing and selling, Sharing or Selling Your Fire
turning off, Turning the Fire Off-Turning the Fire Off, Turning the Fire Off
under the hood, Under the Fire's Hood


Kindle Owners Lending Library, Borrowing and Lending
Kindle Panel View, Page Turning and Navigation
kitchen and cooking apps, Cooking and the Kitchen-Cooking and the Kitchen, Cooking and the Kitchen
Kitchen Unit Converter app, Cooking and the Kitchen



L

landscape mode (Fire), Rotation and Orientation
Language settings, Language & Keyboard
Legal and Compliance settings, Legal & Compliance
lending ebooks, Borrowing and Lending-Borrowing and Lending, Borrowing and Lending, Borrowing and Lending, Borrowing and Lending
libraries (Home screen), The Home Screen
Little Piano Pro app, Music
Load images setting (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings
Location bar, Page Turning and Navigation
Location numbering, Page Turning and Navigation-Page Turning and Navigation, Page Turning and Navigation, Page Turning and Navigation
location-based services setting, Location-based Services



M

Mac, Amazon Cloud Drive


Cloud Drive utility, Amazon Cloud Drive


Magic Piano app, Music
margins, text, Playing Page Designer
micro B plugs, Sideloading
Microsoft Exchange, Email and Address Book Setup, Keeping Your Calendar
Microsoft Hotmail, Keeping Your Calendar
Microsoft Word documents, Adding and Reading Documents
Mint.com Personal Finance app, Bills and Banking-Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking
Miro Video Converter (Mac), USB Cable and WiFi Transfers
MOBI format, Adding and Reading Documents
Monkey Preschool Lunchbox app, Quizzes and Brain Teasers-Word Puzzlers and Number Boards, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards
movies, Watching TV and Movies-Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading, Buying and Renting Options, Buying and Renting Options, TV Shows


Amazon Prime service, Watching TV and Movies-Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading
buying/renting options, Buying and Renting Options, Buying and Renting Options, TV Shows


MP3 Downloader utility, On the Web
MP3 Uploader, Amazon, The Amazon MP3 Uploader-Choosing what to upload, Installing and launching the Music Importer, Choosing what to upload
mp4 video format, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers
multipurpose keys (keyboard), The Keyboard
music, Getting Music onto the Fire, Getting Music onto the Fire-Installing and launching the Music Importer, Getting Music onto the Fire, Installing and launching the Music Importer, Choosing what to upload, Listening-Connecting Bluetooth Devices, Listening, Listening, Connecting Bluetooth Devices, Playlists: Be Your Own DJ-On the Fire, Playlists: Be Your Own DJ, Playlists: Be Your Own DJ, On the Fire, On the Web, Cooking and the Kitchen


Amazon Cloud Player, Listening
apps for creating, Cooking and the Kitchen
audio file formats, Getting Music onto the Fire
downloading from Cloud Drive, Choosing what to upload
importing to Fire, Getting Music onto the Fire-Installing and launching the Music Importer, Installing and launching the Music Importer
Music Importer utility, Getting Music onto the Fire
Music Library app, On the Web
playing, Listening-Connecting Bluetooth Devices, Listening, Connecting Bluetooth Devices
playlists, Playlists: Be Your Own DJ-On the Fire, Playlists: Be Your Own DJ, Playlists: Be Your Own DJ, On the Fire


My Paper Plane 2 (3D) app, Driving and Flying



N

naming Kindle Fire, Turning the Fire Off
navigating, Two Ways to Navigate Apps, Two Ways to Navigate Apps-Browsing and Buying, WoodWing, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying


Kindle editions, Two Ways to Navigate Apps, WoodWing, Browsing and Buying
Newsstand apps, Two Ways to Navigate Apps-Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying


navigating pages, The Back Button


Back button, The Back Button


Newsstand, Apps vs. Kindle Editions-Apps vs. Kindle Editions, Apps vs. Kindle Editions, WoodWing, Browsing and Buying


apps vs. Kindle Editions, Apps vs. Kindle Editions-Apps vs. Kindle Editions, Apps vs. Kindle Editions
navigating, WoodWing


WoodWing app, WoodWing


section on Amazon, Browsing and Buying


notes, To-Do Lists and Notes-To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes


apps, To-Do Lists and Notes-To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes


Notification settings, Applications
Notifications circle (Home screen), The Home Screen
number boards and word puzzlers apps, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards-Driving and Flying, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards, Driving and Flying



O

Office Calculator Pro app, Bills and Banking
OfficeSuite app, Documents and Spreadsheets, OfficeSuite
Optional Encryption setting (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings
Options bar (Silk browser), Navigation and Viewing Basics
orientation and rotation (Fire), Rotation and Orientation
Out of Milk Pro app, To-Do Lists and Notes-To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes



P

pages, Apps vs. Kindle Editions-Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica


Page view (Kindle editions), Apps vs. Kindle Editions-Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica, Page View: A Print Magazine Replica


painting and drawing apps, Painting and Drawing-Photos, Painting and Drawing, Photos
Pandora app, On the Web
Panel View, Kindle, Page Turning and Navigation
Paper Toss app, Finding Paths
Parental Controls, Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids, Kindle FreeTime, Parental Controls
path finding apps, Finding Paths-Finding Paths, Finding Paths
PDF files, Adding and Reading Documents, Adding and Reading Documents
Personal Videos app, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers
photos, Getting Pictures and Videos onto the Fire-Amazon Cloud Drive, Amazon Cloud Drive, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers-USB Cable and WiFi Transfers, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps-Browsing Photos, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps, Browsing Photos-Browsing Photos, Browsing Photos, Browsing Photos


apps for, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps
browsing, Browsing Photos-Browsing Photos, Browsing Photos
organizing Photos Library, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers
Photobucket Mobile app, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps-Browsing Photos, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps, Browsing Photos
uploading to Cloud Drive, Getting Pictures and Videos onto the Fire-Amazon Cloud Drive, Amazon Cloud Drive
USB and WiFi transfers to Fire, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers-USB Cable and WiFi Transfers, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers


PicFolio for Picasa HD app, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps-Browsing Photos, Browsing Photos
PicSay Pro app, Photos-Photos, Photos
pinch (reverse spread) gesture, Tapping, Touching, Typing
player, audiobook, Shopping for Audiobooks-Read, Watch, Listen, Shopping for Audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks, Read, Watch, Listen
playing, Search-Connecting Bluetooth Devices, Listening, Listening, Connecting Bluetooth Devices


music, Search-Connecting Bluetooth Devices, Listening, Listening, Connecting Bluetooth Devices


playlists (music), Playlists: Be Your Own DJ, Playlists: Be Your Own DJ, Playlists: Be Your Own DJ
Pocket app, Sharing and Saving Web Pages
PocketMoney app, Bills and Banking-Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking
POP3 accounts, Manually Adding Account Information-Manually Adding Account Information, Manually Adding Account Information
portrait mode (Fire), Rotation and Orientation
PowerPoint, Microsoft, Third-Party Apps, Quickoffice, OfficeSuite
Prime video service (Amazon), Watching TV and Movies-Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading
PrinterShare Mobile Print app, OfficeSuite
Project Gutenberg, Browsing and Buying, The Built-in Docs Library
public library ebooks, Borrowing and Lending
punctuation marks (keyboard), The Keyboard
Purchase Options button, Downloading and Playing



Q

Quell app, Finding Paths
Quick Settings, The Home Screen, Playing Page Designer, My Account-Security, Device, Security


bar, Playing Page Designer
menu, The Home Screen
More button, My Account-Security, Device, Security


Quicken app, Bills and Banking
Quickoffice Pro app, Documents and Spreadsheets, Quickoffice, OfficeSuite
quizzes and brain teaser apps, Quizzes and Brain Teasers



R

reading, Reading on Multiple Devices-Shopping for Audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks, The Built-in Docs Library-Transferring Files from Your Computer, Adding and Reading Documents, Transferring Files from Your Computer, Transferring Files from Your Computer, Checking and Reading Email, Checking and Reading Email, Reading View-Favorites and Recently Visited Sites, Reading View, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites


documents, The Built-in Docs Library-Transferring Files from Your Computer, Adding and Reading Documents, Transferring Files from Your Computer, Transferring Files from Your Computer
emails, Checking and Reading Email, Checking and Reading Email
on multiple devices, Reading on Multiple Devices-Shopping for Audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks
Reading View (Silk browser), Reading View-Favorites and Recently Visited Sites, Reading View, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites


Recommendations row (Home screen), The Home Screen
registering Kindle Fire, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours
Remember form data setting (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings
Remember passwords checkbox (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings
reminders (Calendar app), Creating and Editing Events-Creating and Editing Events, Creating and Editing Events
renting movies/TV shows, Buying and Renting Options, Downloading and Playing
replying to emails, Replying-Composing a Message, Composing a Message
Requested website view setting (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings-Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings
restart function, Troubleshooting and Maintenance
restaurant apps, Dining Out
reverse spread (pinch) gesture, Tapping, Touching, Typing
Rhapsody app, On the Web-On the Web, On the Web, On the Web
rotation and orientation (Fire), Rotation and Orientation



S

saving, The Home Screen, The Home Screen-The Home Screen, The Home Screen, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Security and Other Advanced Settings


Favorites, The Home Screen, The Home Screen-The Home Screen, The Home Screen
saved data settings (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings
Web pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages


Scanner Radio app, On the Web
Scrabble app, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards-Word Puzzlers and Number Boards, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards
screen brightness, Playing Page Designer
searching, The Home Screen, Search...and Research, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray-Playing Page Designer, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray, Playing Page Designer, Browsing and Downloading-Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading, Search, Checking and Reading Email, Visiting a Website, Searching-Copying Text and Images, Copying Text and Images, Copying Text and Images


bug, Search...and Research
email messages, Checking and Reading Email
movies and TV shows, Browsing and Downloading-Browsing and Downloading, Browsing and Downloading
Music Library, Search
search oval (Home screen), The Home Screen
Web, Visiting a Website, Searching-Copying Text and Images, Copying Text and Images, Copying Text and Images
with X-Ray, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray-Playing Page Designer, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray, Playing Page Designer


security, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours, Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids, Security and Other Advanced Settings-Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security


Lock screen passwords, Prying Eyes and Controlling Kids, Security
settings (Silk browser), Security and Other Advanced Settings-Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings
WiFi, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours


selling Kindle Fire, Sharing or Selling Your Fire
shape-making apps, Making Shapes-Making Shapes, Making Shapes, Making Shapes
sharing, Bookmarks, Borrowing and Lending-Borrowing and Lending, Borrowing and Lending, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages


ebooks, Borrowing and Lending-Borrowing and Lending, Borrowing and Lending
reading status/notes with public, Bookmarks
Web pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages


Shelfari service, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray
sideloading, Sideloading-Third-Party Apps, Third-Party Apps
Silk Web browser, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers, Security and Other Advanced Settings-Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings


downloading videos with, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers
security and advanced settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings-Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings


Sketchbook Mobile app, Painting and Drawing-Painting and Drawing, Painting and Drawing, Painting and Drawing
Skitch app, Painting and Drawing-Photos, Photos, Photos
Slacker Radio app, On the Web
Sounds settings, Sounds & Display
spreadsheets, Third-Party Apps
Status bar (Home screen), The Home Screen
Stitcher app, On the Web
Store link (Apps Library), Installing Apps
subscriptions, Shopping for Audiobooks, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Downloading


audiobooks, Shopping for Audiobooks
Kindle editions, Browsing and Buying
movies/TV new releases, Browsing and Downloading


Sudoku app, Driving and Flying
synching, Syncing and Sharing, Playlists: Be Your Own DJ, Email and Address Book Setup, Keeping Your Calendar


calendar, Keeping Your Calendar
cloud-based playlists, Playlists: Be Your Own DJ
contacts, Email and Address Book Setup
video, Syncing and Sharing


system software updates, System Software Updates, System Software Updates



T

tabbed browsing, Navigation and Viewing Basics
tapping gesture, Tapping, Touching, Typing
Team Sync, Whispersync for Voice
text, Shopping for Audiobooks, Quickoffice, Reading View, Painting and Drawing


palette (Reading view), Reading View
Text Picture (Ascii Art) app, Painting and Drawing
text recital (QuickOffice Pro), Quickoffice
text-to-speech service, Shopping for Audiobooks


The Secret of Grisly Manor app, Quizzes and Brain Teasers
Tiny Flashlight + LED app, Clocks
to-do lists apps, To-Do Lists and Notes-To-Do Lists and Notes, To-Do Lists and Notes
transferring files from computers, Transferring Files from Your Computer-Third-Party Apps, Sideloading, Third-Party Apps, Third-Party Apps
travel apps, Travel-Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking
TripAdvisor app, Travel
TripIt app, Travel-Travel, Travel, Travel
TubeMate app, Netflix
TuneIn Radio app, On the Web
Twitter, sharing ebook passages on, Sharing-Bookmarks, Sharing, Bookmarks
typing tips/tricks (keyboards), The Contacts App-Keeping Your Calendar, Keeping Your Calendar



U

Update Available tab, Out-of-Date Apps
updating system software, System Software Updates-Battery Draining Too Quickly, Battery Draining Too Quickly
Urbanspoon app, Dining Out
USB file transfers to Fire, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers-USB Cable and WiFi Transfers, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers, USB Cable and WiFi Transfers



V

videos, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps-Browsing Photos, Browsing Photos


apps for viewing, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps-Browsing Photos, Browsing Photos


viewing rights (movies/TV shows), Downloading and Playing
viewing websites, Navigation and Viewing Basics-Favorites and Recently Visited Sites, Navigation and Viewing Basics, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites
voice, Whispersync for, Whispersync for Voice-Shopping for Audiobooks, Whispersync for Voice, Shopping for Audiobooks



W

Watch Now button, Downloading and Playing-Downloading and Playing, Downloading and Playing, Downloading and Playing
weather app, Travel-Bills and Banking, Bills and Banking
Web browsing, Visiting a Website-Navigation and Viewing Basics, Navigation and Viewing Basics-Favorites and Recently Visited Sites, Navigation and Viewing Basics, Navigation and Viewing Basics, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites-Searching, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites-Searching, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites, Searching-Copying Text and Images, Searching, Searching, Searching, Copying Text and Images, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Security and Other Advanced Settings-Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings


Favorites, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites-Searching, Searching
navigation and viewing, Navigation and Viewing Basics-Favorites and Recently Visited Sites, Navigation and Viewing Basics, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites
recently visited sites, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites-Searching, Favorites and Recently Visited Sites, Searching, Searching
searching, Searching-Copying Text and Images, Copying Text and Images
sharing/saving Web pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages, Sharing and Saving Web Pages
Silk security and advanced settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings-Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings, Security and Other Advanced Settings
visiting websites, Visiting a Website-Navigation and Viewing Basics, Navigation and Viewing Basics


Web Snapshots app, Sharing and Saving Web Pages
websites for downloading, Whispersync for Voice, Audiobooks, Browsing and Buying, Transferring Files from Your Computer, Sideloading, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps


Amazon Cloud Drive, Transferring Files from Your Computer
Amazon Newsstand section, Browsing and Buying
Android Apps, Photo- and Video-viewing Apps
Android File Transfer, Sideloading
audiobooks, Audiobooks
Whispersync for Voice free titles, Whispersync for Voice


websites for further information, Turning the Fire Off, Sharing, Reading on Multiple Devices, Read, Watch, Listen, Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying, Sideloading, Watching TV and Movies, App Spotlight: Netflix and Hulu, Getting Music onto the Fire, Listening, Manually Adding Account Information, Finding Paths-Falling Objects, Falling Objects


accelerated charging plug, Turning the Fire Off
Amazon Cloud Player, Getting Music onto the Fire, Listening
Amazon Help page, Manually Adding Account Information
Amazon video catalog, Watching TV and Movies
free ebooks, Browsing and Buying
GameCircle, Finding Paths-Falling Objects, Falling Objects
Immersion Reading-ready titles, Read, Watch, Listen
Kindle books, Sharing
Manage Your Kindle page, Reading on Multiple Devices
Netflix and Hulu, App Spotlight: Netflix and Hulu
shopping for Kindle books, Browsing and Buying
USB cables, Sideloading


WiFi, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours, Troubleshooting and Maintenance, Battery Draining Too Quickly


basics, Turning the Fire On, Making It Yours
battery drainage and, Battery Draining Too Quickly
troubleshooting problems with, Troubleshooting and Maintenance


Wikipedia, Search...and Research-Search...and Research, Search...and Research, Search...and Research
Wireless settings, Wireless
WoodWing magazine app, WoodWing-Browsing and Buying, Browsing and Buying
word puzzlers and number boards apps, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards-Driving and Flying, Driving and Flying
Words with Friends app, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards-Word Puzzlers and Number Boards, Word Puzzlers and Number Boards



X

X Construction app, Making Shapes
X-Ray for ebooks, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray-Playing Page Designer, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray, Tunneling into a Book with X-Ray, Playing Page Designer
X-Ray for movies, X-Ray for movies, X-Ray for movies



Y

Your Books section (Kindle website), Bookmarks



Z

Zoho, Documents and Spreadsheets













About the Author
Peter Meyers designs, speaks, and writes about digital books. After co-founding pioneering multimedia textbook publisher Digital Learning Interactive, he launched a successful career as a freelance journalist, writing about the strange and wonderful effects of computers on mainstream culture for many publications, including the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, Wired, Salon, and the Village Voice. During a subsequent five-year tour of duty at O'Reilly Media he worked in the Missing Manual group, serving as managing editor and associate publisher. His most recent writing projects include Best iPad Apps (O'Reilly Media, 2010) and Breaking the Page: Transforming Books and the Reading Experience. He blogs at www.newkindofbook.com and you can follow him on Twitter @petermeyers. Peter's undergraduate degree is from Harvard, where he studied American history and literature, and he has an MFA in fiction from the Iowa Writers' Workshop.













Special Upgrade Offer



If you purchased this ebook from a retailer other than O'Reilly, you can upgrade it for $4.99 at oreilly.com by clicking here.














Kindle Fire HD: The Missing Manual




Peter Meyers




Editor

Nan Barber






Revision History


2012-01-11






Copyright © 2013 Peter Meyers, Inc.




O'Reilly books may be purchased for educational, business, or sales promotional use. Online editions are also available for most titles (http://safari.oreilly.com). For more information, contact our corporate/institutional sales department: 800.998.9938 or corporate@oreilly.com.





The O'Reilly logo is a registered trademark of O'Reilly Media, Inc. Kindle Fire HD: The Missing Manual and related trade dress are trademarks of O'Reilly Media, Inc.
Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book, and O'Reilly Media, Inc. was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed in caps or initial caps.





While every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this book, the publisher and author assume no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.



O'Reilly Media


1005 Gravenstein Highway North

Sebastopol, CA 95472 



2013-01-22T13:10:52-08:00






