




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lead Magnet
 
Copyright
2013: Charlie Hutton
All
rights reserved.
 










LEGAL NOTICES
 
The information presented herein represents the
view of the authors as of the date of publication. Because of the rate with which
conditions change, the author reserves the right to alter and update his
opinion based on the new conditions. This book is for informational purposes
only. While every attempt has been made to verify the information provided in
this book, neither the authors nor their affiliates/partners assume any
responsibility for errors, inaccuracies or omissions. Any slights of people or
organizations are unintentional. You should be aware of any laws
which govern business transactions or other business practices in your
country and state. Any reference to any person or business whether living or
dead is purely coincidental.
 
Every effort has been made to accurately represent
this product and its potential. Examples in these materials are not to be
interpreted as a promise or guarantee of earnings. Earning potential is
entirely dependent on the person using our product, ideas and techniques. We do
not purport this as a "get rich scheme."
 
Your level of success in attaining the results
claimed in our materials depends on the time you devote to the program, ideas and techniques mentioned your finances,
knowledge and various skills. Since these factors differ according to
individuals, we cannot guarantee your success or income level. Nor are we
responsible for any of your actions.
 
Any and all forward looking statements here or on
any of our sales material are intended to express our opinion of earnings
potential. Many factors will be important in determining your actual results
and no guarantees are made that you will achieve results similar to ours or
anybody else's, in fact no guarantees are made that you will achieve any
results from our ideas and techniques in our material.
 
ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED. No part of this course may be
reproduced or transmitted in any form whatsoever, electronic, or mechanical,
including photocopying, recording, or by any informational storage or retrieval
without the expressed written consent of the authors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 









 
 
 
Lead Magnet
 
43 Foolproof
Strategies To Get More Leads, Win A Ton of New Customers
And Double Your Profits In Record Time...
 
 
Charlie Hutton
 
 









"Claim Your FREE Strategy Session To Uncover Marketing Assets
Currently Within Your Business That Are Not Being Maximized And Could Easily
Increase Your Sales By 25% - 100% In 90 Days Or Less Without Spending More
Money On Advertising!" 

(£497
Value)
 
Details
revealed below...
 
Charlie Hutton, author and dynamic marketing
consultant, is offering a FREE
incredible opportunity for you to improve your current marketing and sales systems
without spending more money on advertising. Claim your free strategy session
today and discover:

 

How to quickly increase your sales by 25% - 100% in the next 90 days
     without spending more money on advertising!

 

How to guarantee that your business stands head and shoulders above the
     competition, so prospects will be proud and excited to buy from you.

 

The "Hidden Goldmine" in your business and how you can capitalize
     on it and make big profits.

 

Quick, easy and cheap ways to
     advertise your business.

 

How to compel your customers
     to literally line up and beg you to accept their contact information so
     you can follow up with them.

 

Discover secret insider tips and techniques to get your past customers to come back into your business and buy
     from you again and again.

 

Turn your customers into
     raving fans that advertise your business 24/7.

 

Ignite fierce loyalty in
     your customers so that they couldn't even imagine purchasing from your
     competitors.

 

How to create your own lead generation system.

 

Real-life examples of how you can
     create a continual stream of fresh and eager prospects.

 
Special Note: For a limited time only, the first one hundred
businesses who apply online, will get their custom marketing audit for free.
 
Claim Your FREE
Strategy Session By Visiting...

 
charliehutton.co.uk/strategy-session/
 









INTRODUCTION
 
If you have been in
business for longer than two minutes, I'm sure that you have already stumbled
across something that completely surprised you and instantly opened your eyes
to a world of new possibilities. 
Maybe it was a new
promotion you ran that broke every sales record in your company. Maybe it was a
new supplier that got you your stock so ridiculously cheap that it allowed you
to sell the product at bargain prices and still allowed you to actually make a
few quid. Well, no matter what the event was that opened your mind to new and
exciting possibilities, the fact is that you were shown indisputable proof that
more success and profits were possible than you had previously believed. 
            This
book is more of that indisputable proof. So, if you are willing to read this
book with pen and paper in hand, while keeping an open mind, then a
business-changing revelation is exactly what you will experience today. Not
only will you will find yourself believing in your business again, but you will reawaken the excitement and joy you felt years
ago when you first realized that having your own business could provide you
with the freedom to create your own life and future.  
            Now,
I realize that I am making a big claim, but as you turn the pages of this book,
you will see for yourself that these proven success strategies really can
increase your profits. In fact, the strategies in this book are quietly being
used by successful businesses all over the country to pocket them a large
fortune. The real tragedy is that most business owners are too stuck in their
old and unprofitable ways to embrace the changes. 
            However,
I don't want to sugarcoat the reality of what will be required for you to reach
a much higher level of success. ALL of the strategies in this book will require
you to make changes in your business. In fact, you should only be reading this
book because you are ready to implement new but proven strategies to reach your
desired level of success in your business. 
            So
first, let me give you a piece of golden advice. You must to let go of every
belief that doesn't directly contribute to you depositing more profits in your
bank account. That's why the first chapter of this book is geared towards
preparing your mindset to make more money. So, without further ado, let's get
started on growing your business.









 
PART ONE:
 
The
Basics: What You Need To Know To Maximize These Marketing Strategies









 
 
CHAPTER 1
 
 
Get Your Head In The Game
 
 
Preparing your mind
for success is the first step on the path to extreme success in your business
during this new economy. In fact, I'll even go a step further and predict that
unless you address your mindset first, you won't even implement a single one of
the proven strategies in this book. 

            Think
it sounds a bit harsh? Well, would you rather I sugarcoated it and skimed over the meat and potatoes or would you rather sit
down and get a seven course meal that will have you bursting at the seams with
ready-to-buy, customers and profits?
            See,
the truth is, no matter how great the strategies are that I reveal, you will never see one extra penny unless you are willing,
ready and able to make the changes required. And that, my friend, requires guts,
boldness and the ability to move rapidly to follow the money in your local
market.  
            Let
me give you few examples of how powerful and profitable OR how broke and hungry
a mindset can make you. There's a successful online furniture chain in the UK which promises delivery in 3 days or less. Do you have an
idea of the average amount of days or weeks a customer was accustomed to
waiting to get their furniture delivered before this company decided to
re-write the rules? Normal wait time was three to six weeks for in-stock items.
In fact, I would venture to say that 95% of the furniture industry still
requires customers to wait two to six weeks for delivery. This furniture store
has a huge competitive advantage over every other competitor in the
marketplace.
            Now,
before this furniture chain came to the market, no other stores were delivering
furniture to a customer's home within a couple of days. Do you think these
business owners were scorned and warned by ALL the other furniture retailers
who they asked for advice? Do you think manufacturers, sales  reps and delivery companies
scoffed and swore that it couldn't be done? Of course! See, every furniture
store has the same problems and objections as any other furniture store, but
the owners of this furniture chain believed that they could do it better and
faster. 
            The
owners of that company had the iron resolve of a 22 stone gorilla. They had a
powerful mindset that allowed them to grow beyond belief...during a recession!
However, they first had to change their mindset BEFORE they could change their
business. That's what you will also have to do in order to grow your business
to the next level.
            Now,
let's look at how badly things turn out when business owners have a stubborn and
poor mindset. Several years ago there were a couple of super-high end men's
retail stores within miles of each other in town where I live. These retailers
were priced so high, that only a few percent of the population could afford
their clothing. As the economy turned, those retailers simply refused to change
their business model to reflect the change in the market. Therefore, within six
short months ALL but one of those retailers went out of business.
            Unfortunately,
the stubborn and poor mindset also affected many other businesses who could have easily weathered the storm of this economy
with just a few simple changes to their businesses model. However, they chose
to ignore the changing marketplace and consequently went out of business.
            So,
now that you know how powerful a mind-set change is to your success, let's look
at four powerful keys and realities that you must embrace in this new
economy:  
 

Accept that there's still money in your local
     marketplace.
     Don't feed me that garbage that people in your area aren't buying the type
     of products or services that you offer. Yes, they are. There are dozens of
     businesses who are making unbelievable profits
     during this recession. The real question is, "Will yours be one of the
     businesses that will make the necessary changes in order to cash in during
     this economic downturn?"

 

Take advantage of the opportunities that recessions
     create. Every
     recession creates an opportunity for someone to profit. In the example of
     the furniture store chain that I mentioned earlier, consumers want
     furniture that can be delivered quickly. The customers in that market
     don't want to wait for months. They want good price, speed and
     convenience. Ultimately, the key to your success will be determined by
     your ability to listen to your market. Then, all you have to do is create
     a product or service to meet that need and you'll instantly have increased
     success.

 

Make decisions based on facts, not news headlines. If you're
     listening to talk radio, news reports and any other media source that's
     pumping fear, doom and gloom into your head, then turn it off right now!
     The majority of news media sources are in the business of selling fear,
     not hope. Your focus should be on finding what
     your target market wants and then giving it to them at a great value.
     That's it. Don't let the media drive you out of business, by slowly
     draining away your will to fight.

 

Change your business or go out of business. Every day I meet
     so many business owners who simply refuse to do things differently, but
     yet, they expect different results. That's the textbook definition of
     insanity. You must be willing to change your employees, advertising,
     marketing, product and/or management, and any and everything else, in
     order to survive during this economy. That's the truth, plain and simple.










 
 
CHAPTER 2
 
 
The
Four Keys To Creating A Marketing Plan To Explode Your Businesses Profits
 
 
While preparing your
mindset to go to the next level in your business is the first step towards
transforming your business into a marketing machine, there are several other
key principles which will also impact your success.
These four key factors are so important to your businesses success, that unless
you build your marketing strategies using them, you will have a 99% chance of
failing. So, take your time with these four cornerstone principles and then
implement them into your business.
 
Key
#1: Calculate The Lifetime Value of Your Customer
 
When business owners
hire me to help turn their business into a money-maker,
one of the first things I do is calculate the lifetime value of their
customers. The lifetime value (LTV) of a customer is the amount of profit each customer brings to your business over the course of their
buying lifetime with your business. Now, I will show you a simple way to calculate
the LTV, but unless you keep great records you should probably hire a
bookkeeper to dig through receipts and calculate the numbers for you.
            In
order to help you calculate your lifetime customer value, I've put an example
below.
 



Total
  Amount of Customers for the year


100




Average
  # of purchases per customer


2




Average
  Purchase Amount


£125.00




 (100 x 2 x £125) Total Revenue


£25,000.00




 


 




Cost
  to produce each product or service (including parts & labor)


£35.00




Total
  cost to produce product for the 100 customers (100 x £35)


£3,500.00




Marketing
  Costs for the year


£5,000.00




Total Costs


£8,500.00




 


 




Total
  Revenue - Costs = Gross Profit
(£25,000 - £8,500)


£16,500.00




 


 




Gross Profit 


£16,500.00




Customer Lifetime Value For The Year
(£16,500 /
  100 customers)


£165.00




 
So, in this example on average each customer represents
  £165 worth of profit.



 
So, in
the example I used above, when someone buys from that business, on average they
represent at least £165 in profit. However, it doesn't have to stop there. In
fact, your goal should be to increase the lifetime value of each
customer by getting them back into your business to purchase from you
more often. 
The
reason why the lifetime value of a customer is so important is because it gives
you an idea of how much you should invest in marketing to get the customer in
the first place. So, in the example above the business owner knows that if he
spends another £5,000 in marketing in the same ways he's investing in marketing
now, he can reasonably expect to double his profits. Without knowing the
lifetime value of his customers, he wouldn't have the confidence to make that
kind of investment in marketing.
 
Key
#2: Find Out The Source Of Every Lead That Comes Into Your Business
 
If there was one piece of advice that I would want you to remember
from this entire book, it would be tracking where every lead comes from that
you get into your business. In order to track where your leads come from, you
can ask prospects when they walk into your business or you can use special
phone numbers with unique extensions in your ads. You can also use multiple websites
or webpages, each designed for a specific sale, coupon, tracking code or
anything else you can think of knowing exactly where your prospects are coming
from. 
            At
the end of the day, you absolutely need to know exactly where your leads are
coming from, so that you can know exactly what's working in your business. Once
you know where your leads are coming from, then you can begin to invest
marketing in those specific areas that are generating the best leads and
customers. Without tracking your leads, you will always be wasting thousands of
pounds on ineffective marketing strategies.
 
Key
#3: Calculate Your Return On Investment For Any Marketing That You Do
 
This crucial key
builds on the previous one.  Quite
honestly, the only way to truly know your return on investment is to track the
results of every marketing strategy. Once you know how much you are spending,
you will know exactly how much each marketing pound is bringing back to your
business. 
            For
example, if you spent £500 on an ad in a local newspaper
which generated two customers, who then spent a total of £3,500 in your
business, your return on your investment is 700%! So for every £1 you spent,
you received £7 back. That's a very good return by my standards.
 
Key
#4: Create Ads And Marketing Materials That Consistently Put Money In Your
Pocket: 
 
If you ever want to
see a huge waste of money, then watch the ads being played during the Super
Bowl. The ads that run during the Super Bowl are designed to be funny, cute and
win advertising awards. However, these ads rarely make their companies any real
profit. As a matter of fact, those commercials are the laughing stock of the
marketing industry because companies blissfully line up and pay millions for
these types of "funny" ads while receiving little to no results for their
marketing spend. 
            The
fact of the matter is, you either need to know how to
write and design good ads or have the resources to hire a good copywriter.
Regardless of which option you choose, I encourage you to study good copywriters
so that they have a feel for what usually works. As the buisiness
owner, you should definitely know how to create ads, letters and emails that
generate leads. A good expert to study to learn copywriting is Dan Kennedy.
Simply type in his name in Google and you will find tons of resources to help.
            Here's
a quick tip sheet on the basics which every ad you
create should have:
 

Headlines
     that attract customers.
Always
     have a compelling offer.
Use
     a specific start date and deadline in your ad.
Insert
     testimonials from past customers.
Include
     a guarantee on your products and services.
Your
     ad must look unique and stand out from your competitors.
Your
     ad must ONLY focus on what your customer wants.
Have
     only one goal for each ad, which is to get customers to visit your
     business.
Tell
     the reason why you're offering the sale.
Write
     ads that are straight to the point and easy to understand.

 
Now, the
keys to success listed above may seem like a lot of hard work, but you only
have to do the hardest work in the beginning. But remember, the most important factor which will contribute to your success is your
willingness to actually implement these strategies on a consistent basis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 









 
 
CHAPTER 3
 
 
Business
101: You Must Constantly Advertise Your Business...Duh!
 
 
Sounds obvious,
doesn't it? But, you wouldn't believe how many business owners I meet who
refuse to do any type of consistent marketing or advertising! That's
unbelievable to me; however it's normal for many businesses. Sure, they will do
a small little ad in the local newspaper once or twice a year, but that can
hardly be considered marketing consistently.  
If I were
to ask you what kind of business you're in, what would you say? If you're like most business owners that hire me, you would
probably just pick a product or service that you sell and simply tell me that
you are in that industry. Right? Well, I'm here to tell you that your answer to
the question of what business you're in, should be, "I'm in the
marketing business." If that was not your answer, then I already know that
you're most likely having huge problems. 
Many
business owners are confused about what business they are in. The simplest way
to look at your business is to realize that the two most important activities
in your business are marketing and actually providing the product or service
that you're marketing. Every day that the doors of your business are open, is a
day that you should be focusing on marketing.
            Over
the years, I've come to the realization that most business owners are not to
blame for not being able to put together effective marketing campaigns. Think
about when you first started your business; did you receive an instruction
manual about how to get customers? Was there a course offered down at the local
college designed to teach business owners how to attract quality
buying customers? Heck, no. You just went out there and told everyone
what you're doing now and then you probably sat back and waited for customers
to come into your business. Back then things were pretty simple and easy.
However, that gravy train didn't last, did it? 
Next, you
probably turned to the industry publications, magazines and newsletters, which
focus on products and customer service as the solution to your problems. So,
over time you looked around at what the competition was doing and you probably
began to think that if you also offered product or service at a lower price,
customers would flock to your business too. But, is that what happened? 
Maybe you
saw a rush of customers the first time you ran a new ad or promotion with the
product at a low price, but did it continue on like that? No. Then, as time
went on you probably began doing less and less advertising because you weren't
seeing the results from your advertising spend. But deep down inside, you knew
that you had to do some type of marketing and advertising, but you had no idea
what to do. After all you're a business owner, not a marketing and advertising
guy.
That is
where you're terribly mistaken. See, if you want to be a successful and profitable
business owner, you MUST become a marketing and advertising guy! Your number
one job every single day is getting more customers into your business. That's
it. Why, you ask? Because the only way you make money is if prospects come into
your business and are willing, ready and able to pay you money in exchange for
your product or service. 
You don't
get paid to counsel employees, do payroll, answer questions about when the
delivery truck will arrive and you sure as hell don't get paid to sit around
all day waiting for someone to walk in. You only get paid if and when a
customer pays you. So, your number one job every day when you wake up has to be
getting more paying customers through your doors. The only way to do that is to
become a marketing and advertising fanatic. 
When you
begin to look at yourself as the marketer of your business, instead of just a
business owner, it will become very easy to see if you're doing the right
things to attract customers or not. I knew business owners who NEVER advertised
their business and shortly after the recession hit, those guys went belly-up. 
In fact,
every day you that you seriously want to make money, you should be running a
different promotion, ad or marketing campaign. Don't tell me that customers get
tired of seeing your ads, because I'm going to tell you to advertise in a
different area that hasn't seen that specific advertisement or promotion yet.
Don't tell me that it's too expensive, because I know about one hundred ways to
advertise your business on a shoe-string budget and
most of them cost less than what you spend on lunch for the week.  
In order
to succeed in this new economy, you MUST view yourself as the marketer of your
business and NOT just an owner of a business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 









 
 
CHAPTER 4
 
 
When Everybody Is Your Customer, Then Nobody Is Your Customer
 
 
One of the biggest
challenges business owners must overcome in order to be successful in this new economy, is the dreaded "I-offer-everything-for-everyone"
syndrome. On the surface this seems like a sure-fire way to get more customers,
but it's been proven time and time again that it's not always the most
successful way to prosper for 99.9%. Let's examine it closer.
If you're
a small business owner, then chances are that you have a limited budget and
limited space to work with. So, let's say for example that you're a furniture
shop. If your store offers several contemporary collections, several
ultra-modern collections, some eclectic pieces and some early British collections,
do you really think you have enough of any single style to satisfy the type of
customer who's looking for a specific style? The answer is most likely no.
In fact,
the most successful furniture retailers will focus on a couple of things to
attract a specific type of customer, such as: 
 

Complete
     living room packages for under £2,000 or furnish your entire home for
     under £5,000.
Long-term
     low or no interest financing
Fast
     delivery within 3 days or less
Lower
     prices for packages

     
So, by
narrowing down their advertising, they attract the types of customers who
purchase multiple pieces, which in turn, drive the average ticket sale and
profits up. They then offer generous financing terms, which attracts customers
with good credit and income, while enticing them to spend more money because
the customer has longer to pay for it. Most importantly, the most successful
retailers price their sales so that the more stuff the customer buys, the
bigger the discount the customer receives. 
There is
also another twist to these retailers. See, although they attract customers to
their business with generous financing offers, they reward their salespeople
handsomely for NOT selling the long-term financing. Giving their salespeople an
incentive to get customers to pay off their balances in less than 30 days. 
There is
a common slogan in marketing that states, "There are riches in niches." Simply
put, this slogan means you need to determine who your most profitable,
enjoyable and easy to attract customer is, and then specialize in getting more
of those customers to come into your business and buy. The best way to do this
is to create a U.S.P. (Unique Selling Proposition) that compels your most
profitable customer to come back into your business again and again. In other
words, a U.S.P. is the thing that you're known for.
The first
step in developing a U.S.P. is to determine the profile of your most profitable
customer. You will want to know things like; how they found your business,
where they live, what newspapers and magazines they read etc. 
Here's an
example of some of the information that you may discover about your prospects
and customers:
 

Wives
     initially visited your business without their husbands.
Recently
     married
Had
     three kids
Lived
     within five miles of your business
Spent
     between £800 - £1500
Paid
     by Visa, MasterCard or cash

 
Once you
have this information, you can redesign your business to cater to more of the
same types of customers that are currently spending money in your
business.      
Remember,
you can only use this information to your advantage if you take the time to
collect it in the first place.  Then
you can dig deep and find out who your customer is, what's important to them
and what they truly want. 









 
 
CHAPTER 5
 
 
Create A
12-Month Marketing 
Plan...Right Now!
 
 
There is an timeless saying that goes like this: "Failing to plan
means you are planning to fail." That saying is twice as true when it comes to
running a business. See, most business owners will not be able to weather this
economic storm simply because they don't have the foggiest clue about what
promotions or ads they are going to be running in the next week, much less in
the next month or year! However, this must change if you are going to survive
and thrive in this new economy.
     Now, coming up with a
twelve month marketing plan may seem like a daunting task, but most of the work
is already completed for you. How, you ask? Well, customers are already
expecting you to have a special sale or promotion at least once a month, on the
major holidays. Therefore, you don't have to recreate the wheel; you can just
ride the wave of marketing and advertising messages that are already around
that time frame.
     While the dates are
already set on the calendar, it is still important that you have compelling
words and language in your advertisements that reward your customers for buying
from you on that specific holiday. Do NOT run a general advertisement that
simply says you have stuff on sale. Your ads need to match the holiday theme as
closely as possible.
     The other benefit you
receive from creating a yearly marketing calendar is you will gain a feeling of
confidence and reassurance because you are not just sitting on your hands,
day-in and day-out, waiting for customers to just walk in and maybe buy
something from you.
     Let's look at a sample
twelve month marketing calendar that you could create
around monthly holidays:
 

January
     - New Year's
February
     - Valentine's Day
March
     - St Patrick's Day
April
     - April Fool's/Easter
May
     - May Day
June
     - Father's Day
July
     - Summer Fun
August
     - (There are no major UK Holidays, so do a friends and family sale)
September
     - 1st Day Of Autumn (Autumn Sale) 
October
     - Halloween
November
     - Black Friday
December
     - Christmas










 
 
CHAPTER 6
 
 
How To Quickly Boost Your 
Profits By Bringing In 
The Big Guns
 
 
If your son, daughter
or spouse were involved in a car accident and needed specialized attention from
a specific type of doctor, would you attempt to perform the surgery yourself in
your garage at home? Of course not. It sounds
ridiculous to even suggest such a thing, doesn't it? Well, that's how
ridiculous it sounds when I hear business owners, who have never even created
one single successful advertisement in their twenty years in business, tell me
that they refuse to hire marketing consultants.
The sad
reality is most business owners know they have major problems with closing
ratios, marketing, sales scripts and getting customers into their business.
However, they refuse to invest the necessary money to bring in experts to fix
their problems. 
After
speaking with dozens of business owners, I have come to the conclusion that
failure to get expert advice is mostly due to business owners having too much
pride to ask for help or they have never even considered hiring experts in the
first place. 
If you
really want fast results without wasting money trying out different strategies,
then hiring a expert marketing consultant to help you generate more quality
buying customers and convert more leads into sales, should be the first thing
you do after preparing your mindset for success. Until you hire an expert
consultant, you have no idea the numerous benefits your business will gain by
having an expert work with you one-on-one. 

With an
expert marketing consultant in your business, you will no longer feel alone and
isolated from other successful business owners. You will no longer feel the
doom and dread of having the weight of your business solely on your shoulders.
Most importantly, you will have a support system to give you powerful and
proven creative ideas to increase your profits.
Now, when
I say expert marketing consultant, I'm not referring to some high-priced
advertising agency that has no proven track record of increasing sales and
profits for small to medium businesses. I am also not talking about the yellow
page ad reps, radio ad reps or any other type of advertising representative
trying to sell you something. I'm talking about a marketing expert who comes
into your office, analyzes your business with a fine-tooth comb and then
creates custom marketing and sales improvement strategies for your business
that don't cost you a fortune. 
     
 
 
 
PART TWO:
 
Business Strategies To 
Generate
More Sales and Increase Profits
 
 









 
 
CHAPTER 7
 
 
Capture Your Prospects Contact Info And Create A List Of Quality Leads
 
 
Capturing your leads
and prospects contact information when they visit your business, website or
call-in, must be the foundation of your business. This simple concept is a
powerful and effective strategy being used by many successful businesses all
over the world, but for some reason, many small business owners allow prospects
and leads to waltz in and out of their businesses
without even getting their name, email address or phone number.  




 




    Have you ever considered how
powerful and profitable effective follow up campaigns can be to your
business?  Most business owners know
the truth of this strategy, but have never taken the time to implement it. Once
you see how much money you are leaving on the table, you are going to kick
yourself in the ass for not doing it sooner.  




 




    The other benefit of
capturing your prospects contact information is you gain the peace of mind that
comes with being able to generate sales at will. You no longer have to sit on
the sidelines day after day while your business has little to no customers or
clients walking in the door. Now, you can control your monthly profits with
precise accuracy by just doing a mail campaign. 




 




    Let's look at the numbers to
see just how profitable this strategy is:     
 




E




xample 1:
 

300  leads into your
     business per month 
5%
     closing ratio = 15 buyers
£500
     average sale
300
     prospects x 5% closing ratio x £500 average purchase = £7,500 in sales per
     month.

 




 




    However, in the example
above you never get a chance to sell to the other 95 prospects because you
neglected to get their contact information, so that is a ton of missed
opportunity. Now, look at the same example as if you captured their contact
information and were able to get another five percent to come back and purchase
from your business with a future compelling sale promotion.
 




E




xample 2:
 




N




ow assume that you
were able to get an additional 5% of your prospects to return back into your
business and purchase using a follow up campaign:
 

300  leads into your
     business per month 
10%
     closing rate (5% initial closing ratio PLUS 5% who buy later from your
     follow-up campaign = 30 buyers
£500
     average sale
300
     prospects x 30 buyers x £500 average purchase = £15,000 per month!

 




 




    Instead of £7,500 in sales
you are now making £15,000 in sales! That is an impressive jump in sales that
can be achieved by simply by collecting your prospects contact information and
then following up by mail, email or phone. The best part is that all you have
to do is get them back into your business and continue closing at the same
ratio you already are and you can easily double your
sales per month. Now, do you see how powerful and profitable this strategy can
be?




            




However, just like
many of the strategies revealed in this book, you must have proven and
effective conversion scripts and systems in place to consistently and
predictably get these customers back into your business to purchase from you. 




 




      You may be
thinking that prospects are not willing to give you their contact information,
but that is not true. The key to getting their contact information is to give
them a special offer in exchange for them giving you their details. For
example, you can offer to mail them out special promotions or offer to enter
their name in a free prize giveaway. You can even offer to give them a free
informative guide in exchange for their name and email address. Many of the
biggest and most successful businesses in the world spend thousands of pounds
building a list of prospects that may not be ready to buy from them today,
because they know it means millions of pounds in profits in the future.
 









 
 
CHAPTER 8
 
 
How To Make Money With 
Your Business Phone
 
 
Are you aware that
you are probably losing a lot money every single day?
How, you ask? By not having a proven and powerful phone answering script that's
designed to capture your customers contact information or ask them to make a
purchase over the phone.  
Let me
prove it to you. When someone calls your business asking for directions to your
location, what do you give them? Directions, of course.
When a customer calls and asks you the price for delivery, what do you give
them? Delivery price, of course. Well, do you know if
and when that person on the phone is planning on coming into your business? Do
you know if they are even planning to come into your business at all? The
answer is probably not. 
However,
what if you offered incoming phone call prospects the option to take advantage
of the special sale you are having for today only for 5% - 10% off for
first-time buyers, if they come to your business today to make a purchase. Do
you think that would give them an incentive to come into your business today? What
about offering to put them on a mailing list for the next big promotions or
sale that you are having? See, your priorities for every incoming phone call
you receive from a prospect should be the following:
 

Collect
     their name, phone and email address so you can add them to your follow-up
     campaign.
Record
     the reason why they are calling as well as the products and services they
     are interested in, so you know what your marketplace wants.
If
     you have a product you can sell, offer them the option to purchase by
     phone, if they already know what they want.
Get
     them to commit to coming into your business today by setting an
     appointment.





 




   
If you
are truly seeking profitable success with your incoming phone calls, it is also
important that you select and train the best member of the team to answer your
phone. I am fairly confident that you have someone that sounds nice, pleasant
and professional on the phone and truly enjoys talking to customers. This is
the type of person you want answering your phones on a daily basis. With a
proven script, you will be surprised at how many prospects will give you a
chance to earn their business simply because someone spoke nicely to them,
captured their contact information and set an appointment.
You also
will want to train this employee to follow-up on outgoing calls to prospects
and leads that are in your marketing funnel. Sometimes prospects just need to
know that someone cares enough about their needs and wants, to make a little
extra effort. This simple little strategy has paid huge rewards over the years
for my clients, and it doesn't cost you extra penny.









 
 
CHAPTER 9
 
 
Transform Your Receipts / Invoices 
Into Marketing Ads & More Sales
 
 
When you go to the
supermarket have you ever noticed that your receipts have vouchers on them?
Have you ever noticed when you go to some chain restaurants that they offer you
a discount off your next meal if you go to a website and leave your opinion and
feedback? 
Have you
ever taken the time to think about these things from a business owner's point
of view? The reason why these companies use these strategies is because these
strategies generate more sales and profits. Supermarkets have been doing this
for years because their customers are accustomed to collecting vouchers and
purchasing items which are on sale. The reason why
businesses collect customer opinions and feedback is because it allows them to
keep their pulse on the rapid changes in the marketplace, while also allowing
them to see the areas of their business they need to improve or change. 
However,
most small businesses have yet to catch on to this profitable strategy. In
fact, many business owners have never ever considered the possibility of having
a mini-ad, discount or voucher printed on their receipts or invoices. You can
even have your refer-a-friend rewards program on the receipt. This transforms a
useless piece of paper into a money-generating magnet. 
You could
put an ad on your receipts highlighting your testimonial or customer feedback
phone number. This is really easy to set up, just call your phone service
provider and let them know that you want a voicemail only phone number. This
extra voicemail phone number will only costs five or ten pounds a month, but
the advantage is tremendous. By using this technique, you discover exactly what
your customers want and their view of how their experience went. Once you get
the testimonial, you can now use that in all your other advertising to prove to
prospects that you are the best option. It provides social proof that you are a
leader in your industry. 









 
 
CHAPTER 10
 
 
How To Make Money With
Your 
 Business Signs (Inside &
Outside)
 
 
Some of the most
valuable real estate in your business is your business signage. If you have
been in business any amount of time, then you already know that good business
signage can be critical in helping customers find you. However, have you ever
thought about using signage to actually attract prospects to your business?
      When I talk
about business signage, I am referring to signs on the outside of your
businesses windows.  Most of the
window signs usually say generic stuff like, "Sale," "Financing Terms
Available," or "Holiday Sale." In this day and time those types of signs are
not worth the plastic they're printed on.
     If you really want powerful
and effective signs on the windows of your showroom, office or shop, you must
use signs that state your USP and draw customers in.  For example, which one do you think is
more powerful: "Sale" or "Guaranteed Same Day Delivery On In-Stock Products Or
It's FREE!" Compare these two: "We Sell All Major Appliances" or "FREE Delivery
With Any Purchase Over £500!" 
The key
to having signage which attracts prospects and customers
is to focus on the benefits that customers want. If you have no idea what the
customers in your marketplace are looking for, then you need to ask every
prospect that comes into your business and use that information to create a
U.S.P. that attracts the right type of prospect.
Most
businesses overlook the opportunity for signage inside the business itself.
Just because you got a prospect to walk into your building doesn't mean that
your job is done. In your office, store or building, you must have signs that
capture the prospects attention and compel them to ask you about it.  Here's a quick test you can perform to
see if you have good signage in your business: When is the last time a customer
was in your business and pointed to a sign and asked you about that product/program/service/offer?
If the answer is never or you cannot remember, then chances are that your
in-business signage isn't working as effectively as it could be working.
Effective
in-business signage can help your staff close a sale and remind customers of
why they came into your business. 









 
 
CHAPTER 11
 
 
Mail Monthly Newsletters To Prospects and Mail Quarterly Newsletters To
Past Customers
 
 
Most business owners
usually remember to run ads once in a while, but only a select few choose to
mail out a quarterly or monthly newsletter to past customers and prospects.
This simple little strategy has been responsible for billions of pounds in
profits for small business owners who choose to actually use it in their
business. Those who do not use this strategy, often wonder why their customers
never come back to purchase from them after many hours of building rapport. 
Using
monthly or quarterly newsletters can literally mean the difference between
struggling to pay your lease or mortgage each month and making a nice little
profit on a slow month.
See, the
truth is, no matter how much rapport you may have built with a prospect or
customer at the time they were in your office or on the phone with you, the
minute they walk out the door, anything and everything
is fighting for their attention. They have spouses, children, jobs, relatives,
holidays, shopping etc. They may have the best motives and intentions when you
talk to them, but the longer you wait to follow up with them, the more they
forget you. 
Have you
ever ran into a prospect or past customer in town who you felt should have
really come back to buy from you, but when you asked them what happened, they
tell you they bought it somewhere else? How did that make you feel? Well, why
does that happen? Most of the time it happens because salespeople forget to follow
up and you don't have a system in place to make sure that prospects never
forget you.
You
should be mailing out a promotional or educational/informative piece of
literature to your prospects at least once a month or every two weeks. If you
are not doing this, then you are losing money left, right and center to your
competitors. 
When it
comes to sending your past customers your quarterly
newsletter, you should focus on generating referrals and highlighting your
loyalty rewards program. You should also put a promotion in your newsletter
that rewards your past customers for coming in and purchasing additional
products and services from you.









 
 
CHAPTER 12
 
 
Mail Monthly Offers To Your Past Prospects and Leads
 
 
Mailing or emailing
monthly offers to your past prospects and leads must become as natural to you
as breathing and eating. In an earlier chapter I presented the reasons why you
should collect your prospects contact information, but collecting the contact information
and getting sales from your list of prospects are two different things. 
With this
strategy, you can choose to include the offer in your newsletter like the
previous chapter mentioned or you can send the offer separately. However, don't
get stuck in procrastination mode debating what would work better, newsletter
or separate offer. Just be sure to mail something every month. 
Now, when
you begin to consistently implement this strategy, you will begin to get a
consistent and predictable flow of buying customers in your business. I'm
always surprised at business owners who think that they can make a reliable,
consistent income based solely on referral business alone. Sure, getting
referrals is great, but do you really control that process? No, of course not.
However, when you mail your list, you can control the offer you are presenting.
You can even choose the day that you want your mail piece to go out to them, so
in my experience it' is much better when you control your own success. So, to
start you should hire a professional copywriter to personally create a series
of sales, promotions and ads that you can use to automatically send out as
emails, postcards or letters to your prospects. You want them to think of your
business when they are ready to make their purchase. 
Your
monthly mailers to your list of prospects and leads could be newsletters,
vouchers, informational guides, emails and more. The only requirement you must
meet is that whatever you're mailing out must be effective at generating sales
and making you money. You are not trying to build a brand, because building a
brand doesn't pay the mortgage. Only closing sales, generating profits and
depositing money in your bank account pays the bills.









 
 
CHAPTER 13
 
 
Create A Series Of Informative Workshops, Classes Or Events To Attract
Prospects
 
 
One of the easiest
ways to instantly generate profits and sales is to
piggy-back off other successful ideas and strategies. When you ride the coat
tails of other successful trends, you eliminate the learning curve and create
instant success. Many financial advisors, money managers and even home supply
stores like B&Q and Homebase have been using the
strategy of hosting workshops, classes and events for their prospects and
customers for years and it's a big lead generator for them. Many of their
classes are booked to capacity and customers and prospects love it.




 




     That's why I highly
recommend creating your own type of lead generating and credibility-building
workshops, 
classes or events. As long as you are creating relevant content
that your prospects find valuable, easy to implement and entertaining, you will
find this to be a successful strategy. 




            




So, the first step is
deciding how often you want to offer your workshops. My advice is to have a workshop
at least once per month. This allows your prospects to develop a relationship
with you while also building your credibility in the eyes of your marketplace.
Secondly, decide how long you want your workshops to last. The best length for
most businesses would range from sixty to ninety minutes. Once you decide that,
then you can begin putting together an outline of the type of information that
you want to give away. You can choose from several various formats, here are a
couple of examples:
 

Question
     & Answer
Interview
     The Expert
Do-It-Yourself
Product
     Demonstration

 




            




Regardless of the
format that you choose, just be sure that the content is relevant, useful and
fairly fresh to your marketplace. 




            




After you decide the
frequency, length and format of your workshops, the next step is deciding the
location and delivery method. There are several different formats you can use
to do this depending on your business model. Here are some ideas:
 
ñ Video - Buy a inexpensive video recorder and film yourself doing your
workshop. Then, use a service like Youtube.com to post your video to a special
page on your website. Remember to advertise your online video workshop in your
regular marketing efforts.
 
ñ In-office/Store/Warehouse/Factory
Presentations - This is when you have the prospects come to your business
location to listen and watch your informative presentation.
 
ñ Webinars - You
can use a service that records your computer screen while you are providing
information using a PowerPoint slide presentation.


ñ Teleseminars -
With this strategy you get a teleconference phone number and have prospects
call in on a certain day and time.
 
ñ Audio CD - You
can record your workshop using software on your computer and then burn copies
to a disc. Then, mail them out to your list of prospects.
 
It's
important to remember that this strategy can only be effective if you advertise
them aggressively and if your content is relevant to your marketplace. You can
really attract the attention of the local media by submitting regularly
scheduled press releases and doing email campaigns and feature spots in your
monthly and quarterly newsletters for your workshop, class or event. All in
all, you can generate some massive publicity and quality leads by implementing
this strategy.
 
 
 









 
 
CHAPTER 14
 
 
How To Transform Your Customers Into Walking Billboards For Your
Business
 
 
Whenever someone
makes a new purchase, one of the first things they do is brag to their family,
friends and neighbours. Your goal in using this
strategy is to tap into that excitement and leverage it to create new
customers. I like to call this strategy the radius marketing strategy. By using
the radius marketing strategy, you can capture that excitement and gain access
to new customers. Secondly, most people tend to have friends with similar
interests who live in the same neighbourhoods. So,
when you have a customer who comes into your business and makes a purchase,
chances are that their neighbourhood is filled with
other prospects that would also be able to afford and appreciate your products
or services.
            In
order to use this strategy, you simply take the address of a recent customer
and draw an imaginary circle around their house which
represents an actual distance of 1 to two miles.  Once you have your circle drawn, then
you mail out a campaign to those prospects inside of your circle, because these
are the neighbours of your current customer. The
theme of the campaign is focused around teasing your prospects by revealing
that someone in their neighbourhood bought from you,
so they should as well. You will also offer them a special neighbourhood
discount because they live in the same area as a current customer. You can map
out the addresses close to your current customer using something like Google
maps online.
 
Let's
examine a campaign:
 

Customer
     purchases from you, so you go online and purchase a list of addresses of
     their neighbours.

 

Write,
     create or purchase a series of three to seven mailers consisting of
     postcards, letters and discount vouchers.

 

Provide
     information on your mailers that direct the prospects to a special website
     specifically designed for neighbours of current
     customers to capture their email address and offer an incentive to get
     prospects to set an appointment to visit your business.

 

Use
     a professional printer or online service to schedule your series of
     mailers to go out automatically to the neighbours
     of your most recent customers.










 
 
CHAPTER 15
 
 
Dialing
For Dosh: 
Using Telemarketing To 
Grow Your Business
 
 
In a previous chapter
I revealed several ways that you or your staff can increase your sales,
appointments and overall sale opportunities by changing the way you answer your
business phone. In this chapter, I will discuss the tried and true method of
generating prospects and customers using telemarketing. In recent years,
telemarketing has gotten a bad reputation because of a few bad companies misusing
the technique; however, it is still a very effective marketing strategy when
used properly. 
            There
are three important parts to effectively using telemarketing to generate
business. 
            The
first important key to your success with telemarketing is your list of
prospects that you are calling. Your success using this strategy is directly
determined by your ability to contact the right type of prospect in the first
place. The easiest way to do this is to use your current customer receipts and
surveys to collect all of the information about your best customers. Then you
can use that information to compile a customer profile. After you have created
a customer profile, then it is time to create your list. 
            Once
you have a list of prospects to call, then your next step is to create an
effective phone script. In order to do this you have to determine what the goal
of your sales call will be. You can choose to write a phone script that sells
your product over the phone or you can use the phone script to set appointments
for prospect's to come into your business. After you determine the goal of your
phone call, then you need to record or write down the transcript of a
face-to-face conversation that you or your sales staff has recently conducted.
This will allow you to use a proven sales script when you are on the phone with
prospects.
            The
last step in an effective telemarketing campaign is your ability and
willingness to follow up with your prospects on a regular basis. When it comes
to telemarketing, you must be willing to call weekly, monthly or even daily in
some cases in order to have a chance to earn their business.
            Following
these three key ingredients will give your telemarketing campaign a great
chance for success. If done properly, telemarketing can be another tool that
you have in your arsenal that can help drive prospects into your business.









 
 
CHAPTER 16
 
 
The Holy Grail Of
Marketing:
Generating
Referrals
 
 
While every business
owner loves to get referrals, very few have a system in place to consistently
generate those referrals. As you probably already know, referrals close at
higher rate than most other types of leads, so if you want to take your
business to the next level, you should definitely create a system that
generates them.
            In
this chapter, I will give you a referral generation plan
that will be easy, simple and powerful. The first step is to have a product or
service that is worth referring. Your product and service must be memorable and
perform exactly as it is supposed to, in order for your customers to refer
their friends and family to your business. If you have a crappy product that
doesn't hold up over time or if you have a service that causes more problems
that it solves, then it will be very difficult for the few customers you get to
refer others to you. 
            The
second step is to build your request for referrals into your closing process. I
am not saying that you should ask for referrals before you close the sale. You
should ask for referrals after a customer had decided to buy, but before they
leave your business. So, for example, if you are an accountant and you have a
client in front of you while you are doing their taxes, then that moment is the
perfect time to ask them if they know of anyone who also wants to get their
taxes done. If they say yes, you then ask for permission to contact that
referral and use the referring person's name.
            The
last and final component to a successful referral campaign is to find a way to
easily and automatically contact your customers and remind them to send you
referrals. The best way that I've discovered to accomplish this is by inserting
your customers into a monthly or quarterly mailing campaign that is designed to
generate referrals. This can be a series of postcards, letters or phone calls that reminds them that you build your business
by getting referrals from past customers.  Just
make sure that whatever method you choose, you do it consistently with all your
customers.









 
 
CHAPTER 17
 
 
Follow
The Yellow Brick Road:
Yellow Page Advertising
 
 
In this age of
domination by companies that use online marketing, it's hard to imagine that
advertising in the yellow pages is still effective, but it is. It seems that
everyone is singing the praises of the tremendous impact that marketing on the internet has, but there are still many prospects that prefer
to use the yellow pages. These are the people who have spent twenty, thirty or
forty years using the Yellow Pages phonebook to look up a product or service,
so the habit is hard to change.  
            The
yellow pages are especially important when it comes to finding a local service
business. See, the down side of the Internet is that it is sometimes difficult
to find a local company because the local company is competing with millions of
other companies on a global scale. 
            In
those cases, a prospect may start by searching online, but then quickly decides
to use the yellow pages because they are practically guaranteed to find a local
service provider. This means that you should continue to use the yellow pages
as a place to advertiser your business. However, you must create an ad that
makes you stick out and compels the prospect to call or visit your business.
The keys to creating an ad that generates leads and prospects are pretty much
the same as I listed in previous chapters:
 

Use
     headlines that attract customers.
Always
     have a compelling offer.
Insert
     testimonials from past customers.
Include
     a guarantee on your products and services.
Your
     ad must look unique and stand out from your competitors.
Your
     ad must ONLY focus on what your customer wants.
Have
     only one goal for each ad, which is to get customers to visit your
     business.
Tell
     the reason why you're offering the sale.
Write
     ads that are straight to the point and easy to understand.










 
 
CHAPTER 18
 
 
The Powerful Profit
Potential
Of Packaging Your Products 
And Services
 
 
Most businesses in
the retail industry have long profited from this strategy, but most service
providers neglect to use this strategy to its fullest potential. Packaging your
products and services into bundles allows you to charge higher prices and
creates the perception in the marketplace that you are a premium product or
service provider.   
            The
packaging strategy allows you to promote and advertise several other products
while initially getting customers to come into your business to purchase
something else. This dramatically reduces your marketing costs because you are
essentially piggy-backing on your current advertising
efforts. 
            For
example, if you own a tree-cutting business, then you can offer to cut down one
tree for £399 or you can have a package that includes chopping down up to five
trees for £999. This package would represent £1,000 in savings for your
customers, but it would also allow you to make more profit on every transaction.
You could even have a premium package that includes cutting down one tree and
landscaping maintenance for one month for £599. See, in this case, you are
already in front of the customer for one service, so why not offer them a
valuable package that would entice them to purchase more from you.
            The
one thing that I would caution you to watch out for with this strategy, is the
temptation to lower your prices to the point where you are making peanuts for
profits and developing a reputation for being the cheapest company in your
industry. Even in the most competitive marketplaces you can package your
products and services in a way that will allow you to charge a premium price.
So, take the time today to sit down and come up with several different ways you
can package your products and services to step your customers up your product
or service offerings.









 
 
CHAPTER 19
 
 
How Many Ways Can You Sell?:
The Upsell, Cross Sell 
and Downsell 
 
 
When you get a
prospect who says they are ready to purchase do you or
your staff hurriedly write up the order and process the payment because you are
afraid they will change their mind? How many times have you had someone take
the time to visit your business, sit through a sales presentation, only to say
they want to go and think about it. Well, these are two cases in which you have
an alternative option that could result in higher sales volumes.
            If
you are like most business owners I consult with, then you probably just
process the payment when a customer says they want to buy and let a customer
walk when they say they want to go home and think about it. However, I
guarantee you that if you are doing those two things, then you are missing out
on a ton of cash.
            The
key to turning the regular sale into a spectacular sale is to have an option
for the customer to instantly get more/bigger/better at a great value because
they are buying right now. For example, if you are a plumber and you get a call
to repair a leaky pipe in a customer's kitchen and if then you go out and just
fix the pipe, you will make your normal fee for fixing a pipe. However, why not
also choose to bring out your high end pipes,
fittings, faucets and hoses. When you arrive at the customer's home, walk them
through a presentation that offers them an optional package that includes all
the latest and greatest parts and products. This is called an upsell because
you are selling the customer a package that increases the size of that order.
When you offer the customer the option to also get complementary products and
services that accompany the pipe fixing service you offer, that is considered a
cross sell. There have been companies who have increased the average amount of
the order by 50% or more, just by having an upsell and a cross-sell.
            Now,
the downsell is when you have met with a client or prospect and they chosen not
to buy a specific product or service. In this case, you can offer a scaled down
version of the product or service for a cheaper price. This works really well
when you attract customers to your business based on a package of products or
services and as they raise objections, you can begin to strip the package apart
and offer single items or services for a reduced price.             These
strategies have been proven to work for thousands of companies who have chose
to implement these profit building systems. Now, it's time for you to harness
the power of them too.









 
 
CHAPTER 20
 
 
Partnering With Other Businesses That Sell Complementary Products And
Services
 
 
Partnering with other  businesses
to promote your business is a joint venture strategy that few business owners
ever consider. It's probably because this joint venture strategy will require
you to be really confident and comfortable in your own business. Otherwise, it
might seem like you are risking losing your customers to another business, but
that is not true. The key to this strategy is partnering with companies that
don't sell the same types of products or services that you sell. Now, just to
be clear about this strategy; you will not be exchanging the addresses of your
customers with other businesses, you will be creating a in-business voucher or
referral program that other businesses will give out to their customers or
prospects.
            When
you partner with other businesses who sell complementary products and services
to the same target market that you do, it allows you to gain access to your
joint venture partner's customers who may be in the market for products or
services you sell. For example, if you are an accountant who finds that working
with business owners is your most profitable niche, then you should look to
partner with financial advisors, consultants and marketing firms because they
also work with business owners. Now, when I say partner with these other
businesses, what I mean is to work out a mutually beneficial relationship with
them.  For example, you could host
an informative workshop together and both of you send out a mailer to your list
of past customers and both of you share the costs of the mailer and event
location.
            If
you are having a problem coming up with some potential joint venture partners,
here are a few questions to get the ball rolling:
 

What
     other business or services sell related services to your customers?
What
     other related products or services do your customers need that you don't
     have the ability to sell them?
What
     friends or family members do you know that own a business?
What
     are some local businesses that you would really like to help succeed?










 
 
CHAPTER 21
 
 
Profitable Partnerships:
Partner With Your Customers
 
 
Out of all the joint
venture strategies I 
know, the most important one is the one that includes your
customers. Many companies call this a referral strategy, but I think of it as a
referral strategy and a joint venture strategy. See, if you are rewarding your
customer with the right incentives, they will work their asses
off for your success. 
     The best joint venture
strategy I've seen with customers involved is the "referral bucks" program.
With this program you reward your past customers with "business bucks" for
referring someone who purchases over a certain amount in your business and
mentions your customer's name as the referring party. Structuring your program
this way, will mean that your customers will begin to
pre-qualify the friends and people that they refer to you.  
            Using
this powerful strategy you can train your customers to buy from you in certain
pound amounts to qualify for certain rewards.  This allows you to influence your
average purchase amount, which then allows you to increase your profit margins.

            It
always amazes me that more businesses don't do this. It is a great program when
applied correctly. If you want to take it up a notch then send each one of your
customers ten or twenty referral cards. These look like business cards, but
have a blank spot for them to write their name and phone number on. You may
also want to include a special discount coupon on the card, so that their
referral would be sure to give the referring customers' name when visiting your
business. This way you train your customers to always be on the lookout for
referrals, because it actually pays for them to refer people to you. 









PART THREE:
 
Online
& Internet Strategies That Generate Tons Of Prospects And Customers









 
 
CHAPTER 22
 
 
Build
A Website That Actually Generates Sales
 
 
Imagine waking up at
7 am in the morning and already having sold five thousand pounds worth of your
products through your website. Imagine checking your email after breakfast and
finding that you have three appointments that were booked during the night!
That's the feeling you can experience on a daily basis once you create an
effective website for your business. Now, when I say effective website, I am
NOT talking about just having a "pretty brochure" website for your friends and
family members to compliment you on. I'm talking about a website that generates
leads and automatically transforms visitors into buying customers.  
A website
that actually generates money may seem like a far-fetched idea for most business
owners, but it doesn't have to be a fantasy for you. However, you must be
willing to make a few simple changes. For most business owners, therein lies
the problem. See, chances are that you don't have the foggiest idea about what
it takes to turn your basic website into a money maker.
So, in this chapter I will give you some direction on the steps you must take
in order to transform your website expense into a stream of revenue.  
The first
component of a successful website is making sure that your website looks
professional and clearly shows your products, services, prices, specs and
contact phone number and directions to your business. There is nothing more
frustrating than having to search all over to find a phone number or office
address.  If you have a reputable
business, then you should post as much information on your website about your
products and services as possible. 
Secondly,
your website must have a opt-in form to capture your
prospects email address. An opt-in form is simply a place on your website that
asks a website visitor for their email address in exchange for something like a
free report, discount coupon or newsletter subscription.
Third,
your website must have a method to connect with website visitors in a personal
way.  You can use video, audio or a
simple head shot photo on the home page which gives the website visitor a
personalized greeting from you. The video can be recorded with a simple digital
camera and then uploaded to YouTube. Once it's on YouTube, you can then put it
on your website.  If you already
have a website, then you can get your web designer or tech guy to make all of
these specific changes.  
The
fourth change should be making sure you have emails pre-programmed into your
website, which are automatically sent out to prospects who signed up to receive
your lead magnet. By pre-programming your emails to "autorespond",
it appears as if you are following up with every prospect personally.  This will give you the ability to follow
up with your leads automatically for as long as you want.
Don't
make the mistake of allowing a graphic designer to design your website without
the input and guidance of an experienced response focused marketer. Otherwise,
you will have a beautiful website that never makes you a dime.









 
 
CHAPTER 23
 
 
Increasing Sales With 
Pay Per Click
 
 
Most business owners
realize the benefits of online marketing, but many do little to nothing to get
their website in front of prospective customers on a consistent basis.  See, having a website built for your
business and getting your website up and running online is only the first step.
Your website won't make one measly sale, if you are not able to get it in front
of prospective customers who are willing, ready and able to spend money to
purchase your products or services.
There are
dozens of strategies to generate leads and prospects online, but in the next
several chapters, I will cover the most profitable and easy to set up
strategies that I have come across in my many years of internet
marketing.  
One of
the cheapest and quickest strategies to get up and running is the pay per click
strategy. If you haven't heard of pay per click before, then let me give you a
brief overview. 
When you
visit a search engine like Google and type in a word or phrase and click enter,
you will see a page which shows the results of the
search you entered. At the very top of the page are two or three search results
that will be highlighted in a shaded box, and on the far right of the page you
will notice a row of eight to ten ads. The ads at the top and right of the
search results page are ads placed there by companies who pay anywhere from
five pence to five pounds to show up as an advertiser for a specific word.  However, they only pay the fee if a
potential customer clicks on the ad. There is a bidding component to pay per
click, which means that many advertisers are bidding a certain amount to be
near the top of the list of advertisers on the results page.
Using pay
per click is such a powerful strategy that many million pound
companies have been built on the back of this one strategy alone.
However, there are several key components to this which must be in place to
turn it into a money maker for your business.  
 
The keys
to success when using pay per click are:
 

Bid
     in small amounts until you get really good at it.

 

Write
     a compelling ad which attracts the right type of
     prospective customer.

 

Have
     a special website or landing page designed specifically for your pay per
     click campaigns.  Your normal
     website will not cut it in most cases. If you just plug your homepage into
     your pay per click campaign, chances are it will fail.

 

Hire
     an expert pay per click manager if you can't get the hang of it, because
     it can get very expensive very fast.

 









 
 
CHAPTER 24
 
 
Writing and Submitting Informative & Educational Articles Online
 
 
When customers begin
shopping for a new product or service, they often start by finding as much
information as possible about providers and the quality of local  businesses. The number one goal
of most customers is to find products or services of decent quality in a price
range that they can afford. The only way to locate these products and service
providers is to do the research online before purchasing. 
            To
make a good impression on the prospect that is doing their homework, you have
to make sure that you are putting your business information in a place where
potential customers will easily find it. There is no better way to do this than
by writing informative and educational articles and having them posted on
websites where your target prospects are likely to be searching or hanging out.
            Writing
and submitting articles to online directories and blogs allows you to really
control the flow of information about your products and services in your local
market.  I have had tremendous
success using short articles containing about four to five hundred words to
generate leads and customers. You don't have to be the next Tom Clancy or
Stephen King in order to get prospects to read your articles.  All you have to do is write a short
couple of paragraphs about a particular collection, promotion or sale that you
currently are advertising.   
            The
subject of the articles should be educational but also slightly entertaining.
The last thing you want to be is boring and sounding like you are writing a
user manual.  Consumers will want to
know that your products, services and business will be of a good quality, but
they also like to work with businesses that are fun, exciting and helpful.
            If
you are a pretty good writer, you can write your own articles, however, I
strongly suggest hiring a freelance writer to submit one or two articles per
week on your behalf to the top ten or twenty online directories in your
marketplace.  
            Writing
and submitting articles online can also help to boost your rankings in the
popular search engines. These sites will start seeing you as an authority, and
will give your website higher priority when a prospect types in a keyword.
Giving you a better chance to you to show up as one of the first ten choices in
your target market. 









 
 
CHAPTER 25
 
 
Guarantee That Prospects Find You Online And Not Your
Competitors
 
 
Most of the time,
having a beautiful website that highlights your products, services, office and
staff is a wonderful and necessary marketing tool. However, you will never make
a single penny from your website if prospective customers cannot find you
online. 
Every
business owners I consult with knows that he needs a website, but virtually
none know how to guarantee that their prospective customers find their website
before finding their competitors. 
Having a
general idea about how search engines work is the first step in making sure
prospects can find you. Search engines like Google, Yahoo and Bing, compile
tons of data and information and make sifting through it all manageable by
organizing it by order of importance to the "keyword" you typed into your
browser. For example, if you type in "pizza restaurants in London" into your
search engine, then you will get the most relevant pizza restaurants in London,
that your search engine feels ranks most closely to what you typed in. That's
why you want your website and the pages on your website to match as closely to
the relevant terms for your target market as possible.  
Understanding
how prospects search online is the second thing you must start to understand.
For example, if a customer is looking for a plumber who specializes in working
with gold plated piping, then you need to have a webpage on your website that
is especially designed for those type of customers. The simplest way to think
of this concept is by focusing on "buyer keywords." 
Buyer
keywords are words that prospects type into the search engine to find places to
buy the product or service they are looking for. For example, if you were a
furniture store owner, who do you think is a more
serious prospect: the customer who types in "sofa bed sales this bank holiday
weekend," or the customer who types in "sofa bed"? So, if you had to choose
between creating a webpage for generic sofabeds or
designing a specific webpage for sofa bed sales this bank holiday weekend,
which one should you choose?









 
 
CHAPTER 26
 
 
Advertise Your Website URL On Everything In Your Business
 
 
Promoting the heck
out of your website is one very effective but underrated online strategy that
can have a dramatic impact on your bottom line.  As I already established in early
chapters, just having a website and putting it online is not enough to get money
in your bank account. Many business owners are under the false impression that
a website will be the savior of their business. This couldn't be further from
the truth.  
In
today's technologically advanced culture, having a website is simply mandatory.
In fact, you are viewed as a dinosaur if you do not have website. From a
customer's perspective, having a website is not seen as a huge advantage. From
a customer's perspective every business should have a website.  
It's best
to view your website as a separate tool that you can use to generate sales,
instead of viewing it as the answer to all your woes. After all, it's not the
website that sets you apart; it is about your USP and your ability to
consistently attract customers to your website. Once you get prospects to your
site, your next job is to compel your customer to open their wallet, take out
their credit card and purchase from you. 

Your
website address should be advertised on your business cards, sales invoices,
windows, business signage, and product information spec sheets and anywhere
else you can think of. This strategy works even better if you have a memorable
website address. For example, if you were a mortgage broker, then consider the
following website address: www.guaranteedlowestinterestrate.com.  That would at least catch your attention
if you saw it and you were in the market for a loan. 
The
important key is to remember that your website does nothing for you unless you
get visitors to it and then are able to convert them into buyers.









 
 
CHAPTER 27
 
 
Listing Your Business In 
Highly Visible Online Directories
 
 
Have you ever been
searching for a product or service online that you felt should have been easy
to find, but were unable to find it? How did that make you feel? You probably
felt frustrated and maybe even gave up and changed your mind on using the
product or service. Well, that's exactly the feeling that you want your
prospects to avoid. One of the ways to make sure that this doesn't happen is to
make sure your business is listed on every possible online directory. 
            In
order to understand the importance of listing your business in all relevant
online business directories, you first need to understand how customers may
find your business online. See, over the last couple of years, small business
owners have been told that prospects no longer use the physical phone book or
yellow pages to locate businesses. 
However, there are some prospects that still check the phone book when
looking for certain types of businesses. 
The same
rule applies when prospects are searching online. While Google, Yahoo and Bing
control over 75% of the search engine market, millions of prospect still use
online business directories like Yelp, Super Yellow Pages and various other
online directories to find consumer friendly business with a track record of
quality and high levels of customer service. In order to find a comprehensive
list of online business directories, visit your preferred search engine and
type in the keyword "online business directories."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 28
 
 
The Proven Power Of 
Email Marketing
 
 
Over the past several
years, having a website has become the standard expectation of successful s
business. Most business owners have either purchased a website or have a simple
webpage that directs visitors to their business. However, less than one percent
of small to medium businesses utilize effective email marketing campaigns to
give customers incentives to purchase from their businesses after their initial
visit to the website or showroom. Neglecting to implement an effective email
marketing campaign is the same as leaving thousands of pounds lying around on
the ground each month.
Since
I've began helping business owners increase their sales and profits, I have
discovered the reason why so many business owners miss out on the easy profits
from their website. The number one reason is because most business owners do
not actually get their prospects or customers email address. If you never have
the email address then you cannot possibly use it to market to your prospects
and past customers.  
The
foundation to an effective email marketing campaign, a creating an enticing
piece of bait that customers will get in exchange for giving you their email
address. For example, if you were an accountant, your "email bait" could be a
coupon, rewards program or a simple informative report titled, "7 Insider
Strategies to Hiring An Accountant" or a similar title.  In order to capture the email address
you can use a service that I recommend by visiting www.aweber.com
            Once
you have the email address you can then send out emails about sales, promotions
or informative. However, don't just send out emails begging prospects or
customers to buy. Your emails must be fun, educational and timely. 









 
 
CHAPTER 29
 
 
Creating A Weekly Or
Monthly 
Online Newsletter
 
If you truly want to
explode the sales in your business, then get out of the salesman mentality and
get into the relationship building mentality.             When
you began to see your prospects and customers as people who can become your
friends and extended family, you will treat them differently. Many times over
the years I have seen customers become irate and cancel orders simply because
the salesperson treated them with a cold detached manner, instead of talking to
them as a friend. Building relationships with your customers has to be your
number one priority if you want to create customers for life.
One of
the ways in which you can build a relationship with your prospects and
customers is by sending out fun, education and entertaining email newsletters
once per week/month/quarter. At a minimum you should send out an email
newsletters once a quarter to your past customers and
once a month to your prospects that you've collected email addresses from.  
It is
very important that the content of your newsletter be natural and not too well
polished. The reality is, the more down to earth and simple your newsletter is,
the more customers will be able to relate to you through it.  In fact, the last thing you want to do
is create a slick looking newsletter that uses words, phrases and pictures that
are nothing like what you would actually say or do. Remember, this is about
building a relationship with you and your business. It's not about putting out
the most professional newsletter on the planet.  
The
content of your newsletter should include pictures of you and your staff. You
should also include pictures of your customers having fun or purchasing in your
business.  It is also a good idea to
include a contest or promotion which rewards customers
for reading or interacting with it. 
You want
the newsletter to be laid back and not just industry jargon and talk. Most of
your customers don't know industry jargon and don't care about it, but they do
care about their pets, gardening and recipes. As silly as it sounds, you want
your newsletter to be written for the normal guy and gal. Of course, you want
to put in a section promoting your products and services too, but that should be
a small percentage of your newsletter.









PART FOUR:
 
Publicity
Strategies That Generate Huge Profits At Little To No Cost









 
 
CHAPTER 30
 
 
Writing Articles For
Magazines 
and Newspapers
 
 
The perfect marketing
plan should include both paid advertising strategies and free publicity
strategies. In fact, free publicity marketing strategies are much more
effective in promoting your business than 99% of paid marketing strategies.
However, you need both strategies in order to provide a constant stream of growth
and sales.  
            One
of the best methods you can use to generate tons of free publicity for your
business without coming across as a pushy salesperson, is writing articles for
local newspapers or magazines. This strategy can pay huge dividends especially
when you become as the "go-to" expert for a publication that your target market
reads on a regular basis.  
            Writing
articles for magazines and newspapers not only gets you recognition from your target
market, but also helps you become a magnet for other free publicity
opportunities. It is a great feeling to have prospects visit your business and
buy from you because you are the expert in your area. That
feeling is a lot different than having people shop for prices all over town,
visit your business and receive excellent service from you, but then go
and buy from somewhere else because the other business was ten pence cheaper.
The best way to avoid being shopped to death is to become the obvious go-to
expert for your niche.
            The
reason why writing articles for magazines and newspapers works so well is
because we are all taught from a young age to believe what the newspapers tell
us. The majority of people in our culture believe news stories as if they are
the gospel. When you become part of the experts that the newspapers and
magazines rely on for their information, then you become known as the expert.
Your customers will begin to believe everything you tell them as factual and
truthful instead of questioning your every little move and decision.    
            The
best way to get your articles included in a newspaper or magazine is to write
three to twelve articles and have them professionally edited. You can then
contact your local newspaper or target magazines and offer to be a guest writer
or offer your articles for inclusion in their publication.









 
 
CHAPTER 31
 
 
Using Press Releases To 
Quickly Generate Sales
 
 
Writing press
releases is the quickest and easiest way to get local and national media
outlets to notice and promote your business.  Unfortunately, most business owners only
think about using a press release with a grand opening.  However, you should be sending out a
press release at least once or twice a month, but only if you have a marketing
plan that includes professionally prepared press releases
which are informative, educational and entertaining.  
By this
point, you may be asking yourself why local and nation media would be
interested in your business. Well, the truth of the matter is that radio,
newspaper and television stations all need news stories on a regular
basis.  Media outlets must have
enough news to fill their air time and pages. Without
stories to talk about newspapers, magazines and news reports become very boring
very quickly.  
If you
implement a regular press release campaign in your business, you will begin to
get offers to be featured in your local media. Over time you will become a
local celebrity in your target market, and that will allow you to attract
prospects to your business because they want to be associated with a celebrity
who is successful.  
Just like
with many of the other strategies, your press release strategy can only work
effectively if hire a marketing-minded writer or become a good marketing-minded
writer who knows how to write in a way that compels prospects to actually take
the necessary action and visit your business. Do not make the mistake of
thinking that any press release will be good enough. You must either learn the
skill of copywriting or hire a professional copywriter to create compelling
press releases that get picked up and used by the local media.









 
 
CHAPTER 32
 
Run Your Sales & 
Promotions Around Holidays 
 
 
One of the oldest
marketing tricks in the book is to design your marketing campaigns around
holiday promotions. Yet, most small to medium business do very few strategic
marketing campaigns to make the most of the holiday sale tradition in the
marketplace. The fact that many businesses do not take advantage of this trend
means they leave hundreds of thousands of pounds in profit on the table each
and every year.  
The first
step you must make before you even consider maximizing this strategy is to
create a marketing calendar.  Once
you have created a marketing calendar you will have a blueprint to follow each
month. Each and every month you should have sale or promotion
which is fueled by free publicity strategies and paid advertising
strategies.  
After you
have completed your first step of establishing a twelve month
marketing plan, your next step is to plan out exactly what the sale offer will
be.  Some sales should be percentage
discounts, but some sales should be packages with something given for free in
exchange for making a purchase.  
The last
and final step is to remember to set up a marketing campaign consisting of
several methods of communicating with your prospects.  For example, you can send out postcards,
letters, emails and pre-recorded phone messages. Most times it takes contacting
a customer several times via different media before they can actually make a
buying decision. 









 
 
CHAPTER 33
 
Write A Book That Positions You As The Go-To Expert In Your Niche
 
 
One of the little
known hidden secrets of building a business that is recession proof, is establishing yourself as the go-to expert for your
market.  One of the best ways I know
to accomplish this is by writing a book especially for your target market.  
Every
business owner loves to find the easy customer who is ready to buy the instant
they walk through the door. However, the large majority of customers need days
and weeks of gathering information before they make a decision. If you can find
a way to become a part of your prospects decision making
process when they are searching for information, you will become the expert
they learn to rely on. Once you become their familiar expert, the price
haggling stops and prospects call or come into your business ready to purchase.
One of
the fastest ways to build instant credibility with your target market is to
write a book. Writing a book to educate and help your target market,
automatically gives you a huge advantage over your competitors. While your
competitors are wasting thousands of pounds on useless newspaper, radio and
television ads that are no longer effective, you will be quietly building
yourself a loyal following of premium customers.  Prospects, who actually care about
reputable businesses and well-known owners, are the kind of quality buyers you
can build your business on.  
Writing a
book also has many other side benefits, just like many of the other strategies
I've revealed to you.  For starters,
local media outlets love business owners who publish books and educational
materials for the local market. Secondly, you also gain the fame and celebrity
status in your marketplace which brings other opportunities because you have
done something that most other business owners refuse to invest the time to do.
When it
comes down to actually writing your book, you can hire a ghostwriter to write a
two hundred page book or you can spend a couple of months writing it yourself.
A ghostwriter is a writer who is hired to write your book for you, but still
gives you exclusive rights to say that you are the author. In my opinion, you
are better off hiring a ghostwriter who knows your industry to write your book,
because you can reap the benefits of being a published author in a matter of
weeks instead of waiting months or years while you personally write it.  Once your book is written, you can then
self-publish it using any number of online services which provide that option.









PART FIVE: 
 
Paid
Advertising Strategies With Potential For Great Returns On Your Investment 
 









 
CHAPTER 34
 
 
Old Faithful: Profitable
Newspaper Advertising
 
 
With the invention of
the internet, 
businesses who invest in newspaper advertising has taken a huge
nosedive. However, when done correctly, newspaper advertising can be very
profitable for small businesses. There are still millions of people who
faithfully read the newspaper and continue to be exposed to ads every day of
the week. In the advertising age which we live in, your marketing message must
be much more appealing to generate the type of buzz that could have been
generated ten years ago with the same type of ad.  
The
caveat with advertising in the newspaper for most businesses is the inability
of advertisers to create ads which actually attract the
target prospect and compels them to take action.  When you are spending thousands of
pounds per month on advertising in local newspapers, you need to make sure that
your target market is not only seeing your ads, but also responding by coming
into your business and purchasing.
Writing
and creating newspaper ads requires the skill of an experienced marketer and
writer. Sadly, if you think that the ad representative from the newspaper, who
receives a commission from selling you the advertising space, is the best
person to design and create your newspaper marketing campaign, you are in for a
long and expensive ride. If you remember nothing else I have written in this
book, remember to hire an experienced direct response
marketing writer and marketing expert to create ALL of your ads, emails
and marketing materials.  
The ads
you place in your local newspaper should have a headline and content which
cause your ideal prospects to immediately grab the phone, visit a website, rush
into your business and sign-up for your marketing list or purchase your product
or service.  If you are running ads
and you are seeing little to no action, then you are not creating ads which resonate with your target market.  









 
 
CHAPTER 35
 
 
How To Create Profitable 
Radio Commercials
 
 
When done correctly,
radio commercials can have a tremendous profitable impact on your business.
However, very similar to newspaper advertising, there is a skill required to
create ads and promotional offers which coax prospects to your website or into
your business to make buying decisions. 

One of
the biggest benefits of radio advertising is your ability to select a really
targeted group of prospects and focus on attracting them to your business. With
radio, you have a chance to make a personal connection with your prospects by
using your voice. Prospects will hear your voice and marketing message and can
determine for themselves if you sound warm and inviting or cold and forceful
like a pushy salesman.
Writing
and recording radio commercials that generate profits is much like creating any
other type of marketing campaign. In fact, you should design your radio
commercial by using your existing successful ads which
you are using in other parts of your business and use those advertising pieces
to provide your content for speaking. If you have done your job correctly, your
marketing message and USP should be identical.    
One of
the drawbacks of using radio is the restriction on the length of your
advertising space. In most cases you will be dealing with fifteen or thirty
seconds spots. Shorter advertising spaces mean that your marketing message will
have to be clear and to the point. Additionally, you should absolutely use a
different website or phone number to track your incoming calls from each and
every radio station you are investing in for your business.
A great
way to get your USP in your ad over and over again is to build it into your
phone number and website address that your promoting
For
example if you are an accountant you might close your advert with "call us for free on 01543-Pay-No-Tax
or visit us online at www.paylesstaxes.com." You see how I got the
USP in there two more times as part of the close.









 
 
CHAPTER 36
 
 
Advertising In Your Local 
Coupon Booklet
 
 
When it comes to
inexpensive marketing ideas with potential for maximum profits, advertising in
local coupon booklets is near the top of the list. Door dropped voucher book
have the ability to generate tremendous response because prospects are already
looking through the book because they want a bargain. Therefore, placing your
advertisements in the book puts your products and services directly in the path
of potential buyers. 
            When
advertising in coupon booklets, testing revealed that the most effective
strategy requires that you create an actual coupon for your prospects. Many
times when browsing through these book I see advertisers who have nice little
ads, but neglect to include a cut out voucher / coupon for customers to bring
into their business for the discount. When you include a coupon with your
advertising you are better able to track your results to know which voucher
gave you the best return on your investment. You may also want to consider a
special website or webpage just for these prospects. Having a special page
online also allows you to know the impact your marketing efforts are having in
driving traffic to your website.  

            Knowing
and truly understanding your target market pays huge dividends when it comes to
creating an ad for these types of booklets. One of the biggest challenges for
businesses, who advertise in them, is the lack of
physical space on the page. However, this doesn't have to be a thorn in your
side, if you know what you target market really desires.  In fact, it makes it easier to create
ads. With the proper information in your hand, you can create headlines and promotions which specifically motivate your target market to
take immediate action.   









 
 
CHAPTER 37
 
 
The True Power of Posters,

Leaflets and Flyer Inserts
 
 
Sometimes the
simplest things can lead to extraordinary success. That's the best way to
describe the positive effect that a properly prepared marketing campaign which
includes posters, leaflets and flyers, can have on your business.  
In most neighbourhoods and communities there are spaces reserved in
highly visible areas, which allow flyers and posters to notify residents of
upcoming local events. Infact my very first client
was obtained using a poster on one of these boards.
You could
use posters on the front of your business windows to drive traffic to your
website or into your business. However the overall success of your poster,
leaflet and flyer campaign will be dependent on your ability to create an
irresistible offer. The promotional offer you create must have more than just
discounts. You should also consider special packaging or giving away free items
in exchange for prospects purchasing specific pound amounts.  
A
powerful way to use flyers and inserts is to contact your local newspapers and
have them distributed in the weekly freebie newspapers.  This ensures that you reach every
household in a specific area and usually the pricing for this service is very
reasonable.









 
 
CHAPTER 38
 
 
Customized Promotions
& Sales 
For Every Customer
 
 
What if you had the
power to look into your customers mind and pinpoint the exact products and
services they wanted to buy? How much easier would it be to make huge sales in
your business? Well, if you have sold to a customer before, then you already
have a glimpse into their wants and needs and you probably have never even
realized it.  
One of
the most under-appreciated strategies that I commonly see business owners
neglect to implement into their business is the tracking of customer purchases
in order to offer additional pieces. See, if a customer has already purchased
pieces of a specific product line or collection, then you know that 99% of the
time they will be willing to consider adding similar products and services. 
To use
this strategy, you must write orders or generate invoices, which give every
detail about your customer's purchase. For example, you will want to know the
collection name, the exact products or services they purchased, their size,
color and price discounting etc. The best way to use this information is
alongside a computer program that generates your receipts and
track your customer's purchases. 

Once you
have specific information about a customer's purchase, every couple of months
you can create a promotion or ad to generate sales. When you send the ad to
your local print shop to print and mail it for you, request that they
substitute certain portions of the ad with specific information about each
customer. For example, if a customer purchased a specific designer name
product, you would use that designer name on the front of the ad, with a
special coupon for that specific product. This can all be done automatically, so don't pull a brain muscle trying to figure
out how to do this on your own. This strategy can be extremely profitable once
it's executed properly. 









 
 
CHAPTER 39
 
 
Maximum Profits With 
Magazine Advertising
 
 
While I'm a huge fan
of free publicity strategies, you must have a balanced marketing plan.
Advertising in local magazines is not only an effective marketing strategy, but
you will be better able to predict your leads, customers and overall return on
investment consistently when using paid advertising strategies like this one.
This is especially true when you have a proven ad that can bring you consistent
results. When you are investing in magazine advertising, you should only be
using ads that are proven winners for your business. Advertising space in
magazines is usually more expensive than advertising in newspapers, so you need
to have a pretty good idea that your promotion is effective and has the ability
to get you results before you invest the money in this strategy.  
There are
some tricks to creating effective magazine ads, but the principles
which govern successful advertising still apply. You will need a headline which draws attention from your target market and
presents a compelling benefit or reason for the prospect to continue reading
the rest of your ad. 
When you
get into investing larger amounts into your advertising, the tracking system
that you use becomes even more important, because you will want to instantly
know the return on your investment. Keep in mind that your tracking system can
be as simple as a voucher that the customer has to bring into your business or
a special website which they can use to purchase the product online.
When
advertising in magazines, be prepared to spend a few extra pounds on top-notch
design work.  Magazines tend to be
sticklers about the level of professionalism they want to communicate to their
readers and subscribers. 









PART EIGHT: 
 
BONUS:
High-Powered 
Advanced
Marketing Strategies
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 









 
 
CHAPTER 40
 
 
Be A Radio Show Guest 
On Local Stations
 
 
An effective strategy which attracts customers by the carloads is to
become a local celebrity. One of the fastest ways to become well known in a
marketplace is to be everywhere your target market hangs out or shops. One of
the ways to build your celebrity status is to become a regular guest on the
local radio circuit. Very few business owners have ever considered being a radio
guest as a way to connect with their prospects and customers while growing
their business.  
The
reason why being a radio show guest is so effective is because radio show hosts
have already taken the time to build relationships with their listeners and you
can piggy back off of their success. 
The truth of the matter is that every radio station needs guests to fill
their airtime for their audience. 
The first
step in this process is to figure out the radio programs that your prospects
listen to on a regular basis. You can accomplish this by asking your customers
and prospects on a survey form on your website or in your business. You can
reward them for providing the information by giving them a voucher for a
discount.
Once you
have that information, you should begin to listen to those specific radio
stations for at least a week or more. Listening to the station will provide you
with the general flow and outline of the best programming on that station.
After you get a good feel for a station, you can then begin to come up with an
interesting angle or story hook to get their attention.  
When you
have your story angle or hook, you can then hire a writer to write a press
release around your idea.  You can
hire pretty good writers from websites like elance.com or Getafreelancer.com.
The writer should also be able to send your press releases to your target radio
shows at least once or twice each month for a monthly retainer fee. Your press
release will give the radio station your contact information and story idea. If
the radio station chooses your story they will contact you for more
information. Of course, your ultimate goal is to be invited to be a guest for
one of their shows.  
Being a
radio show guest does require some skills which you
will have to develop in order to be a good guest. For example, you must be
entertaining, educational and quick on your feet. It's very much like working
with a customer in your office or business, except that you will be speaking
into microphone. There are several programs online which instruct you on how to
be a radio show guest, so you may want to invest in one of these before
implementing this strategy into your business.









 
 
CHAPTER 41
 
 
Guest
Blogger On Local 
Blogs & Websites
 
Being a guest blogger
on other local blogs and 
industry websites is one of the more advanced and effective
online strategies. This is one step away from being a true joint venture
strategy, but it is equally as effective when done properly. In fairness, this
strategy does require that you be a decent writer and have the ability to
"write on demand". 
The huge
benefit of this strategy is your implied positioning as the go-to expert to
your target market, simply because you are the author of an informative and
educational blog posting. In order to accomplish this goal, you must partner
with blogs and websites which cater to your target
market.  
The best
way to discover who your target market really is to
review your previous customer invoices, order or feedback forms and compile the
information into a spreadsheet. Once you have it into a
easily understandable format, you can analyze the data to see specific patterns
and trends.   
Your next
step is to find customers, friends or family members who match the same target
demographic as your past customers. Ask them for
recommendations of websites and blogs which they frequently visit. You may get
lucky and be able to be a featured guest blogger on one of the sites they
mention or you may have to find similar websites in your local target market.
In either case, your business will greatly benefit from you being viewed as a
source of credible information about your products and services.
Once you
find websites or blogs that match your target market, there are several ways to
contact the blog authors and owners. The first method is a little more
stealthy, but basically you just post comments on their blog for a couple of
weeks and then email them to let them know that you have written a couple of
articles which would make a very good blog posting for a specific niche. It's
important that you don't come across as a salesperson for your business or a
specific product, but as an author who is willing to provide some informative
blog postings for their blog audience.
The
second way to contact blog authors and owners is to email them and ask
directly. You will have to email them a copy of your articles that you have
written or have paid to have written for you. Once
they see that you are serious about giving them good information to post on
their blogs, you will have a better chance of becoming a regular guest blogger.









 
 
CHAPTER 42
 
 
Start
Your Own Blog
 
 
Most  business owners are content to simply
have a nice website, but super-successful small to medium businesses may want
an extra something special for their online stratergy.
That's why having a blog becomes more of a necessity.
A blog is
a website that allows you to add text, video or pictures instantly without
needing to know computer coding or hiring tech guys to reprogram your
website.  Websites like
Wordpress.com and Blogger.com will give you a free blog and will walk you
through the setup process.
One of
the great features of having a blog is your ability to post regular content
online, communicating with your target market without expensive advertising or
marketing costs.  Blogs also have a feature which allows your visitors to post comments and
text, videos or pictures of their own. This allows you to build a relationship
of communication with your target market. Of course, this comes with some risk.
If you have a prospect or customer who is not happy with your company, product
or service, then your blog may serve as a most convenient place for them to
voice all of their disapproval.
            However,
the best benefit of having a blog is the ability to plug into other popular
social media websites which are heavily visited by
internet users in every target market in the world. You get this part right and
you have the potential for your content to go viral.The success of most strategies such as this
one, hinge on your ability to know your target market and create content,
products and services which will entice your ideal customer to visit your blog
and ultimately, choose your business for their product or service.









 
 
CHAPTER 43
 
 
Start
Your Own Internet 
Radio Show
 
 
Admittedly, this is
an advanced strategy, but if you have the willingness to learn new things, then
you can implement this into your business and make huge profits from the
fame.  
While
advertising on the radio can be profitable, it can become extremely expensive
if you try to increase your marketing campaign too quickly. There is a way to
avoid those costs altogether, and become famous too. For the smart business
owner, the future of free publicity strategies is internet
radio shows. This may come as a total shock to you, but there are internet radio websites which allow you to start your own
internet radio show for free. Websites like Blogtalkradio.com and Shoutcast.com
allow anyone who has a computer and microphone to create their own radio show.
This means you can become an overnight star if you have the talent and ability
to put together a program and event on a fairly consistent basis.
            The
benefit of starting your own internet radio show is that you do not have to pay
for air-time and you can create and air a show as often as you like. You also
benefit because you are the one calling the shots and writing the content for
your show. This means that you can make it as commercial as you like, unlike
some of the free publicity strategies. 

            When
creating your own radio show, you can schedule the programming to be as long or
as short as you see fit. For example, you can create a one
hour show which airs once per week or more. You can also script the show
to include guest speakers or just simply build it around your business.
However, it is in your best interest to create a show that is informative and
entertaining because prospects always trying to escape the dull, boring hum of
everyday life. If your show can provide that entertainment, then your will practically
be guaranteed to succeed. 
The real
worth of this strategy is in your ability to get an audience filled with your
target market. One of the best ways to do this is by posting a link to your
radio show on your own website, social media channels or on the website of your
joint venture partners. 









 
 
CHAPTER 44
 
 
Marketing Your Business with
Online Videos
 
 
Video marketing is
one of the most effective online marketing strategies, but it's also one of the
most advanced strategies for small to medium business owners. The real power of
video marketing is its ability to connect your audience to you emotionally and
visually. When done correctly, video marketing can reach thousands of prospects
in your target market for little to no money out of your pocket.
The video
marketing campaign strategy involves recording one to three minute videos
describing the benefits of your products or services online to hundreds of
prospects everyday, without actually leaving your business.  You can even use a short video to introduce
a specific collection and then have the customers view the remainder of the
information from your website.  The
best thing about video marketing is that you can post your video on popular
websites like Youtube and begin funneling Youtube visitors back to your own website.
While
video marketing will require you to have some basic knowledge of camera's and
computer software, the benefits far outweigh the learning curve.  In fact, you can spend as little as two
or three hours getting familiar with the equipment and then begin profiting
from this strategy.  In my opinion,
the best type of video recorder for newbie's is the flip video recorder, which
costs less than one hundred pounds, and shoots pretty decent footage. You can
then record yourself presenting a specific product and give your prospects a
live tour of the collection. 
A good
starting point for video content is to film yourself answering the top ten most
frequently asked questions from your customers. Chances are your customers will
be searching for these sorts of answers online and by using video to answer
them you can quickly an easily connect and build relationships with potential
customers that need your help.









Further Recommended Reading
 
"Scientific
Advertising"
-by Claude Hopkins
 
"The
Robert Collier Letter Book"
-by Robert Collier
 
"Tested
Advertising Methods"
-by John Caples
 
"How
To Write A Good Advertisement"
-by Vic Schwab
 
"The
Gary Halbert Letter" (all back issues)
-by Gary Halbert
 
"The
Boron Letters"
-by Gary Halbert
 
"The
Lazy Man's Way to Riches"
-by Joe Karbo
 
"Break-Through
Advertising"
-by Eugene M. Schwartz
 
"7-Steps
To Freedom"
-by Ben Suarez








 
"Claim Your FREE Strategy Session  To Uncover Marketing Assets
Currently Within Your Business That Are Not Being Maximized And Could Easily
Increase Your Sales By 25% - 100% In 90 Days Or Less Without Spending More
Money On Advertising!" 

(£497
Value)
 
Details
revealed below...
 
Charlie Hutton, author and dynamic marketing
consultant, is offering a FREE
incredible opportunity for you to improve your current marketing and sales
systems without spending more money on advertising. Claim your free strategy session today and discover:

 

How to quickly increase your sales by 25% - 100% in the next 90 days
     without spending more money on advertising!

 

How to guarantee that your business stands head and shoulders above the
     competition, so prospects will be proud and excited to buy from you.

 

The "Hidden Goldmine" in your business and how you can capitalize
     on it and make big profits.

 

Quick, easy and cheap ways to
     advertise your business.

 

How to compel your customers
     to literally line up and beg you to accept their contact information so
     you can follow up with them.

 

Discover secret insider tips and techniques to get your past customers to come back into your business and buy
     from you again and again.

 

Turn your customers into
     raving fans that advertise your business 24/7.

 

Ignite fierce loyalty in
     your customers so that they couldn't even imagine purchasing from your
     competitors.

 

How to create your own lead generation system.

 

Real-life examples of how you can
     create a continual stream of fresh and eager prospects.

 
Special Note: For a limited time only, the first one hundred
businesses who apply online, will get their custom marketing audit for free.
 
Claim Your FREE Strategy Session By Visiting...
        
 
charliehutton.co.uk/strategy-session










About
The Author
 
Charlie
Hutton is
an author, consultant and entrepreneur and has written extensively about the
subjects of marketing and business-building. In his
books, workshops and seminars he teaches business owners how to dramatically
increase leads, prospects and sales while minimizing their marketing expenses. 
 
His perspective is unique
because while he consults regularly with business owners, he also owns, manages
and operates Hutchinson Webdesign and therefore has insights, strategies and
very effective business-building techniques that are significantly different
than the average consultant.
 
Charlie specializes in online
lead generation strategies that aim to increase sale revenues by focusing on
data capture, direct response, and sales-driven copy. If you want marketing
systems that will generate ready-to-buy leads on autopilots then contact Charlie Hutton.
 
Why
not use Charlie Hutton as guest speaker for your next conference or seminar?
 
 
Phone:
            0121
288 4977
 
Email:              charlie@charliehutton.co.uk
  
Website:          www.charliehutton.co.uk
  
                        
 
Here's
What Business Owners Around The World Have To Say About Charlie's Online
Marketing:
 
"Charlie is a Direct Response
Aficionado on steroids" 
-
Mucha / Matrix Global Media
 
"Thanks to Charlie's work and
advice on our website we've been able to double our response and rapidly
increase the number inbound enquiries"
-
Paul Richards / BlackCode
 
"Charlie's our go to man when
ever it comes to trying to get a response from our clients online traffic. The
training he recently delivered was invaluable knowledge for me and the team"
-
Chris Perks / Blue Ethos
 
"Implementing just a few of
Charlie's fantastic tips and techniques has seen a dramatic increase in the
efficiency and efficacy of our online marketing. He is a true guru of his field
and now that we've found him we intend to keep working with him!"
-
Felicity Wingrove / Zen Communication
 
"I recommend Charlie to every
one I know. He's a must have contact in your arsenal when it comes to getting a
response from you online marketing funnels"
-
Oli / MasterTinting
"It has been a pleasure to work
with Charlie over the years with him proving a competent & very reliable
supplier. He has helped with the development of 8 websites and the subsequent
redevelopment of 6 of those websites, countless marketing banners, data capture
& online booking form integration and digital POS whilst all the time
helping to ensure strong call to actions & clear messaging."
-
Andrew Whatson / Spirit Pub Company
 
"That tweak you insisted I made
just made just tripled the leads to our franchisee network. It worked so good
it was scary! Thanks mate!"
-
Peter Finch / BlackCode
 
 "BOOM! what a
great business - That guy Charlie - he knows his stuff - recommend 5 Star"
-
Iain Stamp / Stamp Associates
 
"Charlie is a great lead
generator and a great guy, with a brilliant service and advice" 
-
Angie Price / MazPrint
 
 "Having
attended Charlie's webinar last week on lead capture and how to turn them from cold
to hot was like watching how to turn water into wine, very insightful and
passionate about helping businesses grow, can't wait to work with him."
-
Andrew / All The Pubs
 
 "Excellent advice on lead generation,
fantastic publications with helpful hints and tips on how to outsmart the
competition."
-
Jonathan Andrew / Baswich Business Consultants
 
"Direct positive approach
towards generating more business - a quality service" 
-
Cath Hall / Field Safety Solutions
 
"Charlie's webinars and books
have provided a fantastic amount of knowledge on internet marketing"
-  Mark Hayward / Insight Consultants
 
"Charlie has and provides great
knowledge and if you actually use it and stick to it, it will get you far!"
-
Damian O'Conner / TFMC
 
"Charlie provides straight
forward jargon free advice, that is both useful and informative."
-  Eamonn
O'Conner / Olympic Business Finance
 
"Charlie is knowledgeable,
trustworthy and best of all really fun to work with. If I'm ever stuck on a
project I'm always happy to call on his expertise"
-  James Goldsworthy / Punch Taverns
 
 "Charlie's regular emails either teach
you something new, or remind you of stuff you've forgotten. Absolutely
invaluable!"
-
Annie J / AJ Business Partnership
 
 "I've read Charlie's book on how to
legally murder your opponents online and devised my future online marketing
strategy around the core principles"
-  Steve Hendry / Charterhouse
 
"After working with many
conversion optimisation specialists and so called
'gurus' I can honestly say the rest full well below the standard of Charlie's
work."
-  Oliver Billson / Craoli
















