
















Mac OS X Lion Pocket GuideChris SeiboldEditorDawn MannCopyright © 2011 Chris SeiboldO'Reilly books may be purchased for educational, business, or sales
    promotional use. Online editions are also available for most titles
    (http://my.safaribooksonline.com).
    For more information, contact our corporate/institutional sales
    department: (800) 998-9938 or corporate@oreilly.com.Nutshell Handbook, the Nutshell Handbook logo, and the O'Reilly logo
    are registered trademarks of O'Reilly Media, Inc. Mac OS X Lion
    Pocket Guide, the image of a lion, and related trade dress are
    trademarks of O'Reilly Media, Inc.Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to
    distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those
    designations appear in this book, and O'Reilly Media, Inc., was aware of a
    trademark claim, the designations have been printed in caps or initial
    caps.While every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this
    book, the publisher and author assume no responsibility for errors or
    omissions, or for damages resulting from the use of the information
    contained herein.O'Reilly Media















Preface



OS X was first released to the public over a decade ago as Mac OS X
  Beta (code-named Kodiak). The decade after that introduction saw Mac OS X go
  from an interesting oddity unsuited to daily work to a usable operating
  system (OS) with little third-party support to everything most people want
  out of an operating system and a little more.
Lion is the latest version of OS X, and it offers a stunning number of
  new features. It includes changes as seemingly mundane as resizing windows
  from any edge and those as revolutionary as installing Lion without using
  physical media.
Like your iPhone? Love your iPad? Then you're going to really enjoy
  Lion. Many features in Lion were first found in iOS, the operating system
  that powers the iPhone and iPad. You'll discover Launchpad, a method of
  opening applications very similar to the way you do on an iPhone. And the
  similarities don't stop with launching applications: Launchpad also lets you
  create folders by dragging apps on top of each other, just as you can on
  your iOS device.
But there's a lot more to Lion than just some iOS-inspired features.
  Many applications have new features or, as in the case of Mail, received a
  complete overhaul of the interface and design. You'll also be treated to the
  immersive experience of a bevy of full-screen applications.
The geeky side of Mac users hasn't been forgotten, either. There's a
  new full-screen version of Terminal, better security options, and the
  ability to remotely control another Mac in full-screen so it feels exactly
  like you're sitting in front of the faraway Mac.
You'll also be relieved to know that the cost of all the improvements
  and new features that comprise Lion is unchanged from the price of Snow
  Leopard: $29. Better yet, you don't have to leave your Mac to get it.
  Instead of hitting the Apple Store and picking up a DVD or waiting for a
  copy to be shipped to you, you can get Lion directly from the Mac App Store.
  Yup, Apple's most ambitious OS upgrade since Mac OS changed to OS X is just
  a download away.

Note
This book focuses on what you'd see on screen if you bought a
    brand-new Mac with Lion on it. If you upgrade from Snow Leopard to Lion,
    some things you see may be slightly different, because some settings will
    get transferred over from Snow Leopard. This book tries to point out such
    instances whenever applicable, but you may spot differences not noted
    here.





Conventions Used in This Book



This book uses the following typographical conventions:





Italic




Indicates new terms, URLs, email addresses, filenames, and
          file extensions.




Constant width
        bold




Shows commands or other text that should be typed literally by
          the user.




Constant width italic




Shows text that should be replaced with user-supplied values
          or by values determined by context.







Menu Symbols



With this Pocket Guide, you'll always know which button to press.
      The key labeled "option" is called Option throughout this book. The key
      with the clover symbol (officially called the Place of Interest symbol)
      is represented by ⌘, which looks precisely like the symbol on the
      keyboard.
Apple itself uses some symbols for these keys that you won't see
      on your keyboard. If you click the menu bar, you'll see symbols next to
      some commands that indicate their keyboard shortcuts. For example, if
      you click the Edit menu while running TextEdit, you'll see a long
      sequence of symbols for the "Paste and Match Style" shortcut, as shown
      in Figure 1.









Figure 1. Keyboard shortcuts in TextEdit's Edit menu


From left to right, the symbols to the right of "Paste and Match
      Style" are Option (), Shift (), and Command (the ⌘ described earlier). This
      indicates that you need to hold down the Option, Shift, and ⌘ keys while
      pressing V. In this book, you'll see this written as "Option-Shift-⌘-V"
      instead.
A less commonly used modifier is the Control key, which Apple
      indicates with the  symbol. This book spells it out as "Control." You
      may also encounter , which indicates the Esc key.
The symbol for the Eject button () is the same as the symbol that is silk-screened
      onto most Apple keyboards. The Delete key is symbolized with
      .















Attribution and Permissions



This book is here to help you get your job done. If you reference
    limited parts of it in your work or writings, we appreciate, but don't
    require, attribution. An attribution usually includes the title, author,
    publisher, and ISBN, like so: "Mac OS X Lion Pocket
    Guide, by Chris Seibold (O'Reilly). Copyright 2011 Chris
    Seibold, 978-1-449-31058-5."
If you feel your use of examples or quotations from this book falls
    outside fair use or the permission given above, feel free to contact us at
    permissions@oreilly.com.













Safari® Books Online




Note
Safari Books Online is an on-demand digital library that lets you
      easily search over 7,500 technology and creative reference books and
      videos to find the answers you need quickly.

With a subscription, you can read any page and watch any video from our library online. Read
    books on your cell phone and mobile devices. Access new titles before they
    are available for print, and get exclusive access to manuscripts in
    development and post feedback for
    the authors. Copy and paste code samples, organize your favorites,
    download chapters, bookmark key sections, create notes, print out pages,
    and benefit from tons of other time-saving features.
O'Reilly Media has uploaded this book to the Safari Books Online
    service. To have full digital access to this book and others on similar
    topics from O'Reilly and other publishers, sign up for free at http://my.safaribooksonline.com.













How to Contact Us



Please address comments and questions concerning this book to the
    publisher:


O'Reilly Media, Inc.


1005 Gravenstein Highway North


Sebastopol, CA 95472


800-998-9938 (in the United States or Canada)


707-829-0515 (international or local)


707-829-0104 (fax)


We have a web page for this book, where we list errata, examples,
    and any additional information. You can access this page at:



http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/9781449310585



To comment or ask technical questions about this book, send email
    to:




bookquestions@oreilly.com




For more information about our books, courses, conferences, and
    news, see our website at http://www.oreilly.com.
Find us on Facebook: http://facebook.com/oreilly
Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/oreillymedia
Watch us on YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/oreillymedia













Acknowledgments



I'd like to thank Dawn Mann for turning this into a readable book,
    and Bakari Chavanu for making sure the tech stuff was correct. Thanks to
    Brian Jepson for teaching me so much and Hadley Stern for getting me
    involved in writing books. And finally, thanks to Yen Hong for watching
    Nathaniel while I was banging away at the keyboard.













Chapter 1. What's New in Lion?



Surely there are some people who pine for the days of the Apple II and the command-line interface. For
  those who have moved on from the era of loading programs from cassette tapes
  and floppy disks, Lion is the latest version of Apple's OS X, and it's a
  large step forward from Snow Leopard, which came out in 2009. If you ask someone what
  has changed with Lion, they might tell you "Just about everything," and
  they'd be right. But don't let the changes in Lion scare you—even though
  differences abound, if you want to keep using your Mac the same way you used
  it with an earlier version of OS X, you'll still be able to use Lion without
  any problems.
Once you've used Lion for a few minutes, you'll note that a lot of the
  features that you find different in Lion seem a lot like iOS, the operating system that powers your iPhone and iPad.
  Lion isn't a naked copy of iOS—what works in a finger-driven OS doesn't
  always work in a keyboard- and mouse-driven environment—but the success of the iOS devices
  has clearly had an impact on the Mac side of Apple. Like the iPhone and
  iPad, Lion gives you access to an App Store (devoted to Macs). You also get
  the option of using a screen similar to iOS for launching applications, and
  Mail has become a lot more like the iPhone Mail app.
Those are just a few obvious changes, but there are plenty more. As
  you'd expect, many of the applications and utilities that get installed
  along with OS X have been updated for Lion's coming-out party. There are too
  many enhancements to list quickly, so the rest of this chapter focuses on
  the major differences between Lion and previous versions of OS X. See
  Chapter 6 to learn about
  changes to specific applications, and Chapter 3 to find out about changes specific to the
  Finder and how you control OS X. For now, it's time to see what all the fuss
  is about!




Getting Your Hands on Lion



The first big difference you'll notice between Lion and previous
    versions of OS X is how you acquire a copy. Instead of waiting for a DVD
    in the mail or heading down to your local Apple Store to buy it, you
    download Lion straight from the Mac App Store. Apple calls this "electronic distribution," but it amounts to a more
    convenient way of getting Lion onto your Mac. For info on downloading and
    installing Lion, see Chapter 2.

Note
Actually, you have a couple of other ways of getting Lion, though
      downloading it is the cheapest and fastest method (assuming you have a
      good Internet connection). To learn about your other options, check out
      the Note under Installing Lion.

The lack of physical installation media might be disturbing to some.
    What if you have problems and need to reinstall the OS? What if your hard
    drive needs repair? With no physical media, how can you start your Mac
    from a separate disk? Happily, Apple provides a solution to all those
    problems. When you install Lion, you also install an emergency startup disk that you can use to reinstall Lion,
    launch the utilities found in OS X
    to try to repair any problems you're having, and browse the Internet to
    look for a solution. (If you find yourself in a tough spot, see Chapter 4 for some basic Lion troubleshooting
    techniques.)
And there's even better news about getting Lion from the Mac App Store: you can install it on any authorized Mac that meets the hardware
    requirements! That means you can forget about paying for the family
    pack—paying for Lion once lets you install it on up to five Macs.














A Brand-New Look



Snow Leopard looked a lot like Leopard, which looked a lot
    like Tiger. Each major revision of OS X brought some visual changes, but
    they tended to not be all that noticeable. The look of Lion is the most
    ambitious change in appearance since Apple went from OS 9 to OS X. When
    you see Lion in action, you'll still recognize it as OS X, but you're
    liable to imagine you're looking at some futuristic version of OS X
    available five years from now instead of the current version. A picture's
    worth a thousand words, so check out Figures 1-1
    and 1-2.









Figure 1-1. A Mac running Snow Leopard











Figure 1-2. The new look of Lion


Some things jump out at you right away: The buttons look different
    and you seemingly can't scroll around in a page anymore, because the
    scroll bars are gone. Actually, the scroll bars are still
    around, but they only show up when you need them (if you don't like this
    behavior, you can change it; see Chapter 5).
Those are the most obvious visual differences, but you'll find other
    changes as you acquaint yourself with Lion. Don't be overly concerned with
    the differences—as new as everything looks, if you've used a previous
    version of OS X, you'll be able to get around in Lion with minimal
    effort.




Resize from Any Edge



In previous versions of OS X, windows usually had resize
      handles in their lower-right corners. In Lion, those handles are gone
      and you can change a window's size from any edge. To pull this trick
      off, hover your cursor over the edge of a window and the cursor will
      change to a double-headed arrow; simply drag to resize the
      window.

Note
You'll still see the occasional resize handle in programs like
        Microsoft Word, for example. Don't worry: you can still
        resize such program windows by dragging any edge, though the resize
        handle works, too.

If you're used to moving windows by grabbing an edge and dragging, that
      won't work in Lion—you'll simply resize the window. You'll have to
      adjust your habits and click inside the window to drag it.














Full-Screen Applications



Ever longed for a more immersive Web-browsing experience, or
    wished that iCal would take over every pixel of screen space? At first,
    such longings may sound silly, but having Safari fill your screen when
    you're reading a longish Wikipedia entry is
    great, and working in iCal using the entire screen is fantastic
    when you are using its new heat map feature (see the section on iCal).
Not every application has a Full Screen mode, but it's easy to
    figure out which ones can suck up all your screen real estate: look for
    the double arrows in the upper-right corner of the program's window (Figure 1-3).









Figure 1-3. Clicking the double arrows tells the app to take over your
      screen


Once the application is in Full Screen mode, you can do whatever you
    wish, free from the distractions of your desktop and other programs. When
    you're using that application, move your cursor to the top of the screen
    and the menu bar will reappear. Click the blue arrows on the right
    end of the menu bar to return the program to a regular window.
You may be thinking that full-screen applications
    seem like a great idea, but that they might be a
    little too much work when you need to use another program or get back to
    the desktop. Don't worry, there are plenty of easy ways to get out of a
    full-screen application. You can switch programs with the Option-Tab key combo, hit the Esc
    key to exit Full Screen mode, or invoke the new and very cool Mission
    Control.

Note
If you use multiple monitors, you might be hoping for a world where
      you can run one application in Full Screen mode while doing something
      else on the other monitor. Sadly, you're out of luck: launching a
      full-screen application in Lion renders the second monitor
      useless—unless your goal is to
      look at a static, gray linen screen.














Mission Control



Mission Control replaces Exposé, and you're going to love it. In a nutshell, Mission
    Control is a window-management application. But that description, while
    accurate, is far too terse. OS X Lion features Spaces (virtual desktops
    for your different workflow needs; Spaces has details),
    Dashboard for the information that you want quick access to (see The Dashboard), full-screen applications, and the regular
    windowed applications you know and love. That's four distinctly different
    ways of interacting with your Mac.
Switching between a full-screen application and the desktop would be
    cumbersome. Mission Control takes care of that: instead of forcing you to
    click and hunt for minimized windows, Mission Control puts everything
    going on on your Mac into one easy-to-navigate window. For example, if you
    happen to be writing a book, launching Mission Control might reveal a
    monitor that looks like Figure 1-4.








Figure 1-4. It's all right in front of you!

You use Mission Control by either pressing F3 (on most keyboards) or
    swiping up with three fingers on your trackpad (you can
    adjust this in the Mission Control preference pane; see Mission Control). When you invoke Mission Control, you
    see Dashboard, your desktop, Spaces, and any open full-screen apps across
    the top. Normal application windows appear in the center of the screen
    (grouped by application), and the Dock is wherever you left it.
Once Mission Control is active, you can add desktop spaces by dragging a window to the upper-right
    corner of your screen (a + sign will appear). If you want to add an empty
    desktop space, move your cursor to that same corner and click the +. To
    delete a space, put your cursor over it and click the × that
    appears.
Once you decide where you want to go (that pesky game of Angry Birds
    or the book you're writing, say), just click the window you want to jump
    to. Swipes also work if you're using a trackpad: a quick swipe
    to the left or right will switch between applications.













Launchpad



Got an iOS device? If so, Launchpad will seem very familiar;
    it behaves just like the screen on your iPhone or iPad. For the
    uninitiated, here's how it works: when you launch Launchpad (by clicking
    the rocket ship icon in your Dock), your screen fades away and all your
    applications appear in icon form (Figure 1-5). Launch any one
    with a single click.









Figure 1-5. It's like you're staring at a giant iPhone


If the only thing you have installed on your Mac is Lion, all your
    applications' icons will fit on a single screen. If you've added
    applications, you'll need more than a single screen to hold them all.
    Navigating between screens is easy: just two-finger swipe left or right on
    the trackpad or with a capable mouse to move from page to page.
The application icons are grouped automatically. If you aren't
    happy with the results, just click an icon, hold your mouse button until
    all the icons start wiggling, and then drag the icon where you want it to
    live. (Click any empty spot on the screen to make the icons stop
    wiggling.) Too many pages of icons? You can create folders in Launchpad. Simply drag one icon on top of another
    and Launchpad creates a folder containing those applications and gives it
    a name (Figure 1-6). If Lion chooses a poor
    name for your folder or you just want a snappier one, click the folder to
    open it and then click the name of the folder. Lion will highlight the
    name and you'll be able to change it to one of your choosing. To
    delete a folder, open it and then drag the program icons out
    of it; once there's only a single icon in the folder, the folder
    disappears.









Figure 1-6. A folder in Launchpad



Note
Any folders you create and any application reordering you do in
      Launchpad is only reflected in Launchpad; the folders and applications
      remain in the same place you left them when viewed with the
      Finder.

Surprisingly, you can banish applications from your Mac with Launchpad, though
    only ones you've purchased from the Mac App Store. To delete applications
    with Launchpad, press and hold the Option key so all the icons start
    jiggling. Icons for applications you can delete will have a white × in
    their top-left corners. Click the × and you'll be warned about deleting
    the application; confirm your choice and the program is gone. (Deleting an
    application isn't as permanent as it sounds: since you purchased it from
    the Mac App Store, you can download it again for free if you
    ever want it back.)













All My Files



There are a ton of files running around your Mac, but
    you probably don't care about the
    random ones like image-viewport.html—you
    care about the files you've created. All My Files
    filters out all the clutter and lets you get to the important files on
    your Mac.
When you click All My Files in the Finder's sidebar, you're presented with (you guessed it) all
    your files (Figure 1-7). That
    doesn't sound too exciting, but it is.









Figure 1-7. The most useful item in the sidebar


Your files will be grouped by type and you can reorder them as you
    wish. You can quickly sort through your files using a variety of criteria (date modified, size,
    etc.) and find exactly what you want. Once you've used All My Files a few
    times, you'll wonder how you ever got along without it.













Gestures



To make getting around your Mac easier, Apple has added new
    gestures. Gestures are fairly intuitive multifinger swipes, pinches, and
    taps that make jumping from desktop space to space (to cite one example)
    much easier. You can use gestures with a Magic Mouse or trackpad, though the gestures for each device
    differ and you get many more options with a trackpad. For a complete list of gestures, see Multitouch trackpads.













AirDrop



The good news: Lion features a brand-new, very easy,
    zero-configuration way to transfer files between Macs; it's called AirDrop. The bad
    news: if your Mac is more than a few years old, this method probably won't
    work.
How can you tell whether your Mac can use AirDrop? Simply open a
    Finder window; if you see the AirDrop icon in the sidebar (see Figure 1-8), your Mac is AirDrop
    capable.









Figure 1-8. This Mac is ready for an AirDrop


When you click the AirDrop icon, your Mac starts looking for nearby
    Macs. When it finds one, just drag the file you want to send onto the icon
    for that user in the AirDrop window (Figure 1-8). The recipient will get a
    notice that you want to transfer the file, and, once he grants the
    request, the file will speedily move to his Mac. It's a slick system that
    doesn't rely on your WiFi network connection (AirDrop uses the WiFi built
    into your Mac instead), so you can
    share files with someone nearby even when you're not connected to a
    network.













Auto Save and Versions



Two of the coolest new features in Lion are Auto Save and
    the associated Versions. Auto Save does exactly what its name implies: as
    you work on a document, song, movie, or whatever, Auto Save automatically
    saves your progress incrementally so you don't have to. Working in
    TextEdit and just want to quit? You don't need to save before
    quitting—Auto Save will save your work without being told to. Versions are
    the result of all those saves. With Versions, if there's a change you want
    to undo, you aren't stuck with the most recent version of your
    file.
We'll use TextEdit as an example. Once you create a document, save
    it, and then make a change to it, the word "Edited" will appear in the
    title bar to let you know that Auto Save is working. Click "Edited" to
    reveal a drop-down menu that gives you four options:



Lock


This option allows you to lock the document. Once it's
          locked, you won't be able to edit the document, but you can use it
          as a template for a new document. Think of this as way of being sure
          you don't make any boneheaded changes to something you worked long
          and hard to create.


Duplicate


Choosing this option lets you create a copy of either
          the current version of the file you're working on or the most recent
          version of it (without your latest changes) that you explicitly
          saved with the Save command.


Revert to Last Saved Version


This allows you to revert to the last version you
          explicitly saved with the Save command (not the latest version that
          Auto Save created).


Browse All Versions


This is where Versions comes in. If you've made some
          changes to your file that you like and some that you hate, you can
          use Versions to pick out the moment in time when your file was at
          its best. Select this option from the drop-down menu and you'll see
          a screen (shown in Figure 1-9) reminiscent
          of Time Machine. You can then flip through the incremental changes
          Lion has been tracking and pick out the version you like the
          most.












Figure 1-9. Flip through all the saved versions to find the one you
      want



Warning
Not every application works with Auto Save. Since it's a new
      feature, developers have to tweak their programs to make them work with
      Auto Save, so don't depend on Auto Save to back up your work unless
      you're sure the program you're using supports
      it.














Resume



When you use an app on an iOS device, the app starts up
    right where you left off the last time you ran it. Lion has this feature
    as well: if you quit Safari with ten windows open, those same windows will
    pop open when you restart Safari. Resume also works when you shut down or
    log out: do either of those things and, when you restart or log back in,
    all the apps you were using automatically relaunch and open all the
    windows you had open before.
This is a nice feature, but it can also be something you don't want.
    Luckily, you can turn Resume off. Head to System Preferences→General, and then uncheck the box next to
    "Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps." This will stop Lion
    from opening windows when you launch an application, but it won't affect
    how Resume works when you restart your machine. To turn Resume off when
    you log out or restart, uncheck the box next to "Reopen windows when
    logging back in."













Mail



A lot of applications have been updated in Lion; the most
    extensive changes are in Mail. To learn how to set up accounts and do
    other mundane chores, see Mail. To learn about the
    big changes in Mail, keep reading.
When you first open Lion's Mail you'll be shocked—it looks nothing
    like the Mail you've been using. The colorful rounded buttons are gone;
    they've been replaced by new, less visually intense buttons. And the
    changes don't stop there—Figure 1-10 shows just
    how much Mail has changed.








Figure 1-10. Is that even the same application?

By default, you get a two-column view and the familiar sidebar is nowhere to be found (however, if you upgrade from
    Snow Leopard, the sidebar will still be there). If you're
    wondering how you're going to get around without the sidebar (where your
    mailboxes and folders were formerly stored), don't fret. You can get the
    old sidebar back by clicking Show in the brand-new Favorites bar near the top of the window. But chances are
    you won't want to add the sidebar, as all your mailboxes and folders are
    also listed in the Favorites bar; just click an item in the bar to
    navigate to your destination. And you aren't limited to the folders built
    into the Favorites bar; you can add any folder to the bar by dragging
    it there from the sidebar.
Messages in Mail are now grouped into conversations. That
    means the tête-à-tête you've got going with someone won't be a long list
    of discrete messages; instead, every message in it will be grouped
    together, reducing clutter and streamlining your Mail experience. You'll
    see a number with a triangle next to it on each conversation; click the
    arrow to reveal the individual messages, as shown in Figure 1-11.
If you give the new Mail a chance, you'll probably love it. But if
    you find it intolerable, head to Mail→Preferences→Viewing and turn on "Use classic layout" to
    switch to a version of Mail that feels a lot more like the old one.









Figure 1-11. A close-up view of Mail's new conversation layout. When you click
      on a message here, it appears in all its glory on the right side of the
      Mail window.















What Lion Can't Do



Lion does a lot that previous versions of OS X couldn't, but there
    are also some things that previous versions did that Lion can't.
Likely your biggest frustration will be programs you have that Lion
    won't run. The two previous versions of OS X (Leopard and Snow Leopard)
    could run applications built either for PowerPC-based Macs or Intel-based
    Macs. Snow Leopard pulled this trick off by using Rosetta, code that dynamically translated PowerPC code into
    instructions that your Intel-based Mac could use. Lion doesn't include
    Rosetta, so it won't run any applications except those built with
    Intel-powered Macs in mind.
If you want to check whether an application will run in Lion
    before you install Lion, right-click or Control-click the Finder icon of
    the application in question and select Get Info from the pop-up menu that
    appears. If you look at the Kind list item and see either "Universal" or "Intel," the app will run in Lion; if you see "PowerPC" instead, forget it. Once you've installed Lion,
    it's easy to spot programs that won't run: they'll have big, white
    No symbols on 'em (Figure 1-12).









Figure 1-12. Not much of a loss in this case


What else is gone? If you're one of the people who really enjoys the
    animation that traditionally accompanies a new OS install (you know, the
    peppy music with "Hello" zipping by in fifty languages), you're in for a
    disappointment: the opening animation is gone. When Lion gets done
    installing, it's time to get down to the business of setting up your
    Mac.
Also missing from the equation is Front Row, but that isn't as a big of a loss as it sounds
    like. DVD Player can go full screen, so you can get that immersive
    movie experience when watching DVDs, and sites like Hulu can also take over your entire screen if you wish.
    iSync is also MIA; one surmises that the demand for this
    application has dwindled steadily since the introduction of the iPhone and
    other smartphones. Finally, the Applications folder doesn't appear in the Dock by default
    (though it will still be there if you upgraded from Snow Leopard). You can
    always add the Applications folder to your Dock (see The Dock), but Launchpad replicates its functionality nicely.
Aside from the loss of Rosetta, the functionality losses in Lion are minor and are
    far outweighed by the benefits you get from adopting the latest version of
    OS X.













Chapter 2. Installing Lion and Migrating
  Data



New Macs come with Lion (10.7) preinstalled, but that doesn't mean
  buying a new Mac with Lion on it is the only way to get Apple's latest and
  greatest operating system. A much more economical way to enjoy Lion is to
  upgrade your current Mac, something you can do for a fraction of the cost of
  a new machine. This chapter teaches you how.
If you're lucky enough to have a Mac with Lion preinstalled, you likely want to move all or some of the
  data off your old computer onto your new, Lion-powered Mac. In that case,
  see Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer to learn
  how.




What You Need to Run Lion



Snow Leopard could run on any Intel-based Mac, but Lion is
    slightly choosier, jettisoning some models of Intel-based Macs from the
    lineup. To run Lion, you'll need an x86-64 processor or better. If
    "x86-64" doesn't mean much to you, you're not alone. To help clarify, here
    are the actual names of chips that meet that criterion:



Intel Core 2 Duo


Intel Core i3


Intel Core i5


Intel Core i7


Xeon



Since most people don't bother committing the names of their
    processors to memory, there's an easy way to find out what kind of chip
    you have: Go to the Apple menu () and select About This Mac. The window that appears includes the name of
    your processor. If it's on the list above, your Mac is compatible.

Warning
Thanks to a weird naming convention, there's been some confusion
      over whether certain Macs can run Lion. Ones with Intel Core Duo chips
      can't run it, but Intel Core 2 Duo chips
      can.

You also need 2 GB of RAM (which some otherwise compatible MacBooks
    and Minis might not have) and 5 GB of disk space. If you find checking
    chip compatibility and memory requirements too tedious, you can opt to let Apple
    check them instead: launch the Mac App Store and try to purchase Mac OS X Lion; if your Mac
    comes up short in any department, you won't be allowed to buy it.
In addition to the hardware requirements, your Mac must be running OS X 10.6.7 or later. Why not, say, 10.6.3? Well, you'll be
    getting Lion from the Mac App Store, and the Mac App Store didn't exist
    until 10.6.7 was released. If you're running Snow Leopard, just head to
    →Software Update. If
    you're running Leopard, you'll need to find a copy of Snow Leopard and
    install that before you worry about anything else.














Preparing for the Install



Before deciding whether you actually want Lion, you should do a
    little detective work. Since Lion won't support PowerPC apps, if you are dependent on one of those for
    day-to-day work, you'll likely want to avoid Lion or upgrade to new apps
    before you install Lion. But how do you know?
Luckily, there's a quick way to get at this information in
    Snow Leopard: Head to →About This Mac, and
    then click the More Info to display a two-column window. The left column
    contains a long list of entries that reveal specific information when you
    select them. Click Applications (in the Software section) and, in the
    right column, your Mac will tell you about all the apps you have
    installed. The list is sortable, so if you click Kind (as shown in Figure 2-1), the list will
    organize the applications into four categories: Intel, Universal, PowerPC, and Classic. If the application you need to have says "PowerPC"
    next to it, it won't run in Lion. If you don't need any of those clunky
    PowerPC apps or if you upgrade to later versions
    of them, you're ready for Lion.









Figure 2-1. None of these will run when you're using Lion















Installing Lion



Before Lion, you had to cram a DVD into your computer to upgrade OS
    X. With Lion, things have become slightly easier. No more restarting your
    machine from the comparatively slow DVD; instead, you simply download the installer from the Mac App Store.

Note
You don't have to download Lion from the Mac
      App Store. Apple will start selling thumb drives (small memory sticks
      that plug into a USB port) with the Lion installer on them in August
      2011. If you're thinking the thumb drive is a no-brainer, since you get
      a free drive and all, don't get too excited: it comes at a premium.
      Instead of paying $29 to download Lion, you pay $69 for the drive. You
      can order it from www.store.apple.com.
Don't want to pay the premium or download the
      installer over a slow Internet connection? Then you can visit an Apple
      Store and download Lion while you browse all the cool Apple
      hardware.

Whether you plan on downloading the installer or using a USB thumb
    drive with the installer on it, the process is dead simple. First, make
    sure you're running the latest version of Snow Leopard (if not, head to →Software Update).
    Then, if you're going the download route, open the Mac App Store (click
    its icon in your Dock), purchase Lion, and wait for it to download. If
    you're using a thumb drive, plug it into one of the USB slots on your Mac.
    (If you're just after a physical installer for Lion, the following Note
    has your solution.)

Note
Be warned: the Lion installer is close to 4 GB. With a 5
      Mbps Internet connection (close to the average speed for the United
      States), that will take roughly two hours to download.
If you have a pokey Internet connection or a bandwidth cap, you
      probably won't want to download a copy for each computer you have. In
      that case, you'll find the Lion installer in your Applications folder.
      This file gets deleted after you install Lion, so you'll want to make a
      backup to a USB drive, external hard drive, or DVD
      before you install Lion. Once you make a copy, you
      can transfer it to any other authorized Mac you want Lion on and run it without the
      hassle of a new download. (You'll still have to be connected to the
      Internet when you install Lion, but you won't have to download 4 GB of
      data again.)

Once the download is complete or you plug in the thumb drive, the
    Lion installer should launch automatically. (If it doesn't, you'll likely
    find an alias for it in your Dock and the original application in your
    Applications folder if you downloaded it. If you bought a thumb drive,
    you'll find Lion stored on the drive.) All you have to do to get things
    really moving is click the Continue button (Figure 2-2).








Figure 2-2. You've got one option: Continue

Once you take the plunge, you'll be presented with a page requiring
    you to agree to the software license. To install Lion, you'll have to click
    Agree twice: once in the Install Mac OS X window and once on a drop-down
    menu that asks if you really meant that first click.
    After that, Lion will toss up a message telling you that it's preparing to
    install. A few minutes later, you'll be notified that you can either
    restart your Mac to proceed with the install or wait thirty seconds and
    let Lion restart for you.
If your Mac operates off of a single drive, the installation will
    proceed without any input from you. If you have multiple drives or multiple partitions on a single drive, you'll be able to
    choose exactly where you want to install Lion.

Note
Lion can be installed on any drive (internal or external) that's
      formatted with Apple's Mac OS Extended (Journaled) filesystem. You can run Disk Utility from the installer's Utilities menu to format
      or inspect the drives on your system.





After the Install



After Lion is done installing, your Mac will restart using
      the new operating system. If the
      Mac has already been configured—that is, if it had an earlier
      version of Mac OS X installed—you'll be prompted to register your copy of Lion (hit ⌘-Q to skip registration;
      doing so is no big deal). Additionally, you might see a message that
      says your mail needs to be upgraded to work with the new version of
      Mail. Other than that, you can get back to using your Mac just like you
      did before you installed Lion (with some cool new features, of
      course).
If you installed Lion on a blank drive or partition, it'll need
      some more information to get you up and running. You'll have to select
      your country keyboard layout and time zone (Lion can do this for you; you'll see a checkbox
      labeled "Set time zone automatically using current location").
Then you'll be offered the opportunity to transfer data from another Mac. If you chose not to, click
      Continue. Next, Lion will try to connect to the Internet. It'll automatically choose a
      network option, but if you're not happy with Lion's choice, click the
      Different Network Setup button in the lower left of the
      window and choose your preferred network.
Once you're hooked up to the network, you'll be asked for your
      Apple ID. You can skip this step, but if you have a
      MobileMe or iCloud account, using that as your Apple ID will let your
      Mac use the associated services without you having to do any more
      configuring. After you enter (or create) your Apple ID, you'll be
      offered the opportunity to register. The information you type into the
      registration form will be used not just to garner you a spot in Apple's
      database, but also to generate an address card for you in Address Book and to set up your email address for use with Mail.
Lion will then ask you for some info on how and where you intend
      to use your Mac. Once the data collection is out of the way, you'll be
      prompted to set up a user account. Lion will generate a full name and account
      name for you. If you don't want to use its suggestions, you can type in
      your own names. You'll also have to enter a password and, if you wish, a
      hint in case you forget the password.
With your account created, Lion will give you the chance to snap a
      picture for the account with a webcam or choose one from your picture library. Once that's done, Lion will configure
      your Mac using your MobileMe or iCloud information (if you use those services). If you're
      not a MobileMe or iCloud subscriber, don't worry—your Mac is ready to
      go. You just won't have the things that MobileMe and iCloud configure
      (like Mail, for example) automatically set up for you.

Note
If you're tight on disk space, there's no compelling reason to keep the installer around after
        you're done installing Lion. If you need the installer later, you can
        always download it again for free. And if the worst happens and you
        have to use Recovery Mode and reinstall Lion, having the installer on
        your Mac won't be of any help, since reinstalling with Recovery Mode means downloading Lion again.






Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer



Not everyone will install Lion from the Mac App Store;
      some folks will have a new Mac with Lion preinstalled. If you're one of these lucky ones, you
      aren't interested in how to install Lion. But if you're upgrading from
      an older Mac or from a Windows-based PC (getting data from a Windows PC
      onto your Mac is a new, very nifty feature of Lion), you'll certainly be
      interested in getting that mountain of data from your old machine onto
      your new computer. Apple has an app for that: Migration Assistant can transfer files, settings,
      and preferences from your old computer to your new one. After running
      Migration Assistant, your new Mac will seem a lot like your old Mac. If
      you're transferring data from a PC, your new Mac won't seem like your
      old PC, but it will have the PC's data on
      it.

Note
You might not want to migrate your data from an old computer
        right away: playing with a factory-fresh system is fun, and migrating
        data isn't a once-in-a-lifetime
        opportunity. Toy with your new Mac now, and then migrate your data
        later using Migration Assistant.

When you run Migration Assistant, it can transfer the following
      things to your new machine:



Users


All your user accounts will be moved to your new
            Mac. Accounts retain the same privileges (or restrictions) that
            they had before. If you try to move over a user that already
            exists on your Mac, you'll have the option to change the account's
            name or replace the existing user (as long as you aren't logged in
            as that user; if you want to import settings into your account,
            first use System Preferences→Accounts to create a new user, log in as
            that user, and then run Migration Assistant again). See the
            section User Accounts for more
            information.


Applications


All the applications in the Applications folder are
            transferred. You won't have to reinstall your applications, and
            most should retain all their settings (including any registration
            or activation needed to run them).


Settings


Have a bunch of saved networks and passwords in your
            Network Preferences? They all come along for the ride. So, if
            you're used to automatically jumping on at the local WiFi hotspot,
            you'll get on without any extra effort. If your screensaver
            requires a password to get back to the desktop, it still will.
            There are three suboptions under Settings: Time Zone, Machine (computer settings other than network or
            time zone), and Network. Pick and choose the ones you want to move
            to your new machine.


Other files and folders


If your Mac has files strewn everywhere, even if
            they aren't where Mac OS X expects them to be (the Documents
            directory), they'll be transferred.




Note
If you stashed any files in the System folder, they
        won't get transferred. But you shouldn't ever
        stash anything in the System folder anyway, as it can get modified at
        any time (even by security updates and the like).

Migration Assistant doesn't move the following items:



The System folder


You're installing a new system, so you don't need the old
            System folder to come along.


Apple applications and utilities


Migration Assistant assumes that every Apple application
            (like FaceTime and iCal) on your Lion machine is newer or the same
            as the corresponding item on the Mac you're transferring data
            from, so those applications won't get moved. Instead, your
            Migration Assistant will keep the preferences the same and let you
            use the newer version. This is only a problem when you hate the
            latest version of iMovie (to cite one example). If you want to use
            the older version, you'll have to manually move it over.



As you'd probably guess, you need to be logged in as an
      administrative user (or be able to supply the username and password of
      an administrative user) to run Migration Assistant. Then go to
      Applications→Utilities→Migration Assistant to get started.

Note
For Migration Assistant to work, all other applications have to
        be closed. So save all your work and quit everything before you launch
        Migration Assistant.

If you haven't migrated data since the MacBook Air came out, the
      process has changed a little bit. In the days before the Air, Migration
      Assistant used FireWire Target Disk Mode: you'd start the computer you
      wanted to transfer data from in this mode (by holding down ⌘-T while
      booting or choosing "Start in Target Disk Mode" from the Startup Disk
      preference pane), plug it into the destination Mac, and then Migration
      Assistant would take care of the rest. The good news is that this method
      still works if you have two computers with FireWire; the better news is
      that if you don't have two Macs with FireWire, you can still use
      Migration Assistant. In fact, Migration Assistant offers two ways to get
      your old data on your new Mac (shown in Figure 2-3):



From another Mac, PC, Time Machine backup, or other
          disk


Choosing this option allows you to transfer data
            from a Mac or PC that's either wired to or on the same network
            (wired or wireless) as your new Lion-powered Mac.


To another Mac


This option is the counterpart of the "From another Mac or
            PC" option—you select this one on your source machine, and the
            other on your destination machine.












Figure 2-3. Starting the migration process


If you chose the first option, you'll get two
      more options to choose between:



From another Mac or PC


This is the option you'll use if you want to transfer data,
            well, from another Mac or PC. When you select this option and
            click the Continue button, the next screen will warn you that all
            your applications must be closed. Save anything you've been
            working on and click Continue, and your Mac will start looking for
            other computers to transfer data from. Unless you've used the "To
            another Mac" option (discussed above) on the computer you want to
            transfer data from, it won't find any. No problem: Migration
            Assistant will keep looking while you fire up Migration Assistant
            on the other machine and select "To another Mac" on that computer.
            Once both computers are on the same page, you'll see something
            like Figure 2-4.
Click Continue and you'll see a passcode. You don't have to
            write it down or remember it, you just need to make sure it's the
            same as the one displayed on the machine you are transferring data
            from. (The passcode won't show up on the data-donating machine
            until the exchange has been initiated by the Mac you are moving
            the data to.) Verify that the numbers match
            and then click continue. Next, you get a chance to decide what you
            want to transfer (see Fine-Tuning Data Migration). Click Continue and your
            data will be transferred.


From a Time Machine backup or other disk


If you choose this option, your new Mac will scan all
            attached drives and then present you with a list of drives you can
            migrate data from. Click the one you wish to use and then click
            Continue. By default, Lion will transfer all your relevant info,
            but you can change that behavior (see Fine-Tuning Data Migration).











Figure 2-4. Getting data from an older Mac


Note
If both Macs have FireWire, choose "From a Time Machine backup
        or other disk" and then restart the Mac you want to get data
        from in FireWire Target Disk Mode by holding down
        the T key while the computer boots, until you see a FireWire symbol
        dancing on the screen.






Networking Options When Migrating Data



Before Migration Assistant came along, getting your data
      onto your new Mac could be a real pain. While Migration Assistant is a
      fantastic tool, it has one drawback: it doesn't differentiate between
      different types of networks.
As you already know, not every network connection is equal. If
      you're transferring small bits of information (like email or text
      messages), a cellphone protocol is plenty of bandwidth. But when you're
      transferring larger chunks of data, the type of connection is more
      important. If you're using Migration Assistant, there's a good chance
      that you're planning to send a bunch of data from your old computer to
      your new Mac, so the speed of the transfer really matters—especially
      since you'll be locked out of both machines for the duration of the
      transfer.
Here are your data-transfer options from fastest to
      slowest:



Ethernet


Ethernet is your fastest option. If your Mac has an
            Ethernet port (all Macs except the MacBook Air do), you can string
            an Ethernet cable between your old computer and your new Mac and
            transfer data at up to a gigabit (1,000 Mb) per second.


FireWire 800


FireWire 800 is your second-fastest option. Not
            every Mac that can run Lion has a FireWire 800 port, so if you're
            unsure, check out your System Information (see System Information) and select FireWire. If both your
            computers are FireWire 800 equipped, you'll be swapping data at a
            peppy 800 Mbps.

Note
A lot of Mac owners will have FireWire
                400 on their old machine and FireWire
                800 on their new one (no new Macs have
                FireWire 400). In that case, you can get a FireWire 400 to 800
                cable (try Amazon) and then transfer your files using a 400
                Mbps connection.



WiFi


WiFi is the slowest option. Its speed varies
            depending on the network, but if you're using the 802.11n, your
            network could be running up to 300 Mbps.




Note
You might be wondering why Thunderbolt, Apple's newest 10 Gbps dual-channel
        networking option) isn't listed. As of this writing, Thunderbolt isn't
        supported by Migration Assistant, though this could change as
        Thunderbolt becomes more common.

The speeds listed above are best-case scenarios, so your real-life
      experience may not match those numbers. But even with that caveat noted,
      you'll save a significant amount of time if you use one of the wired
      options instead of WiFi.
Your Mac is kind of lazy. It doesn't care which transfer method is
      the fastest; it'll automatically opt for the network connection you're
      currently using. So if you don't want to sling files over your WiFi
      connection (which could take forever), you can string an Ethernet cable
      between your Macs and then switch to that
      connection in the Network preference pane to get your data moving at
      breakneck speed.





Fine-Tuning Data Migration



If you're migrating data, chances are you have a new Mac. If
      you're like most people, you've accumulated a lot of cruft over time,
      and you might not want to transfer everything from
      your old Mac. Of course you'll want to save that folder of LOLcat
      pictures, but that folder with your master's thesis is just taking up
      space.
Migration Assistant lets you decide what to take and what to leave
      behind in terms of users and settings. (Don't worry: this is a
      nondestructive process, so the data you shun on your new Mac will still
      be on the old Mac.) Simply follow the data-migration process described earlier in
      this chapter, but when you get to the "Select Items to Migrate" screen
      (Figure 2-5), uncheck the
      items you want to leave behind. Click the disclosure triangle to display
      all your options.








Figure 2-5. Deciding what you want on your new Mac

After you make your selections, click Continue and your data will
      be transferred. Give it some time and your data will magically appear on
      your new Mac.

Note
Don't get confused by the folder names. For example, Movies
        doesn't mean that Migration Assistant will import all your movie
        files, just that it will import the Movies
        folder. If you have movies stored elsewhere and
        you want them to come along during the transfer, make sure the "All
        other files and folders" option is checked.

Once Migration Assistant finishes migrating your data, Setup
      Assistant will pop up and offer to upgrade your email (if you're
      migrating from an older version of Mac OS X). This takes a few moments,
      but once it's finished, you're free to use your new Mac and pick up
      where you left off with the old one!














Chapter 3. A Quick Guide to Lion







What You Need to Know About Mac OS X



Finding your way around Lion for the first time is exciting, but
    it's also easy to miss out on many cool new features, especially if you're
    new to Mac OS X or you've been using an older version of the operating
    system. This chapter will get you up to speed on the basics of Mac OS X,
    with a special focus on what's new in Lion. It'll familiarize you with the
    most important aspects of Mac OS X so you can get the most out of Apple's
    best operating system to date. The logical place to start is with the
    first thing you created when you installed or ran Mac OS X for the first
    time—your account.




User Accounts



Lion is the latest and greatest from Apple, but the
      operating system's roots go all the way to Unix, a multiuser workstation
      and server operating system. Because Mac OS X is based on Unix, it's
      also multiuser to its core. Even if no one but you ever touches your
      Mac, it's still helpful to understand user accounts, because you may
      need to deal with them someday. Consider these situations:



As you'll learn shortly, you may want to set up an
          unprivileged account for day-to-day use to limit your vulnerability
          to mistakes and malicious software.


If you ever need to run a demonstration on your Mac, you'll
          probably want to create a separate account to run the demo to
          prevent interruptions from chat buddies, calendar reminders, and the
          like.


Even the most solitary Mac user eventually needs to let
          someone else use her Mac (a houseguest, family member, or TSA
          agent), and it's so easy to set up a new user account that you may
          as well do it—then even your most reckless friend can use your Mac
          without much threat of major chaos.



There are five types of user accounts in Mac OS X, and you
      can also create groups of users:



Administrator


When you create your first account in Mac OS X,
            it'll automatically be an Administrator account. This is the most
            powerful account because an administrator can make
            global changes that affect the computer and all other user
            accounts, like adding and removing programs. Because of this
            ability to change things (sometimes inadvertently), most savvy Mac
            users argue that you shouldn't use Administrator accounts for
            day-to-day computing; instead, they recommend using a Standard
            account most of the time.

Note
You might detest the idea of jettisoning the power of the
              Administrator account for day-to-day use. But even if you're
              using a Standard account, you can still make global changes by
              typing in your Administrator account name and password.



Standard


Standard accounts are the sweet spot: you can't mess
            up your Mac or anyone else's account while using a Standard
            account, but you still have plenty of control over how your Mac
            works. You can add and delete programs for just your account, but
            not to the entire system, and you can delete files you own (those
            you've created or installed), but not files owned by
            others.


Managed with Parental Controls


Accounts managed with Parental Controls are limited
            in what they can do. These users can't make changes to the system
            at all. If you tried to use a managed account, you'd likely find
            it frustrating and unacceptable. But to a five-year-old, a managed
            account is nirvana. You can adjust the settings with the Parental
            Controls preference pane (see Parental Controls).


Sharing Only


Sharing Only accounts are designed to let people
            connect to your machine from another computer to share files.
            People assigned this type of account can't log into your Mac via
            the login screen; only remote connections are accepted.


Guest


In Snow Leopard you had to specifically enable this
            type of account, but in Lion it's automatically available. This
            type of account is fantastic if you want to let someone use your
            Mac without being able to make any permanent changes. Log someone
            in as a Guest and he'll be able to search the Web, check his email
            online, and much more. But the moment he logs out, everything he
            did—any data he downloaded, for example—is gone. You can even
            enable Parental Controls for a Guest account if you're worried
            about guests doing things you'd rather they didn't.


Group


You can use Group accounts to create a collection of
            multiple users. You can use these types of accounts to exercise
            fine-grained control over privileges for shared documents.



Lion will also allow one more type of access for your Mac: once
      iCloud comes out (it wasn't out when this book went to
      press), you'll have the option to enable the Find My Mac service. If you do, not only will you be able
      to locate your lost Mac over the Web, but anyone who finds it will only
      be able to start the computer in Safari-only mode. So all that person will be able to do is
      browse the Web with Safari, and while they're using your Mac, location
      information will be sent to the Web to help you find your
      computer.




Setting up accounts



Now that you know the different types of accounts in
        Lion, you'll likely want to set up a few accounts. Click
        →System Preferences→Users
        & Groups (located in the System section). Before you can make any
        changes, you have to click the lock icon at the bottom left of the preference pane, and
        then enter an administrator username and password. The extra level of
        security is there because this preference pane lets you adjust the
        level of access for other accounts, so you wouldn't want an
        unauthorized person making changes here.
To add a new account, click the + button above the lock icon.
        This opens a drop-down window where you can select the type of account
        to create, type in the identifying info (full name, account name), and
        set up a password. If you want to choose a picture for the new user,
        after you create the account, select it in the list on the preference
        pane's left and then, in the middle of the pane, click the account's
        picture and choose Edit Picture. You'll get the option of using a
        saved picture (click Choose) or taking one with your Mac's built-in
        iSight camera or an attached webcam.
To disable the Guest account, click it in the list of accounts, and
        then uncheck the box marked "Allow guests to log in to this computer." This will
        prevent guests from using your computer without a password.






The Home Folder



The Home folder is what makes your Mac seem like
      your Mac. For example, if you create a document and
      save it in Documents, the document doesn't show up in some
      centralized documents folder for the entire system, it shows up in the
      folder called Documents that lives inside your Home folder.
This pattern extends to other folders, too (Music, Movies,
      Pictures, and more). Each account you create gets its own Home folder
      with a subset of folders inside it. This is where all your files and
      personal preferences (like your selected desktop background) are
      stored.

Note
There's one folder in Users that doesn't correspond to any user:
        the Shared folder. You can use it to store files and folders
        you need to share between users on the same Mac.

You can access your Home folder by opening a Finder window and
      then either clicking the house icon in the sidebar or choosing Go→Home (Shift-⌘-H). In every Home folder, you'll
      find the following subfolders:



Desktop


This is where all the files sitting on your desktop
            are stored. (There are a few other types of items that can appear
            on the desktop—hard disks, CDs, DVDs, iPods, and servers—but you
            won't see them in this folder.) If you drag a document from this
            folder to the Trash, it'll disappear from your desktop.


Documents


This is the default location where your Mac saves
            documents. Using this folder isn't mandatory, but it does offer a
            level of convenience to have a central repository for all your
            documents. You can add subfolders for even more organization: just
            open the Documents folder and then choose File→New Folder (Shift-⌘-N).


Downloads


The Downloads folder serves double duty: it's a
            folder in your Home directory and it has a spot in your Dock.
            Anything you download from the Web via a browser shows up here
            (unless you change the default download location in your browser's
            preferences, that is) and in your Dock in the
            Downloads stack (the stack bounces when a new item finishes
            downloading). If you click the Save button next to an attachment in Mail, it's also saved here. You can
            get your downloaded items either by opening this folder or by
            going to the Downloads stack in the Dock.


Movies


This folder is much like the Documents folder, only
            it stores all the movies you make with iMovie and screencasts you make with QuickTime Player. Just as with the Documents folder,
            there's no reason to store your movies here other than
            convenience.


Music


The Music folder, not surprisingly, is where you can
            store music files. It's also where iTunes stores its music library
            and any iTunes purchases you make, including iPhone/iPod apps and
            videos.


Pictures


Toss all your .jpg,
            .png, and
            .gif files
            right in here. iPhoto also uses this folder to store images you add
            to iPhoto.


Public


The Public folder is a repository for files you want
            to share with other users who can log into your Mac. You can get
            to another user's Public folder by opening a Finder window and
            choosing Go→Computer. You'll see a
            window showing all the drives and networks coupled to the Mac
            you're using. Selecting the startup drive will reveal a folder
            called Users. Open that folder and you'll see all the other
            users' Home folders (they're labeled with the respective user's
            names, as shown in Figure 3-1). Open the
            appropriate person's folder
            and you'll see her Public folder. You can grab any files stored in
            another user's Public folder and use them as you wish. Likewise,
            any files you toss into your Public folder can be grabbed by
            anyone using the same Mac. (Note that, while you can share any
            files you find in the Public folder, you can't actually change the
            contents of someone else's Public folder.) If you want to share
            files in this folder with people on other
            computers, you'll have to go to the Sharing preference pane (see
            Sharing).









Figure 3-1. All your Mac's accounts in one place


To receive files from others, have them put the files in
            your Drop Box, a folder inside the Public folder. Drop
            Box is a shared folder, but the sharing only goes one way: people
            can put things into your Drop Box, but they can't take anything
            out. In fact, they can't even see what's in this folder. To use
            Drop Box, enable File Sharing (see Sharing).


Sites


You'll only see this folder if you're using an
            Administrator account. If you want your Mac to host a website
            (it's certainly capable), this is where you put the files for the
            site. You'll need to do more than add an HTML file to this folder
            to get your site working, though. See Sharing
            to start sharing sites stored in this folder over your local
            network.





Where's My Library Folder?
In previous editions of OS X, there was one additional folder in
        your Home folder: Library. This is where your preferences and settings
        (among other things) are stored. If you're used to manually
        controlling aspects of your Library folder, you'll likely miss having
        easy access to it.
It turns out the Library folder isn't really gone; it's just
        invisible. The easiest way to make it appear is to head to the Finder
        and click the Go menu; with the menu open, press the Option key, and
        the Library folder will magically appear as a menu item. Now you can
        get back to manually messing about with your Library folder if you're
        so inclined (but be warned that tweaking items in the Library folder
        can have unintended consequences).
















Using Lion



Once you have Lion running and your system set up, what do you need
    to know to use it? This section teaches you the basics of starting up your
    Mac, getting around after you've booted, and shutting the machine
    down.




Starting Up



Chapter 2
      covered what happens when you turn on a fresh, out-of-the-box Mac (or a
      new install of Lion). Each time you boot up your Mac after that, the
      startup experience is usually seamless. As you'd expect, your Mac will
      boot into Lion (unless you tell it otherwise).

Note
If you've installed Boot Camp (see Boot Camp Assistant) or another operating system, you can
        set the default startup disk with the Startup Disk preference pane
        (see Startup Disk).

The first thing you'll see when you start your Mac is the gray
      Apple logo (), followed by the spinning wheel that resembles a
      circle of perpetually falling dominoes. Once your Mac finishes booting,
      you'll be logged in. (If you've disabled automatic login, you'll instead be presented with a list
      of users or a username/password prompt, depending on your settings; see
      Logging In for more details. Log in and you'll be
      transported to Mac OS X.)
Thanks to Resume, all the apps that were running when you last
      turned off your Mac will automatically open with all the windows you had
      before. But you don't have to use Resume if you don't want to. When you shut down or log out
      of your Mac, the dialog box that appears includes a "Reopen windows when
      logging back in" checkbox (Figure 3-2). Uncheck the box
      and you'll end up at your desktop, with no windows in sight.









Figure 3-2. Uncheck this box to keep those pesky windows from
        reopening






Startup key commands



Before you start booting up your Mac, you can press and
        hold one of these keys/key combinations to change how it starts
        (useful when troubleshooting).









Key command


Action






Hold mouse button while powering
                on


Ejects any media in the optical
                drive




C


Forces your Mac to start up from a CD or DVD in
                the optical drive




R


Resets display for Macs with built-in displays
                (MacBooks and iMacs) back to the factory settings




T


If the Mac has a
                FireWire port, boots the Mac in FireWire Target Disk Mode; to get out of this
                mode, restart the Mac




⌘-S


Boots in Single User Mode, which starts your Mac with a
                text-only console where you can perform some expert-level
                system maintenance




⌘-V


Boots in verbose mode, which shows all the
                kernel and startup messages while your Mac is
                booting




Shift


Boots in Safe Mode, a reduced functionality mode
                that forces your Mac to check your startup disk, load only the
                most important kernel extensions, disable fonts not in the
                /System/Library/Fonts folder, and
                more




Option


Invokes Startup Manager and allows you to select
                which OS to boot into; useful if you have multiple copies of
                Mac OS X installed or use Boot Camp to run other operating
                systems











Logging In



By default, your Mac is set up to automatically log in as the user you created when you
      first set up your machine. This is something of a security risk, since
      it means that anyone can get into your Administrator account simply by powering up your Mac. If
      multiple people use your machine, you'll likely want to turn this option
      off. To do that, click →System
      Preferences→Users & Groups. Click
      the lock icon in the preference pane's bottom left, enter your
      password, and then click Login Options and change the "Automatic login"
      setting to Off.
The Login Options are also where you can control fast user switching. This feature lets you switch users
      without having to log off, so the applications that you have running
      keep going while another user logs into her account. However, having
      more than one user logged in can use up quite a bit of memory, so if you
      have less than 2 GB of RAM, you might want to turn this feature
      off.
If you leave fast user switching on, look for an icon or username
      on the right side of the menu bar. Click this name or icon and use the
      drop-down menu to select another user to log in as. If you turn fast
      user switching off, you'll have to log out (→Log Out) before
      you can log in as a different user.





Logging Out, Sleeping, and Shutting Down



Using the Mac is great, but at some point you'll want to
      stop using it. When you reach that point, you've
      got options:



Shut Down


To shut down your Mac, click →Shut Down.
            Click Shut Down in the dialog box that appears (or do nothing for
            one minute), and your Mac will power off. It should only take a
            few seconds to do so. The next time you want to use your Mac, hit
            the power button and wait for the machine to boot.


Log Out


To close your current work session and quit all
            running programs but leave your Mac running, log out by clicking
            →Log Out or
            by pressing Shift-⌘-Q. Then click Log Out in the dialog box that
            appears. Pressing Shift-Option-⌘-Q instead logs you out
            immediately—there's no confirmation dialog box. To use your Mac
            again, you (or another user)
            will need to log in.


Sleep


You don't have to shut your Mac down every day; you
            can just let it sleep. To put a MacBook to sleep, all you have to
            do is close the lid. On desktop Macs, select →Sleep or
            press Option-⌘- (these methods work on MacBooks, too). A
            sleeping Mac uses very little electricity, and it'll wake up in
            seconds. (For more on saving energy, see Energy Saver.) Wondering if your Mac is sleeping or
            simply off? On MacBooks, you'll see an indicator light that pulses
            to let you know it's only sleeping.







Shut down and log out shortcuts



No one wants to spend lots of time logging out or
        shutting down. Here are some shortcuts that make the process
        faster.









Key
                command


Action






Shift-⌘-Q


Logs you
                out




Shift-Option-⌘-Q


Logs you out without a
                confirmation dialog box



→Shut
                Down
Shuts your Mac down; hold
                Option when selecting this menu item (or press
                Control-Option-⌘- instead) to shut down
                immediately


→Restart
Restarts your Mac; hold
                Option when selecting this menu item (or press
                Control-⌘- instead) to restart immediately


Control-

Displays a window that
                lets you restart, put to sleep, or shut down your
                Mac




Control-⌘-Power Button


Forces your Mac to shut
                down (use this only as a last resort)



Option-⌘-

Puts your Mac to
                sleep




















Lion Basics



A lot happens between when you start up your Mac and when you shut
    it down. The time you spend in Mac OS X will be more pleasant and
    productive if you learn where everything is. The logical place to start
    the tour is right at the top of your screen, with the menu bar.

Note
In older versions of OS X, the menu bar was always there (except
      when you were using Front Row). In Lion, the menu bar hides when you're
      using full-screen applications. To access it while using a full-screen
      program, simply move your cursor all the way to the top of the
      screen.





The Menu Bar



The menu bar spans the top of your monitor (if you use
      multiple monitors, you can choose which one the menu bar
      shows up on with the Displays preference pane). The left side of the bar
      provides access to commonly used commands and the right side is reserved
      for menu extras (see Menu extras) and Spotlight (the
      magnifying glass icon). Every Mac user's menu bar is likely to look a
      little different, depending on what's installed and how the Mac is
      configured. A typical menu bar is shown in Figure 3-3.









Figure 3-3. A typical menu bar


Here's what you'll find in the menu bar, from left to
      right:



The Apple menu ()


The Application menu


A set of application-related menus


Menu extras


Spotlight




Note
Hate the translucency of the menu bar? You can turn the
        menu bar solid gray by selecting →System
        Preferences→Desktop & Screen
        Saver→Desktop, and then unchecking the
        "Translucent menu bar" box.





The Apple menu



No matter which application you're using, the options in
        the  menu are always the same (see Figure 3-4).









Figure 3-4. Lion's Apple menu


Here's what each  menu item does:



About This Mac


Pops up a window giving you a quick overview of
                your Mac: the version of Mac OS X it's running, the processor it has, and the amount of RAM that's installed. There are three things you
                can click in this window:



Click the version number (such as 10.7) to
                    cycle through the build number of Mac OS X and the serial number of your Mac. (It's not unusual
                    to need this info when getting support over the
                    phone.)


Click Software Update to see whether you
                    have all the latest and greatest updates installed.


Click More Info to open System Information. This option has been
                    improved in Lion. When you select it, you'll see tabs that
                    give you an overview of your Mac, and ones that tell you
                    (in a cool graphic fashion) about Displays, Storage (drives attached to your Mac), and
                    Memory (how much you have installed and in
                    which slot). You'll also find tabs for Support (this is a good starting point when
                    you're problem solving) and Service, which lets you check your warranty
                    status and gives you a chance to buy AppleCare (Apple's extended warranty
                    service).





Software Update


Launches Software Update and checks for changes
                to Apple-supplied
                software (it doesn't check for updates to third-party
                software).


App Store


Launches the Mac App Store, where you can look
                for new applications, check for updates to ones you already
                have, and so on.


System Preferences


Launches System Preferences, which is covered in detail
                in Chapter 5.


Dock


Opens a menu that lets you quickly configure
                your Dock: Turn Hiding On, Turn Magnification On, and three Dock positioning options (you can put it
                anywhere but the top of your screen). The Dock Preferences
                option, not surprisingly, opens the Dock preference pane. For
                more info, see Dock.


Recent Items


Displays a menu showing your 10 most recently
                used applications, 10 most recently opened documents, and 10
                most recently used servers. You can change the number of items
                that are displayed here by going to System Preferences→General, and then adjusting the
                "Number of recent items" settings.


Force Quit


Forces stubborn applications to quit. For more
                on this command, see the section Misbehaving Applications.


Sleep


Puts your Mac into sleep mode, a low-power mode
                that preserves what you were doing before you put your machine
                to sleep. When you wake your Mac up, everything will be just
                as you left it. To wake a sleeping Mac, just press a key or move
                the mouse.
You can set your Mac to automatically sleep after a
                period of inactivity by using the Energy Saver preference pane
                (see Energy Saver).


Restart


Makes your Mac shut down and then immediately
                reboot and go through the entire startup process. You'll be
                asked to confirm that you really want to restart your Mac. If
                you don't click Cancel, your Mac will restart one minute after
                you select this menu option.


Shut Down


Powers your Mac down. It'll stay shut down until you
                press the power button, unless you've set a time for your Mac
                to auto-start in the Energy Saver preference pane (see Energy Saver).


Log Out


Logs you out of your user account. The next time
                someone uses your Mac, he or she will have to log in.




Note
Many items in the  menu have ellipses (...) after them. These indicate that a
            confirmation dialog box will appear if you select that option. If
            you want to restart, shut down, or log out without seeing the
            dialog box, hold the Option key while selecting the action of your
            choice from the  menu.






The Application menu



Next to the  menu is the Application menu. The name and
        contents of this menu depend on what application you're currently
        using. Figure 3-5 shows the
        Finder's Application menu.









Figure 3-5. The Finder's Application menu


There really isn't a standard Application menu, but most have
        some commonalities. In a typical Application menu you'll find:



About [Application Name]


Opens a window with the application's version
              number, copyright info, and whatever else the program's
              developer thinks should be there.


Preferences


Opens the application's preferences window. What
              you can control from this window varies from application to
              application—it could be very little or a lot. For info on the Finder's preferences, see
              the section Mastering the Finder.


Services


All the services the current app can use appear in
              a list when you highlight this option. Check out The Services Menu for details.


Hide [Application Name]


Hides all of the current application's windows. If
              you have 50 Safari windows open and don't want to manually
              minimize each one to see what lies beneath, choose this option.
              To get the windows back, just click the application's Dock
              icon.


Hide Others


Hides every application except the one you're
              using.


Show All


This is the antidote to the Hide command. If
              you've hidden a single application or every application, Show
              All will return all the hidden application windows to full
              visibility.


Quit [Application Name]


Quits the current application. (You can also
              invoke this command by pressing ⌘-Q.) Most people's inclination
              is to quit any application they aren't using, but that often
              isn't necessary. Mac OS X is very good at allocating resources,
              so leaving an application idling will generally have very little
              impact on the system.





The Services Menu
The Services menu is the most complex option in the
          Application menu. It offers you quick access to functions provided
          by other programs, which are called services. The services available
          to you depend on the applications installed on your Mac and the
          program you're using. TextEdit (which you can find in the Applications
          folder) provides a nice example of what the Services menu can do.
          Figure 3-6 shows
          the options available when you've selected some text in TextEdit. If
          you want to send the selected text as a Mail message, for example,
          all you need to do is choose New Email With Selection, and Mail will pop open a new
          message with the text already inserted.
In some applications, the Services menu won't have anything to
          offer (the menu will read "No Services Apply").
Clicking the Services Preferences option opens the Keyboard
          preference pane to its Services section, where you can customize the
          Services menu. You can also create your own services with Automator
          (see Automator).










Figure 3-6. Services available with TextEdit when text is
          selected







Standard Application menus



After the Application menu come more menus. How many? That
        depends on the application. For example, Mail has eight and Safari has
        seven. You'll find at least four menus in the menu bar besides the
        Application menu. What's in these four menus also
        depends on the application, but there are some standard options to
        expect:



File


This menu typically contains options for saving,
              opening, creating, and printing files.


Edit


Here you'll find the old Mac standbys: Cut (⌘-X), Copy (⌘-C), Paste (⌘-V), and Undo (⌘-Z).


Window


This menu lists all the open windows for the
              current application.


Help


Depending on the application and its developer,
              this menu can either be very useful or a waste of space. When
              you open the Help menu (either by clicking it or by pressing
              Shift-⌘-?), you'll see a search box and a few other options. One
              of the really nice things about the Help menu in Mac OS X is
              that it won't just regurgitate an entry in a database—instead,
              if possible, it shows you how to do what
              you want to do. For example, suppose you want to create a new
              folder while using the Finder. Open the Finder's Help menu, type
              new folder in the search
              box, and then hover your cursor over the New Folder entry in the list that appears. The
              Help system will then show you which menu contains the New
              Folder option and highlight it with a floating blue arrow, as
              shown in Figure 3-7.












Figure 3-7. Help can find the menu item you need.







Menu extras



The right side of the menu bar is where you'll find the
        menu extras, a.k.a. menulets. (Spotlight is on the bar's
        far right and isn't technically a menu extra.)
        Menu extras give you easy access to functions you use often. The menu
        extra's icon usually reflects what it does. A useful example is the
        Keychain menu extra (Figure 3-8), which you can add by launching
        the Keychain Access utility in
        /Applications/Utilities and then choosing
        "Show keychain status in menu bar" from its preferences.
        It gives you quick access to your passwords and secure notes without
        having to make a trip to the Utilities folder.









Figure 3-8. The Keychain menu extra


Not every menu extra is a shortcut to a program; some control
        settings (such as the Volume menu extra) and some are there to show the status
        of certain aspects of your Mac (such as the Battery menu extra). What menu extras you find useful
        depends on how you use your Mac.
Unlike menus, whose options change depending on the application
        you're using, menu extras remain constant: each one always does the
        same thing, no matter which program is running.
The menu extras you see by default depend on how your Mac is
        configured. You can banish unwanted menu extras by ⌘-dragging them off
        the menu bar; the menu extra will disappear with a satisfying poof
        sound and an accompanying animation. To reorder your menu extras,
        ⌘-drag them into any order you want. Note that you can't move the
        Spotlight icon—it looks like a menu extra, but as far as Mac OS X is
        concerned, it's immovable and permanent.





The Accounts menu



If you've enabled fast user switching (see Users & Groups), you'll see the name or icon of the
        current user here. Click it to select another user to log in
        as.





Spotlight



Clicking this magnifying glass icon brings up the
        Spotlight search box. For more information, see Searching with Spotlight.





Use the menu bar less



If you really want to be productive, it's much quicker to use
        keyboard shortcuts for most commands than to go hunting for them in
        the menu bar. Here's a list of some of the most commonly used keyboard
        shortcuts for items in the menu bar.









Key
                command


Action






⌘-C


Copies selected
                information to the clipboard




⌘-V


Pastes the contents of
                the clipboard into the current document




⌘-X


Cuts the current
                selection and copies it to the clipboard




⌘-A


Selects everything (the
                entire document, all items in a folder, etc.)




⌘-S


Saves the current file
                (you can't use this one too often)




⌘-O


Opens a new
                file




⌘-W


Closes the current
                window




⌘-Z


Undoes your most recent
                action (some programs offer multiple levels of
                undo)




⌘-H


Hides the current
                application and its windows




⌘-,


Opens the current
                application's Preferences window




⌘-Q


Quits the current
                program (not available in Finder)





There are many more key commands at your disposal (see Chapter 8), but these are
        likely to be the ones you use most often. (As well, each application
        has its own keyboard shortcuts that can streamline your workflow, so
        learning the key commands for the programs you use frequently is worth
        your time.)






The Desktop



As you probably know, the big area under the menu bar is
      called the desktop. Open application windows float over the desktop.
      Depending on how you have it configured, the desktop will also show you
      all the attached and internal drives (iPods, flash drives, and so on), any optical disks (CDs, DVDs),
      and any files you've stored here for easy access. You can change your
      desktop's background either by Control-clicking or right-clicking
      the desktop and then choosing Change Desktop Background, or by heading to the
      Desktop & Screen Saver preference pane (see Desktop & Screen Saver).
To control how items are displayed on the desktop, choose
      Show View Options from the Finder's View menu, or press ⌘-J. The window shown in Figure 3-9 appears.









Figure 3-9. The desktop's view options


The Desktop view options window lets you control the size of desktop icons (from 16×16 pixels all the way to
      128×128 pixels), how they're spaced (there's an invisible grid that Mac
      OS X uses when arranging desktop
      icons), and the size and location of their labels.
If you check the "Show item info" box, you'll see extra information when
      looking at items on your desktop. Drives show the name of the drive and the amount of free
      space left, folders list the name of the folder and the number of items
      contained, and DVDs show the amount of data stored on them. The extra
      information displayed for files depends on their type. Images, for
      example, display the size of the image.
The "Show icon preview" box lets you toggle between generic
      icons and icons that display the file's contents. The "Sort by" menu lets you choose how desktop icons are
      arranged. You can have them snap to the (invisible) grid or be arranged according to
      some criteria (name, date created, and so on).
To navigate on the desktop without using the mouse, you can
      use the arrow keys. Another option is to start typing an item's
      name; the item will automatically get highlighted and you can open it by
      pressing ⌘-O. Hitting the Return key instead allows you to rename the
      item.
To control what kind of items appear on the desktop, you use the
      Finder's preferences (switch to the Finder and then choose
      Finder→Preferences or hit ⌘-,). Under
      the General tab, you'll find options to display (or hide) hard disks; external disks; CDs, DVDs,
      and iPods; and connected servers.





Mastering the Finder



Understanding the Finder is key to successfully getting around in
      Mac OS X. It lets you move files, copy files, and launch applications,
      among other things. The most common way users interact with the Finder
      is through a Finder window.




The Finder window



The Finder window has undergone some substantial changes in
        Lion: gone are the search options in the sidebar and the bar at the
        bottom that used to include a summary of the current folder and a
        slider to adjust icon size. Also missing are the colorful sidebar
        icons; now, as in Mail, everything is muted. Finally, though you probably won't miss
        it, the "Hide/Show toolbar and sidebar" button is gone.
To bring the Finder to the front, click some empty space on the
        desktop, click the Finder's Dock icon, or hit ⌘-Tab until you select
        its icon. Once the Finder is frontmost, hit ⌘-N to open a Finder
        window. Figure 3-10 shows a typical
        one.

Note
If you upgraded to Lion from Snow Leopard, your Finder window will look slightly
          different. Exactly what you'll
          see depends on how you configured the window in Snow Leopard, but
          some of the buttons may be in different spots. You'll also see the
          Quick Look button, which has an eye icon and lets you
          peek at the selected file (see Common Finder tasks for details).










Figure 3-10. A standard Finder window


The Finder window is made up of several components:



1. Back and Forward buttons


These buttons cycle you through directories you've
              been using. For example, say you start in your Home directory
              and then drill down into your Documents folder. After you find
              the document you were looking for, clicking the back button
              returns you to your Home directory.


2. View controls


These buttons control how the Finder displays
              information. You have four options: Icon View (the default), List View, Column View, and Cover Flow; see Finder views.


3. Action menu


Clicking this button reveals a drop-down menu that
              varies depending on the item selected. Generally, it contains
              the same options you'd get if you right-clicked or
              Control-clicked that item.


4. Arrange menu


This button lets you change the order in which the
              items in a folder are displayed. Clicking it gives you nine
              different sorting options (plus the option to not sort at
              all).


5. Proxy icon


This item is a graphical representation of your
              current location (for example, the drawer icon in Figure 3-10 shows that you're
              in All My Files). Right-click or Control-click it to bring up a
              list of common destinations; select one to hop to that spot or
              drag a folder onto the list to create a copy of it in that
              location.


6. Search box


Enter text in this box and hit Return to tell the
              Finder to search for matching items. New in Lion, when you start
              typing a search term, it displays a drop-down menu with
              suggestions to help refine your search. The search is powered by
              Spotlight, but unlike a Spotlight search, it won't
              return Mail messages or web pages.








Customizing the Finder toolbar



To remove items from the Finder's toolbar, simply
        ⌘-drag them off of the toolbar. Doing this tidies things
        up, but it doesn't give you what most people want:
        more options. To add things to the toolbar,
        either right-click or Control-click on a blank space in the toolbar
        and select Customize Toolbar, or go to View→Customize Toolbar. The dialog box in Figure 3-11 opens, showing all
        the items you can add.









Figure 3-11. That's a lot of options!



Note
The Show menu, shown in Figure 3-11, allows you to
          change how items in the Finder's toolbar are
          displayed. You get three options: Icon Only (the default), Icon and Text, and Text Only.

Most of the items you can add are self-explanatory, but a few
        are worthy of a closer look:



Path


This button gives you a menu that shows the path
              up from the current directory to the top-level of your computer.
              For example, suppose you have the Finder open to your Pictures
              folder. Clicking this button will reveal the following
              list:



Pictures


[Your Home folder]


Users


[Your Boot Drive]


[Your Computer]



You can choose any item in the list to jump to that
              directory.


Burn


Burn a lot of disks? This button can save you a
              lot of time. Select an item (or folder) and then click this
              button, and the Finder will tell you to insert a disk to burn
              to.


Get Info


This brings up the Info window for the selected
              item—very useful if you adjust permissions often.








The sidebar



The sidebar occupies the left-hand side of a Finder window and
        is reminiscent of iTunes's sidebar. The Finder divides the sidebar
        into three sections:



Favorites


This section lists the most common things you'll
              use: All My Files, AirDrop, Applications, Desktop, Documents, Downloads, Movies, Music, and Pictures. Some of these items
              point to actual folders (like Applications, for example), but
              not all of them do. All My Files points to all the files you've
              created; it's a Smart folder (see Smart Folders). AirDrop is a quick way to share
              files between Macs; see AirDrop for details
              on using it.


Shared


This section lists any shared devices available to
              your Mac. Computers shared via Bonjour, shared drives,
              Time Capsule, Back to My Mac, and the like will show up
              here.


Devices


This is where you will find the devices connected
              to your Mac, including internal drives, your iDisk (if you have
              one), external drives, USB sticks, iPods, CDs, and DVDs.



The sidebar is more than just a speedy way to hop to these
        locations. Want to install an application you just downloaded? Instead of
        opening a Finder window to the Applications folder, just drag the
        application to the Applications folder in the sidebar. To reorder
        items in the sidebar, simply drag them around; to remove items, just
        drag them off of the sidebar. (Dragging an item out of the sidebar doesn't delete the
        item, it only deletes the reference to it from the sidebar.) You can
        do even more by right-clicking or Control-clicking an entry in the
        sidebar—a menu will pop allowing you to do some common and useful
        tasks tailored to the item you clicked. Finally, if you want quick
        access to a folder, application, or document, you can drag it to the
        sidebar and an alias will be created pointing to the item.





Finder preferences



Like every application, the Finder has a set of
        preferences you can customize. To access them, go to Finder→Preferences, or type ⌘-, while the Finder is
        the active application. The window that appears has four tabs:



General


Here's where you determine what items show up on
              your desktop. Your options are hard disks; external disks; CDs,
              DVDs, and iPods; and connected servers. You can also specify
              what directory a new Finder window opens to. The default is All
              My Files (see All My Files), but you can
              change that to any folder with the "New Finder windows show"
              menu. You also get a checkbox (that's unchecked by default)
              where you can choose to open folders in a new window. Finally,
              you can fine-tune (or turn off) spring-loaded folders, which
              automatically pop open if you drag an item over them, allowing
              you to quickly access nested folders while dragging an
              item.


Labels


If you're big on organization, you can label items
              with colors. By default, the labels' names match their
              colors—for example, if you label something with the color red,
              the text label is Red. That isn't very descriptive, so if you
              want to have the red label read "En Fuego" instead, this is
              where you can change the label name. (Note that changing a
              label's name won't impact
              how labeled folders are displayed.) To add a label to a folder,
              right-click or Control-click the folder and then choose the
              label you want to use from the menu that pops up.


Sidebar


This tab allows you to specify which items are
              displayed in the sidebar. If you've deleted a built-in item from
              the sidebar, a trip to this tab can restore it. If you uncheck
              all the items in a category, that category will no longer appear
              in the sidebar. (If you've added any items to a section of the
              sidebar, that category won't vanish until you also remove those
              items by dragging them out of the sidebar.)


Advanced


The Advanced tab gives you checkboxes to control
              whether filename extensions are displayed (if you check
              this box, Safari will be displayed as Safari.app, for example),
              whether the Finder should warn you before changing an extension,
              whether you should be warned before emptying the Trash, and whether the Trash should be emptied
              securely. (See Trash for more info.)








Finder views



You can change how items are displayed in the Finder by
        clicking the toolbar buttons (see Customizing the Finder toolbar) or using the keyboard
        shortcuts listed below. Here are your options:



Icon View (⌘-1)


This is the default view in Lion. Items are displayed as
              file icons, application icons, or folder icons (Figure 3-12). Single-clicking an item in Icon
              View selects it; double-clicking launches the application, opens
              the file (inside its associated application), or opens the
              folder. You can use the arrow keys to move from item to item. Holding the
              Shift key while using the arrow keys selects
              multiple items.









Figure 3-12. Icon view of the Applications folder




List View (⌘-2)


This view presents the contents of a folder as a
              list. You can open subfolders by clicking their disclosure triangles
              (see Figure 3-13).
              List View offers more information than Icon View, but feels more
              cluttered. As with Icon View, you can navigate through List View
              using the arrow keys: ↑ and ↓ change what's selected; → and ←
              open and close (respectively) a subfolder's disclosure triangle.
              To open all subfolders under the one that's selected, use
              Option-→; to close all
              subfolders after you've opened them, use Option-←. To sort
              files, click a row heading; the triangle in the heading
              indicates the order of the sort.









Figure 3-13. List View of the Applications folder




Column View (⌘-3)


Column View (Figure 3-14) is the
              favorite of a lot of users. While it looks a little like List
              View, it doesn't include any disclosure triangles. Clicking a
              folder in this view reveals the contents of that folder. If you
              continue all the way to a file, the last column will show a
              Quick Look preview of the file and some key
              information about the file. For example, if you drill down to a
              movie, the film's preview will appear in the last column, and
              you can even start playing it. If you select an application, the
              last column will display a huge version of the program's icon
              and information about the application.
In Column View, the arrow keys work exactly as you'd
              expect, moving the selection either up, down, left, or right.
              Holding Shift while pressing ↑ or ↓ allows you to select
              multiple items in the same directory.
You can change the width of the columns by dragging the
              two tiny vertical lines at the bottom of the dividers between
              columns. Hold Option as you drag to resize all the columns at once.









Figure 3-14. Column view of the Applications folder




Cover Flow View (⌘-4)


Cover Flow View first appeared in Leopard, and
              it's very slick. If you use iTunes, an iPod Touch, or an iPhone,
              you're familiar with this view, shown in Figure 3-15. It displays the items in a
              directory as large icons. You can adjust the size of the Cover Flow area by dragging
              the three tiny horizontal bars below the previews; Lion will
              resize the icons accordingly.
In this view, the ↑ and ← keys move the selection up in
              the list below the Cover Flow area, whereas the → and ↓ keys move your selection down
              that list.









Figure 3-15. Cover Flow View










Common Finder tasks



You'll end up using the Finder for many basic tasks.
        Want to rename a folder? Copy or move files? The Finder is your best
        friend. Here are some common tasks you'll likely use the Finder
        for:



Rename a file, folder, or drive


In the Finder, simply click the icon of whatever
              you want to rename and then press Return. Lion highlights the
              name so you can type a new one. Hit Return again to make the
              name stick.


Create a folder


To create a new folder, you can either choose
              File→New Folder from the
              Finder's menu bar, or press Shift-⌘-N. The new folder appears as
              a subfolder of whatever folder you're currently using. New
              folders are creatively named "untitled folder."


Quickly look inside a file


You can get a pop-up preview of a file's contents
              by using Quick Look. In the Finder, select a file, and then
              press Space or ⌘-Y (if there's a button with an eye icon in your
              Finder toolbar, you can also click that). An easy-on-the-eyes
              window (like the one in Figure 3-16) pops up,
              displaying the contents of the file.
Quick Look is file savvy; look at a Word document and
              you'll see what's written on the page, look at a spreadsheet and
              you'll see rows and columns, look at a movie and it will start
              playing. All this without having to open the program associated
              with that file.
While Quick Look is visible, click a different file and
              Quick Look will display that file instead. Switch Finder windows
              (you can have a gazillion Finder windows open at a time) and
              Quick Look will display the item in the current window. You can
              even preview more than one file at a time with Quick Look:
              select multiple files and arrows will appear at the top of the
              Quick Look window that you can use to flip through previews of
              all the files you selected.








Figure 3-16. Using Quick Look to watch Brian Jepson's favorite
                movie



Make an alias


There are times you want access to a file or
              folder without having to burrow through directories to get at
              it. Some people's first inclination is to move the item to a
              more accessible location, but the best solution is to make an
              alias. An alias acts just like the regular file or folder but it
              points to the original: put something in a folder alias and it
              ends up in the original (target) folder. Delete the alias and
              the item it refers to is unaffected.
You can spot an alias by a curved arrow in the lower-left
              corner of its icon. To create an alias, select a file in the
              Finder and then choose File→Make
              Alias (or press ⌘-L). Then simply drag the alias to where you
              want it to be.


Duplicate files and folders


If you want a copy of a file or folder, click the
              item in the Finder and then select File→Duplicate (or press ⌘-D), and Lion will
              generate a brand-new copy of that item with the word "copy"
              appended to its name. Your original item will remain untouched
              while you hack away at the copy.


Copy files to a new location on the same disk


When you drag files from one spot to another on the same
              disk, Mac OS X moves those files to the new location without
              making a copy. To copy files to another
              location on the same disk instead, hold Option while you drag the files to the new
              location. Once you release the mouse button, the original
              file(s) stay put, and you get a copy in the destination
              location.
Conversely, when you drag files from one disk to another,
              Mac OS X copies them. To make it move them
              instead, you have to hold down the ⌘ key while you drag.


Eject a drive or disk


If you've got external drives hooked to your Mac,
              at some point you'll want to eject them. Just yanking the drive
              out is a bad idea; if data is still being written to the drive,
              you might lose it.
You have a few ways of ejecting drives and disks. The
              classic way of ejecting a drive on a Mac is to drag it to the
              Trash (when you do, the Trash's icon changes to an
              Eject icon). If you've got a Finder window open, you can also
              eject it directly from the sidebar—simply click the  next to the drive's icon. If a drive
              won't eject, Lion will tell you which application is using files
              on that drive (and preventing you from ejecting it).
If you want to remount a drive (use the drive after you've
              ejected it) that you left plugged in, you can either remount it
              with Disk Utility
              (/Applications/Utilities/Disk Utility) or
              simply disconnect the drive from your Mac and then reconnect
              it.


Reformat a disk


If you've got a new disk, it might not be in the
              right format. Most flash drives and many pocket drives come formatted as FAT32 disks, but some arrive unformatted. Your Mac
              prefers the Mac OS Extended (Journaled) filesystem, and if you
              don't need to share files with another operating system (such as
              Windows), this format is your best choice. To erase the drive and format it as Mac OS Extended
              (Journaled), head to /Applications/Utilities/Disk
              Utility. Select the disk you want to reformat from
              the list on the left side of Disk Utility, click the Erase tab
              and select the format you want, and then click Erase. Remember:
              formatting erases all the information on the disk.


Compress files and folders


If you're going to burn a bunch of data to a disk
              or if you want to minimize upload times, you can compress files
              and folders. Lion gives you an easy way to pull this off:
              right-click or Control-click a file, and then select Compress
              from the pop-up menu, and Lion will create a copy of that item
              with the same name, but with the suffix .zip
              appended. The amount of space this saves depends on the type of
              file: compressing a QuickTime movie (.mov) doesn't save as much space as
              compressing a folder full of text files does, for
              example.





Duplicating Optical Disks
DVDs and CDs are getting less popular for sharing
          files because of the availability of cheap flash drives, but they're
          still common enough that you might need to make backup copies of important data stored on a CD or DVD.
          If you have a desktop Mac, you could install two DVD drives and copy
          DVDs and CDs disk-to-disk, but that option's only available on
          high-end Macs (although you could use an external USB drive with
          other Macs). No worries, though; with Disk Utility, you can easily duplicate that DVD or CD and burn it to a different
          disk.
Fire up Disk Utility (/Applications/Utilities/Disk
          Utility) and then select the CD or DVD you want to copy
          from the list of available disks. Next, click the New Image button
          at the top of the window, choose "DVD/CD master" from the Image
          Format pop-up menu, and choose a location with sufficient disk space
          from the Where pop-up menu. Click Save and Lion makes an image (a
          special type of copy) of the DVD.
Once the copying operation is complete, you'll have a perfect
          copy of the DVD or CD on your drive. To burn that copy onto a blank
          CD or DVD, select the disk image from the list on the left side of
          Disk Utility (if it's not there, drag the disk image from the Finder
          into the list), then click the Burn button and insert a blank disk
          when prompted. (Alas, this approach won't work for copy-protected software
          or movies.)







The Dock



The Dock is a key aspect of Mac OS X. It contains
      shortcuts to frequently used applications, folders, and documents, and
      it shows you which applications are running by placing a blue dot under
      each one. (A lot of people detest the blue dots, and in Lion you get the
      option to turn them off: just head to System Preferences→Dock and then uncheck the box next to
      "Show indicator lights for open applications.") A typical
      Dock is shown in Figure 3-17.









Figure 3-17. A typical Dock


You can use the Dock to switch between active applications; just click the Dock
      icon of the one you want to switch to and that will become the frontmost
      application. When an application is starting up, its Dock icon will
      bounce so you can tell that it's loading. If an
      already-running application's icon begins bouncing, that's the Dock's
      way of telling you the application wants your attention.
The Finder is on the far left side of the Dock and is always
      running. To the right of that, you'll see application icons, a divider,
      the Documents stack, the Downloads stack, any minimized windows, and the
      Trash.

Note
In Snow Leopard, the Dock featured an Applications stack, too. (If you updated from Snow
        Leopard to Lion, you'll still see this stack in the Dock.) But with
        the addition of Launchpad, the Applications stack has become
        redundant. If you want that stack back, just drag your Applications
        folder onto the Dock.

Since the Dock is conveniently located, it is a natural way of
      opening your most-used applications and documents. The obvious question
      is how do you add items to the Dock? The process is simple: just locate
      the application or document you want to add and drag it onto the Dock.
      Keep in mind, though, that you can only put applications on the left
      side of the Dock's divider and you can only put documents on the right
      side of the divider. (Even if you haven't placed an application or
      document in the Dock, it will appear there as long as it's running or
      open.) Note that adding items to the Dock doesn't move or change the
      original item, and removing items from the Dock doesn't delete them from
      your Mac.
You can arrange items in the Dock by dragging them into the order
      you want. (Dragging a running application that's not already in the Dock
      will add it.)

Note
If you want to try to force a particular document to
        open in a specific application, drag the file onto the desired
        application's icon in the Finder or Dock, and that application will
        generally try to open the file. However, some applications respond
        differently: dragging something onto the Mail icon, for example,
        attaches it to a new message.

Once your Dock is fully loaded with applications and documents, it
      can get a little overwhelming. If you forget what that minimized window
      is for or what application will start if you click a certain icon, the
      Dock can help you out. Simply hover your cursor over the Dock item in
      question and a text bubble will pop up with info about that item, as
      shown in Figure 3-18.









Figure 3-18. Forget what application an icon is for? The Dock has your
        answer!


Removing items from the Dock is easy. You can drag the
      unwanted item off of the Dock, drag it onto the Trash icon, or
      right-click or Control-click the item in question and, in the pop-up
      menu that appears, select "Remove from Dock."

Note
The Dock is generally customizable, but there are two things
        about it that you can't change: the Finder is always on the left end of the Dock and the
        Trash is always on the right end. You can't move them
        and you can't put anything on the far sides of them. Think of the
        Finder and the Trash as two bookends that expand to accommodate all
        the items in between.





Dock Exposé



Lion has replaced Exposé with Mission Control, but you can still use Exposé for
        applications. The way you do this is really slick: pick any running
        application, click and hold its icon in the Dock, and then select
        Show All Windows in the pop-up menu that appears. You
        then see something like Figure 3-19.









Figure 3-19. Safari's open and minimized windows displayed in Dock
          Exposé


When you invoke Dock Exposé, you'll see all the selected
        application's open windows. Any minimized windows show up as small
        versions below a subtle dividing line. Click any window to bring it to
        the front.
The pop-up menu that appears when you click and hold an
        application's Dock icon also lets you quit or hide the selected
        application. The menu also includes an Options submenu to let you keep
        the application in the Dock, set it to open each time you log into the computer, or
        show it in the Finder.





Dock menus



Every item in the Dock also has a Dock menu. To access
        this menu, right-click or Control-click the icon. What shows up in the
        menu depends on what you click and, in the case of applications,
        whether it's running and what it's doing. Application Dock menus
        typically include relevant commands. For example, if you're currently
        playing a song, iTunes's Dock menu lets you mute your computer, skip and rate songs, and so forth.
        All applications' Dock menus include these options:



Options→Keep in Dock or Remove from Dock, depending on current
            setting


Options→Open at Login (saves you a trip to the Users &
            Groups preference pane)


Options→Show in Finder (reveals where the application
            resides on your Mac)


Hide (hides all the application's windows;
            equivalent to pressing ⌘-H)


Quit (closes the application; you'll be warned if
            there are any unsaved changes)



The Dock menus for stacks (such as the Documents or Downloads
        stack) offer a different set of choices:



Sort by options (Name, Date Added, Date Modified,
            Date Created, Kind)


Display as (Folder or Stack)


View content as (Fan, Grid, List, Automatic)


Options (Remove from Dock or Show in Finder)


Open [stack name]








Stack view options



Those folders or jumbled icons (depending on how your
        preferences are set—jumbled icons is the default) on the right side of
        your Dock are called stacks. You can choose which view to use for each
        stack by opening its Dock menu (the previous section explains how).
        Here are your options:



Fan View


This is the default view of a stack. If you click
              a stack that's set to this view, it'll fan out, making it easy
              to choose the item you're looking for, as shown in Figure 3-20. Fan View
              is nice when there aren't a lot of items in a stack; it's less
              helpful when there are more than a dozen or so items. If you use
              the arrow keys to select items in the stack, a blue highlight
              appears behind the current item; hit Return to open it.









Figure 3-20. Exploring the contents of a stack in Fan View




Grid View


In Grid View (Figure 3-21), you get to browse by
              icon, and you can use the arrow keys to highlight an item. If
              that item is an application or document, hitting the Return key
              starts the application or opens the document. If the selected
              item is a folder, hitting Return opens
              another Grid View window that displays the
              folder's contents.








Figure 3-21. The excellent Grid View



List View


List View (Figure 3-22) got a bit of an
              upgrade in Lion. Instead of the boring list on a white
              background, your options are now displayed as a list on the same
              background used by Grid View. Even with the new background, List
              View is a bit pedestrian compared to Fan View or Grid View, but
              that doesn't mean it is useless. You can scroll through the list
              using the ↑ and ↓ keys, and when you run across a folder,
              pressing the → key opens a
              submenu with the enclosed items.








Figure 3-22. List View—boring but useful



Automatic View


If you don't feel like fine-tuning the way a stack
              is displayed, you can let Lion pick a view for you based on the
              stack's contents. To get Lion to make this difficult decision for you, right-click or
              Control-click the stack and then choose Automatic from the "View
              content as" section of the pop-up menu.








Trash



It doesn't matter if you've got a relatively tiny SSD
        drive in a MacBook Air or 4 terabytes of hard disk space in a fully
        tricked-out Mac Pro. Sooner or later, you're going to want to get rid
        of some files either because your drive(s) are feeling cramped or
        because you just don't want the data around anymore. To get rid of
        something that's on your Mac, you'll need to use the Trash.
The Trash is located on the right end of the Dock (or, if you've
        moved the Dock to the left or right of your screen, it's on the
        bottom). To banish files from your Mac, select them and then drag them
        from the Finder to the Trash (or press ⌘-Delete).
When the Trash has something in it (whether it's one item or a
        million), its icon changes from an empty mesh trash can to a can
        stuffed with paper. This lets you know that the files you've moved to
        the Trash are still there, and that you can retrieve them (until you
        empty the Trash).
Open the Trash by clicking its Dock icon. (You can view
        the items in the Trash with the Finder, but you won't be able to
        actually open a file that's in the Trash; attempting to do so will
        result in an error message.) If you find something in the Trash that
        shouldn't be there, you can either drag it out of the Trash or click
        File→Put Back to send it back to where it was
        originally.
To permanently delete items in the Trash,
        right-click or Control-click the
        Trash's Dock icon and choose Empty Trash, or open the Finder and either choose
        Finder→Empty Trash or press
        Shift-⌘-Delete.
Note that emptying the Trash doesn't completely remove
        all traces of the files you deleted. Those files can be recovered with
        third-party drive-recovery utilities, at least until the disk space
        they previously occupied has been written over with new data. To make
        it harder for people to recover deleted data, in the Finder, choose
        Finder→Secure Empty Trash. This
        command overwrites the deleted files multiple times.
If you work with a lot of sensitive files, you can tell the
        Trash to always write over files you delete by
        going to the Finder's preferences (Finder→Preferences or ⌘-, while in the Finder) and,
        on the Advanced tab, checking the box next to "Empty Trash securely."
        You probably want to leave the "Show warning before emptying the
        Trash" option checked because, once you securely empty the Trash,
        you're not getting that data back.





Dock preferences



Here are a few quick and easy changes you can make without
        invoking the Dock's preference pane. If you right-click or
        Control-click the divider between the two parts of the Dock (it looks
        like a dashed line), you'll get the pop-up menu shown in Figure 3-23. This menu lets you
        choose whether to automatically hide the Dock when you're not using it,
        change the magnification of icons in the Dock, change the
        Dock's location, change the animation OS X uses when you minimize windows, and open
        the Dock's preferences.









Figure 3-23. A quick way to make Dock adjustments


You can change the size of the Dock by dragging up or down over the dashed
        dividing line to increase or decrease the size of the Dock,
        respectively.






The Application Switcher



The Dock is the most obvious way to switch between
      applications while they're running, and Mission Control is probably the
      niftiest way, but Lion gives you a third way to flip between your open
      apps. The aptly named Application Switcher (Figure 3-24) lets you
      switch applications without taking your hands off the keyboard, a huge
      timesaver if you find yourself change programs often. To use it, just
      hit ⌘-Tab.









Figure 3-24. Hands on the keyboard and you're still switching
        applications!


Holding the ⌘ key while repeatedly hitting the Tab key cycles
      through the open applications from left to right (use Shift-Tab instead
      to go from right to left), and then wraps around to the first
      application on the left again. Alternatively, you can press ⌘-Tab and
      then, while still holding down ⌘, use the ← and → keys to move between
      applications. When the application you want to switch to has a white
      border around it, release the keys and that program will come to the
      front.














Standard Window Controls



All windows in Mac OS X share some characteristics, shown in
    Figure 3-25. Knowing what
    they do will help you be much more productive when using Lion.









Figure 3-25. Lion's standard window controls, which live on the title
      bar


Here's what these controls do:



The red button closes the window. If you hover your cursor over
        this dot, you'll see an × or—if there are unsaved changes to the current document—a dark-red dot
        inside it. The yellow button minimizes a window; put your cursor over this dot and
        you see a −. The green button maximizes the window, and displays a + when you point to
        it.


This is called the proxy icon. Drag it to create an alias of the current
        file, or Option-drag it to copy the current file.


The name of the current file.


If the application you're using can go full screen, you'll see
        these arrows. See the section Full-Screen Applications for details.



The following table lists some keyboard shortcuts that are
    useful for working with windows.








Action
Key command




Open a new window
⌘-O


Close the active window
⌘-W


Minimize the active window
⌘-M


Minimize all windows for the frontmost application
Option-⌘-M


Cycle through an application's windows
⌘-`





Note
Not every key combination is universal. For example, some
      applications use ⌘-M for something other than minimizing the active
      window.














Files and Folders



As you already know, folders are where you keep files. But Mac OS X
    also includes two special kinds of folders: the Burn folder and the Smart
    folder.




Regular Folders



Your Mac comes preloaded with some folders that are appropriate
      for commonly saved files (documents, pictures, music, and so on), but
      you'll also want to make your own folders. For example, you might make a
      subfolder for spreadsheets within the Documents folder, or put a folder
      on your desktop where you can toss files that end up on the desktop. To
      create a regular folder in the Finder, you can either
      choose File→New Folder (Shift-⌘-N), or
      right-click or Control-click a blank spot in a folder and then choose
      New Folder from the Context menu shown in Figure 3-26.









Figure 3-26. Creating a new folder via the Context menu


Mac OS X names new folders "untitled folder," and it iterates this
      name if you create a series of folders without renaming them after you
      create each one, so you end up with untitled folder, untitled folder 1,
      untitled folder 2, and so on. To change a folder's name, click the
      folder once and then press Return or click the folder's title. The area
      surrounding the title gets highlighted and you can type the new name.
      When you're done, hit Return to make the name stick (until you change it
      again).





Burn Folders



Creating a Burn folder is the easiest way to get files or
      folders from your Mac onto an optical disk (a CD or DVD). To do so, go
      to the Finder and select File→New Burn Folder. A new folder with a radiation symbol in
      it will show up in the current folder. (If you've made filename
      extensions visible—see Finder preferences—you'll
      notice that folder's suffix is .fpbf.) 
Be sure to give this folder a nice, descriptive name like
      discoinferno. Then you can start
      tossing any files you want burned onto the disk into that folder.
The files aren't actually being moved to the Burn folder; Lion is
      just creating aliases that point to them. When the time comes to burn
      the data, Mac OS X will burn the original file(s). Since the files are
      aliased, if you decide you want to get rid of the Burn folder without
      burning the data, you can toss the folder into the Trash. The original
      items will remain untouched.
Once you're ready to burn the data, open the Burn folder and then
      click the Burn button in its upper-right corner. Insert a disk when
      prompted, and Lion takes care of the rest.





Smart Folders



There are Smart folders all over your Mac: in iTunes,
      Mail, and lots of other places. Smart folders are actually Spotlight search results, but
      you can browse them just like regular folders.
To create your own Smart folders, head to the Finder and
      choose File→New Smart Folder or press
      Option-⌘-N. In the Search box of the new window that appears, type in
      text describing what you want to find and Lion will fill the folder with
      items that meet your criteria.
Lion is smarter about creating Smart folders than its
      predecessors. As you type, Lion displays suggestions for refining your
      search. Say you want an easy way to manage all your Word files. Start
      typing ".doc" in the Search box, and Lion will make handy suggestions
      like the ones shown in Figure 3-27. Select "Word Document"
      under Kinds and all your Word documents will appear in the Smart
      folder.









Figure 3-27. Lion knows what you're looking for


If the results aren't quite what you want, you can further refine
      your search by clicking the + button below the Search box. You can
      adjust the search by hitting the + button. When you do, you'll see a new
      set of criteria and another + button that you can click to add another
      set of criteria. You can keep adding more criteria until your search is
      just the way you want it (Figure 3-28).









Figure 3-28. A search so refined it returns no results


Want to save your search? No problem—click the Save button to
      save your search as a Smart folder. You'll get to name it,
      choose where to save it, and, if you wish, add it to the sidebar.
There are more great things about Smart folders. The results of
      your search don't change where anything is actually stored on your Mac,
      but you can act as if all the files reside in the Smart folder you just
      created. That means that, even though the files in it could be scattered
      across a hundred folders on your Mac, you can move, copy, and delete
      them just as if they all resided in the Smart folder. (If you delete a file from a Smart folder, you'll also
      delete that file from your Mac.)
Don't worry about your Smart folders slowing down your Mac or not
      displaying changes immediately. Smart folders are constantly updated, so
      when you add a new file that fits the Smart folder's criteria, the file
      will show up in the Smart folder right away.














Nonessential (but Useful) Mac OS X Features



Some features of Lion are really useful but not strictly required
    for day-to-day use. For example, some people never use Dashboard, while
    others can't get by without it. Spotlight is fantastic for searching your
    Mac, but some folks never search their Macs because they have insanely
    good organizational skills. Spaces can make that 13-inch laptop screen
    seem much bigger. And Mission Control lets you see everything on your
    desktop (and more) at the same time—a lifesaver for those who work with
    multiple windows. If you're interested in one or more of these features,
    this is the place to look.




The Dashboard



That speedometer-like icon in your Dock launches
      Dashboard, an environment where mini-applications (called widgets) run.
      Click the icon, use a gesture, or use the keyboard shortcut (it's F4 on
      most Macs that can run Lion). If you don't have the F4 shortcut on your
      keyboard, you can use the Keyboard preference pane to add a shortcut or
      see what the shortcut is. Once you invoke Dashboard, your Desktop will
      slide away. In Snow Leopard, Dashboard floated over your desktop with a
      translucent background, but in
      Lion, Dashboard gets a solid background to make the desktop less
      distracting.
Once Dashboard is up and running, the widgets on it will go about
      doing whatever they're supposed to do (reporting on the weather,
      displaying a calendar, and so on). To get back to your desktop, click
      the arrow in the bottom right of the Dashboard or press the Dashboard
      key again.
Lion comes with several widgets built in, but only a few will
      already be in the Dashboard by default: calculator, weather, calendar,
      and clock widgets. Click the + button at the Dashboard's lower left to
      add any of these:



Address Book


Lets you search your Address Book from the
            Dashboard.


Calculator


This is just a basic calculator; it's much less
            powerful than the Calculator application built into Mac OS X. If
            you want a more powerful widgetified calculator, you can find one
            at Apple's widget
            repository.


Dictionary


This gives you the same information as the Mac OS X
            Dictionary application (though without the Wikipedia browsing
            capabilities). You can use this widget as a dictionary, a
            thesaurus, or an Apple help interface.


ESPN


Fetches scores and news about your favorite
            teams.


Flight Tracker


Lets you track flights in real time. If your spouse
            or roommate is returning from a trip, you can see how long you
            have left to clean up the house.


iCal


Lets you view iCal events in convenient widget
            form.


Movies


Keeps you up to date on the movies playing in your
            area. Initially, it just cycles through the posters of currently
            playing movies, but when you click on it, it'll display showtimes
            and theaters.


Ski Report


Like to ski? This widget keeps you updated on the
            conditions at your favorite slopes.


Stickies


This is the Dashboard version of Stickies (see Stickies).


Stocks


Got some stocks? Track the roller-coaster ride of
            investing in the market with this widget.


Tile Game


If you had a pre-OS X Mac, you might remember the
            game Tile that came as a desk accessory. This is a widgetized
            version of it. Instead of a picture of the Apple logo, you get to
            unscramble a picture of a big cat. The tile-scrambling animation is worth watching, even if you never
            actually play with this widget.


Translation


Translate a word or phrase from one language to
            another. The shorter the phrase, the more accurate the
            translation.


Unit Converter


Shouldn't everyone be using SI units by now? Well,
            probably, but they don't. With this widget, you can discover how
            many liters there are in an imperial gallon.


Weather


Track the upcoming weather with this widget. You
            only get to choose one city to track, so if you want to know the
            weather in more than one place when using Dashboard, you'll need
            to have multiple Weather widgets running.


Web Clip


Web Clip lets you create your own widgets! See Making your own widgets to learn how.


World Clock


If you're using Dashboard all the time and you don't
            have a watch or you want to know the time in Geneva while you're
            in San Francisco, this widget has you covered.







Personalizing widgets



You can't personalize every widget, but you have to personalize
        some (like the Weather widget) to make them useful. To set a widget's
        preferences, look for an i somewhere on the
        widget (usually, but not always, in the lower-right corner of the
        widget; you may have to put your cursor over the widget to make it
        appear).





Adding and removing widgets



In the lower-left corner of the Dashboard, you'll see a + inside
        a circle. Clicking this reveals a line of available widgets at the
        bottom of the screen. If you see a widget you want to add, just drag
        it to the location where you want it to live on the Dashboard. You can
        overlap widgets and have multiple instances of the same widget, so if
        you're not careful, it can quickly get confusing.
The easiest way to delete a widget from your Dashboard
        (but not from your Mac) is to hold the Option key, hover your cursor
        over the widget, and then click the × that appears in the widget's
        upper-left corner. If you change your mind, you can simply add that
        widget again later. If you want to get rid of a widget forever, use
        Widget Manager.
Widget Manager lets you exert more control over widgets. To use
        it, click the + in the lower left of the Dashboard, and then click the
        Manage Widgets button that appears. A widget (of course) pops up,
        giving you the chance to disable individual widgets by unchecking the boxes next
        to them. A disabled widget won't be available from the widget bar
        until you re-enable it with Widget Manager. Third-party widgets (discussed next) get a deletion
        circle next to them; if you click the
        −, you'll be asked if you want to move the widget to the
        Trash.





Getting more widgets



The widgets Apple includes are great, but there's a whole world
        of other widgets out there. To find more, the best place to go is
        Apple's index of widgets: http://www.apple.com/downloads/dashboard. (If you have
        Widget Manager up, you can click the More Widgets button to zip
        straight to this site.) You'll be amazed at the number of available
        widgets. Most are free, but some will set you back a few bucks.





Making your own widgets



There are a ton of widgets available for download, but there's
        still a chance that the widget you desire doesn't exist. You could
        write your own widget to rectify the situation—after all, widgets are
        just snippets of code—or you could take the easy way out and create
        one using a Web Clip. For example, imagine you wrote a book and want
        to keep tabs on its sales ranking at Amazon. You could go to Amazon
        every day and scroll down to the ranking, but that takes too much
        effort. Why not create your own Web Clip widget to take care of the
        data retrieval for you?
Here's how: Open Safari and find the information you want your
        Web Clip to retrieve. Then choose File→"Open in Dashboard" and a white box will
        appear. Drag this box so that it surrounds the information you want to
        keep constantly updated with. Then click the Add button or hit Return
        and your new widget will show up in Dashboard. (Some pages work better
        than others, so you might need to experiment a bit.)






Searching with Spotlight



Using Spotlight is easy: Simply click the magnifying glass
      icon in the upper-right corner of your screen and start typing the name
      of the item you're looking for.
In Snow Leopard, Spotlight only let you search through the files
      on your computer. But in Lion, you can also use the new and improved
      version of Spotlight to search the web or Wikipedia, as shown in Figure 3-29. (The results will
      open with OS X's Dictionary
      application.).
Searching the Internet and Wikipedia aren't the only upgrades to
      Spotlight in Lion. You also get Quick Look previews: just highlight the most
      promising-looking result and Quick Look will give you a detailed look at
      the file or web page. Plus, you can drag and drop things directly from
      Spotlight. Found that GarageBand file you want to send to your pal? Drag
      it right to AirDrop (see AirDrop) to make the
      process quick and painless.
When it's searching your computer, Spotlight works by indexing
      (making a list of) all the files on your Mac according to the files'
      metadata and contents. So if you type "Lake
      Monsters Stole My Thursday" into a document, that bit of data will be
      available to Spotlight. The moment you type "lake monsters stole" into
      Spotlight's search field, you'll see a list of matching files. By the
      time you've typed the entire string into Spotlight, the document you
      typed it into will be the top result.









Figure 3-29. Choose where you want your results to come from




About Metadata
Metadata is information about a file. This includes
        obvious things like the date it was created and its file type, as well
        as a lot of unexpected information. An image's metadata, for example,
        contains information about its size, pixel count, and so on. Spotlight is smart enough
        to realize that when you're searching, you're most likely searching
        for a particular file's name or contents, as opposed to more esoteric
        metadata. So, while Spotlight indexes everything (unless you tell it
        not to—see Controlling what Spotlight indexes), it
        puts results like documents and folders higher on its lists of results
        than more obscure matches (unless you change the order of its
        results—see Controlling the results Spotlight displays). That way, you
        won't be burdened by information overload when performing a Spotlight
        search.





Changing the order of Spotlight's results



You can adjust how Spotlight arranges its results either by
        choosing →System
        Preferences→Spotlight→Search Results or clicking Spotlight
        Preferences at the bottom of any list of Spotlight search results. In
        the window that appears, drag the categories into your preferred
        order.





Controlling the results Spotlight displays



If you don't want your Spotlight search results cluttered with
        stuff you're not interested in, go to System Preferences→Spotlight→Search Results and uncheck the boxes next to
        any categories you find less than compelling. Be aware that not
        returning results from certain categories doesn't mean those files
        aren't indexed; read on to learn how to control
        what Spotlight indexes.





Controlling what Spotlight indexes



There are some things you just don't want indexed: your
        plans for world domination, your Pog value spreadsheet, and so forth.
        To keep the things you want private out of Spotlight's index, go to
        System Preferences→Spotlight→Privacy. Clicking the + button brings up a
        file-browsing window where you can select things you want to keep
        Spotlight from indexing. You can exclude folders or entire disks.
        Unfortunately, you can't exclude a single file, so if you're trying to
        keep just one file out of the index, you either have to exclude the
        folder it's in (along with all of the folder's other contents) or move
        it into its own folder and exclude that.






Managing File Info



As you learned above, Spotlight works by indexing
      metadata. What if you want to add some metadata so Spotlight can find
      files or folders with greater precision? The Info window is your key to
      adding metadata (and changing other things, too). To open an item's Info
      window, select the item in the Finder and then either select File→Get Info or press ⌘-I. The window that appears will look
      something like Figure 3-30.








Figure 3-30. Get Info is a very useful window

This window has several subsections.




Spotlight comments



Here's where you can add terms for Spotlight to use.
        Anything you type here will be indexed by Spotlight and used when it
        searches.





General



This section includes pertinent data about the file (if this
        section is collapsed, click the
        disclosure triangle next to "General"). If you check the "Stationery pad" box (which only appears when
        applicable), the file turns into a read-only file, meaning you can look at it and save it
        as a new file, but you can't save it with the same name as the
        Stationery pad; this effectively turns the file into a template.
        Checking the Lock box locks the file. A locked file is much like a
        Stationery pad, except you can't easily throw it away. You'll get
        warnings when you move a locked file to the Trash, and again when you
        go to empty the Trash.





More Info



Clicking the More Info disclosure triangle reveals where
        the file originated if it wasn't created on your Mac. (The file shown
        in Figure 3-30 happens to be
        the chapter you're reading.)





Name & Extension



This section lets you rename the item and hide its
        extension (by checking the box). You can also change the extension,
        but that will (likely) change which program opens the file. If you
        change the extension, you'll get a warning from Mac OS X.





Open with



This section is surprisingly powerful. You can choose
        the application you want to open this particular file with, or you can
        change what programs open any file with the same extension by clicking
        Change All. Clicking the pop-up menu will reveal suggested choices,
        but if you don't want to trust Mac OS X's advice, you can select Other
        to force a different application to open that file.





Preview



This section shows the same preview of the file that
        you'd see when using the Finder.





Sharing & Permissions



This is where you can fine-tune access to the file. The
        options you're first presented with differ depending on the file, but
        generally concern your account, an admin, and everyone. Those are
        usually enough, but if you really want to control
        who can and can't mess with a particular file, click the + button to
        bring up even more options, as shown in Figure 3-31.









Figure 3-31. Fine-tuning who can share a file


In the window that appears, you can grant access to specific
        individuals. Note that adding someone new (from your Address Book, for
        instance) will bring up a dialog box where you can set a password for the item, and will add a Sharing account to
        your Mac for that person. Adding a new group of people will add a new
        Group account.
Finally, if you've made a bunch of changes to sharing and then
        thought better of it, you can click the gear icon and then undo what
        you have wrought by selecting "Revert changes."

Note
The Sharing & Permissions section also includes a
          lock icon. If you're logged in as a Standard user, you
          can click it to unlock restricted features, such as the Change All
          button in the "Open with" section. However, you'll need the username
          and password of an administrative user to make changes.







Spaces



During a typical day, your Mac's desktop can get
      cluttered. You might have a NeoOffice window open, an iTunes window
      floating about, a Safari window for browsing the Web, and an iMovie
      window open while you make some last minute edits to your vacation
      movie. You're thinking, "Thank goodness for the Application Switcher,"
      but there's a better (and complementary) solution: Spaces.
Spaces allow you to create additional desktops devoted to
      application windows. Sound great? Get started by heading to Mission
      Control (see Mission Control) and adding desktop
      spaces for all your different workflows (up to 16).














Chapter 4. Troubleshooting Mac OS X



Mac OS X is a robust operating system; while problems are rare, they
  do show up from time to time. Since these problems always seem to present
  themselves at the worst possible moment, it helps if you know the best ways
  to troubleshoot them. Troubleshooting is what this chapter is about, and
  it's a great reason to keep this book in your pocket!




Common Problems



There are a lot of things that can go wrong with your Mac:
    Hardware problems, software glitches, and configuration issues can happen
    at any moment. Most of the problems you'll encounter can be easily
    addressed or diagnosed by following the steps in this chapter. If the
    information here doesn't resolve things, you could have a unique issue, in
    which case a trip to the Apple Store or a call to Apple is in
    order.

Note
You can find a complete list of technical support numbers for
      Apple at http://www.apple.com/support/contact/phone_contacts.html.
      In the United States, the number is 1-800-275-2273.





Misbehaving Applications



One of the most common problems on a Mac is an application that
      isn't behaving as expected. This problem comes in many forms: an
      application that unexpectedly quits repeatedly, simply stops responding,
      or just doesn't perform the way it normally does. This section suggests
      ways to resolve all these issues
      and more.




An application stops responding



Occasionally, an application will simply stop reacting
        to anything. Your mouse or trackpad will still work, and other
        programs will be fine, but if you want to use the troublesome program all you'll get is a spinning beach-ball cursor (instead of the mouse
        pointer) and you'll have no way to input anything.
Don't panic—there's an easy fix. Simply right-click or
        Control-click the stalled application's icon in the Dock to bring up
        its Dock menu (Figure 4-1). If you see
        "Application Not Responding" in faint text at the top of the menu,
        you'll also see a Force Quit option. Select Force Quit and Mac OS X
        will kill the program.








Figure 4-1. When an application isn't playing nicely, Force Quit is your
          best option

You may also need another way to kill applications, because
        occasionally a program can become unresponsive without Mac OS X
        realizing that the program is in peril. For these times, launch the
        Force Quit Applications dialog box either by selecting
        →Force Quit or
        using the key combo Option-⌘-Esc. You can also try holding down Shift
        as you click the  menu, then select Force Quit [application name]
        to kill the frontmost application.
There's some good news when it comes to force-quitting
        applications in Lion. In previous versions of OS X, any changes you
        made between the last time you saved a document and the moment the
        application started misbehaving were gone forever. But Lion includes
        Auto Save, a new feature that automatically saves your
        work as you go. So if you're forced to quit an application, Lion
        preserves the work you've done since the last time you saved.

Warning
For the time being, "Save early, save often" is still good
          advice, since Lion's Auto Save feature only works with applications
          specifically built with Auto Save in mind. That means that work you
          do in apps designed for Lion will be saved, but applications that
          haven't been updated for Lion won't
          automatically save your work.






The Finder stops responding



The Finder is just another program, so it can get hung
        up, too. If that happens, either head to →Force Quit or
        use the key combination ⌘-Option-Esc. If nothing happens, try clicking
        the Dock or some other application first, and
        then use the  menu or ⌘-Option-Esc to invoke the Force Quit
        dialog box.

Note
When you select an application in the Force Quit dialog box,
          the dialog box's button reads "Force Quit." However, if you select
          the Finder, the button reads "Relaunch" instead. Why the change in nomenclature? Unlike every
          other application, the Finder will be restarted immediately after
          it's forced to quit.






Force quitting greedy processes



If you suspect something is eating up too much processor time or
        too many system resources (because your Mac is running really
        slowly, say, or the fans are running at full speed for no obvious
        reason), Force Quit won't help you figure out which application is
        hogging all the resources. Instead, open Activity Monitor (Applications→Utilities→Activity Monitor), click its CPU tab, and then look for any processes that are using
        a lot of CPU resources for more than a few seconds. (Safari and its
        helper applications occasionally do this, particularly with runaway
        Flash or JavaScript code.) When you identify a suspect, single-click
        the renegade process's name and then click the big red Quit Process button in the upper-left corner of the
        Activity Monitor window (you can't miss it—it's shaped like a stop
        sign).

Warning
Be careful which applications you quit in this way. There are
          some programs that your Mac runs in the background, and many of
          these are important in helping your computer operate normally.
          Here's a rule of thumb: if you don't recognize the name of the
          program as an application that you launched, don't kill it. Instead,
          do a Google search on its name (for good measure, include the terms
          "Mac OS X" and "cpu," too). Chances are good you'll find a solution
          for whatever is causing that process to use up so much CPU
          time.






USB device problems



It seems like computers never have enough USB ports, so
        most of us end up using USB hubs (or keyboards that have extra USB
        ports). Then we plug some fantastic new USB device into the hub—and it
        doesn't work. In fact, if you dig through System Information (it's in
        the /Applications/Utilities folder) and look at
        the USB Device Tree (click USB in the list on the left), the hub shows
        up, but not the device.
Often the problem is that the device requires a powered USB port and you're using
        an unpowered hub (or you've maxed out the power capabilities of the
        hub or port). Switching to a powered hub might fix the problem, but it
        isn't guaranteed. What works most often is plugging the device
        directly into your Mac, which means you'll need to shuffle your
        various USB devices around. If any of them can run off of their own
        external power supply rather than taking power from the USB port, that
        may help as well (sometimes these power supplies are sold separately;
        check with the device's manufacturer).
The second method of attacking USB device problems is a little
        more involved. First, shut down your Mac and unplug all the USB
        devices (even the ones that use external power supplies). Reboot your
        Mac, and then plug them back in one at a time while watching at the
        USB Device Tree (it's updated quickly so you'll see each device appear
        as it's plugged in) to see which device isn't playing nicely with
        others.
Sometimes going through this process results in all of the
        devices suddenly working. But if you figure out that only a certain
        device isn't working, the fix may be to install a new driver for it.
        Check the manufacturer's website for updates.

Note
Some USB devices, such as a GPS unit or other gadget that behaves like a serial
          port, rely on a chipset from a different manufacturer than the one
          that makes the device. Two common sources of USB-serial devices are
          Prolific
          and FTDI.






Battery problems



MacBook users are faced with a problem that desktop
        users don't have to worry about: the battery. The goal of most Apple
        batteries is to still provide 80% of the original charge capacity after a certain number of cycles
        (charges and discharges). The number of cycles varies depending on
        your machine. For Lion-capable MacBooks, the cycle count is either 750 or 1000 cycles (depending on
        the model). If you notice your battery isn't holding a charge for as
        long as it used to, the first thing to do is launch System Information
        (Applications→Utilities→System Information) and then click Power in
        the list on the left; see Figure 4-2.








Figure 4-2. The Power section of System Information tells you all about
          your battery

The Battery Information list includes your battery's full charge
        capacity, how many cycles it's been through, and its condition. If the
        condition is listed as Replace Soon or something equally ominous, it's
        likely time to think about getting a new battery. If the cycle count
        is low but the battery is still running out of
        juice prematurely, here are a couple of things you can try:



Calibrate the battery


Inside every MacBook battery is a microcontroller
              that tells your computer how long the battery is going to last
              until it runs out of juice. Over time, this estimation can get
              farther and farther from real-world performance. To get the
              computer and the microcontroller on the same page, you need to
              recalibrate the battery from time to time. To do so, fully
              charge the battery and then keep your computer plugged into the
              power adapter for two more hours. Next, unplug the power adapter
              and fully drain the battery. When a warning pops up alerting you that the battery is
              running dangerously low, save your work and keep on trucking
              until your computer automatically goes to sleep. Then let the
              computer sleep for more than five hours to make sure every drop
              of power is gone. Finally, plug in the power adapter and let
              your computer fully charge. The battery indicator should now be
              successfully recalibrated.

Note
If your MacBook has an internal battery, Apple recommends
                not calibrating the battery because these
                internal batteries should only be serviced by an authorized
                repair center.



Reset the SMC


SMC is short for the System Management Controller,
              a chip that's responsible for hard drive spin-down, sleep and wake, and
              backlighting. A malfunctioning SMC can prevent the battery from
              charging, so you need to reset the SMC. How you do that depends
              on whether your MacBook has an internal or external battery. If
              it has an external battery, shut it down, unplug the power
              adapter from the wall and the computer, and then remove the
              battery. Next, press the power button for five seconds. After
              that, replace the battery, plug in the power adapter, and then
              restart the computer. If your MacBook has an internal battery,
              shut the computer down and plug it into an adapter that is
              getting power. On the left side of the keyboard, hold down Left
              Shift-Control-Option and then press the power button. Keep these
              buttons depressed (including the power button) for five seconds
              and then release them all simultaneously. Pat yourself on the
              back for pulling off an impressive feat of manual dexterity and
              then press the power button to restart the computer.



If those remedies don't restore your battery, it's likely time
        for a trip to your local Apple Store or authorized repair center. If
        your computer is under warranty and your cycle count is low, Apple
        will probably replace the battery. If your cycle count is over the
        recommended number and the performance degradation is within
        expectations, you'll probably need to have the battery replaced or
        live with the reduced (and ever-shrinking) battery capacity.

Note
Like many computer makers, Apple has had its share of battery
          recalls, both for safety and performance reasons. So
          check with Apple to see if your battery is under recall. If so, it's
          likely that Apple will replace the battery even if your computer is
          out of warranty.






Display problems



Most Macs come with a built-in display that doesn't
        require special configuration, so display problems are uncommon. When
        they do happen, they're often caused by user error. The fix, while
        usually easy, isn't readily apparent. Here are some things to
        try:



Fuzzy/tiny display


If your display is fuzzy or everything is suddenly bigger
              than you remember, it's possible that someone changed the
              display's resolution (on some systems, this may also manifest
              itself as a small screen with black bars around its edges). Head
              to Applications→System
              Preferences→Displays and look for the
              monitor's native resolution (on Macs with built-in displays,
              this is usually the highest resolution available at the top of
              the list). Once you select the optimal resolution, things should
              look normal again.


Your display moves with your mouse


I've received several panicked calls and emails
              about this issue. The weird thing is that it always happens when
              children under five are on your lap while you're using your
              computer. Is there some kind of kid detector in your Mac that
              causes this? Of course not. Your kid just pressed some keys
              while you were working. (If you don't have kids or lap cats,
              then it was probably you.)
There are a couple of key combinations that will cause
              your Mac to zoom the screen. The most common is holding down
              Control while you zoom in or out with your mouse or trackpad.
              Once you're zoomed in, your mouse will suddenly start dragging
              the screen around, which is disconcerting if you are not
              expecting it. To turn it off, hold down Control and zoom out
              with your trackpad or mouse wheel. There are a couple of other
              key sequences that can be invoked accidentally: Option-⌘-8
              toggles keyboard zooming on and off, and holding down = or −
              while pressing Option-⌘ zooms in or out, respectively.









Startup Problems



A misbehaving application is bad enough, but a Mac that
      won't start properly is truly disconcerting. The good news is that most
      such problems are repairable. The general method of attack in this case
      is to get your Mac to a state where you can run Disk Utility and repair the drive. However, there are some
      situations where you can't even get to that point.




Your Mac beeps at you instead of starting



If your Mac just beeps when you try to start it up, it's
        trying to tell you something: one beep means there's no memory (RAM) installed, and three beeps means your RAM
        doesn't pass integrity check. (This goes for Intel Macs only; Power
        PC Macs have slightly different beeps, but they can't run Lion.) The
        problem could be a bad RAM module, so you'll need to open up your Mac
        and replace the module.
Try installing some memory that you're certain is fully
        functional to see if that resolves the problem. If you don't have any
        spare memory lying around, try removing each RAM module and replacing
        them one by one until you've isolated the bad module.

Note
If you don't know how to replace memory in your Mac, check the
          user guide that came with it. Or if your Mac is still under
          warranty, just take it into an Apple Store for service.






Your hard drive is making noises



If you suspect you've got a physical hard drive problem,
        you need to check things out quickly before they get much, much worse.
        If you hear a strange noise coming from your machine, that's an
        obvious sign of a hard drive problem; but these problems can also be indicated by the
        computer stalling for several seconds at a time (or making a clicking
        sound when stalling).
Just as with a car, when a bad sound is emanating from your hard
        drive, it's usually a bad thing. If you've ever listened to the
        National Public Radio show Car Talk, you know
        that one of the highlights is when callers try to imitate the sounds
        their cars are making. If you're inclined to try identifying your hard
        drive's sound by ear, head over to http://datacent.com/hard_drive_sounds.php and take a
        listen to the sounds of dying drives, sorted by manufacturer.

Warning
If your hard drive is failing, you're likely to lose more data
          every moment it's running. If you don't have current backups, your
          best bet is to replace the drive immediately, and either seek a
          data recovery professional or, if you don't have the
          money for that, install the damaged drive in an external drive
          enclosure and use the GNU ddrescue utility (http://www.gnu.org/software/ddrescue) to recover the
          data on the damaged drive.

If you aren't hearing any obviously unusual sounds but still
        suspect your hard drive is causing your problems, head to Disk Utility
        (Applications→Utilities→Disk Utility) and check the S.M.A.R.T. status
        of the drive.
Using a computer means loving acronyms, and this time the
        acronym is clever, if a little forced: S.M.A.R.T. stands for Self-Monitoring Analysis and
        Reporting Technology. The idea behind S.M.A.R.T. is that many hard
        disk failures are predictable and computer users, if given a heads-up
        that their hard drive is on the verge of failing, will be able to
        recover data before the failure actually happens.
        You can discover your drive's S.M.A.R.T. status by opening Disk
        Utility and selecting the disk you're worried about in the list on the
        left. In the lower-right part of the Disk Utility window, you'll see
        the S.M.A.R.T. Status (Figure 4-3): either
        Verified (everything is fine) or "About to Fail." If you get the "About to Fail" notice,
        don't waste any time: if your Mac is under warranty, take it into an
        Apple Store; otherwise, back up your data as soon as possible and
        start pricing out a new drive.








Figure 4-3. This drive is fine


Warning
S.M.A.R.T. isn't perfect (that's no surprise—nothing is). You
          can have a problematic drive that S.M.A.R.T. won't recognize. So if
          you're having consistent problems and S.M.A.R.T. keeps telling you
          everything is fine, don't discount the drive as the source of the
          problems after you've exhausted other fixes.






Startup troubleshooting



Thankfully, the hardware failures just described are
        relatively rare. Much more common are software failures. Corrupt
        files, wonky login items, and even font problems can cause a startup
        failure. These issues are generally repairable, hopefully without data
        loss. Unfortunately, when you have one of these problems, the cause
        isn't immediately obvious. When faced with a Mac that won't boot,
        there are a few things you can try to get your computer back to a
        usable state:



Restart your Mac


A lot happens when Mac OS X starts up: it checks
              your Mac's hardware, prepares the system software, and more.
              During the startup process, there are ample opportunities for
              something to go wrong, especially right after you install an
              update to Mac OS X or even an application. If your Mac won't
              complete the startup sequence, don't panic; simply restart the
              machine by holding down the power button until you hear a chime;
              chances are everything will be fine.

Warning
If you see a flashing question mark when you try to start
                your Mac, it means that your machine can't find its startup
                disk. In that case, skip ahead to "Restart in Recovery Mode,"
                below.



Safe Boot


If a simple restart doesn't do the trick, it means
              you have problems that persist across restarts, so the next step
              is a Safe Boot. In Safe Mode, all your Mac's startup items are
              disabled, font caches are cleared, and some other possibly
              problematic items are avoided. More important, Safe Boot gives
              you a chance to run Disk Utility, uninstall any software that
              may be misbehaving, or back up your data before whatever is
              causing the problem gets worse. To get your Mac to boot into
              Safe Mode, hold down the Shift key after you hear the startup
              chime and release the key when you see the spinning wheel
              appear. Once the Mac is booted,
              run Disk Utility (Applications→Utilities→Disk Utility).

Note
When you're booting in Safe Mode, the Login window
                automatically appears even if you usually use Automatic Login on your Mac. Don't be alarmed by
                the change—it's a sign that Safe Mode is working as
                expected.



Restart in Recovery Mode


Before Lion, one remedy to try when your Mac went
              bad was to boot from the DVD you either got with your Mac or
              purchased when you upgraded to Snow Leopard. But since you don't
              use any physical media—DVD or otherwise—when you install Lion,
              this trick won't work anymore. Fortunately, Apple realizes that,
              when problems occur, you might need to boot your Mac from a
              different source than usual, so Lion includes Recovery
              Mode.

Note
You need to be connected to the Internet to use
                Recovery Mode to reinstall Lion. The Reinstall Lion option
                will download every byte of the Lion installer, so you might
                want to try other fixes before going through with the entire
                process.

Recovery Mode allows you to boot from a virtual partition
              called Recovery HD. When you boot into Recovery Mode, you'll
              find yourself running a special system that lets you restore
              your Mac from a Time Machine backup, reinstall Lion, use Safari
              to look for solutions to your problem online, or run Disk
              Utility. (Don't be afraid to launch Safari even if you're
              not connected to the Internet; there's a static web page with
              basic instructions that automatically opens when you launch
              Safari.)

Note
You can only run one application at a time in Recovery
                Mode, so if you're running Disk Utility, say, you can't also
                launch Safari. Being aware of this limitation can save you
                some frustration and endless restarts.

In addition to Recovery Mode's obvious choices, you can
              also run Firmware Password Utility, Network Utility, and Terminal by visiting the Utilities drop-down menu
              at the top of the screen. With all of these options, most users
              will find the choices presented in the Mac OS X Utilities window
              sufficient to fix their Mac woes.
Here's how to boot your Mac in Recovery Mode (the process
              should be familiar if you've booted Macs from alternative disks
              before): hold down the Option key while starting your Mac.
              You'll be presented with a screen that shows all the viable
              startup partitions available. Choose Recovery HD and you'll be
              well on your way to diagnosing (and hopefully fixing) whatever
              problem is currently plaguing your Mac.




Note
If you have a brand-new Mac (one that came with Lion
          installed), you have one more trick you can use: Internet Recovery.
          If something terrible happens to your machine (a massive hard drive
          failure, say) or you want to install Lion onto a completely blank
          hard drive, hold down the Option key while starting your Mac, and
          then choose Internet Recovery. Once you tell your computer which
          network to use, it will boot from Apple's servers. Once booted, your
          Mac will download the Recovery HD image from Apple. After that, the
          process is the same as for a standard Lion reinstall.

This section emphasized tools that come with Lion because, well,
        if you've installed Lion, you have access to these tools. But you
        should be aware that these tools aren't the only ones available when
        things go wrong. There are several disk repair programs available (many of which are more
        powerful than Disk Utility) from third parties, such as DiskWarrior
        (http://www.alsoft.com/DiskWarrior) and TechTool
        Pro (http://www.micromat.com).





Reset your PRAM



This maneuver gets its own section only because it's one
        of the oldest troubleshooting techniques in Mac history.
PRAM (parameter random access memory) is where your Mac stores
        many of its hardware settings. Resetting the PRAM almost never
        resolves a startup issue, but it's something Apple support usually
        asks you to do when troubleshooting a problem (and it does, in some
        rare cases, help). To reset the PRAM, turn on your Mac,
        immediately press and hold Option-⌘-P-R, and
        continue to hold the keys until your Mac restarts and you hear the
        startup chime a total of three times. After you do this, you may have
        to reconfigure some of the system settings (like date, time, and
        possibly keyboard/mouse settings if you've customized them).
















Chapter 5. System Preferences



Out of the box, the Mac is a fantastic machine. Its graphical
  interface is clean and uncluttered, you can use it to accomplish tasks with
  a minimum of frustration, and everything performs exactly how you expect it
  to. That honeymoon lasts for somewhere between 10 seconds and a week. While
  everything is great at first, you'll soon find yourself saying, "Man, it
  sure would be better if...." When this happens, your first stop should be
  System Preferences.
Apple knows that different people want different behaviors from their
  Macs. While Lion can't possibly accommodate everything that everyone might
  want to do, most of the changes you are likely to want to make are built
  right into Lion.
System Preferences, which you can get to by clicking the silver-framed
  gears icon in the Dock (unless you've removed it from the Dock, in which
  case you can find it in the Applications folder or the  menu), is the place to make your Mac uniquely yours.
  But as you'll see later in this chapter, you can make some tweaks by going
  beyond System Preferences.
One thing that will inevitably happen while you're adjusting your
  System Preferences is that you'll make a change and later decide that it was
  a mistake. For example, say you adjust the time it takes for your Mac to go
  to sleep and later decide that Apple had it right out of the box.
  Fortunately, many preference panes feature a Restore Defaults button that resets the settings in that
  particular pane to the factory defaults.
Lion comes with 28 preference panes, each of which controls a bevy of
  related preferences. With all those options, how will you remember where to
  find every setting? For example, are the settings for display sleep under
  Energy Saver or Displays? Lion makes it easy to find the right preference
  pane by including a search box in the System Preferences window (Mac OS X is big
  on search boxes). Type in what you're looking for and the likely choices get
  highlighted, and you'll see a list of suggested searches (Figure 5-1).









Figure 5-1. Searching for "alerts" in System Preferences. Lion highlights the
    best candidates and suggests other searches.



Note
Try searching for one term at a time. For example, if you can't find
    the settings for putting your display to sleep by searching for "display
    sleep," try searching for "display" or "sleep" instead.





Preference Pane Rundown



With so many preference panes, it's hard to keep track of what they
    all do. This section describes each one.
The System Preferences window is divided into five categories:
    Personal, Hardware, Internet & Wireless, System, and Other. Other is
    reserved for non-Apple preference panes and doesn't appear until you've
    installed at least one third-party preference pane (which usually, but not
    always, is part of a third-party application).
Some preferences, such as those that affect all users of the
    computer, need to be unlocked before you can use them. (If a preference
    pane is locked, there will be a lock icon in its lower left.) These
    can only be unlocked by a user who has administrative access. On most Macs, the first user you
    create has those privileges. If you don't have administrative privileges,
    you'll need to find the person who does and have him
    or her type in the username and password before you can make
    changes.




General



This preference pane used to be called Appearance. It lets
      you tweak the look and feel of Mac OS X. The first two options control
      colors. The Appearance setting controls the overall look of buttons, menus, and windows and has two choices: blue or
      gray. The Highlight setting controls the color used for text you've
      selected and offers more choices, including selecting your own color
      (choose Other).
The second section of this pane lets you decide when you want the
      scroll bar to show up. "Automatically based on input device" leaves the
      decision up to your Mac; "When scrolling" means the bars only show up when you're
      actively scrolling; and, for those who long for the days of Snow
      Leopard, "Always" keeps them visible all the time. No matter which
      option you choose you're stuck with gray scroll bars—no more colorful
      scrolling.
You'll also find options to modify what happens when you click a
      scroll bar. You can set it to automatically jump to the next page or to
      the spot that you clicked. The difference between these options is not
      trivial: if you're looking at a lengthy web page or a thousand-page
      document, opting for "Jump to next page" means it'll take a lot of clicks to
      reach the end, whereas "Jump to the spot that's clicked" could shoot all
      the way to the end in a flash.
You'll also find settings that control smooth scrolling, whether
      double-clicking a window's title bar minimizes the window, and the
      size of the icons in Mac OS X's various sidebars. (The
      most obvious sidebar is in the Finder, but if you adjust the "Sidebar icon size" setting, other sidebars—like
      Mail's—will also change.)
By default, Lion shows your 10 most recent applications,
      documents, and servers in the  menu's Recent Items submenu, but you can change
      that number here. And new in Lion, you'll also find a "Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps"
      checkbox. This is enabled by default, so if you find yourself annoyed
      that, say, Safari is reopening all the windows you had open when you
      restart the app, this is where you can kill that behavior.





Desktop & Screen Saver



The Desktop & Screen Saver preference pane has two tabs. The Desktop tab
      lets you change the desktop background (also known as wallpaper). You can use
      the Apple-supplied images, solid colors, or pictures from your iPhoto
      Library. You can even specify a whole folder of images by clicking the +
      button in the lower-left corner.
If you pick an image of your own, you can control how the image is
      displayed by selecting Fill Screen, Fit to Screen, Stretch to Fill Screen, Center, or Tile from the menu to the right of the image preview. If
      you like a little liveliness, you can tell your computer to change the
      desktop picture periodically. Apple supplies options ranging from every
      five seconds to every time you log in or wake from sleep. And if you
      want your menu bar to be solid instead of see-through, turn off
      "Translucent menu bar" here.

Warning
If you choose to change the picture periodically without
        carefully vetting the source images, you'll likely be presented with
        something completely useless, confusing, or embarrassing at a random
        moment.

For something as seemingly mundane as a screensaver, you can get a
      lot out of the Screen Saver preference pane. Apple includes several
      built-in screensavers; while most are just abstract animations (sadly no flying toasters), there are two that
      are a bit more informative: RSS Visualizer lets you watch an RSS feed roll across the
      screen; to change which feed is displayed, click Options and then change
      the URL. "Word of the Day" works exactly how you might imagine: you
      get a word and a definition. But since it's from Apple, it's rendered
      more beautifully than any other word-of-the-day display you can
      find.
All your iPhoto pictures are listed here, too; you can choose your
      entire library or a specific event, album, or MobileMe (soon to be
      iCloud) gallery. If you specify a collection of pictures, you can change
      the way the pictures are displayed. The Display Style buttons just below the preview let you
      choose between Slideshow, Collage, and Mosaic. Click the Options button for even more control
      over how the pictures are displayed.
Can't decide on a screensaver? Let your Mac select one for you;
      just check the "Use random screen saver" box. Right below that is another
      checkbox that superimposes a clock over your screensaver. The Test
      button lets you see your screensaver in action before you commit to
      it.
The "Start screen saver" slider beneath the Preview window lets
      you control how long you have to be inactive before the screensaver
      kicks in. If you make this delay longer than the delay set for your Mac
      to sleep, you'll see a yellow warning sign below the slider. Don't
      worry, nothing bad will happen—you'll just never see the screensaver
      because, by the time it kicks in, the screen will already be
      blank.
If you'd like the screensaver to kick in on demand—handy when
      you're messing around online and the boss walks in—you can set a
      hot corner that lets you invoke the
      screensaver right away. Click the Hot Corners button in the lower-left
      corner of the Screen Saver pane and you'll get a new window with options
      for every corner. Use the drop-down menus to set options for any corner
      you want; when you move your mouse to that corner, it fires up the
      screensaver (or does whatever you selected earlier). The only downside
      of setting hot corners is that you have eight options for each corner,
      so unless you want to use a modifier key with the corner, you don't have
      enough corners to use all the options.

Note
By using modifier keys (you can choose from Shift, ⌘, Option, and
        Control), you can get a single corner to do many different things. To
        add a modifier key to a hot corner, hold down the modifier key while
        you select what you want the hot corner to do from the Active Screen Corners window's menus. Using modifiers
        with hot corners not only gives you extra flexibility, it prevents you
        from accidentally invoking the hot corner action when you're mousing
        around.






Dock



You won't find a lot of options in the Dock preference
      pane, but you get control over the most important aspects of the Dock.
      You can change its size—from illegibly small to ridiculously large—with
      the aptly named Size slider, which works in real time so you can see the
      change as you're making it.
If you turn on Magnification, the application or document you're mousing
      over will become larger than the rest of the items in your Dock. How
      much larger? Use the Magnification slider to determine that.
If you want to move the Dock somewhere else, click one of the
      three "Position on screen" radio buttons: Left, Bottom, or Right. (Top
      isn't an option because you don't want the Dock to compete with the menu
      bar.)
The "Minimize windows using" menu lets you choose which
      animation your Mac uses when you minimize a window: the Genie effect or Scale. (These days, this is just a matter of personal
      preference, but in the early days of Mac OS X, some machines weren't fast enough to render the
      Genie effect.)
The "Minimize windows into application icon" setting determines
      where your windows go when you click the yellow button found at the
      upper left of almost every window. If you leave this unchecked,
      minimized windows appear on the right side of the Dock (or the bottom of
      it if you put the Dock on the left or right side of your screen). If you
      turn on this checkbox, you'll save space in the Dock, but to restore
      minimized application windows, you'll have to right-click or
      Control-click the appropriate application's icon in the Dock, select the
      minimized window from the application's window menu, or invoke Mission
      Control.
There's also a checkbox labeled "Animate opening applications," which sounds like more fun
      than it actually is. All it does is control whether applications' icons
      bounce when you launch them. If you turn this option off, you'll still
      be able to tell when an application is starting because the dot that
      appears under it (or next to it, if the Dock is positioned on the left
      or right) will pulse (unless you've turned off the indicator lights, as
      explained in a sec). If you turn on "Automatically hide and show the Dock," it will remain
      hidden until you move the mouse above or next to it.
The blue dots that indicate that an application is running
      really bother some people. If the blue dots are the bane of your
      existence, Lion offers something new: a way to turn them off. That's
      right, unchecking the box next to "Show indicator lights for open applications" will make
      the blue dots go away. To figure out which apps are running once you've
      banished the dots, use Mission Control or the Application
      Switcher.





Mission Control



The Exposé & Spaces preference pane has been replaced by Mission
      Control (see Mission Control). This pane allows you
      to adjust how you invoke Mission Control and what happens when you
      do.
You'll find an option to display Dashboard as a desktop space, which is turned on by
      default; this setting puts a mini-sized Dashboard screen at the top of
      your screen with your other spaces. You can opt to have OS X arrange
      your spaces so that the ones you've used most recently are at the top of
      the list; if you like to manually set your spaces, uncheck this option.
      You can also have OS X switch you to a space with an open window when
      you switch applications. With this option on (which it is by default),
      if you have a space with a Safari window open, say, and you switch to
      Safari from another space or full-screen application, the space you
      switch to will have a Safari window open already. If you
      turn this option off, you might find yourself in a space without an open
      window for the application you just switched to, which can be
      confusing.
You also get to change the shortcuts used to invoke Mission
      Control, Application windows, Show Desktop, and Show Dashboard. Finally, the Hot Corners button lets you define what your Mac does when
      you slide your mouse to a corner of the screen (everything from
      launching Mission Control to putting your display to sleep).





Language & Text



The Language tab of the Language & Text preference
      pane lets you set the language your Mac uses.
The Text tab is helpful if you spend much time typing. It
      includes a list of symbol and text substitutions your Mac performs, which
      lets you do things like type (r) and have it automatically show up as ®.
      Even better, you can add your own substitutions.
      Click the + button below the list to add whatever text you want
      substituted and what you want to replace it with; make sure the checkbox
      to its left is turned on, and your Mac should make that fix
      automatically from then on. This won't work in every application, but in
      the supported ones, text substitutions can save you a lot of
      effort.
On the Text tab, you can also adjust how Mac OS X checks your
      spelling (the default is automatic by language, but you can have it
      check everything for French even if your Mac is using English). The
      Word Break setting affects how words are selected when you
      double-click on a word, and two drop-down menus let you customize how
      double and single smart quotes are formatted.
From the Formats tab, you can control the format of the date, time,
      and numbers on your machine; pick which currency symbols you want to
      use; and pick between US (imperial) and metric units of
      measurement.
On the Input Sources tab, you can turn on "Show Input menu in menu bar," which adds a multicolor
      flag to the otherwise grayscale menu bar. If you check the box labeled
      Keyboard & Character Viewer (at the top of the list of input
      sources), you'll be able to launch the Character Viewer and Keyboard
      Viewer from the menu bar.
The "Input source" list lets you select the language you want to
      type in. You can choose anything from Afghan Dari to Welsh, which can
      mean a lot of scrolling. To speed things up, use the search box at the
      bottom of the window to find the language you are after.
You can choose as many languages as you like and switch between
      them using the flag menu extra that appears in your menu bar
      automatically when you select multiple languages. So you don't have to spend all
      day changing languages, you can assign the languages globally or locally, respectively, using the radio
      buttons labeled "Use the same one in all documents" and "Allow a
      different one for each document."





Security & Privacy



The Security & Privacy preference pane is likely one
      of the most useful and most overlooked panes in OS X. Take your time
      setting up these preferences and your data will be much safer than if
      you stick with the defaults. Ignore this pane and people can see more of
      your data than you probably want to share, particularly if they have
      physical access to your Mac. This pane features four tabs: General,
      FileVault, Firewall, and Privacy.




General tab



If you want to spend 30 seconds making your Mac much safer, the
        General tab is the place to visit. The first option on this tab is
        "Require password ___ after sleep or screen saver
        begins," which lets you fill in that blank with "immediately" or a
        duration. This makes it so that anyone who wants to use your computer
        has to enter a password if the screensaver has started or if your Mac
        has been asleep. This requires more typing on your part, but it is
        likely worth the inconvenience, especially if you're using your Mac in
        an open setting. Not requiring a password lets
        anyone who walks by shake your mouse and start poking around. So
        unless you log out every time you're away from your Mac for more than
        30 seconds, seriously consider enabling this option.
The rest of the options in the General tab are for administrators only. You can click the lock in the pane's lower left and then type in
        an administrator username and password to make changes to the
        following settings:



Disable automatic login


Checking this box means all users will have to log
              in each time the computer is restarted.


Require an administrator password to access system
            preferences with lock icons


System Preferences can be powerful, so you
              wouldn't want just anyone mucking with them. Check this box to
              force users to authenticate before changing any preferences in a
              pane that has a lock icon in its lower-left corner.


Log out after __ minutes of activity


This is a little redundant if you already require
              a password to wake the computer or get past the screensaver, but
              for total control, this is a better option. You can force your
              Mac to log out after any period of inactivity between 1 and 960
              minutes (that's 16 hours!). This option will attempt to shut
              down any applications you're running, so save your work before
              you wander away (at least until Auto Save is universally
              supported).


Show a message when the screen is locked


Turn on this setting and type the message that you
              want to appear under the login window when your screen is
              locked.


Automatically update safe downloads list


This setting, which is turned on by default, lets
              you opt out of Safari's daily update of safe downloads. These
              updates help protect you against malware such as MacDefender.mpkg. If you download a
              dangerous file and it is on Apple's list of known malicious software, you'll get a message telling
              you to move it to the Trash. (The list is stored on your Mac but
              gets updated every day.) Turn off this setting and you're taking
              chances you don't want to take.


Disable remote control infrared receiver


By default, your Mac (unless it's a Mac Pro) will
              accept input from almost any infrared device. This can pose a
              security risk and be very annoying if you're using Apple TV and
              your laptop. Turn this behavior off by checking the box. If you
              want to use a remote with your Mac but have it ignore all
              other remotes, click the Pair button and
              follow the instructions that appear.








FileVault tab



Lion includes the new and improved FileVault 2, which
        provides an extra layer of security for your data. When enabled,
        FileVault encrypts your entire drive with XTS-AES 128 encryption, the same algorithm used by
        governments to protect classified data. You might think all that
        encrypting and decrypting would burden your system, but Mac OS X
        manages this trick on the fly so you'll never notice a substantial
        slowdown because of FileVault.
FileVault is turned off by default, but if you decide to enable
        it, your computer will generate a 24-character recovery key. Committing that key to memory will be a
        chore, so you can opt to store the key with Apple by choosing the
        appropriate radio button when the next page pops up. If you do choose
        to store your key with Apple, it will be encrypted. Apple will only
        issue the key if you can answer a security question exactly how you
        answered it during setup. (In other words, you won't have to remember
        the long security key, but you will have to
        remember the answer.) After you make your choice, restart your Mac and
        your disk will be encrypted.

Warning
If you forget your login password and
          lose your recovery key, your data is gone forever.






Firewall tab



The Firewall tab deals with your Internet and network
        connections. The default setting is off, which means your Mac will
        listen to and respond to just about anything coming over the network:
        network traffic, pings, and assorted signals that you're never aware
        of. Surprisingly, this usually isn't a problem if you use your home
        network or other trusted network all the time. Your router (or the
        router of other trusted networks) has a firewall built in, so your
        Mac's firewall will be a bit redundant. But if you're constantly
        joining iffy WiFi hotspots with your MacBook, you will likely want to
        enable the firewall.
To do that, check the lock icon in the pane's lower left and, if it's locked,
        click it and then type in your administrator name and password. Then
        simply click the Start button. The light next to the Firewall status
        entry will turn green to let you know the firewall is up and
        running.
Now that the firewall is running, you might be wondering what
        it's actually doing. To find out, click the Advanced button. When you do, you'll get some options
        that let you tweak how Lion's firewall performs. The first one is
        "Block all incoming connections"; if you check this box,
        Lion will only listen to incoming connections for very specific,
        necessary network communications. You'll also see a message appear
        warning you that turning on this setting prohibits you from using
        sharing services such as screen sharing and file sharing.
A less inhibiting option is "Automatically allow signed software to receive incoming
        connections." With this setting turned on (which it is by default when
        the firewall is enabled), software that's been signed (meaning its
        author is known to Apple and Mac OS X has confirmed that it hasn't
        been altered or corrupted) is allowed to receive incoming connections.
        Every Apple application on your Mac has been signed, so you won't need
        to worry about killing any of the built-in applications. You can also
        give applications the green light even if they aren't signed by
        clicking the + button; this lets you add them to the list of programs
        that are allowed to communicate.

Note
You don't need to try to think of all your unsigned applications and add them to this list. A
          better tactic is to wait for an application to try to connect to the
          network; if it's unsigned, Mac OS X will ask if you want to allow it
          to accept incoming connections. Click Accept and that program will
          be added to this list.

If you check the box next to "Enable stealth mode," your Mac will be less visible on
        the network. For example, should some nefarious person try to scan all
        ports at your IP for a way in, they'll get no response; it'll seem
        like no computer exists at the scanned IP address. However, network activity you engage in,
        such as visiting a web page or checking your email, can reveal your
        presence on the network.





Privacy



This tab is new in Lion. It includes an option that
        allows your computer to send certain data to Apple; this is turned on
        by default. There's also an area where you can turn off location
        services (also on by default) for applications that try to determine
        where you are.






Spotlight



The Spotlight preference pane has two tabs. The Search
      Results tab lets you adjust the order of results returned by Spotlight
      searches (drag items in the list here to change their order in results)
      and change the Spotlight menu and window shortcuts. The Privacy tab
      allows you to exclude folders and disks (but not individual files) from
      Spotlight's searches. For more on Spotlight, see Searching with Spotlight.





Universal Access



Universal Access settings are designed for people with
      impairments that prevent them from using their Macs in a standard
      manner—but they can be fun for anyone who wants to
      use a Mac in a nonstandard manner.
At the bottom of the pane are two checkboxes: one that lets you
      enable access for assistive devices (such as touchscreens and pointing devices) and one that adds a Universal Access
      menu extra to the menu bar.
Each of the preference pane's four tabs controls a different
      method of interacting with your Mac.




Seeing tab



This tab includes radio buttons for turning VoiceOver (Mac OS X's built-in screen-reading utility) on or off. You'll also find
        buttons for enabling screen zooming. If you want to customize how your
        Mac zooms, click the Options button to access a bunch of zoom-related
        settings. The Display section of the Seeing tab has two radio buttons:
         "Black on white" is the standard display; "White on
        black" inverts your screen so that everything from your desktop image
        to your Dock icons is displayed in the opposite colors—black turns
        white, green turns purple, etc. If you want to eschew color
        altogether, check the "Use grayscale" box (a great way to simulate a retro
        computing experience). The Enhance Contrast slider bumps up the contrast, making
        subtle details harder to see but text easier to read.
The "Zoom in window" setting allows you to magnify a single
        window instead of your entire screen. Clicking the Options button next
        to it lets you fine-tune the zoomed window: set the magnification,
        invoke a preview rectangle, smooth out images, and decide whether you
        want to zoom to follow your keyboard. You'll also discover radio
        buttons that control how the screen behaves when zoomed. You can have
        the screen move to wherever the pointer is, move only when the pointer
        reaches an edge, or move so that the pointer is at (or near) the
        center of the image. You'll also get an option to use a scroll wheel and a modifier key of your choice to zoom
        the window.





Hearing tab



On the Hearing tab, you can choose to have your Mac's
        screen flash instead of using audio alerts (quite useful when
        your Mac is muted), and there's an option to play stereo audio as mono.





Keyboard tab



For some, pressing the various keystrokes required to
        operate a Mac can be challenging. Sticky Keys, which is controlled by the options at the
        top of the Keyboard tab, solves this problem. Instead of being forced
        to hit multiple keys at the same time (such as ⌘ and P to print),
        enabling Sticky Keys makes your Mac interpret pressing ⌘ and then
        pressing P as if you'd pressed them simultaneously. You'll also find
        checkboxes that allow you to turn Sticky Keys on or off by tapping the
        Shift key five times, enable beeping when a modifier key is pressed, and
        display the pressed keys on screen as you press them (these last two
        settings only work if Sticky Keys is turned on).
Another option is Slow Keys, which puts a delay between when you press a
        key and when your Mac accepts it. Turn this feature on and there will
        be a delay between the time you press a key and the time when OS X
        recognizes that you did so (you can adjust that period with the
        Acceptance Delay slider). If your fingers move slowly,
        this can save a lot of unwanted repeated keystrokes. The "Use click key sounds" checkbox tells your Mac to make
        one sound when a key is depressed and a different sound when the key
        is accepted.





Mouse tab (Mouse & Trackpad tab on MacBooks)



Those who have trouble using a mouse or trackpad can control the mouse cursor with the keyboard
        instead by heading to this tab and turning on Mouse Keys. This is also where you set the length of
        time you have to hold the directional keys before the cursor starts to
        move. You can also specify the cursor's maximum speed and, if you have
        trouble seeing the cursor, its size. If you use this feature, you'll be
        happy to see that, in Lion, the cursor looks much better when
        magnified than in previous versions of OS X. Click the Trackpad
        Options or Mouse Options button to fine-tune things even more.






CDs and DVDs



If you have an optical disk drive in your Mac, this
      preference pane controls what your Mac does when you insert an optical
      disk. You can even tell it to do different things depending on the type
      of disk: a blank CD or DVD, a music CD, a picture CD, or a video DVD.
      When you click one of the drop-down menus, you'll see Apple's
      recommended action (the audio CD menu includes Open iTunes, for example), but you aren't limited to just
      the predefined options. Choosing "Open other application..." will bring up
      your Applications folder so you can choose any program you
      like. Or you can opt to have a script run when you insert a disk; when
      you choose this option, you'll be presented with the familiar window
      that lets you browse to the repository where the script you want to use
      is saved.





Displays



If you own a laptop or an iMac, you probably won't visit
      this preference pane until you need to connect a second monitor or projector. On the other hand, if you're a color
      perfectionist or need to connect your Mac to a non-Apple display,
      stopping by the Displays pane is necessary. This is where you can
      control your monitor's resolution, color depth, brightness, and color
      to fit your needs.
If you're using multiple displays, you can set the location of the
      menu bar, enable display mirroring, and also configure the spatial
      arrangement of each screen so they correspond to how the displays are
      physically arranged.
This is also where you'd expect to find an
      option to run two or more applications in Full Screen mode. Sadly, that's not an option. You can
      have 10 screens, but when you use a full-screen app, the other screens
      will change to a gray linen pattern conveying no useful
      information.





Energy Saver



You get different options in this preference pane
      depending on what kind of Mac you're using. On a MacBook, you'll see two
      tabs—Battery and Power Adapter—which makes sense because you'll likely want
      different settings when you're using the power adapter than when you're
      relying on the battery. Also, the "Show battery status in the menu bar"
      checkbox is turned on by default, giving you a quick way to see how much
      power you have left. (If you feel that the menu bar on your Mac is
      simply too crowded, unchecking this box will free up a tiny bit of
      space.)
The options on both laptops and desktops are very similar. The
      slider next to "Computer sleep" allows you to define the delay between
      the time you stop using your Mac and the time it enters sleep mode, a low-power mode that uses much less power
      than when it's "awake." Although Lion will restart all your apps when
      you restart, waking from sleep is a much faster process. (The two tabs
      on a laptop—Battery and Power Adapter—allow you to set different values
      for when your Mac sleeps depending on its current power source.) The "Display sleep" slider adjusts how long it takes for your
      screen to turn off to save power (again, you can set two different
      values if you're on a laptop).
Under the sliders are some checkboxes (they vary slightly between
      the Battery and Power Adapter tabs):



Put the hard disk(s) to sleep when possible


This checkbox will put your drives to sleep when OS
            X thinks it's a good idea. (Some hard drives have this
            functionality built in, but Mac OS X will put the drives to sleep
            before their firmware would normally do so.)


Wake for network access


If you use Back to My Mac or have a copy of Apple Remote Desktop, you'll probably want to check
            this box, which allows your Mac to wake up when you want to
            log in remotely.


Automatically reduce brightness before display goes to
          sleep


Checking this box means that your display will
            noticeably dim before it becomes completely black. Any mouse or
            keyboard action will bring the display back to full brightness.


Slightly dim the display when using this power source (laptops
          only)


This option is on the Battery tab. As you can
            probably guess, this is supposed to extend battery life by making
            the display use less energy when you're relying on battery power.
            In practice, most people don't notice the difference in battery
            life.


Start up automatically after a power failure


Checking this box means that if the power flickers,
            your Mac will start up again as soon as the power comes back on.
            Your Mac doesn't really know that the power has gone; it just
            knows that shutdown protocol wasn't followed. If you accidentally
            hit the off button on a surge protector, your Mac will start up
            when the button is moved back to the on position, too. (For
            obvious reasons, this option isn't available on MacBooks' Battery
            tab.)


Restart automatically if the computer freezes


This has been an option in previous server versions
            of OS X, but with Lion it's
            on every install of OS X. Checking this box tells your Mac to
            monitor your computer for kernel panics and system freezes. If you're worried that checking this
            box could result in spontaneous reboots, don't worry too much. The
            system uses a timer and response system, so your Mac will need to
            be frozen for at least five minutes before it restarts.



If you're a very consistent person, you can get the best of all
      worlds by clicking the Schedule button. This brings up a pane where you can tell
      your Mac when you want it to start up or wake and when you want it to
      shut down, sleep, or restart by choosing the schedule from the pop-up
      menus and entering times in the boxes.
Sounds fantastic, right? Well, maybe the Schedule feature isn't
      all that it could be. You have to be logged in and your computer has to
      be awake for it to shut down at a specific time. So this is a great
      option if you're sitting in front of your Mac when you want it to shut
      down, but unless you're comfortable leaving your Mac unattended and
      awake while you're logged in, the automatic shutdown option isn't of
      much use.
Happily, you don't have to worry about these problems if you want
      your Mac to wake or start automatically; automatic startup works exactly
      as you'd expect. For example, if you're sitting in front of your Mac
      every weekday by 8:07, having your Mac automatically start up at 8:03
      can save you a few minutes of waiting each day.





Keyboard



The Keyboard preference pane is where you can change key
      commands (see Chapter 8 for a list of
      common ones) and how your keyboard responds to typing. The pane is
      divided into two tabs—Keyboard and Keyboard Shortcuts—and includes a Set
      Up Bluetooth Keyboard button. If you've got a Bluetooth keyboard that
      your computer hasn't recognized automatically, click this button to make
      Mac OS X attempt to pair with it.




Keyboard tab



This tab has two sliders: the Key Repeat slider allows you to adjust how frequently a
        key will register if you hold it down, and the Delay Until Repeat slider controls how long you have to
        hold a key down before your Mac starts registering that key
        repeatedly. The Keyboard tab also gives you the option to use all the
        numbered F keys as standard function keys. If you turn on this option, those keys
        won't work the same way; for example, pressing F10 won't mute your
        Mac, it will invoke Exposé (to mute your Mac, you'll need to press the
        Fn and F10 at the same time). Turning on the
        "Show Keyboard & Character Viewers in menu bar"
        checkbox creates a menu extra that gives you easy access to characters
        (arrows and such) with the Character Viewer and the Keyboard Viewer's simulated
        keyboard that shows what the modifier keys do when pressed.
Click Input Sources to see the "Input source" list, which lets
        you type in different languages. Select the language you want to type in, anything from Afghan Dari
        to Welsh. That can mean a lot of scrolling, so to speed things up, you
        can use the search box at the bottom of the window to find the
        language you're after.
You can choose as many languages as you like and switch between
        them at will using the flag menu extra that appears in your menu bar
        automatically when you select multiple languages. So that you don't
        have to spend all day changing languages, you can choose to assign the
        languages globally or locally
        using the radio buttons labeled "Use the same one in all documents"
        and "Allow a different one for each document," respectively.





Keyboard Shortcuts tab



This is where you can adjust the key commands used by
        your Mac. The left side of the pane has a list of applications and
        features so you can more easily locate the ones you want to change. To
        actually change a key command, double-click it in the list on the
        right and then press the key you want to use instead. You can use the
        function keys or keys with modifiers as your new choice. Figure 5-2 shows an
        example.








Figure 5-2. Changing the key command for Dashboard

To add a new key command, click the + button. You'll see a
        pop-up menu of applications that you can add keyboard commands to.
        Select an application, type the exact name of the
        menu command you want to create a keyboard shortcut for into the Menu
        Title box, and then type the key you want to use as the shortcut. For
        example, there's no keyboard command for customizing the toolbar in
        the Finder. To create one, select Finder from the pop-up menu, type
        Customize Toolbar... (with the
        dots) into the Menu Title box, and then click the Keyboard Shortcut
        field and type your shortcut. Now when a Finder window is active, you
        can hit that key and the Customize Toolbar window will show up.
        As a bonus, the key command you added will also appear next to the
        command's name in the Finder's View menu. If you tire of your custom
        key command, click the shortcut once and then hit the − key; your key
        command will be banished from the preference pane
        and from the Finder. The Restore Defaults button (on the right side under the
        list of keyboard shortcuts) will also kill your custom key command and
        any other changes you've made.
Below the two lists, this tab also includes a setting for
        Full Keyboard Access (a way for you to interact with
        your Mac without using the mouse). If you switch this setting from the
        default "Text boxes and lists only" to "All controls," you'll be able
        to use Tab to move from field to field in most applications.






Mouse



Plan on using a mouse with your Mac? This preference pane
      lets you set up a Bluetooth mouse and customize your mousing options.

Note
One of the most off-putting changes for a lot of people when
        they first use Lion is the OS's new scrolling behavior: When you scroll with two fingers
        or with a mouse wheel, moving your fingers or the wheel
        up (away from you) makes the current page or
        document scroll down, and vice versa. It's called
        "Scroll with finger direction" and it works perfectly on the iPhone
        and other iOS devices. When you put this same behavior on Macs, it
        still works fine—except that it's exactly the
        opposite of how scrolling has worked since the
        first Mac rolled out.
You'll quickly get used to new scrolling, but if you just can't
        stand it or you use multiple OSes and want some consistency, head to
        the Mouse and Trackpad preference panes and turn off "Scroll with
        finger direction."





Magic Mouse options



If you've got a Magic Mouse, the Point & Click tab
        of this preference pane allows you to turn "Scroll with finger direction"
        on or off, decide whether you want a secondary click (known as a "right-click" to everyone
        but Apple) with your Magic Mouse and how you want said click enacted,
        and turn smart zooming off or on. You also get a mouse battery-level indicator and a slider for adjusting
        tracking (how fast the mouse pointer moves on screen in
        response to physical mouse movements).
On the More Gestures tab, you can turn on "Swipe between
        pages," "Swipe between full-screen apps," and an option to
        launch Mission Control with a double tap. Each gesture comes with a
        nifty movie explaining how to pull off the necessary taps and
        swipes. To watch the movie, put your cursor over the gesture you're
        interested in and the instructional video will play automatically.





Mighty Mouse options



If you're using a Mighty Mouse, you'll find sliders for
        adjusting tracking, double-click, and scrolling speeds. You'll also
        see pop-up menus for every part of the Mighty Mouse that can detect
        pushes. Each menu lets you specify what happens when you press that
        button. You can choose from a multitude of actions to assign to each
        button, including secondary clicks and application launching.
After you're done setting up the buttons, you can control how
        the Mighty Mouse scrolls by choosing from the pop-up menu next to
        Scrolling. You can turn it off, have it scroll vertically only, scroll vertically and
        horizontally, or scroll 360 degrees.
You can also set up your Mighty Mouse to zoom by checking the
        box next to Zoom. You get to select the modifier key that will
        invoke zooming when you're using the scroll ball. If you click the
        Options button, you'll find some settings that let you fine-tune its
        scrolling behavior.





If you're using a non-Apple mouse



Some people don't like Apple's mice, and that's OK—your
        Mac will happily work with non-Apple mice. Some mice ship with custom
        drivers, but most can work with your Mac straight out of the box. The
        customization options you see in the Mouse preference pane depend on
        the model you're using.






Trackpad



Your options here depend on which MacBook you use. On
      newer MacBooks with multitouch trackpads (which were introduced on the
      MacBook Air in 2008), you'll get the options described in the multitouch
      section below. (You'll get that same set of options if you're using
      Apple's Magic Trackpad.) If you have an older MacBook, you'll get a
      different set of options, though
      some of the settings are the same as on multitouch machines.




Multitouch trackpads



In the Trackpad preference pane, you'll be able to
        adjust your MacBook's tracking speed, set up a Bluetooth trackpad, and
        configure gestures. On the "Point and Click" tab, you can enable "Tap
        to click" (which makes your Mac interpret a light tap as a click),
        "Secondary click" (a.k.a. "right-clicking"), "Look up" (a feature that
        looks up words with Mac OS X's built-in Dictionary), and three-finger
        dragging.
When you click the Scroll & Zoom tab, you'll find the following
        options: "Scroll with finger direction," "Zoom in or out by pinching," "Use two fingers to Smart
        zoom," and "Rotate images
        using two fingers."
The More Gestures tab includes six different options to
        customize. You'll be able to turn on "Swipe between pages" and tell
        your Mac how you want to gesture to invoke that function. You can do
        the same with "Swipe between full-screen apps," Mission Control, and
        App Exposé. Launchpad and "Show Desktop gestures" aren't customizable;
        you can only turn them on or off.
As with the Magic Mouse, these gestures aren't always
        self-explanatory, so each gesture comes with a little movie showing you how to pull it off. Hover over
        the option you want explained and the associated movie will
        automatically start playing. (One supposes it has been a good time for
        hand models in the Cupertino area.)






Print & Scan



This preference pane, unsurprisingly, is where you add and
      remove printers and scanners. To add a device, click the tiny + button
      on the left side of the pane. Lion will automatically look for nearby
      printers and scanners and set them up for you. To remove a printer or
      scanner, select it in the list and then click the − button beneath the
      list. The rest of the options you see in this pane depend on the exact
      model of printer or scanner you have installed.





Sound



The Sound preference pane is divided into three tabs:
      Sound Effects, Output, and Input. The "Output volume" setting is always
      visible at the bottom of the pane, regardless of which tab you're using.
      There's a checkbox below that volume slider that lets you get rid of the
      Volume menu extra. If you're wondering how you'll control the volume
      with the menu extra gone, remember that you can use the keyboard for
      that trick; use the F10-F12 keys on Apple keyboards.




Sound Effects tab



The Sound Effects tab allows you to choose an alert sound. To preview a sound, click it in the list or
        use the arrows to move up and down. Lion gives you plenty of options
        for audio alerts, so hopefully you can find something to your
        liking.
The next question is where do you want the alert sounds to come
        from? If you have speakers plugged into your Mac, you can opt to send
        the sound through those speakers or through the computer's built-in
        speaker(s).
Below that is a slider for adjusting the alert volume if, for example, you want your alert sounds
        to be softer than the rest of the sounds coming out of your Mac (you
        don't want Basso walking all over iTunes, right?). Note that the
        maximum alert volume is the same as the master volume for your system,
        so if you want alerts to be the loudest noise coming out of your Mac,
        you're out of luck unless you can turn down the volume of other
        sound-generating programs.
Finally, you get two or three checkboxes so you hear the sounds
        you want and skip the sounds you don't. By checking the box next to
        each entry, you can:



Play or silence user interface sounds (such as the
            noise the Trash makes when being emptied).


Play feedback when volume is changed (with this
            turned on, if you hit a volume key or move the volume slider, the
            alert sound will play at the new volume).








Output tab



The Sound Effects tab lets you decide which speakers play alert
        sounds. On the Output tab, you get to decide where everything
        else is played. For example, you can choose
        between your Mac Pro's internal speaker (not great for an immersive
        media experience) or the top-of-the-line speakers you plugged into the
        optical out port. Headphones are a special case, as plugging headphones in
        mutes the internal speakers.
You also might get some extra options depending on your
        hardware. For example, if you're using the built-in speakers on an
        iMac or MacBook, you get to adjust the left-right balance with a
        slider.





Input tab



This tab is where you control your Mac's "ears." If you're using
        anything other than a Mac Mini or Mac Pro, your computer has a built-in internal microphone, which is the default selection for
        sound input. This means that any audio chats, video chats, or podcasts
        you record will get recorded via that internal mic. If you want to use
        a USB microphone instead, plug it in and select it from
        the list on this tab.
Another option on this tab is "Input volume," which controls how
        "hot" (as they say in the radio business) the sound coming into your
        Mac will be. Turn it all the way up and anyone you're chatting with
        will reach for his or her volume controls a millisecond into the
        conversation.
Turning on "Use ambient noise reduction" tells your Mac to ignore
        the sounds going on around you—screaming kids, howling wolves, what
        have you. It isn't perfect, but it helps when you're chatting or, more
        importantly, using voice commands with your Mac.






Mail, Contacts & Calendars



This preference pane is new in Lion. Instead of setting up
      mail accounts in Mail, juggling calendars in iCal, and so on, this pane lets you set up your accounts
      once in a centralized location. iChat, Mail, Address Book, and other apps use the
      information you enter here to keep you current.
When you first open this pane, it will look on your Mac for email
      and chat accounts and automatically add them. If you're setting up a new
      Mac, this pane comes with iCloud (when it's released), Microsoft Exchange, MobileMe, Gmail, Yahoo!, and AOL accounts preconfigured, so if you're using one of
      those (and you probably are), just click the Add Account button and
      select the service you use. As you add the service, a window will pop up
      allowing you to check the services you want to use (chat, calendars, and
      mail) from that provider.
If your service isn't listed, click Other and get ready to do a
      little bit of work. The prelisted services all provide calendars, chat,
      contact, and mail accounts; to get the same functions from another
      service, you'll have to set these up individually. Figure 5-3 gives you an idea
      of what you're in for.








Figure 5-3. You can avoid the hassle of creating an account here by getting
        a free Gmail or Yahoo! account






MobileMe



As of this writing, MobileMe is still around, but when iOS
      5 is released, MobileMe will disappear and be replaced by iCloud. If you
      have a MobileMe account, taking the time to set it up will likely ease
      the transition to iCloud.
With MobileMe, you can sync your data to the MobileMe service
      (and, in turn, to other Macs, iPhones, iPod Touches, and iPads).
      MobileMe also includes iDisk, which lets you store lots of data on Apple's
      servers. For more on MobileMe—and
      iCloud, once it's released—head to this book's
      website.





Network



You can guess what this preference pane does: it controls
      your network configuration. At the top of the pane is the Location menu. By default, it's set to Automatic, but if
      you use your Mac in more than one place, you might want to add a
      location. To do so, pick Edit Locations from this menu; in the window
      that appears, click the + sign and then add your location. ("Location"
      is OS X networking-speak for a group of saved configurations for network
      ports. Chances are you won't need to manage these manually.)
On the left side of the Network pane, you'll see all the ways your
      Mac can connect to the network (typically WiFi, Ethernet, and FireWire, but this can vary according to the model of your
      Mac). If a network is connected, it'll have a green light next to it
      (unconnected networks have red lights). It's possible to have more than
      one active network connection—a WiFi connection and an Ethernet
      connection, perhaps. If that's the case, you can drag the connections
      around in the list to match your preferred order of connecting. For
      example, dragging Ethernet to the top will force your Mac to use the
      Ethernet connection before the WiFi connection.
To the right of the list of networks, you'll find information
      about and options for your current network. This is where you can find
      your IP address and settings related to the kind of connection
      you're using (like a Turn Wi-Fi Off button, for example). For wired
      networks, you'll get to pick how you want to configure IPv4. You can get this information from your ISP, but most
      use DCHP and your Mac will be able to take care of this for
      you. You'll also see an Advanced button that you can click to bring up
      six different tabs. Configuring these tabs usually isn't necessary and
      is beyond the scope of this pocket guide.
The best thing about the Network preference pane is the "Assist
      me" button at the bottom of it. If you're having problems setting up
      your network, clicking this button and following the directions will
      likely solve your problems. The Revert button, as you can guess, will
      undo any changes you've made to your network settings, and Apply tells
      the preference pane to implement your changes.





Bluetooth



Predictably, this is the go-to panel if you're using a
      Bluetooth device or if you want to display a Bluetooth status icon in
      your menu bar. This panel includes a list of all the discoverable
      Bluetooth devices nearby (in other words, ones your Mac can connect to)
      and their current connection statuses. If you click the Sharing Setup
      button, you'll open the Sharing preference pane (described next). If you
      click the Advanced button, you'll get the following options:



Open Bluetooth Setup Assistant at startup if no keyboard is
          detected


Open Bluetooth Setup Assistant at startup if no mouse or
          trackpad is detected


Allow Bluetooth devices to wake this computer


Reject incoming audio requests



The descriptions below each item explain what they're for. You'll
      also find an area that lists (and allows you to adjust) Bluetooth
      devices that use serial ports on your Mac.





Sharing



The Sharing preference pane allows you to share a variety
      of files and bits of hardware over your network (all of these options
      are off by default):



DVD or CD Sharing


This option allows other computers to use the
            optical drive in your Mac. There's also a checkbox to have your
            Mac ask you before anyone accesses your computer's optical
            drive.


Screen Sharing


Allows other computers to view your screen and
            control your computer over the network. You can specify which
            users are allowed to connect or allow all users. If you'd like to
            let people connect from non-Mac computers, click Computer Settings
            and then enable the VNC (Virtual Network Computing) option; they'll need
            a VNC client such as RealVNC or TightVNC for this to work.


File Sharing


File sharing allows others to access your shared
            files over the network, a nifty way to trade files. If you turn
            this option on, make sure you create a strong password.
If you turn on file sharing, users on other computers have a
            few ways to connect. If the computers you want to share files with
            are on the same local network, they can get to your computer by
            heading to the Finder's menu bar and choosing Go→Connect to Server. The address they'll
            need to access your computer is your Mac's name with .local appended.
It may be even easier, though. Mac OS X features a
            zero-configuration networking protocol called Bonjour. You'll see other computers that you can
            access in the sidebar of a Finder window.
Users will have to supply a username and password to
            connect. You may want to set up a sharing-only user (see Setting up accounts) for this.
If you want to access your files from another Mac while away
            from your home or work network, you can use Back to My Mac, which
            was part of MobileMe and will be part of iCloud. For specific
            instructions on using the iCloud version, head to this book's web
            page.


Printer Sharing


Checking this box turns your Mac into a print
            server. If you're on a
            laptop and want to print something in the basement, you won't have to haul
            your carcass over to the printer or even send the file to the Mac
            connected to the printer for later printing. Just check the
            Printer Sharing box on the Mac that's hooked up to the printer and
            you can print from anywhere on your local area network.


Scanner Sharing


This is Printer Sharing's less-used little brother,
            and it works in much the same way: if you've got a scanner
            connected to the host Mac, you can use it from a remote computer. This feature is new in
            Lion.


Web Sharing


This isn't the box to check if
            you want to share your Internet connection; instead, this box lets
            you share web pages in your Sites folder. Turning on Web Sharing reveals a URL
            for your computer's websites and your personal website (which
            happens to be the computer's website with
            ~username appended) that people on your
            local network can visit. The URLs will be something
            like http://yourcomputername/ and
            http://yourcomputername/~yourhomefoldername.
Your website will be available over Bonjour networking as
            well; you can configure Safari to display Bonjour sites in its bookmarks by opening Safari's Preferences, going to
            the Bookmarks pane, and turning on all the Include Bonjour
            checkboxes.


Remote Login


This lets users connect to your Mac over SSH (Secure
            Shell). To do that, you'll need to open a Terminal window
            (Applications→Utilities→Terminal) and either use the
            ssh command-line utility or select
            Shell→New Remote
            Connection.


Remote Management


If you have a copy of Apple Remote Desktop and want to use it to connect
            to your Mac, make sure this box is checked. If you're curious,
            Remote Management is a lot like screen sharing, except that it's
            designed for people controlling more than one Mac at a time, as
            you might find in a classroom setting.


Remote Apple Events


Checking this box will let other Macs send Apple
            Events to your computer. What are Apple Events? They are wide
            ranging, but just about anything AppleScript can do can be an
            Apple Event.


Xgrid Sharing


Xgrid allows intensive computing tasks to be broken
            up and worked on by individual Macs. This option is mainly used
            for scientific research and other processor-intensive
            tasks.


Internet Sharing


This setting lets you share your Internet connection
            with other computers. You can choose to share a wired connection
            via AirPort or share an AirPort connection with another
            computer wired to yours. If you're sharing a wired connection via
            AirPort, you can choose to add some security measures.


Bluetooth Sharing


Checking this box allows Bluetooth devices to
            interact with your Mac. The options here let you customize your
            Mac's behavior when receiving files, designate a folder for the
            files your Mac accepts over Bluetooth, set browsing behavior, and
            designate which folders users can browse on your Mac.








Users & Groups



Using this preference pane, an administrator can manage
      accounts. To add or delete accounts, use the + and − buttons under the list of
      users. (For a complete discussion of managing accounts, see User Accounts.)
Clicking Login Options at the bottom of the list of users lets you
      enable or disable automatic login. You'll also get to choose what
      appears in the login window: the "Name and password" setting is more
      secure than "List of users" because it means that anyone trying to get
      into your Mac will need to guess both your username
      and password. You also get to decide whether to
      show the Restart, Sleep, and Shut Down buttons on the login window; show the Input menu
      in the login window; show password hints; and use VoiceOver in the login window.
Finally, you can enable fast user switching, which—as its name implies—lets you
      switch between accounts without logging out first. You'll still need a
      password to get back to your account, but if an application was running
      when you switched users, it'll be running when you come back to your
      account. The drop-down menu next to this setting lets you view users by
      full name, short name, or icon. For more on fast user switching, see
      Logging In.
Fast user switching is nifty, but you might be wondering if you
      aren't better off using the Resume feature of Lion, which restarts everything
      automatically when you log back in. While the end result is the same,
      fast user switching is actually a little faster than relying on Resume
      because the applications aren't fully shut down when you use fast user
      switching.





Parental Controls



Parental Controls are Mac OS X's way of protecting your
      kids while they are on the Internet. This preference pane takes some of
      the worry out of allowing a child to use the Internet unsupervised by
      letting you set up a variety of rules and filters. These control not
      only where your child can go on the Internet but also what programs they
      can use and even who they can chat and email with. The pane has five
      tabs.

Note
While Parental Controls are designed for parents whose kids use
        their computers, you can use them to manage any user who isn't an
        administrator.





Apps tab



This tab allows you to enable a simplified Finder and
        control which applications the user can run. If you're enabling
        content controls, controlling which applications the managed user can
        run is essential.
To give particular applications the green light, click the box
        next to Limit Applications and then use the settings underneath it to
        choose applications. Turn off the "Allow User to Modify the Dock" checkbox to revoke that privilege. Clicking the
        Logs button reveals where your kid has been going, shows where she's
        tried to go, and gives you access to her iChat transcripts.
        See something you don't like? Hit the Block button at the bottom of the window to add the
        website or chat participant to the list of blocked sites or
        individuals.





Web tab



This tab is concerned with where people can go while
        they're on the Internet. It offers three levels of control:



Allow unrestricted access to websites


Clicking this radio button allows complete access to the
              Web.


Try to limit access to adult websites automatically


If you click this button, Mac OS X will rely on filters
              and lists of adult websites and try to block them. It's
              surprisingly accurate. The downside is that the filters also
              block all https (secure) websites, so if your teen is doing
              online banking, she won't be able to access her account. If you
              want to allow a site or specifically exclude a site that isn't
              caught by the filter, click the Customize button.


Allow access to only these websites


This is the most restrictive option. The sites a managed
              user can visit are limited to the ones listed here, which have
              been preapproved by Apple. To add or delete sites, use the + and − buttons below the
              list.








People tab



This tab limits who the managed user can interact with
        via Mail, iChat, or both. Once you've checked the
        appropriate box(es), you have to approve any person who wants to email
        or chat with your kids by clicking the + button and then typing in the
        person's email address and instant messaging information.





Time Limits tab



This tab allows you to set a maximum amount of time the
        computer can be used per day and when. Just drag the sliders to set
        the durations for weekdays and weekends. Use the Bedtime section to restrict when the user can be on the
        computer.





Other tab



This tab includes four options: hiding profanity in OS X's built-in dictionaries, preventing
        the user from printing documents, preventing the user from burning CDs and DVDs, and
        preventing the user from changing the password to his or her account.






Date & Time



The Date & Time tab of this preference pane is where
      you can set the date using the calendar interface (or just by typing it
      in) and set the time. The "Set date and time automatically" checkbox
      (which is turned on by default) tells your Mac to fetch the current date
      and time from the server that's selected in the menu to the right. You
      can modify your date and time formats by clicking the Open Language
      & Text button; see Language & Text for
      details.
The Time Zone tab controls the time zone your Mac uses.
      There's a checkbox that tells your Mac to do this automatically, but if
      it guesses wrong, you can set it manually by clicking on the map or
      providing the name of a major city in your time zone.
The Clock tab gives you the option of showing the current date
      and time in the menu bar, allows you to choose how the time is displayed
      there, and lets you tweak a few other options. You can also have your
      Mac announce the time every hour, half hour, or 15 minutes. Click the
      Customize Voice button and you'll be able to change the
      voice used to announce the time, how loud it is, and even how quickly it
      speaks.





Software Update



This preference is focused on getting updates for Mac OS X
      and telling you which updates you've already installed. (Note that
      Software Update only updates Apple software.) The Scheduled Check tab allows you to schedule when your
      computer checks with Apple's servers for new updates. Uncheck the
      "Check for updates" box and you'll have to check for them
      manually. You also have the option to automatically download updates. This can be useful
      because, as soon as an important update is downloaded (automatically,
      behind the scenes), you'll be notified and can install it without having
      to wait for the download to complete. The Installed Software tab contains a list of all the updates
      you've installed.





Speech



If you've ever seen Star Trek, you've
      probably dreamed of talking to your computer and having it do your
      bidding. Mac OS X can do that.
      Getting the most out of the Speech feature requires some tweaking,
      though. The Speech preference pane has two tabs: Speech Recognition (the
      exciting "control your Mac with your voice" stuff) and the more mundane
      "Text to Speech" tab, which gives you control over how your Mac reads
      text.




Speech Recognition tab



This tab is where you turn Speakable Items (short verbal commands you give to your
        computer like "What time is it?") on or off. This tab has two subtabs:
        Settings and Commands.
On the Settings tab, the Microphone menu allows you to choose
        which mic to use. You can choose one that's plugged into your Mac or
        go with the built-in mic (assuming your Mac has one). The Calibrate
        button opens a window where you can practice giving your Mac verbal
        commands. The Change Key button lets you pick which key you press to
        tell Mac OS X to start listening.
The Listening Method section allows you to have the Mac
        listen either only while you're pressing the Listening Key or after
        you speak a keyword. If you decide to go with a keyword, you can
        choose whether the keyword is optional and whether it's is required
        before or after the command. The default keyword is "computer," but it
        is probably wiser to go with a word that you don't say when frustrated
        (as in "stupid computer"). "Rosebud" works well; just don't watch
        Citizen Kane while computing. There's also an
        Upon Recognition option to make your Mac to play a sound
        to acknowledge that it has received your command (you get to choose
        the sound).
The Commands tab is where you control exactly what speakables
        are allowed. In the "Select a command set" list, turn a particular set
        of commands on or off by checking the box next to that set
        (highlighting an item in the list displays a short explanation of what
        commands are included in that set). For example, you could choose Address Book
        and then click Configure to see a list of all your contacts. Using
        speakable commands, you could
        tell your Mac to open an email to one of your contacts. Uncheck a
        particular contact and you won't be able to use speech commands to
        reach that person.
Click the Open Speakable Items Folder button to display, well,
        the Speakable Items folder (Figure 5-4). This is where
        all your speakable actions are stored. You have a bevy of choices
        built right in, and you can always create your own using
        Automator.

Note
If you're going to make your own speakable items, you have to
          save them in this folder. No big deal, right? In Snow Leopard and
          earlier versions of OS X, that was true. But in Lion, the Speakable
          Items folder is inside the user's Library folder, which is
          invisible. Because of that, the easiest way to get at this folder to
          move your own speakables into it is to use the Open Speakable Items
          Folder button in the Speech preference pane.









Figure 5-4. A small sampling of speakable items for Mail






Text to Speech tab



This tab gives you control over how Mac OS X reads text.
        It also lets you decide whether you want to hear an announcement when an alert is displayed or when
        an application needs your attention. To select which voice your Mac
        uses, select your favorite from the System Voice menu (click Play to
        preview each one). The Speaking Rate slider controls how quickly the
        voice speaks. If you want to have your Mac read text you've selected,
        turn on "Speak selected text when the key is pressed" and, if you
        like, click Change Key to pick your own key combination for this
        feature.






Time Machine



Time Machine is Apple's solution to the annoyance of
      making backups. In this preference pane, you can choose where, what, and
      when to back up. For more information, see Time Machine.





Startup Disk



The Startup Disk pane allows you to specify which
      currently attached disk you wish to use to start your Mac. You can use
      any valid startup disk (your choices will show up in the pane),
      including DVDs and external disks. Clicking Restart reboots your system using the selected disk. You
      can also choose your startup disk while your Mac is starting by pressing
      and holding the Option key.
If your Mac has a FireWire port, you can also choose to start the
      machine in Target Disk Mode. This turns your high-priced Mac into a
      glorified hard drive, but it is extremely useful for transferring data
      and preferences and repairing troublesome hard disks.















Non-Apple Preference Panes



After you install a non-Apple application that has a preference pane of its own,
    you'll see that pane in a new section of System Preferences labeled Others
    (as shown in Figure 5-5).
    These panes work the same as Apple's own, and they allow you to control
    aspects of the program or feature you added. For example, if you install
    Perian so your Mac can display
    a greater variety of video types, the way to interact with Perian is
    through its preference pane.
One of the most common questions about third-party preference panes isn't how to
    use them; it's how to get rid of them. If the
    third-party application doesn't include an option to uninstall its
    preference pane, you can manually uninstall the pane by right-clicking or
    Control-clicking it and selecting Remove (see Figure 5-5).








Figure 5-5. Removing a third-party preference pane














Chapter 6. Built-in Applications and
  Utilities



When you install Lion, a number of applications and utilities come
  along for the ride. You'll get the predictable apps like Safari, and the
  boring-yet-useful utilities like Activity Monitor, as well as brand-new
  applications like Launchpad. And some of the older applications, such as
  Mail, have been radically upgraded.




Applications Installed with Lion



This section gives you a quick rundown of all the
    applications installed by default with Lion. Note that the list only
    covers applications that come with a Lion install—if you have a brand-new
    Mac or are upgrading an older Mac, you'll likely have other applications
    that aren't included in this list (such as iLife).




Address Book



If you've used previous versions of OS X, the first time
      you launch Address Book you'll be in for a surprise. The program sports
      a completely new look in Lion: the old, utilitarian interface has been replaced by an
      interface that looks like an actual address book (Figure 6-1).









Figure 6-1. The new look of the venerable OS X Address Book


As with previous versions of OS X, Address Book keeps track of all
      your contacts' information—everything from phone numbers to email
      addresses. You can customize entries, so adding and deleting fields is
      no problem. To change the label for a field or add a completely new
      field for a contact, just click the Edit button at the bottom of the
      card. The best thing about Address Book is that it's integrated
      throughout Mac OS X, so you can access your contacts in Mail, iChat, and
      even some third-party applications.
While you can use the new version of Address Book in the same way
      you used older ones, this latest version offers some new functionality.
      You can initiate a FaceTime call, compose a letter, visit a contact's
      Facebook page, and much more. How? Just click on the label
      next to any bit of data (email, phone number, etc.) and hold down your
      mouse/trackpad button, and a menu will pop up showing you Address Book's
      brand-new options related to that piece of info (Figure 6-2).








Figure 6-2. Is there anything Address Book can't do?


Note
When you set up your Mac, Address Book automatically adds an
        entry for you. That might seem crazy—after all, you know how to get in
        touch with yourself—but there are benefits. For example, you can drag
        your card from Address Book into an email to send it to anyone you
        wish.






App Store



When Apple mentions "electronic distribution" while
      trumpeting the new features in Lion, what the company's really talking
      about is the Mac App Store. If you use an iOS device or if you've
      installed Lion on an older Mac, you're familiar with how the App Store
      operates.
For the uninitiated, there are a few things to remember. You
      log into the Mac App Store with either your iTunes account or Apple ID. (Don't have an Apple ID? You can get one for
      free at https://appleid.apple.com.) Using the Mac
      App Store differs from the traditional way you're used to managing
      software. Instead of having to search for updates, you'll find any
      updates to your purchases prominently indicated in the App Store; click
      Updates to install the latest versions of all your purchases. You can
      install App Store purchases on any of your authorized Macs (up to five).

Note
You can't authorize or deauthorize machines via the Mac App Store. Instead, you
        have to open iTunes, click its Store drop-down menu, and then manage
        authorized Macs from there using the Authorize/Deauthorize This
        Computer commands.






Automator



Automator is a workflow tool for automating repetitive
      tasks: resizing photos, converting file types, combining text files,
      syncing files between folders—that kind of thing. In Lion, Automator
      looks and acts much like previous versions, and at first glance you
      won't notice the difference. But closer inspection reveals new actions
      that make automating things even easier. So if there was something you
      couldn't get Automator to do before, now is a great time to revisit this
      application. Automator now also supports Auto Save and Versions (see Auto Save and Versions),
      as well as workflow conversions.
Still not finding the script you need? Google has you covered:
      type "automator actions" into the Google search box and you'll find
      scads of prewritten scripts.





Calculator



When you fire up this application, you get a basic
      calculator. If you explore the program's menu bar, you'll note that it
      has built-in conversion functions, scientific and programmer modes (in
      the View menu), and numerous conversion functions (in the Convert menu).
      If you want a history of your calculations, you can get a running record
      by using Paper Tape (⌘-T). Calculator can also speak: the program
      can announce both button presses and your results; just visit the
      Speech menu in Calculator's menu bar.

Note
Using Calculator for basic math isn't the fastest way to get the
        answer—Spotlight can do math, too. So if you need a simple
        expression calculated, type it into Spotlight (see Figure 6-3) and skip
        Calculator altogether!










Figure 6-3. The same answer as Calculator, but much more convenient







Chess



Fancy a game of chess? If so, Mac OS X has you covered.
      Predictably, you get the standard human-versus-computer chess game (with
      adjustable difficulty), but you also get four chess variants, a
      tweakable board and pieces, and the ability to speak to your Mac to move
      pieces. (If you don't like the default view, you can change the tilt of
      the chessboard by clicking and holding the mouse button anywhere on the
      board's border. Arrows will pop up that allow you to tilt and rotate the
      board to your liking.)
You can also pit the computer against itself or play against
      another human. Sadly, you can't play chess against someone over a
      network, so if you want a head-on challenge with a human, they'll have
      to be at your Mac with you. Any time you want to save your game, just
      hit ⌘-S (Auto Save isn't implemented in Chess yet).





Dashboard



The Dashboard icon in the Applications folder simply
      launches Dashboard, but there are better ways of launching it than that.
      You can use the Dashboard gesture (see Multitouch trackpads), the keyboard shortcut (F4), or
      Mission Control. For more on this feature, see The Dashboard.





Dictionary



This is the dictionary responsible for Mac OS X's
      system-wide spellcheck. When you mistype a word, the suggested
      spelling will appear beneath the word (just like on iOS devices); hit
      Return to accept the suggestion (don't worry—pressing Return won't add a
      paragraph break to your document) or just keep typing and OS X will
      insert the suggestion for you. If you're not happy with OS X's
      suggestion you can click the tiny ×. For spelling (like mine) that's so
      bad OS X can't even guess at the word you want, you'll get a dashed red
      line under the word mocking your ineptitude. Right-click or
      Control-click words underlined in red to see your Mac's suggestions. If
      you hate your words being corrected automatically, visit the Language & Text preference pane (see
      Language & Text) and, on the Text tab, uncheck
      "Correct spelling automatically."
The Dictionary application is more than just a spellchecker. It
      also lets you search the New Oxford English
      Dictionary, the Oxford American Writer's
      Thesaurus, Apple's dictionary, and Wikipedia. You can choose
      which of these four options to use, or search them all at the same time,
      by clicking the appropriate word near the top of the window (All,
      Dictionary, and so on). Dictionary is a global application, so you can
      use it to look up definitions anywhere on your Mac. To do so, select the
      word in question and then either right-click or Control-click the word
      and choose Look Up "[word]," or use a three-finger double-tap if you have a trackpad capable
      of understanding that gesture.





DVD Player



DVD Player plays (surprise!) DVDs. If you're upset that
      Front Row (the program that made video and picture viewing
      more comfortable in previous versions of OS X) isn't included in Lion,
      you'll be pleased to learn that DVD Player is a full-screen app, so you
      can still get that immersive viewing experience when you're watching
      something intense like Chairman of the Board. DVD
      Player also includes many options that let you do things like tweak the
      color or mess with the audio equalizer. And if you've got
      an Apple remote lying around, you can use it to control DVD
      Player.

Note
By default, DVD Player fires up the movie in Full Screen mode (you can change this behavior by
        selecting DVD Player→Preferences).
        Move your mouse to the bottom of the screen to access the playback
        controls; to the top of the screen to select a chapter; and to the
        very top of the screen to reveal the menu bar,
        where you can change the size of the playback window.






FaceTime



You've been able to video chat with a Mac since Apple
      introduced iSight and iChat AV, so what's the big deal with FaceTime on a Mac?
      FaceTime does something iChat can't do: it lets you chat face-to-face (of course) with iOS
      aficionados and others other running Lion.
When you first launch FaceTime, you'll be greeted by Preferences
      in the sidebar. Decide which email address you want to receive FaceTime
      calls at, hit Done, and the Preferences sidebar will be replaced by a
      scrollable list of your contacts. Click on the person you want to
      contact and decide if you want to contact her iOS device (iPhone 4 or
      iPad 2 or newer) or her Mac. For iPads and Macs, you use an email
      address that the person's set (click it!); for iPhone calls, you can
      just click on the number.

Warning
If you haven't visited the Mail, Contacts & Calendars
        preference pane yet, you'll have to create an Apple ID or use one you
        already have to get going with FaceTime.






Font Book



Font Book gives you control over all the fonts on your
      Mac. Lion installs over 100 fonts by default and other programs may
      install even more. You can preview, group, install, and deactivate fonts
      using Font Book. This program is also happy to validate your fonts (go
      to File→Validate Font) to identify any damaged ones that might
      cause your system to become unstable. In some cases, duplicate copies of
      fonts can also cause programs to become unstable. Font Book lets you
      deactivate duplicate fonts: go to Edit→Look for Duplicates. If Font Book finds
      duplicates, you'll have the choice of resolving them manually or
      automatically.





iCal



iCal has been the standard OS X calendaring app since
      Panther (10.3). The version of iCal that comes with Lion (5.0) is a
      substantial departure from previous versions. Its look now closely
      mimics a desktop blotter. You can run iCal in Full Screen mode, which is
      particularly handy when looking at a full year of entries and checking
      out another new feature of iCal: the heat map. iCal automatically assigns colors that reflect your availability on a particular day;
      the more cluttered your schedule, the redder the day will be.
The handiest new feature is the Quick Event button (the + in the upper left of the iCal
      window): click it, type in a phrase like "meeting 9 on Monday," and iCal
      adds that event to your calendar. Don't worry: while iCal looks
      dramatically different in Lion, it still lets you do all the same
      calendaring tasks you did in previous versions.





iChat



iChat is an instant-messaging system and a little more. It
      lets you have a text, audio, or video chat with another user (AIM and Jabber chat servers are supported, as well), but you can
      also show off your pictures with a slideshow or give a Keynote presentation. You can even set up conferences and have the participants chat with one
      another. iChat also offers the ability to share screens, which is a
      great way to troubleshoot a friend's or relative's Mac. And in Lion,
      iChat has been upgraded to include a full-screen mode, the ability to
      connect with Yahoo! Messenger users, and support for (and protection
      from) third-party plug-ins.

Warning
If you're sharing your screen with another user, be aware that
        he or she can make changes, copy files, and delete things on your Mac,
        just as you do when you're using it.






Image Capture



Image Capture lets your Mac transfer images from a camera
      or a scanner. This is useful if you have a bunch of images you need to
      import from a device to some place other than iPhoto (which can import
      images, too).





iTunes



iTunes started out life as a way to manage the music you
      ripped from your CD library. It is a lot more than that now. iTunes lets
      you buy music, buy TV shows, rent or buy movies, and, almost
      incidentally, manage your music, TV shows, podcasts, movies, and
      iPhone/iPad/iPod Touch App Store purchases. It is also where you control
      the authorization of your Macs for the Mac App Store.





Launchpad



This application launcher and file-management system is covered in
      Chapter 1, see Launchpad.





Mail



Mail has been reimagined in Lion (see Mail for
      more details). The layout has been radically changed (something you can undo by heading to Mail→Preferences→Viewing and then checking the "Use classic layout" box). Mail now uses a widescreen
      layout and organizes your emails into conversations. Like other Lion
      applications, Mail also received the full-screen treatment, so you can really expand your
      mail-reading real estate by going to View→Enter Full Screen or clicking the double arrows
      in the window's upper right (press Esc to exit Full Screen mode).
Mail is the standard email client for Mac OS X. It lets you set up
      rules to handle incoming messages, sending them directly to a
      destination folder depending on the criteria you select (go to
      Mail→Preferences→Rules). But there's more to Mail than just
      sending and receiving email. You can use it as your RSS reader and as a place to store notes for yourself; it
      even lets you create to-dos that include an alarm.
For good or ill, you can also create fancy email with Mail by
      using stationery templates. To access them, click the Stationery icon at the top right of any New Message window. Choose one and your mail will be full
      of color (and probably annoyance) for all the readers of your missive.
      If you're looking for an easy method of attaching photos (or using them
      with stationery), Mail includes a browser for all your images stored in
      iPhoto. In the New Message window, just click the
      Photo Browser icon (it's to the left of the Stationery
      icon) and choose the picture you want to attach. You can set up
      Smart Mailboxes that sort your email for you. The
      following sections contain more info on using Mail.




Adding new accounts



When you first run Mail, it will ask for your name, an
        existing email address, and the password for that account. (To add
        another account, select File→Add
        Account.) Type in those three bits of information and Mail will try to
        figure out how to configure your email server. If it can't, it'll ask
        you to provide detailed settings, such as the incoming server name,
        account type, and more. You can get that info from your administrator
        or Internet Service Provider.

Note
If you're just adding an email-only account, Mail is the way
          to go. But adding accounts with Mail isn't your best option if
          you're also using other services (like chat,
          calendaring, etc.) offered by your email provider. In that case,
          head to the Mail, Contacts & Calendar preference pane to take
          care of everything at once.

Some email services, such as Gmail, allow you to access your
        mail using either POP (Post Office Protocol) or IMAP (Internet Mail Access Protocol). If you like to
        access the same mail from multiple devices (such as an iPhone and a
        computer), IMAP is your best choice, because that way all your mail is
        stored on the server; when you read a message, it's marked as read
        across all the devices you access it from. (Some services may
        require you to enable IMAP before you can access
        them.) To enable IMAP for a service such as Gmail, log into your account using a web browser, and
        then visit the service's settings page. You may also need to look on
        the mail service's settings screen or in its help system for
        instructions on configuring Mail to access it via IMAP.





Add a signature to outgoing mail



If you end all your emails with the same thing (even if
        it's only "Thanks, Chris"), all that typing gets repetitive. You can
        use a signature to automatically append text or add a picture to the
        end of your messages.
To add a signature, go to Mail→Preferences→Signatures, and then, in the list on the
        left, choose the account you want to add a signature to (or choose All
        Signatures to create one for all your accounts).
        Click the + button and then type the signature text into the
        right-hand box (Mail automatically suggests your name and email
        address, but you can just type over that). If you want to use an image
        (such as a picture of your actual signature),
        scan it in, whittle it down to a small size (you can use Preview to do
        that), and drag the image into the right-hand box. If you add more
        than one signature, you can click the drop-down menu next to Choose
        Signature and specify a signature or tell Mail to rotate through your
        signatures sequentially or randomly.





Enable junk mail filtering



Head to Mail→Preferences→Junk Mail, and then make sure the box next to
        "Enable junk mail filtering" is checked. You can have Mail move the
        suspected junk to the Junk mailbox or leave it in your inbox. Note
        that every time you mark a message as junk, Mail learns from your
        action and improves its junk filtering. Mail's junk filter isn't 100
        percent accurate, so if all your mail providers have their own
        server-side junk filtering, you might not want to bother with Lion's
        junk mail filtering.





Manage mailboxes



To add a new, standard mailbox, go to Mailbox→New Mailbox. To add a Smart Mailbox—which lets you set criteria for messages
        that should go straight into it (without you having to lift a
        finger)—choose New Smart Mailbox instead; you'll be presented with a
        window where you can set up your criteria.





Quickly delete junk mail



If you've become confident in Mail's ability to figure
        out which mail is junk, you can get rid of those messages by pressing
        Option-⌘-J or going to
        Mailbox→Erase Junk Mail.





Search your mail



You can use Spotlight to search for that elusive memo
        you want to reread, but if you use the search box in Mail's menu bar,
        you won't have to wade through search results from other sources.
        You'll get the same lightning-fast results, but you'll see only
        matches from your email, notes, and to-dos.






Mission Control



Mission Control earns a spot in the Applications folder and you
      can (obviously) launch it by clicking its icon there. For more info, see
      Mission Control.





Photo Booth



Photo Booth is likely the silliest and most fun
      application included with Lion. With PhotoBooth, you can do things as
      simple as snapping a picture with your Mac's built-in iSight camera and as complicated as filming a short movie
      with a fake background. PhotoBooth even allows you to trim clips by
      picking the starting and ending frames. Adding to the fun are the new
      effects included in this version and the ability to add your own
      backgrounds.





Preview



Preview is the default image viewer for Macs. Any image
      you download in a common format such as .jpg, .png, or .pdf will open in
      Preview by default. Preview lets you resize, crop, and annotate images and adjust their
      colors. You can also use Preview to snap screenshots,
      create icons, and more.
The version of Preview that ships with Lion offers a lot of
      improvements over the last version. For example, it now features support
      for Auto Save and Versions so you don't have to worry about losing your
      work. It also includes a Full Screen mode so you can maximize the
      pictures and PDFs you're editing.





QuickTime Player



QuickTime is the technology behind much of Mac OS X's
      media savvy: DVD Player, iTunes, and other applications rely heavily on
      it. You can use QuickTime Player to watch movies and listen to music.
      It's also useful for generating quick audio or visual content. You can
      record directly into QuickTime via your iSight camera, attached webcam,
      or microphone, and use the program to perform simple trimming. Once
      you've created something you want to share with the world, you can post
      it directly from QuickTime to a variety of destinations via the Share
      menu.
There's one other killer feature in QuickTime: the ability to
      record your screen. Choose File→New Screen Recording, click the red circle in
      the middle of the window that appears, and you'll be off to the
      wonderful world of screencasting.





Safari



Safari is the slick web browser that comes with Mac OS X. It
      includes a few new features in Lion: you can go full screen for
      immersive web browsing; there's a Reading List so you can mark longish articles for later
      perusal (click the eyeglasses icon at the left end of the toolbar); and
      a new downloads button on the right side of the toolbar lets you see how
      downloads are progressing.
Even with these changes, Safari is still the browser you're used
      to. It's built on the open source WebKit browser platform (http://webkit.org), and it is both web
      standards-compliant and full-featured. There's a lot to Safari: it does
      everything you expect from a web browser and a little more, so getting
      it set up the way you want it is worth the effort.




Change the home page



When you get a new Mac, the default home page is http://www.apple.com. This is great if you love to keep
        up with Apple, but probably a bit boring for everyday use. To set a
        new home page, go to Safari→Preferences→General, and then type the URL of the page
        you want in the Homepage text box or, if you've already loaded the
        page you want, click "Set to Current Page."





Change the default browser



If you'd like to use a browser other than Safari (such
        as Firefox) by default, head to Safari→Preferences→General, and then choose the browser you want
        from the "Default web browser" pop-up menu.





Control which pages are shown in Top Sites



Safari 5 features a slick splash page, Top Sites, that includes snapshots of your most commonly
        visited sites. (To see it, either press Shift-⌘-1 or click the icon
        below the left side of the address bar that looks like a bunch of tiny
        squares.) It's useful and visually appealing, but Safari might put
        some pages there that you don't want to see. You can edit which pages
        are shown by clicking the Edit button in the lower-left corner of the
        Top Sites screen. Lock down pages you want to keep by clicking their
        pushpin icons, and banish pages you don't want shown by clicking their
        ×s. (A blue star in the corner of a web page means that the page has
        been updated since your last visit.)
You can add a page directly to Top Sites by choosing Bookmark→Add Bookmark
        and then choosing Top Sites from the menu that appears. (Note that Top
        Sites bookmarks aren't synced to MobileMe or iCloud, so you should save the URL somewhere in your
        Bookmarks Bar or Bookmarks menu, as well.)





Find a page you didn't bookmark



It happens to everyone: you see an interesting site but don't
        bother to bookmark it, and then three days later you want to go back
        to that site but don't remember what it's called or how you ended up
        on it. Safari's browsing history to the rescue! To bring up your
        history, select History→Show All
        History. Then type whatever snippet you remember about the mystery
        site in the Search box (the one below the Google search box). Safari
        returns all the web pages that you've been to that contain what you
        searched for.





Block pop-up ads



To enable pop-up blocking, go to Safari→Block Pop-Up Windows (Shift-⌘-K). A checkmark
        next to that menu item indicates the pop-up blocker is active.





Change where downloaded items are saved



By default, Safari saves downloaded items in the Downloads
        folder in your Home directory, but you can have Safari download to any
        spot you like. Go to Safari→Preferences→General tab, and then, in the "Save downloaded files to" pop-up menu, click Other and
        choose a new location.





Control cookies



Most websites send cookies (small bundles of data that
        are stored between sessions and visits to a website) to your browser.
        If you're concerned about how cookies are used, you can customize the
        way Safari handles them. Click Safari→Preferences→Privacy, and then choose the setting you want
        in the "Block cookies" section. You can also examine all the cookies
        that Safari has by clicking Details. From there, you can search, view,
        and remove cookies. To remove all cookies in one fell swoop, click
        Remove All Website Data.





Get rid of Safari's history



You might find yourself on sites that you don't really
        want to be on, but Safari isn't picky and saves
        all the sites you visit in its history. Although
        there are some things that, once seen, cannot be unseen, you may still
        like to pretend that you never visited a particular site. If so, you
        can either delete Safari's entire history (go to History→Clear History) or delete offending entries by hand (go
        to History→Show All History, select
        the site(s) you want to get rid of, and then hit the Delete
        key).
If you do nothing, Safari will still delete your browsing
        history after one month. If this interval is too long or too short for
        your taste, you can change its duration by adjusting Safari's
        preferences. Take a trip to Safari→Preferences→General and change the "Remove history items"
        setting. You can choose preset intervals between one day and one year
        or take control of the situation and select Manually.





Add a URL to the desktop



If you like to have sites you frequently visit
        accessible directly from the desktop, highlight the URL of the site
        you want in Safari's address bar and then drag the URL directly onto
        the desktop. Alternatively, you can drag a site's favicon (the icon to
        the left of the page's address) instead. Either way, a file icon
        (which looks like a piece of paper with a giant @ on it) appears on
        your desktop with the URL or page's title as its name. Now you can
        double-click this icon to load that page in your default browser. To
        change the name of the icon, single-click its name and then type
        something more meaningful, just as you would with any other
        file.





Browse privately



There are times when you don't want Safari keeping track
        of your history; Private Browsing is the answer. To turn it on, click
        Safari→Private Browsing. The dialog
        box that appears details what Private Browsing does. Click OK to
        browse without having search box searches remembered, sites you visit
        added to Safari's history, or cookies stored permanently.

Warning
Private Browsing isn't a "set it and forget it" option; it
          applies to your current session only. So if you quit Safari, the
          next time you open it, Private Browsing will be inactive and Safari
          will diligently record all of your online comings and goings.






Make Safari remember passwords for website logins



This is a great timesaver, although it's a bit of a
        security risk if you leave your Mac unattended while you're logged in
        (for a tip on making that a little safer, see Password Management). To get Safari to remember and
        automatically enter your login information for websites, go to Safari→Preferences→AutoFill, and check the box next to "User
        names and passwords." From then on, when you enter a username and
        password into a site, Safari will ask if you want to save it. (You may
        find that some sites, especially banking and credit card sites, don't
        allow you to save passwords.)





Use a different default RSS reader



Safari is the default RSS reader in Mac OS X, but you might prefer to use Mail
        or a third-party RSS reader such as NetNewsWire. To make this change, you
        can go to Safari→Preferences→RSS, and then select the RSS reader of your
        choice from the "Default RSS reader" pop-up menu.





Customize Safari's toolbar



Safari's default toolbar is missing some buttons you
        might want, such as a Home button to take you to your home page. You can add
        buttons to Safari's toolbar by going to View→Customize Toolbar and then dragging the
        buttons you want right onto the toolbar. While the Customize Toolbar
        pane is open, you can also get rid of the things you don't want on
        Safari's toolbar by dragging them off of it, and rearrange toolbar
        items by dragging them around.






Stickies



Stickies are a virtual version of Post-it notes. Fire up this application and you can leave
      notes all over your desktop. Select File→New or press ⌘-N to create a blank note you can
      type in, add images to, and use for reminders. When the list on a sticky
      becomes something you need to share, you can export it as rich text by
      choosing File→Export Text.





System Preferences



This is the place to tweak Mac OS X. System Preferences are
      covered in Chapter 5.





TextEdit



TextEdit is a not-too-shabby word processor that you can
      use to write the great American novel or a grocery list. Although
      earlier versions of TextEdit were limited, it keeps gaining features in
      every new version of Mac OS X. For example, TextEdit takes advantage of
      Auto Save and Versions. Lion's system-wide spellchecker is available in
      the program, and you can also add a grammar check (select TextEdit→Preferences and turn on "Check grammar with
      spelling"). TextEdit's default format for saving files is .rtf (Rich Text
      Format), but you can also save (and open) HTML; OpenOffice.org
      (.odt); and Microsoft Word 97, 2003, and 2007 documents. TextEdit can
      also open and save .docx (Word 2011)
      files, but you'll likely lose some formatting when you open one; saving
      as a .docx file preserves the formatting from
      TextEdit.

Note
You can even add text styles in TextEdit: select some text and then use
        the Format menu to make it look the way you want. Then click the
        Styles button at the top left of the editing window (the button has a
        ¶ symbol on it), choose Show Styles, and then click "Add to Favorites"
        (Figure 6-4). You'll then be able to
        give the file a name for future use.










Figure 6-4. TextEdit styles in action







Time Machine



Time Machine automates the backing-up process and puts a
      beautiful graphical interface on flipping back time. To use Time
      Machine, all you really need is an attached drive with sufficient space,
      another Mac, or Time Capsule (Apple's all-in-one backup device and WiFi
      router).

Note
Alas, you can't plug a hard drive into an AirPort base station and use Time Machine on that disk.
        Your choices are limited to another Mac, Time Capsule, or an attached
        drive.

Time Machine operates seamlessly once it's set up and turned on.
      To set it up, connect a suitable drive, and then launch Time Machine
      (Applications→Time Machine), click Set
      Up Time Machine, and then choose which disk (or Time Capsule) you want
      to use as a Time Machine disk. After Time Machine is up and running, you
      can make a few adjustments. When you launch Time Machine, you'll see a
      big On/Off button, a button to bring up the Select Disk dialog box, and
      an Options button. Clicking the Options button lets you specify which
      folders and drives you don't want backed up; just
      click the + button in the dialog box that appears and then select the
      items you want to exclude.
Using Time Machine is intuitive when you're looking for a file you
      accidentally deleted (click the Time Machine menu extra or application
      icon to launch Time Machine, and then navigate through the available
      backups). But if you want to restore your system from a Time Machine
      backup, you'll first need to boot from the Lion Recovery HD (see Startup troubleshooting). Once you've booted up and picked
      your installation language, don't start installing Mac OS X. Instead,
      click the menu bar and select Utilities. The last option in the
      drop-down menu is Restore System From Backup; selecting it lets you choose
      the Time Machine disk or Time Capsule you want to use to restore your
      system.















Utilities Included with Lion



What's the difference between an application and a utility?
    It's largely semantic. Utilities are a type of application. But in
    general, the ones called "applications" allow you to create and modify
    data, while the ones called "utilities" allow you to monitor and manage your Mac. There's a
    reason Utilities is a subfolder of Applications and not the other way
    around: utilities are usually not as exciting as the applications you find
    in the rest of the Applications folder.
But that doesn't mean the Utilities folder is full of arcane, boring
    stuff. There are plenty of useful applications inside. You'll imagine
    great uses for a lot of them once you get a quick peek at what they
    do.




Activity Monitor



The main window of Activity Monitor gives you a list of
      all the processes running on your Mac (click a column heading to change
      how the list is sorted). You can view stats about CPU load, system
      memory, disk activity, disk usage, or your network using the buttons
      near the bottom of the window. Click on a process and then click the
      Inspect icon to get a closer look at the process. You can also use
      Activity Monitor to quit any process by selecting the process and
      clicking the Quit Process icon (very useful when a program is
      needlessly hogging the processor or is unresponsive).

Note
If Activity Monitor is running, it displays a constantly
        running graph of system usage in the Dock. You can control what data
        is being displayed by right-clicking on the Dock icon and choosing the
        data you want Disk Utility to display in the Dock.






AirPort Utility



If you own a Time Capsule, an AirPort base station, or an
      AirPort Express, you can use this utility to manage those
      devices.





AppleScript Editor



AppleScript is a programming language that's designed to
      be easy to use. It can control scriptable applications on your Mac (that
      includes most, but not all, applications), allowing you to generate
      scripts that can, for example, resize photos automatically. Using the
      AppleScript Editor allows you to write, edit, test, run, and compile
      AppleScripts. For more information, see http://developer.apple.com/applescript.





Audio MIDI Setup



MIDI is an acronym for Musical Instrument Digital
      Interface. This utility lets you hook musical instruments up to your
      computer, which is useful for fans of GarageBand and other audio
      programs.





Bluetooth File Exchange



Use this utility to send files to supported Bluetooth
      devices, such as phones, PDAs, or other computers. (Bluetooth is slower
      than WiFi but requires less setup to transfer files.) After you launch
      this utility, you can either drag the file you want to transfer onto the
      Bluetooth Dock icon and wait for a list of recipients to appear, or
      select a file in the Bluetooth File Exchange window and then click the
      Send button (and wait for the list of possible recipients to
      appear).





Boot Camp Assistant



Boot Camp Assistant lets you install Windows (XP, Vista, or 7) on any Mac running Lion. This
      utility will partition your hard drive and install the necessary
      drivers. (Obviously, you'll need a Windows installation disk.) Once Boot
      Camp Assistant works its magic, you'll have a dual-boot Mac capable of running Lion or Windows. (You
      choose which operating system to boot into using the Startup Disk
      preference pane—see Startup Disk.)

Note
Boot Camp isn't the only way to get Windows onto your Mac. There
        are several third-party programs that let you run Windows and Lion at
        the same time (as opposed to Boot Camp, which requires you to reboot
        when you want to switch operating systems). Two popular ones are
        Parallels Desktop and VMware Fusion.






ColorSync Utility



Because everyone sees colors a little differently and
      devices often interpret colors in
      different ways, ColorSync helps you manage colors. It lets you repair
      ICC (International Color Consortium) profiles on your Mac
      (click the Profile First Aid icon to do so). Click the Profiles icon to
      inspect the profiles used by your Mac; ColorSync displays a groovy 3-D
      plot of the profile you select (when applicable). The Devices icon lets
      you manage the profiles of attached devices. ColorSync Utility also
      allows you to apply filters to, for example, a PDF document with the Filters
      icon. Finally, the Calculator icon lets you sample any pixel displayed on your computer and find its
      values (click the magnifying glass
      icon and then click the color you're interested in).





Console



Unlike your car keys, your Mac keeps track of itself.
      Every time something unexpected (or even routine) happens, the system
      notes the problem in a log, but these logs are a bit difficult to find.
      That's where Console comes in: it lets you review the errors logged on
      your Mac much more conveniently than if you had to dig through the
      Library folder. Clicking on the Show Log List icon toggles a sidebar showing the logs
      available on your computer. The logs contain information critical for
      diagnosing bugs you send to Apple and can be useful in tracking a
      problematic application.

Note
If you open Console, don't let the number of messages you see
        alarm you; Mac OS X just logs a lot of information. You can use the
        search box to find what you're looking for, or click a specific item
        in the Log List to filter out the unwanted information.






DigitalColor Meter



With this utility, you can inspect the color values of
      anything displayed on screen. You can set the size of the aperture (all the way down to a single pixel)
      and choose from four different ways the results can be
      calculated.





Disk Utility



Disk Utility is a toolbox for all your disks. You can use
      it to erase disks (including CD-RWs and DVD-RWs), format disks,
      mount and unmount disks (if you've ejected an attached
      disk, you can remount it without unplugging/replugging it by clicking
      Disk Utility's Mount icon), securely delete data, create compressed or
      uncompressed disk images, repair permissions, partition disks, and more.
      To learn how to use Disk Utility to check your drive's health, see the
      section Startup Problems.

Note
Most disks come formatted for Windows computers. While
        these disks will work with your Mac, it's a good idea to change the
        disk's format to Mac OS X's native Mac OS Extended (Journaled) filesystem, because some features,
        like Time Machine, won't work with a Windows-formatted disk.






Grab



Grab is Mac OS X's screen-capture utility. It lets you capture a section of
      the screen, a complete window (sans drop shadow), or the entire screen.
      It even has a timed option that gives you 10 seconds to get whatever
      process you're trying to capture running. All the images are saved in
      .tiff format.





Grapher



Grapher displays graphs of equations that are built into
      the program, as well as equations you enter. This utility can handle a
      wide range of coordinate choices (polar, cylindrical, Cartesian, and
      spherical), and can even generate 3-D graphs. This is a useful tool if
      you're studying calculus.





Java Preferences



This utility is where you tell your Mac what you want the
      Java programming language to do for you and how. It lets you select your
      preferred version of Java, manage security, and configure
      debugging.





Keychain Access



Keychain Access stores your passwords for the moments when
      you inevitably forget them. As long as you remember your system password, you can recover any
      password stored in the Keychain.
      (Many third-party programs, like Firefox, don't use Keychain.) You can also create
      secure notes readable only in Keychain that are locked
      with your password. For more on Keychain Access, see Chapter 7.





Migration Assistant



When you first set up your Mac, you had the option of
      transferring your data from another computer. You were also assured that
      if you didn't want to transfer your data right then, you could do it
      later. For more info on all the ways you can transfer data using
      Migration Assistant, see Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer.





Network Utility



Network Utility lets you perform common networking tasks.
      Most users will find the Info tab the most useful. For those familiar
      with Unix network diagnostics, there are also tabs for Netstat, Ping, Lookup, Traceroute, Whois, Finger, and Port Scan.





Podcast Capture



This app works with Podcast Producer, which comes with
      OS X Lion Server. The first thing
      the app will force you to do is to enter the name of the server you're
      going to use. If you don't have a server for Podcast Capture, the fun
      stops there. If you do have one, you can use this utility to record your
      screen, yourself, or audio and send it to the server where it can then
      be encoded and distributed.





Podcast Publisher



If you don't have OS X Lion Server and are jealous of the
      capabilities of Podcast Capture, don't worry—Podcast Publisher has you
      covered (Figure 6-5).








Figure 6-5. Brand new in Lion: Podcasting made easy!

Podcast Publisher manages to do three distinct podcasting tasks in
      one slick program: create podcasts, archive episodes, and publish
      podcasts. (You'd expect that last feature based on this utility's name,
      but the other two functions should come as a pleasant surprise.)
Since Podcast Publisher performs three different (though related)
      functions and you might be only be interested in one, here's a look at
      each feature.




Content Creation



There are a lot of ways to record audio and/or video
        with your Mac. You could use QuickTime, Photo Booth, or iMovie. With
        Podcast Publisher, you get a new choice: the utility has
        content-creation features built right in so you can create a podcast
        and publish it without even switching programs.
If it's your first time launching Podcast Publisher (or if you
        click New Podcast in the lower-left corner of the utility's window),
        you'll see a corkboard with a yellow sticky note imploring you to add
        a new episode. Before you crank out that first episode, give your
        podcast a cool name by clicking the generic name near the top of the
        window. Now it's time to create some content.
If you want to do a video podcast, click the "Add a new episode"
        sticky note. The window will change to the image from your iSight surrounded by a black border (you can use a
        different camera by visiting the Camera menu). At the bottom left of
        the window, you'll see a couple of unlabeled buttons. The button with
        the filmstrip on it is selected by default; if you want to record your
        desktop, click the button next to it.
Once you're ready to record, click the record button at the
        bottom center of the window. Sit through the three-second countdown
        and then record to your heart's content (you can switch between using
        the desktop recorder and iSight on the fly). When you're done
        recording, click the record button again. You'll then see a filmstrip
        or waveform representation of your creation under the main video area,
        allowing you to set when the episode starts and stops.
You might be wondering if you can do an audio-only podcast. But of course! On Podcast
        Publisher's main screen, simply click the triangle next to New Movie
        Episode and choose New Audio Episode. The recording process works
        exactly as described above, but only the audio from your Mac's built
        in mic will be recorded. (If you want to use a different mic, head to
        the Camera drop-down menu.)





Podcast Management



The editing powers of Podcast Publisher are severely
        limited, so you might not want to use it to create podcasts, but you
        may want to use it to manage your
        podcasts.
If you've created a podcast with some other program, you can
        import into Podcast Publisher. If it's in one of your media libraries,
        head to Podcast Publisher's View menu and choose Show Media Browser.
        Then drag the file over from the Media Browser and it will take a spot
        on Podcast Publisher's corkboard as a new episode. You can also drag
        and drop files from your Mac onto the corkboard to create new
        episodes. If your podcast resides on the Internet, you'll find an
        "Import Podcast from URL" option in the File menu.
With Podcast Publisher, you aren't limited to one podcast. You
        can have multiple podcasts, each with its own corkboard full of
        episodes. To create a distinct podcast, simply click the New Podcast
        button at the bottom of the window or press ⌘-N.
Once you've got enough podcasts and episodes sitting around to
        confuse yourself, you can clean things up. To delete a whole podcast, click a blank spot on its
        corkboard and then hit Delete. To delete an episode, click the virtual
        pushpin holding it to the virtual corkboard, and you'll get options to
        delete or get info about the episode. As you would expect, deleting
        something in Podcast Publisher only deletes it locally; if you've
        shared it, the episode or podcast will still be around.





Podcast Publishing



Podcast Publisher can manage and produce podcasts, but its name
        just wouldn't be appropriate if it couldn't help you publish podcasts,
        too. To publish a podcast, click the episode you want, and then click
        the Share button in the lower-right corner of the program's window.
        The first three options listed are for small-scale sharing: exporting
        the episode to iTunes (your local library), sending it with Mail, or
        generating a copy on your desktop. You'll also see options that let
        you share your podcast using a server or with a remote
        workflow.






RAID Utility



Got a RAID (Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks) card
      installed in your Mac? No? Then you can ignore this utility. If you
      do have a RAID card, this utility lets you
      configure a RAID on your system.





System Information



This utility can tell you just about everything you might
      want to know about your Mac. Hardware, networks, and software are all
      covered in great detail. If you're wondering about any particular aspect
      of your Mac, System Information is the place to look.

Note
You can invoke System Information by clicking →About This
        Mac→More Info.

There is some weirdness with System Information. If you invoke it
      by visiting the Utilities folder and double-clicking its icon, it will
      look just like System Profiler from Snow Leopard. This can be
      frustrating if you're looking for the new, more graphical display of
      system information. While all the info you need is available in the
      older-looking version of this utility, to get the graphical display
      shown in Figure 6-6,
      you have to invoke System
      Information by going to →About This Mac→More
      Info.









Figure 6-6. Same utility, much cooler interface







Terminal



Mac OS X is built on Unix, and the Terminal utility is your window into that
      world. Unix is incredibly powerful and Terminal lets you run Unix
      commands. Clicking Help→Terminal Help
      will get you started if you aren't familiar with Unix. The most
      important Terminal tip? When you're confused, typing man command-name
      brings up a manual page where you can learn about a particular Unix
      command (try man man for
      starters). In Lion, Terminal gets a bit of an upgrade: it's now a
      full-screen application.





VoiceOver Utility



VoiceOver is Mac OS X's screen-reading program that describes what's happening on
      your screen using one of the voices installed with OS X. This utility
      allows you to customize VoiceOver's settings: you can control what
      voice is used, how your computer is navigated when using VoiceOver, how
      VoiceOver handles web pages, and how the keys
      on the keyboard control your Mac. You can even set up a Braille monitor. For additional information, flip to Seeing tab.





X11



X11 is the Mac OS X version of the X Window System, which
      allows your Mac to run many graphical Unix applications.














Chapter 7. Managing Passwords in Lion



When you first boot a new Mac and set up a user, the system is
  configured to automatically log in that user. That's probably fine if you're
  the only person who uses that Mac, but not so great if your Mac is sitting
  out where a lot of people have access to it. You'll want to customize your
  security settings to fit the environment where you'll be using your Mac. If
  it's a desktop machine and you'll only be using it at home, for example, you
  probably don't have much to worry about. But if it's a MacBook that you plan
  on hauling everywhere you go, you'll want a little more security.

Note
See Logging In to find out how to disable
    automatic login. And see Logging Out, Sleeping, and Shutting Down to customize your
    logout options.

Security in Mac OS X usually comes down to passwords: passwords for
  services, accounts, websites, and email. Once you've created all those pesky
  but necessary passwords, you'll want to turn your attention to managing
  them.




Password Management



To manage all your passwords, Lion uses keychains; they're where it stores your passwords and
    certificates to keep them safe from prying eyes. These keychains save you
    a lot of time, because your Mac can use the stored passwords to do a
    variety of useful things, like joining your wireless network without any
    help from you.
The more you do online, the more passwords you need. Ideally, you
    want different passwords for everything; using the same password for your
    bank's website and for posting to a third-rate message board isn't the
    best idea. However, with so many passwords running around, it is easy to
    forget them. We've all been faced with the situation where we were
    sure we typed in the right password only to be
    repeatedly denied access. Fortunately, Mac OS X can help.




Recovering a Forgotten Password



So you've forgotten the password to some rarely visited
      yet essential server or some network you only join every six months.
      Turns out Lion probably remembered the password for you (to have it save
      website passwords, too, see Make Safari remember passwords for website logins). To recover the
      password, open Keychain Access (Applications→Utilities→Keychain Access) and type the name of the site,
      application, or something relevant into the program's search box.
      Keychain Access will find entries that match your search criteria and
      present you with a list like the one in Figure 7-1.








Figure 7-1. Recovering my Safari Books Online password

When whatever you're looking for appears in the list in the middle
      of the Keychain Access window, double-click that item's name and a
      window will pop up that includes a "Show password" checkbox. Check the
      box, enter your Mac OS X password, and you'll see the password.

Note
For an added level of security, you can configure Mac OS X to
        lock your keychain after a period of inactivity. Open
        Keychain Access, click "login" in the Keychains list on the left side
        of the window, and then select Edit→"Change Settings for Keychain 'login.'"
        You'll then be able to lock the keychain after a period of inactivity
        or when the computer sleeps. Once a keychain is locked, Lion won't let
        your Mac give out passwords until you unlock the keychain by typing in
        your password.






Make a Great Password



The following passwords are not acceptable:
      letmein, password,
      123, and qwerty. Using one of
      those for anything you care about is like leaving the door to your house
      wide open—but removing the welcome mat. Sure, a miscreant
      might pause momentarily when he notices the welcome
      mat is missing, but that won't stop him from coming into your house. You
      need a better password.
Lion can help you in your quest. You can find out whether your
      chosen password is strong with Password Assistant, which tests the
      strength of your password. For whatever reason, you can't access
      Password Assistant directly, so you'll have to use Keychain Access to
      get to it. (Actually, any prompt that displays the little key icon will give you
      access to Password Assistant, but Keychain Access is one of the easiest
      ways to get there.) Open Keychain Access (Applications→Utilities→Keychain Access), and then select Edit→"Change Password for Keychain '[keychain
      name].'"

Note
There is an excellent free utility that will invoke Password
        Assistant any time you want to generate a new password. To get a copy,
        point your browser to http://www.codepoetry.net/products/passwordassistant.

In the "Enter a new password for keychain '[keychain name]'"
      dialog box that pops up, type a prospective password in the New Password
      field. As you type, you'll see a colored bar appear that indicates how
      good your password is (red for weak, yellow for fair, and green for good
      or excellent). Under that is a Password Strength rating (Weak, Fair,
      Good, or Excellent). When you're done typing, click the key icon and the
      Password Assistant window appears (Figure 7-2).
If your password isn't the digital equivalent of Fort Knox, try
      out some new passwords to see how they rate. If you can't come up with a
      good one on your own, Lion is happy to pitch in and help. The Tips field
      gives you pointers on how to build a better password, and the Type
      drop-down menu lets you choose the kinds of passwords Lion suggests:
      "memorable" ones, ones with letters and numbers, purely numeric ones,
      random ones, or FIPS-181-compliant ones (the kind used by government
      agencies).








Figure 7-2. Know your password's strength

Once you've found a good, strong password, close the Password
      Assistant window and then click Cancel in the "Enter a new password
      for..." window (unless you actually want to change the password for that
      keychain). Now you can type that password into whatever program or
      website needs it and know that your info should be pretty secure.





Storing Secure Notes



Keychain is great at storing passwords, but you can also
      use it to store notes. To write a note that no one else can see (well,
      except for people who know your username and password), open Keychain Access (Applications→Utilities→Keychain Access), click "login" in the
      Keychains list, select Secure Notes in the Category section, and then
      click the + button at the bottom of the window. Give your secret note a
      name and then start typing away (Figure 7-3). When you're done, click Add and your
      note will be safely stored in the Keychain.








Figure 7-3. They must never know






Add a Keychain Access Menu Extra



With all the goodness Keychain Access offers, you might want easy
      access to it. You can add it to your Dock, but that might be getting a
      little crowded, and the Keychain icon isn't the best-looking one Apple
      has churned out. Luckily, you can add a menu extra for Keychain Access
      (see Menu extras for a refresher). To do that, the
      next time you're using Keychain
      Access, go to Preferences (⌘-,) and in the General tab, check the box
      next to "Show keychain status in menu bar."





Securing Your Data



Carefully choosing passwords is a great start when it comes to
      security, but it's not a perfect solution. If someone has physical
      access to your Mac, there are things she can do to get at your data. If
      this prospect seems particularly loathsome to you, you should consider
      making the extra effort to enable FileVault 2, a
      feature of Lion that makes your data impossible to access unless you
      want it accessed. For information on setting up FileVault
      2, see FileVault tab.















Chapter 8. Keyboard Commands and Special Characters



When you're using the keyboard, you want to keep your hands on the
  keys. A trip to the mouse or hunting for a special character can really slow
  you down. The good news is that Lion has a lot of both key commands and
  special characters built right in. The bad news is that, unless you're one
  of those people who memorize the digits of pi to a thousand places for fun,
  you won't remember them all.
The most important key commands and special characters vary from user
  to user. For example, if you're writing about Exposé, knowing how to type é
  really helps, but knowing how to type ¬ isn't of much use. Everyone uses his
  or her Mac a little differently, so this chapter features a wide selection
  of keyboard commands and ways to type different characters. Memorize the
  ones for the functions you use most, and you'll save a lot of time and
  effort.




Key Commands



When your hands are on the keyboard, it's much quicker to keep them
    there to perform some mundane task than it is to dig through the menus and
    find the option that lets you type a special character or create a new
    folder.
In general, the less time you spend using the mouse (or trackpad),
    the more productive you'll be when using the keyboard. While you'll want
    to learn the keyboard commands for all your favorite programs, some
    commands are so common that it's worth reserving a special spot for them
    in your brain:



⌘-S


Save. This saves the document you're working on. The more
          often you use this command, the happier you'll be (at least until
          Lion's Auto Save feature is uniformly implemented). Nothing is more
          frustrating than having all your hard work disappear when the power
          flickers or an application crashes.

Note
If you're using a keyboard designed for Windows systems, you
            won't see the ⌘ key. Instead, use the Windows key, which is
            usually in the same spot you'd find the ⌘ key. Some keyboards use
            a different symbol, however; for example, the Happy Hacking Keyboard uses the "lozenge" symbol
            (◊).



⌘-C


Copy. This command copies the current selection for later
          pasting.


⌘-V


Paste. Once you've copied something, you'll want to paste
          it.


⌘-X


Cut. This command deletes the current selection but copies it
          to your Mac's memory. After you've cut something, you can paste it
          elsewhere until you copy or cut something else.


⌘-,


Opens the preferences for the active application.


⌘-] and ⌘-[


Moves forward (]) and backwards
          ([) in the Finder, Safari, and some other
          applications.


⌘-Shift-?


Opens the current application's Help dialog box so you can get
          quick answers to your vexing questions.


⌘-Q


Quits the current application.

Note
You can't easily quit the Finder, so this command doesn't
            work when you're using it. To find out how to quit the Finder
            (well, to relaunch it), see The Finder stops responding.



⌘-Tab


This command brings up the application switcher, which lets
          you cycle through running applications by pressing Tab repeatedly as
          you hold down ⌘. When you get to the application you're after, let
          go of both keys. If your hands are on the keyboard, this is a
          much faster way to switch applications than the
          Dock.


Option-⌘-Esc


Force quits the current program.



Once you've mastered those commands, your appetite for keyboard
    shortcuts is likely to become insatiable. Fortunately, there's plenty more
    of that keyboard-shortcut, time-saving goodness, much of which is shown in
    Table 8-1.

Note
Unfortunately, some of these commands aren't supported uniformly
      across all programs. For example, in the Finder and many other
      applications, ⌘-I displays the Get Info dialog box for the currently
      selected file or object, but in most word-processing applications, ⌘-I
      italicizes the selected text.
Also, on some keyboards, you may need to hold down the key labeled
      Fn to use keyboard shortcuts that require a function key (F1, F2,
      etc.).



Table 8-1. Common keyboard shortcuts










Key command


Most common
            action


Finder
            action






⌘-A


Selects all


Selects all items in
            current directory




⌘-B


Makes selected text bold
            (in word-processing programs).


None




⌘-C


Copies current
            selection


Copies selected files and
            folders




⌘-D


Duplicates selected object
            (usually in drawing applications)


Duplicates selected file or
            folder




⌘-E


Searches for highlighted
            text


Ejects disk




⌘-F


Finds text


Opens a new Finder window with cursor in search
            field




⌘-H


Hides current
            application


Hides Finder




⌘-I


Italicizes selected
            text


Opens Get Info window for
            selected item




⌘-J


Jumps to currently selected
            text (useful if you've selected some text, then scrolled elsewhere
            in a document)


Shows View
            options




⌘-K


Clears screen (Terminal) or
            inserts hyperlink (text
            editors, word processors, and Mail)


Opens "Connect to Server"
            window




⌘-L


Goes to line number (common
            in text editors)


Creates an
            alias




⌘-M


Minimizes
            window


Same




⌘-N


Creates new
            document


Opens new Finder
            window




⌘-O


Displays Open File dialog
            box


Opens selected
            item




⌘-P


Prints


None




⌘-Q


Quits current
            application


None




⌘-R


Varies


Shows original file when an
            alias is selected




⌘-S


Saves current
            file


None




⌘-T


Displays Font
            panel


Adds selected item to
            Finder window sidebar




⌘-V


Pastes copied
            item


Pastes copied file(s) or
            folder(s)




⌘-W


Closes
            window


Same




⌘-X


Cuts


None




⌘-Z


Undoes most recent
            action


Same




⌘-1


Varies


Displays Finder items as
            icons




⌘-2


Varies


Displays Finder items as
            list




⌘-3


Varies


Displays Finder items as
            columns




⌘-4


Varies


Displays Finder items in
            Cover Flow View




⌘-Delete


Varies


Moves selected item to
            Trash




⌘-Tab


Opens Application
            Switcher


Same




⌘-[


Goes back (when using a web
            browser)


Goes back one
            directory




⌘-]


Goes forward (when using a
            web browser)


Goes forward one
            directory




⌘-?


Activates Help
            menu


Same




⌘-Space


Activates Spotlight
            search


Same




⌘-`


Cycles through application
            windows


Cycles through Finder
            windows




Tab


Moves focus to next item or
            (in text editors) inserts a tab


Moves focus to next
            item




Shift-⌘-3


Takes a picture of your
            screen; saves image file to desktop


Same




Shift-⌘-4


Displays a cursor for
            taking a snapshot of part of the screen (press Space to take a
            picture of a single window); saves image file to
            desktop


Same




Shift-Control-⌘-3


Works like ⌘-Shift-3, but
            copies picture to
            clipboard


Same




Shift-Control-⌘-4


Works like ⌘-Shift-4, but
            copies picture to
            clipboard


Same




Shift-⌘-A


Varies


Opens Applications
            folder




Shift-⌘-C


Varies


Opens Computer
            folder




Shift-⌘-D


Varies


Opens Desktop
            folder




Shift-⌘-O


Varies


Opens Documents
            folder




Shift-⌘-G


Varies


Opens "Go to the folder"
            dialog box




Shift-⌘-H


Varies


Opens Home
            folder




Shift-⌘-K


Varies


Opens Network
            folder




Shift-⌘-N


Varies


Creates a new
            folder




Shift-⌘-Q


Displays logout dialog box,
            logs out automatically after one minute


Same




Shift-⌘-S


Opens "Save As..." dialog
            box


None




Shift-⌘-U


Varies


Opens Utilities
            folder




Shift-⌘-Delete


Varies


Opens Empty Trash dialog
            box




Shift-Option-⌘-Delete


Varies


Empties
            Trash




Option (while
            dragging)


Copies item to new
            location


Copies file/folder to new
            location




⌘-Option (while dragging)


Varies


Creates an alias to a
            file/folder at new location




Option-⌘-D


Shows or hides the
            Dock


Same




Option-⌘-M


Varies


Minimizes all
            windows




Option-⌘-Esc


Forces an application to
            quit


Same




Option-⌘-Eject


Puts computer to
            sleep


Same




Control-Eject


Displays the
            Restart/Sleep/Shut Down dialog box


Same




Control-⌘-Eject


Quits all applications and
            restarts computer


Same






You're probably not going to remember all of
    those shortcuts, but you'll likely remember the ones you use frequently.
    And more time at the keyboard means less time wasted mousing and searching
    for commands.




Customizing Key Commands



If you don't like the key commands built into Mac OS X, you don't
      have to put up with them. You can change them or add your own by taking
      a trip to the Keyboard preference pane. For details, see Keyboard Shortcuts tab.















Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X



If you're banging away on the keyboard and find yourself
    wanting to type special characters (like the é in Exposé, for example),
    there are convoluted methods of getting the character you want (pasting
    them from the Web, say), but you might be wondering if there's a
    trackpadless or mouse-free way to do it. In Lion, there is.
One of the underrated new features of Lion is an easy way to get at
    those pesky diacritic symbols. Simply type the letter you're interested
    in and hold the key down, and a window will pop up
    with all your options (as in Figure 8-1).
    You can then use the arrow keys to select the diacritic you want, or press
    the number key that corresponds to the number below your pick.









Figure 8-1. All your options for e


This new feature is universal, so you can use it anywhere you can
    type a character. It does have a couple of drawbacks, though: depending on
    how your key repeat rate is set, you might find yourself typing
    sss before the diacritic menu shows up, and if you
    type a special character often, you'll want to commit its keyboard
    shortcut to memory to save yourself some time.
Table 8-2 shows how to
    easily type diacritic symbols.


Table 8-2. Diacritic accent mark shortcuts










Symbol


Name


Keystroke






 ´ 


Acute


Option-E, then type the
            letter




 ^ 


Circumflex


Option-I, then type the
            letter




 ` 


Grave


Option-`, then type the
            letter




 ˜ 


Tilde


Option-N, then type the
            letter




 ¨ 


Umlaut


Option-U, then type the
            letter






That takes care of only a few characters you may not be able to find
    on your keyboard. But what about other characters, such as the euro symbol
    or the Apple logo? You might try looking through the Font Book utility,
    but with the number of fonts included in a standard OS X install, that
    task can require more luck than skill.
The Character Palette is a bit easier to use. You enable it by
    heading to Applications→System
    Preferences→Language & Text. Click the Input Sources tab, and then
    check the box labeled Keyboard & Character Viewer. Your Mac adds a new icon to
    the left side of the menu bar that lets you launch either Character Viewer
    or Keyboard Viewer. Character Viewer lets you browse a wide variety of
    special characters and insert them into documents by clicking them (the
    characters appear in the most recently used application). With Keyboard
    Viewer (Figure 8-2), you
    can hold down Shift, Option, or Shift and Option
    simultaneously to see how the keyboard is modified when you're depressing
    those modifier keys. As with Character Viewer, you can click the letters
    or symbols to insert them into a text field.








Figure 8-2. Wonder what Option+Shift does to the characters on your keyboard?
      Wonder no more!

You can also check out Table 8-3 for a quick
    reference to U.S. English keyboard modifiers.


Table 8-3. Special character shortcuts for U.S. English keyboards











No
            modifiers


Shift


Option


Shift-Option






 ` 


 ˜ 


` (above next vowel typed)


 ` 




1


!


¡


(fraction slash symbol)




2


@


™


€




3


#


£


‹




4


$


¢


›




5


%


∞


ﬁ (ligature)




6


^


§


ﬂ (ligature)




7


&


¶


‡




8


*


•


°




9


(


ª


•




0


)


º


¸




-


_


-


—




=


+


≠


±




q


Q


Œ


Œ




w


W


Σ


„




e


E


´ (above next vowel
            typed)


´




r


R


®


‰




t


T


†


ˇ




y


Y


¥


Á




u


U


¨ (above next vowel
            typed)


¨




i


I


^ (above next vowel
            typed)


^




o


O


Ø


Ø




p


P


Π


∏




[


{


"


"




]


}


'


'




\


|


«


»




a


A


Å


Å




s


S


ß


Í




d


D


∂


Î




f


F

ƒ

Ï




g


G


©


″




h


H


˙


Ó




j


J


Δ


Ô




k


K


˚










l


L


¬


Ò




;


:


...


Ú




'


"


Æ


Æ




z


Z


Ω


¸




x


X


≈


˛




c


C


Ç


Ç




v


V


√


◊




b


B


∫


I




n


N


~ (above next "n" typed)


 ˜ 




m


M


µ


Â




,


<


≤


¯




.


>


≥


˘




/


?


÷


¿



















Index




A note on the digital index
A link in an index entry is displayed as the section title in which that entry appears. Because some sections have multiple index markers, it is not unusual for an entry to have several links to the same section. Clicking on any link will take you directly to the place in the text in which the marker appears.



Symbols

? (question mark), flashing, Startup troubleshooting
... (ellipsis), The Apple menu
⃠ No symbol, What Lion Can't Do
⌘ key, Use the menu bar less, Customizing the Finder toolbar, Common Finder tasks, Key Commands, Key Commands, Key Commands


drag action, Customizing the Finder toolbar, Common Finder tasks
shortcuts to memorize, Key Commands
tables of keyboard shortcuts, Use the menu bar less, Key Commands, Key Commands


◊ (lozenge symbol), Happy Hacking Keyboard, Key Commands



A

About This Mac, What You Need to Run Lion, The Apple menu, System Information
About to Fail status, Your hard drive is making noises
About ..., The Application menu
accent mark shortcuts, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X
Acceptance Delay slider, Keyboard tab
accounts, User Accounts, Setting up accounts, User Accounts, Setting up accounts, The Accounts menu


menu, The Accounts menu
setting up, Setting up accounts
types of user, User Accounts


Action menu, The Finder window
Active Screen Corners, Desktop & Screen Saver
Activity Monitor, Force quitting greedy processes, Activity Monitor
adding, Users & Groups, Web tab


accounts, Users & Groups
websites (parental controls), Web tab


Address Book, After the Install, The Dashboard, Address Book, Address Book
Administrator account, User Accounts, Logging In, Preference Pane Rundown, General tab
adult websites, Web tab
Advanced tab, Finder preferences, Firewall tab
AIM chat server, iChat
AirDrop, AirDrop, The sidebar, Searching with Spotlight
AirPort, Sharing, Time Machine, AirPort Utility
alerts, Battery problems, Hearing tab, Hearing tab, Sound Effects tab, Text to Speech tab


flashing, Hearing tab
how to customize, Hearing tab, Sound Effects tab
pop-up battery, Battery problems
spoken, Text to Speech tab


aliases, The sidebar, Common Finder tasks
All My Files, All My Files, The sidebar
ambient noise reduction, Input tab
animation, Dock preferences, The Dashboard, Desktop & Screen Saver, Dock
AOL, Mail, Contacts & Calendars
App Store (Mac), Getting Your Hands on Lion (see Mac App Store)
Appearance preferences, General
Apple Events, Sharing
Apple ID, After the Install, App Store
Apple menu, The Apple menu, The Apple menu
Apple Remote Desktop, Energy Saver, Sharing
Apple technical support, Common Problems
Apple widget index, Getting more widgets
AppleCare, The Apple menu
AppleScript Editor, AppleScript Editor
applications, Launchpad, What Lion Can't Do, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, The Application menu, The sidebar, The sidebar, The Dock, The Dock, Dock menus, Dock menus, Dock menus, Dock menus, The Application Switcher, An application stops responding, Firewall tab, CDs and DVDs, Apps tab, Applications Installed with Lion, Time Machine


Applications folder, The sidebar, CDs and DVDs
Applications menu, The Application menu
compatibility with Lion, What Lion Can't Do
deleting, Launchpad
force-quitting, An application stops responding
hiding, Dock menus
installing, The sidebar
opening on login, Dock menus
parental controls, Apps tab
preinstalled, Applications Installed with Lion, Time Machine
quitting, Dock menus
showing in Finder, Dock menus
signed/unsigned, Firewall tab
stack, The Dock
switching between, The Dock, The Application Switcher
transferring from old computer, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer


Arrange menu, The Finder window
arrow keys, The Desktop, Finder views
audio, Sound Effects tab, Calculator, Audio MIDI Setup, Content Creation


alerts, Sound Effects tab
calculator, Calculator
MIDI, Audio MIDI Setup
podcasts, Content Creation


authorized Macs, Installing Lion, App Store
Auto Save, Auto Save and Versions, An application stops responding, Automator
automatic, Starting Up, Logging In, Stack view options, Startup troubleshooting, General tab, General tab, Firewall tab, Energy Saver, Energy Saver, Users & Groups, Software Update


allowing of incoming connections, Firewall tab
brightness reduction, Energy Saver
login, Starting Up, Logging In, Startup troubleshooting, General tab, Users & Groups
restart, Energy Saver
updates, General tab, Software Update
view, Stack view options


Automator, Automator



B

back button, The Finder window
Back to My Mac, The sidebar, Energy Saver
background, desktop, The Desktop, Desktop & Screen Saver
backup copies, Common Finder tasks
batteries, Menu extras, Battery problems, Energy Saver, Magic Mouse options


MacBook, Battery problems
menu extra, Menu extras
mouse, Magic Mouse options
preferences, Energy Saver


beach-ball cursor, An application stops responding
Bedtime (parental controls), Time Limits tab
beeps, Your Mac beeps at you instead of starting, Keyboard tab


enabling for modifier keys, Keyboard tab
on startup attempt, Your Mac beeps at you instead of starting


blocking, Firewall tab, Apps tab, Block pop-up ads


incoming connections, Firewall tab
parental controls, Apps tab
pop-up ads, Block pop-up ads


blue dots, Dock
Bluetooth, Mouse, Bluetooth, Sharing, Bluetooth File Exchange


file exchange, Bluetooth File Exchange
mouse, Mouse
sharing, Sharing


Bonjour, Sharing, Sharing
bookmarks, Sharing, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites
Boot Camp, Boot Camp Assistant
boot drive, Customizing the Finder toolbar
boot up, Startup key commands, Startup troubleshooting, Startup troubleshooting
Braille monitor, VoiceOver Utility
Browse All Versions, Auto Save and Versions
browser, Sharing, Sharing, Change the default browser, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites, Find a page you didn't bookmark, Get rid of Safari's history, Browse privately


(see also Safari)
bookmarks, Sharing, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites
clear history, Get rid of Safari's history
default, Change the default browser
privacy, Browse privately
search history, Find a page you didn't bookmark


build number, The Apple menu
burning, disk, Customizing the Finder toolbar, Common Finder tasks, Burn Folders



C

calculator, The Dashboard, Calculator, ColorSync Utility
calibrating the battery, Battery problems
CD, Startup key commands, The Desktop, The sidebar, Common Finder tasks, Burn Folders, CDs and DVDs, Sharing, Other tab, Other tab


burning, Burn Folders, Other tab
display/hide, The Desktop
duplicating, Common Finder tasks
parental controls, Other tab
preferences, CDs and DVDs
sharing, Sharing
on sidebar, The sidebar
start from, Startup key commands


Change Desktop Background, The Desktop
Character Palette, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X
Character Viewer, Language & Text, Keyboard tab
charge capacity, Battery problems
check for updates, Software Update
chess, Chess
chips, compatible, What You Need to Run Lion
chipset, USB device problems
Classic apps, Preparing for the Install
click key sounds, Keyboard tab
click, secondary, Magic Mouse options
clock, Date & Time
Collage screensaver, Desktop & Screen Saver
color, Finder preferences, General, General, Seeing tab, Displays, DVD Player, iCal, Preview, ColorSync Utility, DigitalColor Meter


buttons, menus, windows, General
calendar, iCal
ColorSync, ColorSync Utility
DigitalColor Meter, DigitalColor Meter
DVD player, DVD Player
highlighted text, General
image viewer, Preview
labels, Finder preferences
monitor controls, Displays
reversing, Seeing tab


Column View, The Finder window, Finder views
compress files/folders, Common Finder tasks
conference calls, iChat
Console, Console
conversations, Mail, Mail
cookies, Control cookies
copy command, Standard Application menus
copy to new location, Common Finder tasks
copy-protected movies/software, Common Finder tasks
country keyboard, After the Install
Cover Flow View, The Finder window, Finder views
CPU tab, Force quitting greedy processes
creating, Common Finder tasks, Regular Folders, Smart Folders, Preview, Content Creation


folders, Common Finder tasks, Regular Folders
icons, Preview
podcasts, Content Creation
Smart folders, Smart Folders


cut command, Standard Application menus
cycle counts, Battery problems



D

Dashboard, The Dashboard, Making your own widgets, Mission Control, Dashboard
data recovery, Your hard drive is making noises
date preferences, Date & Time
DCHP, Network
ddrescue utility, Your hard drive is making noises
deauthorizing computers, App Store
Delay Until Repeat slider, Keyboard tab
deleting, Launchpad, Launchpad, Trash, Smart Folders, Adding and removing widgets, Users & Groups, Web tab, Quickly delete junk mail, Get rid of Safari's history, Podcast Management


accounts, Users & Groups
applications, Launchpad
folders, Launchpad
junk email, Quickly delete junk mail
podcasts, Podcast Management
Safari history, Get rid of Safari's history
sensitive files permanently, Trash
from Smart folders, Smart Folders
websites (parental controls), Web tab
widgets, Adding and removing widgets


desktop, The Home Folder, The Desktop, The Desktop, The Desktop, The Desktop, The sidebar, Desktop & Screen Saver


folder, The Home Folder, The sidebar
icons, The Desktop
preferences, The Desktop, Desktop & Screen Saver


Devices, The sidebar
diacritic symbols, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X
dialog box, The Apple menu
Dictionary, The Dashboard, Dictionary
Different Network Setup, After the Install
DigitalColor Meter, DigitalColor Meter
dimming display, Energy Saver
disabling, Starting Up, Adding and removing widgets, General tab, General tab, Users & Groups


automatic login, Starting Up, General tab, Users & Groups
infrared receiver, General tab
widgets, Adding and removing widgets


Disk Utility, Installing Lion, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Startup Problems, Disk Utility
disks, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Startup troubleshooting, Energy Saver, Disk Utility


ejecting, Common Finder tasks
erasing, Common Finder tasks
mounting/unmounting, Disk Utility
putting to sleep, Energy Saver
reformatting, Common Finder tasks
repair programs for, Startup troubleshooting


display, Startup key commands, The Apple menu, Display problems, Desktop & Screen Saver, Displays, Energy Saver, Energy Saver


button style, Desktop & Screen Saver
dimming, Energy Saver
preference pane, Displays
resetting, Startup key commands
sleep slider, Energy Saver
troubleshooting, The Apple menu, Display problems


Display as (stacks), Dock menus
Dock, The Apple menu, The Apple menu, The Dock, Dock preferences, The Dock, The Dock, Dock Exposé, Dock menus, Dock preferences, Dock preferences, Dock, Dock, Apps tab, Activity Monitor


adding/arranging items, The Dock
automatically hiding, Dock preferences
configuring, The Apple menu
display system usage, Activity Monitor
Exposé, Dock Exposé
location of, The Apple menu, Dock preferences
menus, Dock menus, Dock
parental controls, Apps tab
preferences, Dock
removing items, The Dock


documents, Finder preferences (see files)
Documents folder, The Home Folder, The Home Folder, The sidebar
.docx files, TextEdit
downloading installer, Installing Lion
Downloads folder, The Home Folder, The sidebar, Change where downloaded items are saved
dragging from sidebar, The sidebar
drive item info box, The Desktop
drives, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Your hard drive is making noises, Boot Camp Assistant


ejecting, Common Finder tasks
making noise, Your hard drive is making noises
partitioning, Boot Camp Assistant
remounting, Common Finder tasks
renaming, Common Finder tasks


Drop Box, The Home Folder
dual-boot Mac, Boot Camp Assistant
duplicated fonts, Font Book
duplicating, Auto Save and Versions, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks


files/folders, Auto Save and Versions, Common Finder tasks
optical disks, Common Finder tasks


DVD, Startup key commands, The Desktop, The Desktop, The sidebar, Common Finder tasks, Burn Folders, CDs and DVDs, Sharing


burning, Burn Folders
display/hide, The Desktop
duplicating, Common Finder tasks
item info box, The Desktop
on sidebar, The sidebar
preferences, CDs and DVDs
sharing, Sharing
start from, Startup key commands


DVD Player, What Lion Can't Do, DVD Player



E

Edit menu, Standard Application menus
Eject, Startup key commands, Common Finder tasks
electronic distribution, Getting Your Hands on Lion, App Store
ellipsis (...), The Apple menu
email address, After the Install
emergency startup disk, Getting Your Hands on Lion
emptying Trash, Trash
encryption, FileVault tab
Energy Saver, Energy Saver
Enhance Contrast slider, Seeing tab
erasing disks, Common Finder tasks
ESPN widget, The Dashboard
Ethernet, Networking Options When Migrating Data, Network
Exposé, Dock, Mission Control, Dock Exposé
external disks, display/hide, The Desktop



F

F keys, Keyboard tab
face-to-face chatting, FaceTime
Facebook, Address Book
FaceTime, Address Book, FaceTime
factory settings, Startup key commands
Fan View, Stack view options
fast user switching, Logging In, The Accounts menu, Users & Groups
FAT32 disks, Common Finder tasks
Favorites bar, Mail, The sidebar
File menu, Standard Application menus
files, All My Files, AirDrop, Auto Save and Versions, Auto Save and Versions, Auto Save and Versions, Auto Save and Versions, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, Finder preferences, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, The Dock, Trash, Burn Folders, Managing File Info, Sharing & Permissions, General, Name & Extension, Preview, Sharing & Permissions, Sharing & Permissions, Sharing, Change where downloaded items are saved


in All My Files, All My Files
compressing, Common Finder tasks
copying, Common Finder tasks
downloading, Change where downloaded items are saved
duplicating, Auto Save and Versions, Common Finder tasks
extensions, Finder preferences, Burn Folders, Name & Extension
locking, Auto Save and Versions, Auto Save and Versions
managing info, Managing File Info, Sharing & Permissions
migrating, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer
opening with specific applications, The Dock
permissions, Sharing & Permissions
previewing, Preview
Put Back command, Trash
Quick Look, Common Finder tasks
read-only, General
renaming, Common Finder tasks
reverting to previous, Auto Save and Versions
sharing, Sharing & Permissions, Sharing
transferring between Macs, AirDrop


FileVault 2, FileVault tab, Securing Your Data
Fill Screen, Desktop & Screen Saver
filters, color, ColorSync Utility
Find My Mac, User Accounts
Finder, The Desktop, The Desktop, The Finder window, The Finder window, The Finder window, The Finder window, Customizing the Finder toolbar, Customizing the Finder toolbar, Finder preferences, Finder preferences, Finder preferences, Finder preferences, Finder preferences, Finder views, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, The Dock, Regular Folders, The Finder stops responding


Advanced tab, Finder preferences
bring to front, The Finder window
common tasks, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks
creating folders in, Regular Folders
customizing, Customizing the Finder toolbar, Customizing the Finder toolbar
General tab, Finder preferences
Labels tab, Finder preferences
preferences, The Desktop, Finder preferences
Sidebar tab, Finder preferences
sorting options, The Finder window
stops responding, The Finder stops responding
unable to reposition, The Dock
View menu, The Desktop, Finder views
window, The Finder window, The Finder window


Finger, Network Utility
FIPS-181-compliant passwords, Make a Great Password
Firefox, Mozilla, Change the default browser, Keychain Access
Firewall, Firewall tab
FireWire, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, Networking Options When Migrating Data, Startup key commands, Network, Startup Disk


800, Networking Options When Migrating Data
Target Disk Mode, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, Startup key commands, Startup Disk


Firmware Password Utility, Startup troubleshooting
Fit to Screen, Desktop & Screen Saver
flash alerts, Startup troubleshooting, Hearing tab
flash drives, The Desktop, Common Finder tasks
Flight Tracker widget, The Dashboard
folders, Launchpad, Mail, What Lion Can't Do, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Common Finder tasks, Regular Folders, CDs and DVDs


adding to Favorites, Mail
Application, What Lion Can't Do, CDs and DVDs
compressing, Common Finder tasks
creating, Common Finder tasks, Regular Folders
duplicating, Common Finder tasks
in Launchpad, Launchpad
migrating, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer
renaming, Common Finder tasks


Font Book, Font Book
Force Quit, The Apple menu, An application stops responding, Force quitting greedy processes
Formats tab, Language & Text
forward button, The Finder window
.fpbf files, Burn Folders
Front Row, What Lion Can't Do, DVD Player
frozen computer, Energy Saver
FTDI devices, USB device problems
Full Keyboard Access, Keyboard Shortcuts tab
full-screen mode, Full-Screen Applications, Displays, DVD Player, Mail
function keys, Keyboard tab



G

Genie effect, Dock
gestures, Gestures, Multitouch trackpads
Get Info, Customizing the Finder toolbar, Managing File Info
.gif files, The Home Folder
global changes, User Accounts
Gmail, Mail, Contacts & Calendars, Adding new accounts
GNU ddrescue utility, Your hard drive is making noises
GPS units, USB device problems
Grab, Grab
grammar check, TextEdit
Grapher, Grapher
grayscale, Seeing tab
Grid View, Stack view options
grid, snap to, The Desktop
Group accounts, User Accounts, Sharing & Permissions
Guest accounts, User Accounts, Setting up accounts



H

Happy Hacking Keyboard, Key Commands
hard drives, The Desktop, Finder preferences, Battery problems, Your hard drive is making noises, Energy Saver, Time Machine, Boot Camp Assistant


displaying on desktop, The Desktop, Finder preferences
not compatible with AirPort, Time Machine
partitioning, Boot Camp Assistant
putting to sleep, Energy Saver
spin-down, Battery problems
troubleshooting, Your hard drive is making noises


headphones, Output tab
hearing preferences, Hearing tab
heat map (iCal), iCal
Help menu, Standard Application menus
hide/show, Dock (see show)
Highlight settings, General
history, browsing, Find a page you didn't bookmark
Home folder, The Home Folder, The Home Folder, Customizing the Finder toolbar
home page, Change the home page, Customize Safari's toolbar
Hot Corners, Desktop & Screen Saver, Mission Control
https websites, blocking, Web tab
Hulu.com, What Lion Can't Do



I

iCal, The Dashboard, Mail, Contacts & Calendars, iCal
ICC (International Color Consortium) profiles, ColorSync Utility
iChat, Mail, Contacts & Calendars, Apps tab, FaceTime, iChat
iCloud, After the Install, User Accounts, Mail, Contacts & Calendars, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites
icons, Launchpad, The Desktop, The Finder window, Customizing the Finder toolbar, Finder views, The Dock, Dock preferences, Preview


application, Launchpad
bouncing, The Dock
creating, Preview
desktop, The Desktop
Finder options, The Finder window, Customizing the Finder toolbar, Finder views
magnification of, Dock preferences


iDisk, The sidebar, MobileMe
iLife, Applications Installed with Lion
Image Capture, Image Capture
IMAP (Internet Mail Access Protocol), Adding new accounts
iMovie, The Home Folder
infrared receiver, General tab
Input sources, Language & Text, Keyboard tab
installing, Getting Your Hands on Lion, What You Need to Run Lion, Installing Lion, After the Install, The sidebar, Software Update


applications, The sidebar
Lion, Getting Your Hands on Lion, What You Need to Run Lion, Installing Lion, After the Install
list of installed updates, Software Update


instructional video of gestures, Magic Mouse options, Multitouch trackpads
integrity check, Your Mac beeps at you instead of starting
Intel apps, What Lion Can't Do, Preparing for the Install
Intel chips, What You Need to Run Lion
internal batteries, Battery problems
internal microphone, Input tab
Internet, Installing Lion, After the Install, User Accounts, Searching with Spotlight, Startup troubleshooting, Firewall tab, Firewall tab, Sharing, Parental Controls, Other tab, Web tab, Podcast Management


(see also browser)
Firewall, Firewall tab
first-time connection, After the Install
Lion installer download time, Installing Lion
Lion reinstall over, Startup troubleshooting
Parental Controls, User Accounts, Parental Controls, Other tab
podcast import, Podcast Management
restricting access to, Web tab
searching with Spotlight, Searching with Spotlight
sharing, Sharing


iOS, What's New in Lion?
IP address, Firewall tab, Network
iPhoto, The Home Folder, Mail
iPod, The Desktop, The sidebar
IPv4, Network
iSight camera, Setting up accounts, FaceTime, Photo Booth, Content Creation
iSync, What Lion Can't Do
iTunes, App Store, iTunes



J

Jabber chat server, iChat
Java preferences, Java Preferences
Journaled filesystem, Installing Lion
.jpg files, The Home Folder, Preview
Jump to ..., General
junk mail filtering, Enable junk mail filtering



K

Keep in Dock option, Dock menus
kernel panic, Energy Saver
key commands, Startup key commands (see keyboard shortcuts)
key repeat rate, Keyboard tab, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X
keyboard preferences, Keyboard tab, Keyboard tab
keyboard shortcuts, Startup key commands, Shut down and log out shortcuts, Use the menu bar less, Standard Window Controls, Keyboard Shortcuts tab, Key Commands, Key Commands, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X


application windows, Standard Window Controls
common, Key Commands, Key Commands
how to customize, Keyboard Shortcuts tab
menu bar, Use the menu bar less
shutdown/logout, Shut down and log out shortcuts
special characters, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X
startup, Startup key commands


Keyboard Viewer, Language & Text, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X
Keychain Access, Menu extras, Keychain Access, Password Management, Storing Secure Notes
Keynote presentations, iChat
Kind list, What Lion Can't Do



L

labels, Finder preferences
language settings, Language & Text, Keyboard tab, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X
Launchpad, Launchpad, Launchpad, What Lion Can't Do
Lion, What's New in Lion?, Getting Your Hands on Lion, A Brand-New Look, What You Need to Run Lion, Installing Lion, What You Need to Run Lion, What You Need to Run Lion, Installing Lion, After the Install, After the Install, After the Install, User Accounts, The Dock, Utilities Included with Lion, X11


changes from Snow Leopard, What's New in Lion?, A Brand-New Look, User Accounts, The Dock
compatible chips, What You Need to Run Lion
downloading, Installing Lion
installing, Getting Your Hands on Lion, What You Need to Run Lion, Installing Lion, After the Install
memory requirements, What You Need to Run Lion
restarting after install, After the Install, After the Install
utilities included with, Utilities Included with Lion, X11


List View, The Finder window, Finder views, Stack view options
Listening Method, Speech Recognition tab
local network sharing, Sharing
Location, Network, Network
lock, Auto Save and Versions, Setting up accounts, Logging In, General, Sharing & Permissions, Preference Pane Rundown, General tab, General tab, Firewall tab, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites, Keychain Access, Recovering a Forgotten Password


administrator icon, Setting up accounts, Logging In, Sharing & Permissions, Preference Pane Rundown, General tab, Firewall tab
documents, Auto Save and Versions, General
keychain, Recovering a Forgotten Password
locked screen message, General tab
Safari pages, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites
secure notes, Keychain Access


log list, Console
logging in, Setting up accounts, Logging In, Shut down and log out shortcuts, The Accounts menu, Dock Exposé, Energy Saver, App Store


to Mac App Store, App Store
fast user switching, The Accounts menu
guest accounts, Setting up accounts
open applications on, Dock Exposé
remotely, Energy Saver
risk of automatic, Logging In
shortcuts, Shut down and log out shortcuts


logging out, User Accounts, Starting Up, Logging Out, Sleeping, and Shutting Down, Logging Out, Sleeping, and Shutting Down, Shut down and log out shortcuts, The Apple menu, The Apple menu, General tab, Users & Groups


after period of inactivity, General tab
disabling Resume when, Starting Up
of guest account, User Accounts
options, Logging Out, Sleeping, and Shutting Down
shortcuts, Shut down and log out shortcuts, The Apple menu
Shut Down button, Logging Out, Sleeping, and Shutting Down, Users & Groups
of user
                    account, The Apple menu


Lookup, Network Utility



M

Mac App Store, Getting Your Hands on Lion, Launchpad, What You Need to Run Lion, Installing Lion, The Apple menu, App Store


downloading Lion from, Getting Your Hands on Lion, Installing Lion
launching, The Apple menu
OS X requirements, What You Need to Run Lion
restoring from, Launchpad


Mac Mini, Input tab
Mac Pro, Input tab
MacBook, Battery problems
Machine settings, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer
Magic Mouse, Gestures
Magnification setting (Dock), Dock
Mail, Mail, Mail, After the Install, After the Install, The Home Folder, The Dock, General tab, Mail, Contacts & Calendars, People tab, Mail, Mail, Mail, Adding new accounts, Add a signature to outgoing mail, Enable junk mail filtering, Manage mailboxes, Manage mailboxes, Quickly delete junk mail, Search your mail


adding new accounts, Adding new accounts
adding new mailboxes, Manage mailboxes
attachments, The Home Folder, The Dock
conversation groups, Mail
email address, After the Install
junk mail filtering, Enable junk mail filtering, Quickly delete junk mail
Mail, Contacts & Calendars pane, Mail, Contacts & Calendars
New Message window, Mail
parental controls, People tab
preferences, Mail
revert to classic layout, Mail
searching, Search your mail
show on locked screen, General tab
signature, Add a signature to outgoing mail
Smart mailbox, Manage mailboxes
upgrading, After the Install


malware, User Accounts, General tab
manual uninstall, Non-Apple Preference Panes
maximizing windows, Standard Window Controls
memory, What You Need to Run Lion, The Apple menu, Your Mac beeps at you instead of starting


info on installed, The Apple menu
installing, Your Mac beeps at you instead of starting
requirements, What You Need to Run Lion


menu bar, Full-Screen Applications, The Menu Bar, Use the menu bar less, The Menu Bar, Menu extras


extras/menulets, Menu extras
making it disappear/reappear, Full-Screen Applications
menus on the, The Menu Bar, Use the menu bar less
turn translucent or solid, The Menu Bar


menu extras, Menu extras
messages, General tab (see Mail)
metadata, Searching with Spotlight
Microsoft Exchange, Mail, Contacts & Calendars
Microsoft Word, Resize from Any Edge, TextEdit
MIDI (Musical Instruments Digital Interface), Audio MIDI Setup
Mighty Mouse, Mighty Mouse options
Migration Assistant, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, Fine-Tuning Data Migration, Migration Assistant
minimizing windows, Standard Window Controls, Dock
Mission Control, Mission Control, Dock Exposé, Mission Control
MobileMe, After the Install, Mail, Contacts & Calendars, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites
modifier keys, Desktop & Screen Saver
monitor controls, Displays
mono audio, Hearing tab
More Gestures tab, Magic Mouse options
More Info, More Info
Mosaic screensaver, Desktop & Screen Saver
mounting disks, Disk Utility
mouse, Startup key commands, The Desktop, Display problems, Mouse tab (Mouse & Trackpad tab on MacBooks), Mouse, Mouse, Magic Mouse options, Magic Mouse options, Mighty Mouse options, If you're using a non-Apple mouse


Bluetooth, Mouse
display moves with, Display problems
hold command, Startup key commands
Magic Mouse, Magic Mouse options
Mighty Mouse, Mighty Mouse options
Mouse Keys setting, Mouse tab (Mouse & Trackpad tab on MacBooks)
mouse wheel, Mouse
navigating without, The Desktop
non-Apple, If you're using a non-Apple mouse
preference pane, Magic Mouse options


.mov files, Common Finder tasks
movies, The Home Folder, Common Finder tasks, The Dashboard


copy-protected, Common Finder tasks
folder, The Home Folder
widget, The Dashboard


moving windows, Resize from Any Edge
multiple drives/partitions, Installing Lion
multiple installs, Getting Your Hands on Lion, Installing Lion
multiple monitors, Full-Screen Applications, The Menu Bar, Displays
multitouch trackpads, Multitouch trackpads
Music folder, The Home Folder
mute, Dock menus



N

navigating without mouse, The Desktop
NetNewsWire, Use a different default RSS reader
Netstat, Network Utility
network, After the Install, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, Networking Options When Migrating Data, Networking Options When Migrating Data, Startup troubleshooting, Network, Network Utility


Network Utility, Startup troubleshooting, Network Utility
options for migrating files, Networking Options When Migrating Data, Networking Options When Migrating Data
options on install, After the Install
preferences, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, Network


New Burn Folder, Burn Folders
New Email With Selection, The Application menu
New Folder, Standard Application menus
No Services Apply, The Application menu
non-Apple applications, Non-Apple Preference Panes
non-Apple mouse, If you're using a non-Apple mouse



O

.odt files, TextEdit
Open at Login, Dock menus
Open iTunes, CDs and DVDs
Open with, Open with
optical disks, Common Finder tasks
Option key, Startup key commands, Finder views, Common Finder tasks
OS Extended (Journaled) filesystem, Installing Lion, Common Finder tasks, Disk Utility
OS X requirements, What You Need to Run Lion, Installing Lion



P

Paper Tape (Calculator), Calculator
Parallels Desktop, Boot Camp Assistant
parameter random access memory (PRAM), Reset your PRAM
Parental Controls, User Accounts, Parental Controls, Other tab
partitioned drives, Installing Lion, Boot Camp Assistant
passwords, Sharing & Permissions, General tab, General tab, Users & Groups, Other tab, Make Safari remember passwords for website logins, Managing Passwords in Lion, Securing Your Data, Password Management, Recovering a Forgotten Password, Make a Great Password


having Safari remember, Make Safari remember passwords for website logins
hints, Users & Groups
keychains, Password Management
parental controls, Other tab
recovering forgotten, Recovering a Forgotten Password
require after sleep/screen saver, General tab
require for locked icons, General tab
sharing and permissions, Sharing & Permissions
strength of, Make a Great Password


paste command, Standard Application menus
Path, Customizing the Finder toolbar
.pdf files, Preview
People, parental controls, People tab
Photo Booth, Photo Booth
Photo Browser, Mail
picture library, After the Install
Pictures folder, The Home Folder
Ping, Network Utility
pixel sampling, ColorSync Utility
play feedback on volume change, Sound Effects tab
.png files, The Home Folder, Preview
pocket drives, Common Finder tasks
Podcast Publisher, Podcast Capture, Podcast Publishing
pointing devices, Universal Access
POP (Post Office Protocol), Adding new accounts
pop-up ads, Block pop-up ads
Port Scan, Network Utility
Post-it notes, Stickies
power adapter preferences, Energy Saver
power failure, recovery from, Energy Saver
power source preferences, Energy Saver
powered USB ports, USB device problems
PowerPC apps, What Lion Can't Do, Preparing for the Install
PRAM (parameter random access memory), Reset your PRAM
preferences, The Application menu (see System Preferences)
preinstalled Lion, Installing Lion and Migrating
  Data, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer
Preview, Preview
printer, Print & Scan, Sharing, Other tab


parental controls, Other tab
Print & Scan preferences, Print & Scan
sharing, Sharing


privacy, Trash, Controlling what Spotlight indexes, Privacy, Browse privately


browsing, Browse privately
preferences, Privacy
Spotlight, Controlling what Spotlight indexes
Trash, Trash


processor, The Apple menu
profanity, blocking, Other tab
projectors, Displays
Prolific devices, USB device problems
proxy icons, The Finder window, Standard Window Controls
Public folder, The Home Folder



Q

question mark, flashing, Startup troubleshooting
Quick Events, iCal
Quick Look preview, The Finder window, Finder views, Common Finder tasks, Searching with Spotlight
QuickTime Player, The Home Folder, Common Finder tasks, QuickTime Player
Quit Process, Force quitting greedy processes, Activity Monitor
Quit ..., The Application menu, Dock menus



R

RAID Utility, RAID Utility
RAM, The Apple menu, Your Mac beeps at you instead of starting
random screensaver, Desktop & Screen Saver
read-only files, General
Reading List, Safari
RealVNC, Sharing
rebooting, The Apple menu (see restarting)
recalls, Battery problems
Recent Items, The Apple menu
record screen, QuickTime Player
recovery key, FileVault tab
Recovery Mode, After the Install, Time Machine
reformatting, Common Finder tasks
registering Lion, After the Install
reinstalling Lion, Startup troubleshooting
Relaunch, The Finder stops responding
Remote Apple Events, Sharing
remote control infrared receiver, General tab
Remote Desktop, Energy Saver, Sharing
Remote Login, Sharing
Remote Management, Sharing
remounting disk drives, Common Finder tasks, Disk Utility
Remove from Dock option, Dock menus
rename file/folder/drive, Common Finder tasks
resetting display, Startup key commands
resizing, Resize from Any Edge, Finder views


columns, Finder views
windows, Resize from Any Edge


restart button, Users & Groups
restarting, The Apple menu, Startup troubleshooting, Startup troubleshooting, Energy Saver, Startup Disk


automatically, Energy Saver
in Recovery Mode, Startup troubleshooting
startup disk used for, Startup Disk
to fix boot errors, Startup troubleshooting


Restore Defaults button, Keyboard Shortcuts tab
Restore System From Backup, Time Machine
Resume, Resume, Starting Up, Users & Groups
reverting, Auto Save and Versions, Mail


to classic Mail layout, Mail
to previous file version, Auto Save and Versions


Rosetta, What Lion Can't Do, What Lion Can't Do
rotate gesture, Multitouch trackpads
RSS, Desktop & Screen Saver, Mail, Use a different default RSS reader


reader, Use a different default RSS reader
Visualizer, Desktop & Screen Saver


.rtf files, TextEdit



S

S.M.A.R.T. status, Your hard drive is making noises
Safari, Startup troubleshooting, Mission Control, Sharing, Safari, Change the home page, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites, Block pop-up ads, Control cookies, Get rid of Safari's history, Browse privately, Customize Safari's toolbar


Bonjour sites, Sharing
bookmarks, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites
cookies, Control cookies
history, Get rid of Safari's history, Browse privately
home page, Change the home page
pop ups, Block pop-up ads
Reading List, Safari
static web page, Startup troubleshooting
switch to, Mission Control
toolbar, Customize Safari's toolbar


Safari-only mode, User Accounts
Safe Boot/Safe Mode, Startup key commands, Startup troubleshooting
saving, Auto Save and Versions, Auto Save and Versions, The Home Folder, Standard Window Controls, Smart Folders, An application stops responding, Automator, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites, Make Safari remember passwords for website logins


Auto Save, Auto Save and Versions, Auto Save and Versions, An application stops responding, Automator
documents, The Home Folder
Internet pages, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites
passwords, Make Safari remember passwords for website logins
as Smart folder, Smart Folders
unsaved changes indicator, Standard Window Controls


Scale effect, Dock
scanners, Print & Scan, Sharing


Print & Scan preferences, Print & Scan
sharing, Sharing


Schedule settings, Energy Saver
Scheduled Check, Software Update
screen capture, QuickTime Player, Grab
screen sharing, Sharing
screen-reading utility, Seeing tab, VoiceOver Utility
screencasting, QuickTime Player
screensaver preferences, Desktop & Screen Saver, Desktop & Screen Saver
scrolling, A Brand-New Look, General, Seeing tab, Mouse, Mighty Mouse options, Multitouch trackpads


direction of, Mouse, Mighty Mouse options
Scroll & Zoom tab, Multitouch trackpads
scroll bars, A Brand-New Look, General
scroll wheel, Seeing tab


Search box, The Finder window
Secure Empty Trash, Trash
Secure Notes, Storing Secure Notes
secure websites, Web tab
Security & Privacy preferences, Security & Privacy, Privacy


(see also passwords)


seeing preferences, Seeing tab
Self-Monitoring Analysis and Reporting Technology
            (S.M.A.R.T.), Your hard drive is making noises
serial number, The Apple menu
server, display/hide, The Desktop
Service options, The Apple menu
Services Menu, The Application menu, The Application menu
settings, migrating, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer
Shared folder, The Home Folder
Shared section (Finder), The sidebar
Sharing Only accounts, User Accounts
Sharing preferences, Sharing, Sharing
Shift key, Startup key commands, Finder views
shortcuts, Startup key commands (see keyboard shortcuts)
show, The Application menu, The Application menu, Menu extras, The Desktop, The Desktop, The Desktop, The Dock, Dock Exposé, Dock menus, Dock menus, Dock, Dock, Mission Control, Mission Control, Language & Text, Keyboard tab, Console


All Windows, The Application menu, Dock Exposé
applications, The Application menu, Dock menus
Dashboard, Mission Control
Desktop, Mission Control
Dock, Dock
icon preview, The Desktop
in Finder, Dock menus
indicator lights, The Dock, Dock
Input menu, Language & Text
item info, The Desktop
Keyboard & Character Viewers, Keyboard tab
keychain status, Menu extras
Log List, Console
View Options, The Desktop


Shut Down button, Logging Out, Sleeping, and Shutting Down, Users & Groups
sidebar, All My Files, Mail, The Finder window, The sidebar, Finder preferences, Common Finder tasks, General


All My Files, All My Files, The sidebar
changes from previous versions, The Finder window
display options, Finder preferences
eject drive/disk, Common Finder tasks
icon size, General
Mail, Mail


signature, email, Add a signature to outgoing mail
Single User Mode, Startup key commands
Sites folder, The Home Folder, Sharing
size, Resize from Any Edge, The Desktop, The Finder window, Finder views, Finder views, Dock preferences, Searching with Spotlight, General, Dock, Mouse tab (Mouse & Trackpad tab on MacBooks), DVD Player, Preview, DigitalColor Meter


columns, Finder views
Cover Flow area, Finder views
cursor, Mouse tab (Mouse & Trackpad tab on MacBooks)
DigitalColor aperture, DigitalColor Meter
Dock, Dock preferences, Dock
DVD playback window, DVD Player
icon, The Desktop, The Finder window, General
image, Searching with Spotlight, Preview
window, Resize from Any Edge


Ski Report widget, The Dashboard
sleep mode, Logging Out, Sleeping, and Shutting Down, The Apple menu, Energy Saver, Users & Groups
Slideshow screensaver, Desktop & Screen Saver
Slow Keys, Keyboard tab
Smart folders, Smart Folders, Smart Folders
Smart Mailboxes, Mail
SMC (System Management Controller), Battery problems
snap to grid, The Desktop
Snow Leopard, What's New in Lion?, A Brand-New Look, Mail, What You Need to Run Lion, Preparing for the Install, User Accounts, The Finder window, The Dock


changes from, What's New in Lion?, A Brand-New Look, User Accounts, The Dock
checking for PowerPC apps, Preparing for the Install
Finder window, The Finder window
sidebar, Mail
updating to OS X 10.6.7, What You Need to Run Lion


software, Installing Lion, Common Finder tasks


burning copy-protected, Common Finder tasks
Lion license, Installing Lion


Software Update, The Apple menu, The Apple menu, Software Update
Sort by, The Desktop
Sort by (stacks), Dock menus
sounds, Your hard drive is making noises, Sound, Input tab


drive, Your hard drive is making noises
preferences, Sound, Input tab


Spaces, Mission Control, Spaces, Mission Control
Speakable Items, Speech Recognition tab
speakers, Sound Effects tab
special characters, typing, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X, Typing Special Characters in Mac OS X
speech recognition, Speech Recognition tab
spellcheck, Dictionary
spinning cursor, An application stops responding
Spotlight, Spotlight, The Finder window, Smart Folders, Searching with Spotlight, Controlling what Spotlight indexes, Spotlight comments, Spotlight, Calculator


adding comments, Spotlight comments
calculating with, Calculator
and Finder, The Finder window
icon, Spotlight
preferences, Spotlight
searching with, Searching with Spotlight, Controlling what Spotlight indexes
and Smart folders, Smart Folders


stacks, The Dock, Stack view options
Standard accounts, User Accounts
startup, Starting Up, Startup key commands, Startup Problems, Reset your PRAM, Startup Disk


(see also logging in)
Startup Disk preference pane, Startup Disk
Startup Manager, Startup key commands
troubleshooting, Startup Problems, Reset your PRAM


Stationery pad, General, Mail
stealth mode, Firewall tab
stereo audio, Hearing tab
Stickies, The Dashboard, Stickies
Sticky Keys, Keyboard tab
Stocks widget, The Dashboard
Storage, The Apple menu
Stretch to Fill Screen, Desktop & Screen Saver
styles, TextEdit, TextEdit
subfolders, Finder views
Support options, The Apple menu
swiping, Mission Control, Mission Control, Magic Mouse options
switching, Full-Screen Applications, Logging In, The Application Switcher


applications, Full-Screen Applications, The Application Switcher
users, Logging In


symbol substitutions, Language & Text
System folder, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer
system freezes, Energy Saver
System Information, The Apple menu, System Information
System Management Controller (SMC), Battery problems
System Preferences, Setting up accounts, System Preferences, System Preferences, System Preferences, General, Desktop & Screen Saver, Desktop & Screen Saver, Dock, Mission Control, Language & Text, Security & Privacy, Privacy, Spotlight, Universal Access, CDs and DVDs, CDs and DVDs, Displays, Energy Saver, Keyboard, Keyboard Shortcuts tab, Mouse, Trackpad, Print & Scan, Sound, Input tab, Mail, Contacts & Calendars, MobileMe, Network, Bluetooth, Sharing, Sharing, Users & Groups, Parental Controls, Date & Time, Software Update, Speech, Text to Speech tab, Time Machine, Startup Disk


Bluetooth, Bluetooth
CDs and DVDs, CDs and DVDs
Date & Time, Date & Time
Desktop & Screen Saver, Desktop & Screen Saver, Desktop & Screen Saver
Displays, Displays
Dock, Dock
Energy Saver, Energy Saver
General, General
Keyboard, Keyboard, Keyboard Shortcuts tab
Language & Text, Language & Text
Mail, Contacts & Calendars, Mail, Contacts & Calendars
Mission Control, Mission Control
MobileMe, MobileMe
Mouse, Mouse
Network, Network
Parental Controls, Parental Controls
Print & Scan, Print & Scan
Restore Default, System Preferences
search box, System Preferences
Security & Privacy, Security & Privacy, Privacy
Sharing, Sharing, Sharing
Software Update, Software Update
Sound, Sound, Input tab
Speech, Speech, Text to Speech tab
Spotlight, Spotlight
Startup Disk, Startup Disk
Time Machine, Time Machine
Trackpad, Trackpad
Universal Access, Universal Access, CDs and DVDs
unlocking, Setting up accounts
Users & Groups, Users & Groups


system resources, Force quitting greedy processes



T

Target Disk Mode, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, Startup key commands, Startup Disk
technical support, Common Problems
Terminal, Startup troubleshooting, Terminal
Text Only option, Customizing the Finder toolbar
Text tab, Language & Text
text to speech, Text to Speech tab
TextEdit, The Application menu, TextEdit
third-party widgets/applications, Adding and removing widgets, Non-Apple Preference Panes
Thunderbolt, Networking Options When Migrating Data
TightVNC, Sharing
Tile Game widget, The Dashboard
tiling wallpaper, Desktop & Screen Saver
Time Capsule, The sidebar, Time Machine
Time Limits, Time Limits tab
Time Machine backup, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, Time Machine, Time Machine, Disk Utility
time preferences, Date & Time
time zone, After the Install, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, Date & Time
Top Sites, Control which pages are shown in Top Sites
touchscreens, Universal Access
Traceroute, Network Utility
tracking, mouse, Magic Mouse options
trackpad, Gestures, Mouse tab (Mouse & Trackpad tab on MacBooks), Trackpad
transferring files between Macs, AirDrop, After the Install


(see also Migration Assistant)


Translation widget, The Dashboard
translucent menu bar, The Menu Bar, Desktop & Screen Saver
Trash, Finder preferences, Common Finder tasks, The Dock, Trash, Trash, Trash


advanced options, Finder preferences
ejecting with, Common Finder tasks
opening, Trash
securing, Trash
unable to move, The Dock


troubleshooting, The Apple menu, Common Problems, Display problems, Display problems, Startup Problems, Reset your PRAM, Your hard drive is making noises


common problems, Common Problems, Display problems
display, The Apple menu, Display problems
hard drives, Your hard drive is making noises
startup, Startup Problems, Reset your PRAM


Turn Hiding On, The Apple menu
Turn Magnification On, The Apple menu
typefaces, Font Book



U

undo command, Standard Application menus
uninstall, Non-Apple Preference Panes
Unit Converter widget, The Dashboard
Universal Access, Universal Access, CDs and DVDs
Universal apps, What Lion Can't Do, Preparing for the Install
Unix, Terminal
unsaved changes indicator, Standard Window Controls
unsigned applications, Firewall tab
Upon Recognition, Speech Recognition tab
URLs, adding to desktop, Add a URL to the desktop
USB devices, The sidebar, USB device problems
USB microphone, Input tab
Use grayscale setting, Seeing tab
user accounts, After the Install, Moving Data and Applications from Another Computer, User Accounts, Setting up accounts
user interface sounds, Sound Effects tab
Users folder, The Home Folder
Utilities, Utilities Included with Lion, X11



V

validating fonts, Font Book
verbose mode, Startup key commands
Verified status, Your hard drive is making noises
versions, Auto Save and Versions, Auto Save and Versions, The Apple menu, Automator
View as (stacks), Dock menus
View controls, The Finder window
VMware Fusion, Boot Camp Assistant
VNC (Virtual Network Computing), Sharing
voice, clock, Date & Time
VoiceOver, Seeing tab, Users & Groups, VoiceOver Utility
Volume menu extra, Menu extras
volume of alerts, Sound Effects tab



W

Wake for network access, Energy Saver
waking up your Mac, The Apple menu
wallpaper, Desktop & Screen Saver
warnings, Hearing tab (see alerts)
Weather widget, The Dashboard
Web Clip widget, The Dashboard
Web Sharing, Sharing
webcam, After the Install
WebKit platform, Safari
Whois, Network Utility
widgets, The Dashboard, Making your own widgets
WiFi, Networking Options When Migrating Data, Network


connection, Network
transferring data with, Networking Options When Migrating Data


Wikipedia, searching with Spotlight, Searching with Spotlight
Window menu, Standard Application menus
windows, Resize from Any Edge, Standard Window Controls, Standard Window Controls, General, Dock


controls for, Standard Window Controls
minimizing, Standard Window Controls, Dock
resizing and moving, Resize from Any Edge
restoring, General


Windows, Microsoft, Boot Camp Assistant, Disk Utility


changing disk format from, Disk Utility
installing, Boot Camp Assistant


Word Break setting, Language & Text
Word of the Day, Desktop & Screen Saver
Word, Microsoft, TextEdit
World Clock widget, The Dashboard



X

X11 (X Window System), X11
Xeon chip, What You Need to Run Lion
Xgrid, Sharing
XTS-AES 128 encryption, FileVault tab



Y

Yahoo!, Mail, Contacts & Calendars



Z

Zip files, Common Finder tasks
zooming, Seeing tab, Mighty Mouse options, Multitouch trackpads


by pinching, Multitouch trackpads
with mouse, Mighty Mouse options
Zoom in window, Seeing tab















About the Author
Chris Seibold is an engineer, writer, and cartoonist residing in Knoxville, Tennessee. As an engineer, he has tackled such diverse processes as powder coating and hot dog casing manufacture. As a writer, he has focused on computing and written for a variety of online and traditional media, including serving as Senior Contributing Editor for the Apple Matters web site and contributing hacks to iPod and iTunes Hacks, with a talent for making the complex accessible to the interested but harried user. As a cartoonist, he has produced both cartoon strips and editorials. Chris also managed to spend some time working producing radio shows relating to sports. As soon as he hits television, the trifecta will be complete. Chris lives with his wife, young son, and what is quite possibly the world's dimmest canine. He has a degree in Physics from the University of Tennessee but has yet to find work involving frictionless inclined planes.




