




















Macroeconomics in Context
 
 
 
 
 

Visit the Macroeconomics in Context web site w­w­w­.g­d­a­e­.o­r­g­/­m­a­c­r­o­ for Student Study Guide and other instructor and student support materials.



















Macroeconomics


in Context
SECOND EDITION


 
NEVA GOODWIN
Tufts University
JONATHAN HARRIS
Tufts University
JULIE A. NELSON
University of Massachusetts Boston
BRIAN ROACH
Tufts University
MARIANO TORRAS
Adelphi University
With Contributions by JAMES DEVINE
 

















 

First published 2014 by M.E. Sharpe
Published 2015 by Routledge
2 Park Square, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4RN
711 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017, USA
Routledge is an imprint of the Taylor & Francis Group, an informa business
Copyright © 2014 Taylor & Francis. All rights reserved.
No part of this book may be reprinted or reproduced or utilised in any form or by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including photocopying and recording, or in any information storage or retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publishers.
Notices
No responsibility is assumed by the publisher for any injury and/or damage to persons or property as a matter of products liability, negligence or otherwise, or from any use of operation of any methods, products, instructions or ideas contained in the material herein.
Practitioners and researchers must always rely on their own experience and knowledge in evaluating and using any information, methods, compounds, or experiments described herein. In using such information or methods they should be mindful of their own safety and the safety of others, including parties for whom they have a professional responsibility.
Product or corporate names may be trademarks or registered trademarks, and are used only for identification and explanation without intent to infringe.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Goodwin, Neva R.
  Macroeconomics in context / Neva Goodwin, Jonathan Harris, Julie Nelson, Brian Roach, Mariano Torras. -- Second Edition.
pages cm
 Includes bibliographical references and index.
 ISBN 978-0-7656-3874-8 (pbk.: alk. paper)
1. Macroeconomics. I. Nelson, Julie A., 1956- II. Harris, Jonathan, 1948- III. Title.




HB172.5.G663 2014



  339--dc23
2013036243


ISBN 13: 9780765638748 (pbk)














 
 
 

Brief Contents

 


 
 

Introduction
Sample Course Outlines





P A R T
I
The Context for Economic Analysis


  0. Macroeconomics and Well-Being
  1. Economic Activity in Context
  2. Useful Tools and Concepts
  3. What Economies Do
  4. Supply and Demand





P A R T
II
Macroeconomic Basics


  5. Macroeconomic Measurement: The Current Approach
  6. Macroeconomic Measurement: Environmental and Social Dimensions
  7. The Structure of the U.S. Economy
  8. Employment, Unemployment, and Wages





P A R T
III
Macroeconomic Theory and Policy


  9. Aggregate Demand and Economic Fluctuations
10. Fiscal Policy
11. Money, Banking, and Finance
12. The Federal Reserve and Monetary Policy
13. Aggregate Supply, Aggregate Demand, and Inflation: Putting It All Together
14. The Global Economy and Policy





P A R T
IV
Macroeconomic Issues and Applications


15. The Financial Crisis and the Great Recession
16. Deficits and Debt
17. How Economies Grow and Develop
18. Growth and Sustainability in the Twenty-First Century
Glossary
Index















 
 
 

Contents

 


 
 

Introduction
Sample Course Outlines






P A R T
I
The Context for Economic Analysis


0. Macroeconomics and Well-Being

  Notes on Graphs
  1. GDP per Capita
  2. Recent Growth Rate of GDP per Capita
  3. Net National Savings
  4. Government Debt
  5. Labor Productivity
  6. Average Annual Hours Worked
  7. Unemployment Rate
  8. Inflation
  9. Total Tax Revenue
10. Trade Balance
11. Income Inequality
12. Absolute Poverty
13. Foreign Aid
14. Internet Users
15. Educational Performance
16. Life Expectancy
17. Subjective Well-Being
18. Carbon Dioxide Emissions per Capita
19. Local Air Quality

1. Economic Activity in Context

  1. What Is Macroeconomics About?
  2. Macroeconomic Goals
2.1 Living Standards
2.2 Stability and Security
2.3 Sustainability
  3. Macroeconomics in Context
3.1 The Classical Period
3.2 The Great Depression, Keynes, and Monetarism
3.3 Synthesizing Classical and Keynesian Economics
3.4 Macroeconomics for the Twenty-First Century

2. Useful Tools and Concepts

  1. Our Tools for Understanding
1.1 Empirical Investigation
1.2 Theoretical Investigation
1.3 Historical Investigation
  2. Economic Tradeoffs
2.1 Abundance and Scarcity
2.2 Society's Production-Possibilities Frontier
2.3 Tradeoffs Over Time
  3. The Role of Markets
3.1 The Meaning of Markets
3.2 The Basic Neoclassical Model
3.3 The Advantages of Markets
3.4 The Institutional Requirements of Markets
3.5 The Limitations of Markets

3. What Economies Do

  1. Introducing the Four Essential Economic Activities
1.1 Resource Maintenance
1.2 Production
1.3 Distribution
1.4 Consumption
  2. Resource Maintenance: Attending to the Asset Base of the Macroeconomy
2.1 Stocks Versus Flows
2.2 Investment and Depreciation
2.3 Renewable Resources, Non-Renewable Resources and Sustainability
  3. Distribution: Who Gets What, and How?
3.1 Labor and Capital Incomes
3.2 Transfers and Taxes
3.3 The Distribution of Income
3.4 Measuring Inequality
3.5 Income Inequality Over Time
3.6 Wealth Inequality
  4. The Three Spheres of Economic Activity
4.1 The Core Sphere
4.2 The Public-Purpose Sphere
4.3 The Business Sphere
4.4 A Comparative Note: Less Industrialized Economies
4.5 Putting Economic Activity in Context

4. Supply and Demand

  1. Markets and Macroeconomics
1.1 Classical and Keynesian Views of Markets
1.2 Market Competitiveness
  2. The Theory of Supply
2.1 The Supply Schedule and Curve
2.2 Changes in Supply
  3. The Theory of Demand
3.1 The Demand Schedule and Curve
3.2 Changes in Demand
  4. The Theory of Market Adjustment
4.1 Surplus, Shortage, and Equilibrium
4.2 Shifts in Supply and Demand
4.3 Elasticity
  5. Macroeconomics and the Dynamics of Real-World Markets
5.1 When Price Adjustments Are Slow
5.2 When Prices Swing Too Much: Market Instability
5.3 From Microeconomics to Macroeconomics






P A R T
II
Macroeconomic Basics


5. Macroeconomic Measurement: The Current Approach

  1. An Overview of National Accounting
1.1 Conventions About National Accounting Sectors
1.2 Conventions About Capital Stocks
1.3 Conventions About Investment
  2. Defining Gross Domestic product
  3. Measuring Gross Domestic product
3.1 The Product Approach
3.2 The Spending Approach
3.3 The Income Approach
  4. Growth, Price Changes, and Real GDP
4.1 Calculating GDP Growth Rates
4.2 Nominal vs. Real GDP
4.3 Calculating Real GDP
4.4 Price Indexes and Inflation Rates
4.5 Growth and Growth Rates
  5. Savings, Investment, and Trade
5.1 The Relationship of Savings, Investment, and Trade
5.2 Net Domestic Product and Saving
Appendix: Chained Dollar Real GDP

6. Macroeconomic Measurement: Environmental and Social Dimensions

  1. A Broader View of National Income Accounting
  2. Why GDP Is Not a Measure of Well-Being
2.1 Subjective Well-Being
2.2 Critiques of GDP
  3. Alternative Approaches to Representing Well-being
3.1 The Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI)
3.2 The Better Life Index (BLI)
3.3 The Human Development Index (HDI)
3.4 Other National Accounting Alternatives
  4. Measuring Household Production
4.1 Time-Use Surveys
4.2 Methods of Valuing Household Production
  5. Accounting for the Environment
5.1 Environmentally Adjusted Net Domestic Product
5.2 Valuing Environmental Factors
  6. Conclusion: Measuring Economic Well-Being

7. The Structure of the U.S. Economy

  1. The Three Major Productive Sectors in an Economy
1.1 A Quick Review of Categories
1.2 The Relative Size of the Output Sectors in the United States
  2. The Primary Sector in the United States
2.1 The Food System
2.2 Water
2.3 The Energy System
  3. The Secondary (Industrial) Sector in the United States
3.1 Construction and Housing
3.2 Manufacturing
3.3 Where Have All the Manufacturing Jobs Gone?
  4. The Tertiary (Service) Sector
4.1 Retail Services
4.2 Finance and Financialization
4.3 Human Services: Health
4.4 Human Services: Education
4.5 Concluding Thoughts
Appendix
A1: The Tertiary Sector in the Overall Macro Context
A2: Historical Trends and Global Comparisons

8. Employment, Unemployment, and Wages

  1. Employment and Unemployment
1.1 Measuring Employment and Unemployment
1.2 The Unemployment Rate
1.3 Labor Force Participation
  2. A Closer Look at Unemployment
2.1 Types of Unemployment
2.2 Patterns of Unemployment
  3. Theories of Employment, Unemployment, and Wages
3.1 The Classical Theory
3.2 Alternative Perspectives on Labor Markets
3.3 Longer Term Issues: Productivity, Resources, and Technology






P A R T
III
Macroeconomic Theory and Policy


9. Aggregate Demand and Economic Fluctuations

  1. The Business Cycle
1.1 What Happens During the Business Cycle
1.2 A Stylized Business Cycle
1.3 The Downturn Side of the Story
  2. Macroeconomic Modeling and Aggregate Demand
2.1 Simplifying Assumptions
2.2 Output, Income, and Aggregate Demand
2.3 The Problem of Leakages
2.4 The Classical Solution to Leakages
  3. The Keynesian Model
3.1 Consumption
3.2 Investment
3.3 The Aggregate Demand Schedule
3.4 The Possibility of Unintended Investment
3.5 Movement to Equilibrium in the Keynesian Model
3.6 The Problem of Persistent Unemployment
3.7 The Multiplier
  4. Concluding Thoughts
Appendix: An Algebraic Approach to the Multiplier

10. Fiscal Policy

  1. The Role of Government Spending and Taxes
1.1 A Change in Government Spending
1.2 Taxes and Transfer Payments
1.3 The Circular Flow with Government Spending and Taxes
1.4 Expansionary and Contractionary Fiscal Policy
  2. The Federal Budget
2.1 Deficits and Surpluses
2.2 Automatic Stabilizers
2.3 Discretionary Policy
  3. Policy Issues
3.1 Crowding Out and Crowding In
3.2 Different Multiplier Effects
3.3 Applying Fiscal Policy
Appendix: More Algebraic Approaches to the Multiplier?
A1. An Algebraic Approach to the Multiplier, with a Lump-Sum Tax
A2. And Algebraic Approach to the Multiplier, with a Proportional Tax

11. Money, Banking, and Finance

  1. Why Money?
1.1 Money and Aggregate Demand
1.2 "Running the Printing Press"
1.3 Deflation and Financial Crises
  2. What Is Money?
2.1 The Roles of Money
2.2 Types of Money
2.3 Measures of Money
  3. The Banking System
3.1 Private Banks
3.2 Bank Types
3.3 How Banks Create Money
  4. Money and Finance
4.1 Functions of Finance
4.2 Nonbank Financial Institutions
4.3 Financialization and Financial Bubbles
4.4 The International Sector

12. The Federal Reserve and Monetary Policy

  1. The Federal Reserve System
  2. Monetary Policy
2.1 How the Fed Creates Money and Credit
2.2 Other Monetary Policy Tools
  3. The Theory of Money, Interest Rates, and Aggregate Demand
3.1 The Federal Funds Rate and Other Interest Rates
3.2 Interest Rates and Investment
3.3 Monetary Policy and Aggregate Demand
  4. Monetary Policies in Practice
4.1 The Fed and Investment, 2000-2012
4.2 The Liquidity Trap and Credit Rationing
  5. The Theory of Money, Prices, and Inflation
5.1 The Quantity Equation
5.2 Competing Theories
  6. Complications and Policy Controversies
6.1 The Fed's Dilemma
6.2 Rules Versus Activism
Appendix
A1. Bond Prices and Interest Rates
A2. Short- Versus Long-Run and Real Versus Nominal Interest Rates

13. Aggregate Supply, Aggregate Demand, and Inflation: Putting It All Together

  1. Aggregate Demand and Inflation
1.1 A New View of the Aggregate Demand (AD) Curve
1.2 Shifts of the AD Curve: Spending and Taxation
1.3 Shifts of the AD Curve: Monetary Policy
  2. Capacity and the Aggregate Supply Curve
2.1 The Aggregate Supply (AS) Curve
2.2 Shifts of the AS Curve: Inflationary Expectations
2.3 Shifts of the AS Curve: Supply Shocks
  3. Putting the AD/AS Model to Work
3.1 An Economy in Recession
3.2 An Overheated Economy
3.3 Stagflation
3.4 A Hard Line Against Inflation
3.5 Technology and Globalization
  4. Competing Theories
4.1 Classical Macroeconomics
4.2 Keynesian Macroeconomics
Appendix: More Schools of Macroeconomics
A1. New Classical Economics
A2. The Neoclassical Synthesis and New Keynesian Macroeconomics
A3. Post-Keynesian Macroeconomics

14. The Global Economy and Policy

  1. Macroeconomics in a Global Context
1.1 Global Connections
1.2 Major Policy Tools
1.3 Patterns of Trade and Finance
  2. The Trade Balance: Completing the Picture
2.1 The Circular Flow Revisited
2.2 Effects on the Multiplier
2.3 Balance between Savings, Investment, and Net Borrowing
  3. International Finance
3.1 Purchasing Power Parity
3.2 Currency Exchange Rates
3.3 The Balance of Payments
  4. Macroeconomics in an Open Economy
4.1 Fiscal Policy
4.2 Monetary Policy
4.3 Managed Versus Flexible Foreign Exchange
  5. International Financial Institutions
  Appendix: An Algebraic Approach to the Multiplier, in a Model with Trade






P A R T
IV
Macroeconomic Issues and Applications


15. The Financial Crisis and the Great Recession

  1. Prelude to a Crisis
1.1 The Housing Bubble
1.2 The Subprime Crisis
  2. Economic Impacts of the Crisis
2.1 Unemployment and the Vicious Recessionary Spiral
2.2 The Great Depression and the Great Recession Compared
  3. Underlying Causes of the Financial Crisis
3.1 Inequality
3.2 Bank Size and Deregulation
3.3 Misguided Corporate Incentive Structure
3.4 Globalization and Long-Term Economic Trends
  4. Remedies and Ideas for Averting Future Crises
4.1 Fiscal and Monetary Responses
4.2 The Dodd-Frank Bill
4.3 Beyond Dodd-Frank

16. Deficits and Debt

  1. Deficits and the National Debt
  2. The U.S. National Debt: A Historical Perspective
2.1 Two Centuries of Deficits and Debt
2.2 "Supply-Side" Economics
2.3 1989 to the Present
  3. The Debt and Its Links to Finance
3.1 Taxonomy of Debt Types
3.2 Federal Government Borrowing: Potential Problems
  4. Political Economy of the Debt
4.1 Who Owns the Debt?
4.2 The Balanced Budget Debate
4.3 Imposed Austerity: The Case of the European Union
  5. Deficit Projections and Potential Policy Responses
5.1 Deficit Projections
5.2 Policy Choices
5.3 Budgetary Reforms: The Simpson-Bowles Plan
5.4 Budgetary Reforms: Congressional Budget Office
5.5 Debt and Deficits in Context

17. How Economies Grow and Develop

  1. Development and Economic Growth
1.1 Standard Economic Growth Theory
1.2 Historical Overview and Twentieth-Century Theory
  2. Country Growth Experiences
2.1 Growth Comparisons Across Countries
2.2 The Variety of Sources of Economic Growth
2.3 Different Kinds of Economies
  3. Understanding Poverty
3.1 GDP Growth and Poverty Reduction
3.2 The Multidimensional Poverty Index
3.3 Human Development and the Millennium Development Goals
  4. Inequality
4.1 Growth, Inequality, and the Kuznets Curve
4.2 Recent Studies of Inequality
4.3 Economic Development and Human Development

18. Growth and Sustainability in the Twenty-First Century

  1. Macroeconomic Goals: Looking Forward
  2. Macroeconomics and Ecological Sustainability
2.1 Major Environmental Issues
2.2 The Race Between Technology and Resource Depletion
2.3 A Biological Example: Fish Stocks
  3. Climate Change
3.1 Greenhouse Emissions and Global Temperature Change
3.2 National and Global Responses to the Climate Challenge
3.3 The Cost of Responding Versus the Cost of Inaction
  4. Economic Growth and the Environment
4.1 The Environmental Kuznets Curve Hypothesis
4.2 Policies for Sustainable Development
4.3 Sustainability and Consumption
4.4 Sustainability and Investment
  5. Are Stabilization and Sustainability in Conflict?
5.1 What Do We Really Want From Employment?
5.2 What Do We Really Want From Production?
5.3 Sustainability at the Local Level
5.4 Macroeconomic Policies for Stabilization and Sustainability
  6. Concluding Thoughts
Appendix: Demographic Challenges
A1: Basic Demographic Terms and History
A2: Global Population Patterns and Policies
A3: The Issue of Aging Populations
A4: Demographic Challenges Ahead

Glossary
Index













 
 
 

Introduction

 


 
 

For students taking an introductory macroeconomics course, Macroeconomics in Context lays out the principles of macroeconomics in a manner that is thorough, up to date, and highly readable. Whether students take this class simply to gain some understanding of how economics can be useful to them or go on to further studies in economics or business, this book will equip them with the standard tools and the critical understanding that they need to succeed. It introduces students both to the standard topics and tools taught in most introductory courses and to a broader and richer set of topics and tools to deepen comprehension of the economic realities of the twenty-first century.
In attempting to simplify the complexities of the real world to a comprehensible level, introductory macroeconomics textbooks too often present material that not only abstracts from reality but sometimes directly contradicts it. In this respect, it is more difficult to provide an introductory description of the macroeconomy than it is to introduce economic behavior on the microeconomic level. Macroeconomics in Context addresses this challenge by keeping the theoretical exposition close to experience. The authors believe that students will achieve a deeper and more memorable understanding of economic theory if they can relate it to contemporary issues of interest and importance.
This textbook is written to encourage engaged and critical thinking about topics in economics. While demonstrating the uses of economic theory, it also provides a variety of viewpoints. Instructors who are largely satisfied with standard treatments, as well as those following the requirements of larger curricula, can be assured that the materials typically treated in Introduction to Macroeconomics courses—especially the classical and Keynesian, but also the monetarist, classical-Keynesian synthesis, new classical and post-Keynesian approaches—are presented. At the same time, woven throughout the book are themes of great importance in everyday life as well as for an understanding of the economy. Within the broad themes of social and environmental well-being and sustainability, attention is repeatedly given to globalization, poverty and inequality, unpaid work, technology, and the environment as well as the financialization of the economy, the Great Recession, and its aftermath. These elements are not add-ons but are integrated within discussions of historical, institutional, political, and social factors that affect, and are affected by, the economy.
Macroeconomics in Context is the companion textbook to Microeconomics in Context (3rd ed.), also published by M.E. Sharpe.

CONTENT AND ORGANIZATION

Some of the innovative features of this text are apparent in even a quick scan of the table of contents, the sample course outlines on pp. xxv-xxvii, or Chapter 1. Although this textbook takes a broader and more contextual approach to economic activities, it fits these within a familiar overall organizational strategy.
• Part I, "The Context for Economic Analysis," presents the themes of the book and the major actors in the economy. Students are introduced to a range of macroeconomic questions and goals, to basic empirical and theoretical tools, and to the basic activities and institutions of a modern economy. This section concludes with an overview of supply-and-demand analysis and elasticity.
• Part II, "Macroeconomic Basics," introduces basic macroeconomic definitions and accounting methods, including gross domestic product (GDP), inflation, aggregate demand, and unemployment. These are supplemented with a discussion of how new accounting systems are being developed to measure the economic contributions of the natural environment, unpaid household labor, and other previously uncounted factors. The second half of Part II brings these abstractions down to earth with a description of the structure of the U.S. macroeconomy and discussion of the labor market and unemployment.
• Part III, "Macroeconomic Theory and Policy," explores the issue of macroeconomic fluctuations. The first chapters clearly present Keynesian and classical theories of the determination of aggregate demand (AD) and aggregate supply (AS) and the effects of fiscal and monetary policies. This section develops an AS/AD model of output and inflation that, with inflation rather than price level on the vertical axis, is designed to be comprehensible and usefully representative of the real world. It concludes with a chapter discussing macroeconomic issues in the global economy.
• Part IV, "Macroeconomic Issues and Applications," addresses the contemporary issues of financial crisis, the Great Recession, debt and deficits, economic development, and the environment. While the first two chapters here are presented from a largely U.S. perspective, the second half of this Part widens the lens to explore current global issues of poverty and inequality, economic growth, human development, and environmental challenges.
In order to focus on "contextual" discussions, we have generally placed more formal instruction in algebraic modeling techniques in optional appendices to the chapters. Also, while this book reviews the basics of supply and demand and includes "new classical" macroeconomics among the theories discussed, it devotes fewer pages to the concept of efficient markets than many books do and certainly less than recent books that have adopted a strongly "new classical" slant. In taking this approach, we have followed the lead of advanced researchers in the profession who convincingly argue that "micro foundations" based on the assumptions of perfect competition are of limited usefulness in explaining macroeconomic phenomena. This approach also makes the course less repetitious for students who take both Introduction to Microeconomics and Introduction to Macroeconomics courses.

WHAT MAKES THIS BOOK DIFFERENT FROM OTHER TEXTS?

This text covers the traditional topics included in most macroeconomics texts but treats them from a broader, more holistic perspective. The following chapter-by-chapter synopsis shows how this book manages both to be "similar enough" to fit into a standard curriculum and "different enough" to respond to commonly expressed needs and dissatisfactions.
Chapter 0, "Macroeconomics and Well-Being," presents graphically illustrated data on 19 variables, in each case showing where the United States stands among 10-13 other countries. The related website w­w­w­.g­d­a­e­.o­r­g­/­m­a­c­r­o­ allows users to see the same variables listed in order for all countries in the world where such data are available. The variables have been selected for intrinsic interest as well as relevance to the material in the rest of the book. This chapter is an innovation that teachers and students may choose to use in a variety of ways, including as an introduction to later topics, as a reference for use with other chapters, or as material to draw on in designing research projects.
Chapter 1, "Economic Activity in Context," presents standard macroeconomic topics such as the macroeconomic goals of living standards and stability—for the present and the future—and a basic roadmap relating macroeconomic theory to outstanding events and theories of the past century. We place these subjects in a broader context of concern for well-being. Many texts define economics as the study of choice in the face of scarcity and focus on economic growth as a (if not the) goal of macroeconomic policy. In this chapter we define the well-being goals of macroeconomics as (1) improvement in living standards, (2) stability and security, and (3) financial, social, and ecological sustainability. Thus growth in GDP alone may or may not contribute to the general goal of human well-being, depending on whether it furthers these ultimate objectives.
As is the pattern in most contemporary macroeconomics textbooks, a review of microeconomic concepts comes next. Chapters 2, 3, and 4 repeat some of the material from the companion textbook, Microeconomics in Context, though with more emphasis on what is needed for students of the macroeconomy. Chapter 2, "Useful Tools and Concepts," introduces standard concepts of economic modeling, efficiency, scarcity, opportunity cost, the production-possibilities frontier, circular flow, and the advantages of market systems and includes a review of graphing techniques. In contrast to most standard texts, however, we place these within a broader context of concern for well-being. We discuss the institutional requirements of markets and introduce the concepts of externalities, public goods, market power, transaction costs, information and expectations, and concern for human needs and equity. The early introduction of these topics allows us to demonstrate why markets, while useful, are not on their own sufficient for organizing economic life in service of well-being.
Chapter 3, "What Economies Do," presents brief discussions of the four essential economic activities. Most textbooks discuss three essential activities—production, distribution, and consumption—but we add the activity of "resource maintenance" to draw attention to the importance of maintaining capital stocks, including stocks of natural (environmental) capital. We also incorporate a discussion of the important topic of income and wealth distribution into this early chapter. In addition to the usual economic "circular flow" diagram, introduced in Chapter 2, this chapter presents an image of economic activity as embedded in social and physical contexts and relates this approach to issues of macroeconomic concern.
Chapter 4, "Supply and Demand," contains a brief but clear exposition of traditional supply-and-demand curve analysis, including discussions of the slopes of the curves, factors that shift the curves, equilibrium and market adjustment, and a simple discussion of elasticity. Our contextual approach, however, leads to some subtle shifts in presentation. First, the model is explicitly presented as a thought experiment—as a humanly created analytical tool that may help us gain insight—rather than as a set of "laws" about "the way the world works." Second, discussions of price changes that are either too slow (i.e., "sticky") or too volatile (e.g., financial market speculation) lead students to think about how market adjustment in the real world may not be as smooth and welfare-maximizing as the model is often taken to imply.
Chapter 5, "Macroeconomic Measurement: The Current Approach," begins Part II of the book, "Macroeconomic Basics." It presents a fairly standard introduction to national income accounting but emphasizes that the accounts have been created for specific purposes, with conventions that reflect particular assumptions or choices. It notes how the production and investment undertaken in the "household and institutions" and government sectors have historically been deemphasized in national accounting.
Chapter 6, "Macroeconomic Measurement: Environmental and Social Dimensions," gives a more thorough introduction to alternative measures of economic performance than can be found in any other introductory economics textbook. The chapter briefly describes the Genuine Progress Indicator, the Better Life Index, the Human Development Index, and other current approaches for assessing well-being. It includes discussions of issues in the valuation of environmental and household services and of satellite accounts for environmental and household production.
Chapter 7, "The Structure of the U.S. Economy," is unique to this book. It describes key features of production and employment in the U.S. economy, broken down into its primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors. We include this material for several reasons. First, it makes the text more "real world" to students. Second, it provides basic economic literacy that we believe is sorely lacking among most economics students. Finally, it presents the context to illustrate several economic debates, such as the loss of manufacturing jobs, the rising costs of health care, and the meaning of the trend toward an ever-growing service sector, especially financial services. While this chapter is written with a U.S. focus, its description of sectoral shifts is relevant to many economies around the world.
Chapter 8, "Employment, Unemployment, and Wages," discusses standard macroeconomic labor topics such as the definition of the unemployment rate, the different types of unemployment, and theories of the causes of unemployment. In addition, there is a special focus on labor market institutions. The chapter discusses changes in labor force participation rates, questions of labor market "flexibility," and the sources of wage differentials and inequalities.
Chapter 9, "Aggregate Demand and Economic Fluctuations," introduces the analysis of business cycles, presents the classical theory of savings-investment balance through the market for loanable funds, and develops Keynesian aggregate demand analysis in the form of the traditional "Keynesian cross" diagram. Our treatment of these topics is fairly standard, although our contextual approach places more emphasis on the possibility of persistent unemployment than do many other current textbooks—a perspective that is important in the light of the very slow recovery from the Great Recession.
Chapter 10, "Fiscal Policy," balances formal analysis of fiscal policy with real-world data and examples. Analysis of fiscal policy impacts is presented in fairly simple terms, with an algebraic treatment of more complex multiplier effects in appendices. While the basic analysis presented here follows the Keynesian model, the text also discusses classical and supply-side perspectives. The section on budgets and deficits should give students a basic understanding—developed further in Chapter 16—of deficits, debt, and how these affect the economy. The difference between automatic stabilizers and discretionary policy is made clear, and recent fiscal policies are discussed.
Chapter 11, "Money, Banking, and Finance," presents the basics of money and the banking system, including inflation, deflation, liquidity, and the different aggregate measures of money. Students are introduced to asset and liabilities tables, different banking institutions, and the process of money creation through the fractional reserve system. The chapter concludes with a discussion of non-bank financial institutions, financialization, and financial bubbles—topics of great relevance following the financial crisis of 2007-8.
Chapter 12, "The Federal Reserve and Monetary Policy," focuses on the role of the Federal Reserve and the implementation of monetary policy. Here we discuss the Federal Reserve's structure, functions, and monetary policy tools that it employs to create money. The chapter also spotlights the monetary economy in the United States since the year 2000, with particular attention to the role of monetary policy in the 2007-8 financial crisis, and the nature of the monetary response to the crisis. The chapter also contains an appendix that explains in detail the indirect effect that the Federal Reserve can have on interest rates through the workings of the market for Treasury bonds.
Chapter 13, "Aggregate Supply, Aggregate Demand, and Inflation: Putting It All Together," addresses the tricky problem of how to teach the relationship between output and inflation to introductory students in a way that is simple yet intellectually defensible. The model presented in this chapter has many features that will be familiar to instructors. But unlike AS/AD models that put the price level on the vertical axis, this model has the inflation rate on the vertical axis, which makes it more relevant for discussing current events.* Unlike many new classical theory-influenced textbooks, our basic presentation is not centered on a notion of long-run full-employment equilibrium output. We emphasize, instead, how the macroeconomy adjusts dynamically in the short and medium term to often-unpredictable economic events. This also makes relating the model to current events more realistic. (Classical theory is not, however, neglected. It is also discussed in the chapter and the appendix.)
In Chapter 14, "The Global Economy and Policy," the foreign sector is added to the circular-flow picture, which now includes savings, investment, taxes, government spending, exports, and imports. This chapter provides a more detailed treatment than most books of the factors that influence currency exchange rates worldwide. Chapter 14 also highlights the increasingly important links between fiscal and monetary policies and the global economy. Finally, in introducing students to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the chapter addresses the real-world political economy of international economic relations.
Chapter 15, "The Financial Crisis and the Great Recession," is another unique addition to the book. In treating a topic that, as of early 2014, continues to affect the lives of millions, the chapter helps adds current relevance to the discussion of macroeconomic policy. Rather than develop a theoretical framework, Chapter 15 applies many of the insights introduced in earlier chapters to explain some of the likely causes and consequences of the financial crisis that led to the Great Recession. The chapter supplies an ideal context for extensive discussion of how the "real" economy relates to the financial economy and the potential problems with excessive reliance on finance. It highlights the role of the housing bubble and subprime lending, as well as financial deregulation more generally, in creating the conditions for crisis. The latter part of the chapter discusses financial reform—efforts as well as new ideas—and asks some of the "big" questions that must be addressed if we are to avoid such crises in the future.
Chapter 16, "Deficits and Debt," is distinctive in a number of ways. First, it provides a current focus for the discussion of fiscal policy, allowing for greater elaboration on deficits and debt. Second, in an effort to alleviate the common confusion over the definition of the debt, the chapter includes a detailed classification of public and private debt types. Third, Chapter 16 analyzes the debate over stimulus versus austerity, including a contrast between how the United States and the eurozone have addressed their recent economic downturns, and considering the issue of sovereign debt. Finally, the chapter offers a survey of policy responses to the problem of long-term debt.
Chapter 17, "How Economies Grow and Develop," presents basic concepts related to economic growth, such as the Rostow and Harrod-Domar models, which emphasize the importance of investment in manufactured capital. But the chapter also distinguishes between growth and development and provide examples of how investment in other types of capital—e.g., human or natural capital—can be equally, if not more, important. It also explores in detail the question of whether most poor countries have been "catching up" with the industrialized world ("convergence") or falling behind. Country diversity is a recurrent theme; the chapter emphasizes that the "one size fits all" approach to economic development emphasizing structural reforms—such as those embodied in the Washington Consensus—has produced disappointing results and that different approaches are required in response to the circumstances in individual countries.
Chapter 18, "Growth and Sustainability in the Twenty-First Century," is an unusual chapter for a macroeconomics textbook—but a crucially important one, in terms of economic education for intelligent citizenship. It examines a number of ecological challenges and includes a section on global climate change. While it covers standard theories such as the environmental Kuznets curve, it raises serious challenges to the belief that economic growth and markets can solve this century's social and environmental problems on their own. More directly, it asks whether the traditional macroeconomic goal of continued economic growth is compatible with the long-term goal of sustainability. Finally, the chapter presents ideas for alternative approaches at the local, national, and global level that, while sustainable, do not detract from well-being.

SPECIAL FEATURES

Each chapter in this text contains many features designed to enhance student learning.
• Key terms are highlighted in boldface throughout the text, with sidebar definitions for easy comprehension and review.
• Discussion Questions at the end of each section encourage immediate review of what has been read and relate the material to the students' own experience. The frequent appearance of these questions throughout each chapter helps students review manageable portions of material and thus boosts comprehension. The questions can be used for participatory exercises involving the entire class or for small-group discussion.
• End-of-Chapter Review Questions are designed to encourage students to create their own summary of concepts. They also serve as helpful guidelines to the importance of various points.
• End-of-Chapter Exercises encourage students to work with and apply the material, thereby gaining increased mastery of concepts, models, and investigative techniques.
• Throughout the chapters, boxes enliven the material with real-world illustrations drawn from a variety of sources regarding applications of economic concepts and recent macro-economic developments.
• In order to make the chapters as lively and accessible as possible, some formal and technical material (suitable for inclusion in some but not all course designs) is carefully and concisely explained in chapter appendices.
• A glossary at the end of the book contains all key terms, their definitions, and the number of the chapter in which each was first used and defined.

SUPPLEMENTS

The supplements package for this book provides a set of teaching tools and resources for instructors using this text. The authors have worked closely with our associate Dr. Patrick Dolenc to create an Instructor's Resource Manual and Test Bank to accompany Macroeconomics in Context. To access these electronically, send a request via e-mail to gdae@ tufts.edu that contains sufficient information for us to verify your instructor status.
For each chapter, the Instructor's Resource Manual includes an introductory note and answers to all review questions and end-of-chapter exercises. In addition, the "Notes on Discussion Questions" section provides not only suggested answers to these questions but also ideas on how the questions might be used in the classroom. Sections titled "Web Resources" and "Extensions" provide supplementary material and links to other passages in the book or other materials that can be used to enrich lectures and discussion.
The Test Bank includes multiple-choice and true/false questions for each chapter. The correct answer for each question is indicated.
PowerPoint slides of figures and tables from the text and a Student Study Guide that provides ample opportunity for students to review and practice the key concepts are available for free download at w­w­w­.g­d­a­e­.o­r­g­/­m­a­c­r­o­.

HOW TO USE THIS TEXT

The feedback that we have received from instructors who have used the first edition of this text has been enthusiastic and gratifying. We have found that this book works in a variety of courses with a variety of approaches, and we would like to share some of these instructors' suggestions on tailoring this book to meet your own course needs.
On pages xxv-xxvii you will find several possible course plans based on different emphases (such as ecological, global, human development, and structural). We hope that this will help in planning the course that will best suit the needs of instructors and students.

NOTE ON DIFFERENCES FROM THE FIRST EDITION

The first edition of this book was published in 2008; much has happened in the world since then—and many real-world events have been reflected in new ways of understanding and teaching about the macroeconomy. In addition to updating data in the text, tables, figures, and boxes, the second edition of Macroeconomics in Context has been extensively revised and refreshed in response to new macroeconomic developments.
While Part I is the part of the book that has changed least overall, it begins with the innovative data in Chapter 0. Chapter 1 contains the start of a narrative that will continue in various places throughout the book, regarding recent events in the macroeconomy: bubbles, failures of financial institutions, impacts on "Main Street," and policy responses. The content of Chapters 2 and 4 remains largely unchanged. Chapter 3 adds emphasis and current data to the first edition's treatment of inequality and environmental challenges and introduces a broader "circular flow" diagram that locates the economy in the context of social and ecological systems.
In Chapter 5, discussion of measurement issues has been somewhat abbreviated and made easier to follow. Chapter 6 benefits from the fact that there has been much recent attention to alternatives to GDP for measuring the success of an economy: A number of these new approaches are introduced, along with those that were covered in the previous version, while some discussions from the first edition have been shortened.
The order of the next two chapters has been switched. Chapter 7 now directly follows issues of macroeconomic measurement with a portrait of the U.S. economy in the twenty-first century. The descriptions have been shortened, while also being linked more closely with current events, including a new section on Finance and Financialization, and a new appendix, Historical Trends and Global Comparisons. The chapter on labor is now Chapter 8. Its discussion of unemployment is related to the Great Recession, both in terms of extent and longevity of unemployment. Some discussions have been shortened, while the last two sections contain new material on how wages are set and on wage inequality.
Part III contains two entirely new chapters, while material from the previous edition has been extensively revised and updated to relate theory to recent experience. While the outline of Chapter 9 has not changed, it relates basic macro modeling and changes in aggregate demand to recent economic fluctuations. Chapter 10 introduces the role of government and taxation, but leaves discussion of international trade flows to the new Chapter 14 on The Global Economy and Policy. Chapter 11 now focuses on a more in-depth treatment of money and finance, leaving monetary policy issues for a new Chapter 12 on the Federal Reserve and Monetary Policy. Chapter 11 lays the groundwork for policy with a new section on Money and Finance, where students are given an opportunity to better understand some aspects of the financial crisis, including global linkages. The new Chapter 12 has been enlivened and clarified with many contemporary examples.
Chapter 13, Aggregate Supply, Aggregate Demand, and Inflation, which many users found to be the most difficult chapter to teach, uses an AS/AD model that is both simpler than the model in the first edition and more realistic than AS/AD models explained in other books. As in the earlier edition, the model is applied to real-world experience, but the examples are drawn from more recent events. This chapter also includes new material on the European financial crisis and global linkages. Chapter 14 deals with issues of global trade, finance, and financial institutions, covering exchange rates, balance of payments, and open economy macroeconomics, including coverage of current issues regarding the Chinese yuan and the Eurozone.
Part IV starts with two more new chapters: Chapter 15, which gives an in-depth view of the financial crisis and the Great Recession; and Chapter 16, which delves more deeply into questions relating to fiscal deficits and the national debt, including a history of debt and deficits in the United States. It presents various analyses of the impact of deficits and debt, and proposals for long-term debt management. As in the first edition, the penultimate chapter (now Chapter 17) is on How Economies Grow and Develop; revisions include more material on understanding and measuring poverty and inequality and more emphasis on human development as opposed to growth. The final chapter, Growth and Sustainability in the Twenty-First Century, includes updated material on climate change and on policies for local, national, and global sustainability. It includes new treatments of "green Keynesian" and low or no-growth macroeconomic models to achieve goals of full-employment and carbon reduction.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Macroeconomics in Context was written under the auspices of the Global Development and Environment Institute (GDAE), a research institute at Tufts University. All contributors of written materials were paid through grants raised by the Global Development and Environment Institute. By agreement with the authors, all royalties from sales of the book will go to support the work of the institute. We greatly appreciate the financial support that we have received from the V.K. Rasmussen Foundation and others.
GDAE Research Fellow Anne-Marie Codur contributed to Chapter 18 on growth and sustainability, including updating the demography appendix; Dr. James Devine of Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles, contributed to the macro modeling chapters; Ben Beachy contributed to Chapter 15 on financial crisis; and Dr. Nathan Perry of Colorado Mesa University contributed to Chapter 16 on deficits and debt.
We thank a number of instructors who were exceptionally generous in giving us detailed comments on the previous and the new edition, including Alison Butler, Willamette University; Gary Flomenhoft, University of Vermont; Robin King, Georgetown University; Dennis Leyden, University of North Carolina, Greenville; Valerie Luzadis, SUNY-ESF, Syracuse; Eric Nilsson, California State University San Bernardino; Chiara Piovani, University of Utah; Rebecca Smith, Mississippi State University; Saranna Thornton, Hampden-Sydney College; Marjolein van der Veen, Bellevue Community College; and Thomas White, Assumption College.
Essential support work on research and manuscript preparation, including data analysis for Chapter 0, was coordinated by Josh Uchitelle-Pierce, who took on a wide variety of tasks, solving many technical problems and maintaining a high quality of presentation throughout the volume. He was ably assisted by Mitchell Stallman, Reid Spagna, and Nicholas Lusardo. We also thank the staff of M.E. Sharpe, particularly Irene Bunnell and Angela Piliouras, for their enthusiasm and meticulous work in getting this book to press. Our editor, George Lobell, contributed support and helpful suggestions throughout the process.

 

*Regarding the theoretical underpinnings of our model, our downward-sloped AD curve is based on the AD curve developed by David Romer ("Keynesian Macroeconomics Without the LM Curve," Journal of Economic Perspectives 14:2 [2000]: 149-169) and adopted by other introductory textbooks writers, including John B. Taylor (Principles of Macroeconomics, Houghton Mifflin, various editions). Our curved AS is based on the notion of an expectations-augmented Phillips curve, translated into inflation and output space. The idea of a dynamically evolving economy, rather than one always headed toward settling at full employment, is an approach based on Keynes' own (rather than new Keynesian) thought, as explained in the appendix to Chapter 13.













 
 
 

Sample Course Outlines

 


 
 

The timespan of an academic term imposes severe constraints on what an instructor can teach, which require choices regarding which topics to include and how much time to devote to each. Macroeconomics in Context can be used as the basis for a variety of approaches, depending on how much flexibility you have and which topics and approaches are of particular interest.
To help you identify the chapter assignments that make the most sense for your class, we have put together some ideas for course outlines below. Arranged in terms of broad selections and more specific emphases, they are designed to help instructors choose among chapters when there is not enough time to cover everything in this textbook.
We understand that in many departments one primary objective of the introductory course is to teach in some detail "how (neoclassical) economists think." For instructors who choose to focus exclusively on neoclassical content, the most traditional combination of the selections described below—the Base Chapters, combined with some or all of the Basic Macroeconomics Selection and the Macro-Modeling Emphasis—will provide what you need. This combination of chapters does not come close to exploiting fully the richness of Macroeconomics in Context, but the contextual discussions (a hallmark of this text) that are woven into the standard material will broaden the students' understanding of macroeconomic theory and provide tools for critical thinking.
Many instructors seek to combine coverage of traditional neoclassical ideas with other material. Addressing such users of Macroeconomics in Context, we suggest that you make use of the special structure of the book, which enables you to introduce traditional concepts in your introductory course while still reserving class time for other areas of interest. Ecological sustainability, for example, is an issue of increasing importance and is deeply linked to the functioning of the macroeconomy. For this focus, the Base Chapters Selection and most of the Basic Macroeconomics Selection could be combined with the "Ecological Emphasis" Selection.
Some instructors and students may have less interest in the formalities of macroeconomic modeling, in which case it might make sense to cover the Base Chapters Selection, some material from the Basic Macroeconomics Selection, and much more material from the topical emphases.
It may be worth rereading Chapter 1, Section 3, "Macroeconomics in Context" after finishing Part III, the section of the book that models economic fluctuations and policy responses. While the initial overview of controversies laid out in Chapter 1 is important to set the stage, it will probably be much better understood after the students have more exposure to macroeconomics.


Summary of Possible Course Options When Not All the Text Can Be Taught



Curriculum Focus
Likely Selections (see descriptions below)


Traditional macroeconomics
Base Chapters



Basic Macroeconomics



Modeling Emphasis


Strong focus on traditional macroeconomics, with other themes woven in
Base Chapters


Basic Macroeconomics


Choose from other Emphases


Coverage of basic traditional concepts within course tailored to instructor and student interests
Base Chapters


Choose selections from Basic Macroeconomics


Choose from other Emphases



BASE CHAPTERS SELECTION

• Chapter 1, "Economic Activity in Context"
• Chapter 2, "Useful Tools and Concepts"
• Chapter 3, Section 1, "Introducing the Four Essential Economic Activities"
• Chapter 4, "Supply and Demand"

BASIC MACROECONOMICS SELECTION

• Chapter 5, "Macroeconomic Measurement: The Current Approach"
• Chapter 8, "Employment and Unemployment"
• Chapter 9, "Aggregate Demand and Economic Fluctuations"
• Chapter 10, "Fiscal Policy"
• Chapters 11 and 12, "Money, Banking and Finance," and "The Federal Reserve and Monetary Policy"
• Chapter 13, "Aggregate Supply, Aggregate Demand, and Inflation: Putting It All Together"
• Chapter 17, "How Economies Grow and Develop"

ECOLOGICAL EMPHASIS

• Chapter 3, Section 2, "Resource Maintenance: Attending to the Asset Base of the Macroeconomy"
• Chapter 6, "Macroeconomic Measurement: Social and Environmental Dimensions"
• Chapter 7, Section 1, "The Three Major Productive Sectors in an Economy," and Section 2, "The Primary Sector in the United States"
• Chapter 18, "Growth and Sustainability in the Twenty-First Century"

GLOBAL EMPHASIS

• Chapter 14, "The Global Economy and Policy"
• Chapter 17, "How Economies Grow and Develop"
• Chapter 18, "Growth and Sustainability in the Twenty-First Century"

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT EMPHASIS

• Chapter 6, "Macroeconomic Measurement: Environmental and Social Dimensions"
• Chapter 17, "How Economies Grow and Develop"

STRUCTURAL EMPHASIS

• Chapter 7, "The Structure of the U.S. Economy"
• Chapter 15, "The Financial Crisis and the Great Recession"
• Chapter 16, "Deficits and Debt"

KEYNESIAN/POST-KEYNESIAN/INSTITUTIONALIST EMPHASIS

• Chapter 2, Section 3, "The Role of Markets"
• Chapter 4, Section 5, "Macroeconomics and the Dynamics of Real-World Markets"
• Chapter 13, Appendix A3, "Post-Keynesian Macroeconomics"
• Chapter 15, "The Financial Crisis and the Great Recession"

MACRO-MODELING EMPHASIS

• Chapter 9, Appendix, "An Algebraic Approach to the Multiplier"
• Chapter 10, Appendix, "More Algebraic Approaches to the Multiplier"
• Chapter 13, Appendix, "More Schools of Macroeconomics"
• Chapter 14, Section 4, "Macroeconomics in an Open Economy"
• Chapter 17, Section 1, "Development and Economic Growth"

MONEY AND FINANCE EMPHASIS

• Chapters 11 and 12, "Money, Banking and Finance," and "The Federal Reserve and Monetary Policy"
• Chapter 15, "The Financial Crisis and the Great Recession"
• Chapter 16, "Deficits and Debt"

POVERTY/INEQUALITY/SOCIAL JUSTICE EMPHASIS

• Chapter 3, Section 3, "Distribution: Who Gets What, and How?"
• Chapter 6, Section 2, "Why GDP Is Not a Measure of Well-Being," Section 3, "Some Leading Approaches to Measuring Well-Being," and Section 4, "Measuring Household Production"
• Chapter 8, Section 3, "Theories of Employment, Unemployment, and Wages"
• Chapter 17, Section 3, "Understanding Poverty"

CONTRASTING SCHOOLS OF THOUGHT EMPHASIS

• Have students reread Chapter 1, Section 3, "Macroeconomics in Context," after finishing Part III
• Chapter 13, Section 4, "Competing Theories," and Appendix, "More Schools of Macroeconomics"
• Chapter 18, "Growth and Sustainability in the Twenty-First Century," Section 5, "Are Stabilization and Sustainability in Conflict?"















 
 
 





P A R T

The Context for Economic Analysis


I



















 
 
 




0
Macroeconomics and Well-Being




 
 

What comes to your mind when you think of the word "economics"? Perhaps you think about things like inflation, unemployment, GDP (gross domestic product), supply and demand, and money. These things are definitely important in our study of economics, and we will spend much of our time in this book studying these concepts.
But the goals of economics are about much more than these. As we will see in Chapter 1, economics is the study of how people manage their resources to meet their needs and enhance their well-being. The term "well-being" can mean different things to different people. Traditional macroeconomic indicators like inflation, money, investment, and unemployment clearly affect our well-being. But so does our health, the quality of our environment, our leisure time, our perceptions of fairness and justice, and many other factors. In this book, we will take an inclusive approach to well-being.
If the goal of economics is to enhance our well-being, then it helps to have an idea about our current level of well-being—where we are doing well, and where some improvement is desired. In this chapter, we introduce some of the most relevant data on macroeconomic indicators and well-being. Since in this book we are studying macroeconomics (as opposed to microeconomics), we are often concerned with various measures at a national level. This chapter provides you with an overview of how a variety of countries compare across different measures of macroeconomic performance and well-being. While we focus on the United States here, and in much of the rest of the book, we recognize the importance of understanding any country within the global context. For each topic illustrated in this chapter, we present data on the United States relative to other countries in order to provide some international perspective on the performance of the U.S. economy. If you are interested in the performance of specific countries we have not included here, we provide detailed tables on the book's companion Web site: w­w­w­.g­d­a­e­.o­r­g­/­m­a­c­r­o­/­.
The topics covered here preview many of the issues that are covered in more detail in later chapters. We hope that you will find some of the information in this chapter surprising. Sometimes the data-based results differ from common perceptions and media representations. But we have tried to be as objective as possible by presenting a wide range of data from reliable sources. Good data are essential for informed debates about how to enhance well-being in our communities, our country, and our planet.

NOTES ON GRAPHS

For each measure we include in this chapter, we provide a bar graph showing the data for selected countries. (Again, tables presenting the available results for all countries can be found on the book's Web site at w­w­w­.g­d­a­e­.o­r­g­/­m­a­c­r­o­/­.) The countries shown here have been chosen to convey the full range of results, with a focus on the United States (the U.S. results are presented in a different color). Major countries, such as China, India, and the United Kingdom, are also included in each figure. Country rankings are provided, based on the available data, including the highest and lowest values for each variable. While there are over 200 countries in the world, data are not available for all countries for each variable. Thus the number of countries ranked for each variable differs. For example, in our first chart (GDP per capita) we show that the lowest ranking for a country is 173. This tells you that reliable, accessible data on this variable are available for 173 of the countries in the world.
The rankings are presented with the "highest" at the top and the "lowest" at the bottom. However, this does not always mean that it is best to be at the top. For example, we present a graph showing the percentage of people living in absolute poverty. Obviously, it is not a good thing to be ranked first for this variable.
For each graph, the names of the countries selected appear on the left. The bar to the right of the country's name shows the value for that country, reading down from the end of the bar to the horizontal axis. For example, we can see in the first graph that GDP per capita is a little over $10,000 in Brazil, it is a little under $50,000 in the United States, and is about $60,000 in Norway. If you want to find out the precise values, those are given on the book's Web site. Finally, to the right of each bar is that country's ranking for that variable. So, Norway's has the fifth-highest GDP per capita, the United States the tenth-highest, and Brazil the seventy-fourth-highest. Among the 173 countries with reliable GDP per capita data, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has the lowest GDP per capita.
The list of graphs that appear in this chapter are:
  1. GDP per Capita
  2. Recent Growth Rate of GDP per Capita
  3. Net National Savings
  4. Government Debt
  5. Labor Productivity
  6. Average Annual Hours Worked
  7. Unemployment Rate
  8. Inflation
  9. Total Tax Revenues
10. Trade Balance
11. Income Inequality
12. Absolute Poverty
13. Foreign Aid
14. Internet Users
15. Educational Performance
16. Life Expectancy
17. Subjective Well-Being
18. Carbon Dioxide Emissions per Capita
19. Local Air Quality

 


1. GDP PER CAPITA







What it is:
Media stories of economic performance frequently refer to gross domestic product (GDP). A country's GDP per capita measures economic production per person per year, which gives us an idea of the average material living standards in the country. While GDP is perhaps the most commonly used macroeconomic metric, it does not necessarily measure well-being. We discuss how GDP is calculated in Chapter 5 and about the limitations of, and alternatives to, GDP in Chapter 6.






The results:
The United States ranks tenth, with a GDP per capita of around $48,000. Luxembourg has the world's highest GDP per capita at around $90,000, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo has the lowest, at only $370.



 





Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators database.
GDP per Capita, 2011 (Thousands of Dollars)
Data are adjusted for purchasing power differences across countries (e.g., a dollar in India buys more than a dollar in the United States).


 


2. RECENT GROWTH RATE OF GDP PER CAPITA







What it is:
In macroeconomics, we seek to explain not only why some countries have a higher GDP per capita but also what conditions lead to strong GDP growth rates. In this graph we compare the growth in GDP per capita, after adjusting for inflation, across countries over the ten-year period 2002-2011. We discuss measuring GDP growth rates in Chapter 5 and theories of GDP growth in Chapter 17.






The results:
GDP per capita over 2002-2011 grew rapidly in some countries, slowly in others, and even declined in several countries. The highest growth in GDP per capita occurred in Azerbaijan, primarily from oil and gas development, with high growth also in China, Argentina, Ethiopia, and India. The fastest growth among developed countries took place in Sweden. Countries with declines in GDP per capita include Italy, Haiti, Iraq, and the Bahamas.



 





Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators database.
Growth in GDP per Capita, 2002-2011 (Percent)
Data are adjusted for purchasing power differences.

 


3. NET NATIONAL SAVINGS







What it is:
How much a country saves and invests is widely considered an important factor in explaining differences in GDP growth rates. Here we present data on net national savings rates, which equal total national savings minus the depreciation of productive capital such as factories and machinery. A negative net national savings rate implies that a country's productive capacity may be declining. We discuss saving, investment, and growth in detail in Chapter 17.






The results:
In 2010, China had the highest net national saving rate. Other countries with high savings rates include India, Singapore, Vietnam, and Thailand. Fourteen countries (among those with data) had a negative net savings rate in 2010, including the United States, Portugal, Greece, and Iceland. (The economy of Iceland was especially badly damaged in the crash of 2007-8; this history is still apparent in the 2011 data.)



 





Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators database.
Net National Savings Rate, 2011 (Percent of GNI)
GNI is gross national income, a measure similar to gross domestic product.

 


4. GOVERNMENT DEBT







What it is:
The level of government debt has been a focus of media stories in recent years. What matters is not so much the size of debt in dollars but government debt relative to a country's GDP. This variable considers the amount of debt owed by the governments of different countries, including debts owed to domestic and foreign entities. What level of debt is a problem is a topic we discuss in more detail in Chapter 16.






The results:
Japan has the highest government debt in the world, measured as a percentage of GDP, followed by Zimbabwe and Greece. The United States has the thirty-fifth-highest debt, but many other developed countries have higher debt, including Singapore, France, Canada, and Germany. Most developing countries have relatively low government debt.



 





Source: United States Central Intelligence Agency, CIA World Factbook.
Government Debt (Percent of GDP)
Data are mostly 2012 estimates.

 


5. LABOR PRODUCTIVE







What it is:
One measure of the economic efficiency of a country is labor productivity. This is calculated by dividing a country's GDP by an estimate of the total number of hours worked. Thus labor productivity tells us how many dollars of GDP are generated for each hour worked. We present more about labor productivity in Chapter 8.






The results:
Data on labor productivity are available for only 35 countries. Norway has the highest labor productivity in the world. The United States ranks fourth, behind Luxembourg and Ireland. Productivity is slightly lower in France and Germany. Less developed countries have lower labor productivity. We see that productivity in Mexico is only about one-third of the U.S. level.



 





Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, OECD online statistical database.
Labor Productivity, 2011 (GDP per Hour Worked)

 


6. AVERAGE ANNUAL HOURS WORKED







What it is:
Even if two countries have the same labor productivity, their GDP will differ if the number of hours worked are different. This graph shows the average number of hours worked each year by full-time employees. Note that this includes only hours actually worked; vacations, holidays, and sick days are excluded. Thus the average annual hours worked in a country may be high if work expectations are more stringent and time off is limited. Work hours may also be high if workers choose to work long hours. We discuss work hours further in Chapter 8.






The results:
Data on hours worked are available for only 34 countries. The average annual hours worked per full-time employee are lowest in the Netherlands. Other countries with relatively low annual work hours are Germany, Norway, France, and Denmark. One reason for the low work hours in these countries is federal laws that mandate minimum vacation times and paid holidays. In the United States, where such laws do not exist, average work hours are higher. Work hours tend to be highest among countries with lower levels of GDP per capita.



 





Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. OECD online statistical database.
Average Annual Hours Worked, 2011 (Lowest to Highest)

 


7. UNEMPLOYMENT RATE (PERCENT OF TOTAL WORKFORCE)







What it is:
The unemployment rate in a country is an important macroeconomic metric. Not only does having a job provide a source of income, but it also provides a sense of identity and contributes to overall well-being. Estimating the unemployment rate is somewhat complex. In Chapter 8 we discuss issues involved in estimating the unemployment rate including defining what it means to be in the workforce.






The results:
Unemployment rates vary tremendously across countries. Cambodia has the lowest official unemployment rate at 0.2 percent. While many poor countries, such as Zimbabwe, Haiti, and Kenya, have very high unemployment rates (30 percent or more), other poor countries such as Cuba and Bhutan, have rather low unemployment rates, at around 4 percent. The unemployment rate in the United States, usually in the range of 4-6%, rose considerably in the 2007-9 recession, and has since declined only slowly.



 





Source: Central Intelligence Agency, CIA World Factbook.
Unemployment Rate, 2011 (Percent of Labor Force, Lowest to Highest)

 


8. INFLATION







What it is:
The rate of inflation summarizes how average prices change in a country in one year. For example, an inflation rate of 5 percent means that average prices increased by 5 percent that year. We discuss how to adjust data from different years for inflation in Chapter 5 and then focus on macroeconomic theories of inflation in Chapters 12 and 13.






The results:
Over the period 2002-2011, Japan had the lowest inflation rate in the world, with prices actually declining slightly during this time. However, this is not necessarily a good thing, as we see later in the book. A low and stable—but not negative—inflation rate is generally considered one of the main macroeconomic policy goals. Most developed countries have generally been successful in controlling inflation in recent years. High and fluctuating inflation rates in a country are a sign of macroeconomic instability.



 





Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators database.
Average Annual Inflation Rate, 2002-2011 (Lowest to Highest)
The average inflation rate is calculated as the average of the inflation rate for each year from 2002 to 2011.

 


9. TOTAL TAX REVENUES (PERCENT OF GDP)







What it is:
Tax policies are among the most significant ways a government can influence the well-being of the citizens, as we discuss in Chapter 10. The overall rate of taxation, expressed as a percentage of GDP, includes taxes collected at the federal, state, and local levels.






The results:
Overall tax revenues vary significantly across countries. While Western European countries tend to have relatively high taxes, some other countries with surprisingly high taxes (more than 40 percent of GDP) include Iraq, Bolivia, and Bhutan. The United States has one of the lowest overall tax rates in the world—by far the lowest of any major industrialized country. The countries with the lowest tax revenues (less than 15 percent of GDP) tend to be relatively poor countries in Africa and Asia.



 





Source: Central Intelligence Agency, CIA World Factbook.
Total Taxes, 2012 (Percent of GDP)

 


10. TRADE BALANCE (PERCENT OF GDP)







What it is:
The trade deficit of the United States is often considered a cause for concern in media stories. A trade deficit means that a country imports more than it exports. Economists refer to a country's trade balance as the dollar value of its exports minus its imports, normally expressed as a percentage of GDP. Thus a negative trade balance indicates a trade deficit. A positive trade balance indicates a trade surplus. We discuss trade balances, and other trade issues, in more detail in Chapter 14.






The results:
Of the 153 countries with available data, 49 have a positive trade balance (exports exceed imports) and 104 have a negative balance. Those countries with the largest trade surpluses tend to be smaller countries (such as Luxembourg and Singapore) or oil-producing countries (such as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait). The U.S. trade deficit is about 4 percent of GDP, with other developed countries, such as the United Kingdom, France, and Canada, in a similar range. The countries with the largest trade deficits tend to be poorer countries, although some poor countries do have trade surpluses.



 





Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators database, and authors' calculations.
Trade Balance (Percent of GDP)

 


11. INCOME INEQUALITY (GINI COEFFICIENT)







What it is:
A Gini coefficient is a measure of economic inequality in a country. It is most commonly applied to the distribution of income, but it can also be apply to wealth distribution or other variables. It can range from 0 (everyone in the country has the same exact income) to 1 (one person receives all the income in a country). We learn more about Gini coefficients and economic inequality in Chapters 3 and 17.






The results:
Scandinavian countries such as Sweden, Norway, and Finland tend to be the most equal countries in the world, by income. Japan is also in this group, in a number of equality measures (not all shown here, but discussed in Chapter 17). The United States is the most economically unequal developed country. Several African countries, including Botswana, Lesotho, Sierra Leone, and South Africa are the most unequal countries in the world.



 





Source: Central Intelligence Agency, CIA World Factbook.
Gini Coefficient (Most Equal to Least Equal)

 


12. ABSOLUTE POVERTY







What it is:
The $1-per-day poverty line has been defined by the United Nations as a measure of absolute poverty. One of the Millennium Development Goals set by the United Nations is to halve the number of people in the world living below this poverty line between 1990 and 2015. This goal has already been met, mainly due to progress in China and India. We discuss poverty and economic development in Chapter 17.






The results:
Note that this is the only graph in this chapter that does not include the United States or any other developed countries (essentially no one in developed countries lives below the dollar-a-day poverty line). A majority of people do live below that poverty line in 12 countries, including Rwanda, Nigeria, Mozambique, and Mali. About one-third of India's population and 13 percent of China's population still live below the dollara-day poverty line. A small portion of the population lives in absolute poverty in Argentina, Hungary, Poland, Thailand, and Uruguay.



 





Source: United Nations, Millennium Development Goals Indicators database.
Percent of Population Living Below $1/day Poverty Line
Data are for the most recent year available, generally 2008 or 2009.

 


13. FOREIGN AID







What it is:
In 1970, the "economically advanced" countries agreed to a United Nations resolution on foreign aid to developing countries. The resolution set a target for official development assistance (ODA) of 0.7 percent of gross national income (GNI). ODA is defined as government flows to promote economic development and welfare in developing countries. The 0.7 percent target has been reaffirmed at subsequent international meetings. We discuss the role of foreign aid in promoting economic development in Chapter 17.






The results:
In 2012 only five countries met the 0.7 percent target: Luxembourg, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and the Netherlands. ODA from the United States was 0.19 percent of GNI. Italy and Greece had the lowest ODA percentage, at 0.13 percent. Note that ODA does not include private charity donations or non-governmental organizations, only official aid given by governments.



 





Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Official Development Assistance—2013 Update.
Official Development Assistance, 2012 (Percent of GNI)

 


14. INTERNET USERS







What it is:
The percentage of people who have access to the Internet provides an indication of a country's level of technological development. As we discuss in Chapter 17, technology has long been recognized as one of the drivers of economic growth.






The results:
Access to the Internet may not be as widespread as you think. While near-universal access occurs in a few countries, such as Iceland, Norway, and the Netherlands, in most developed countries access rates are about 70-85 percent. Middle-income countries generally have access rates around 30-50 percent. Forty countries, most of them poor African countries, have access rates of less than 10 percent.



 





Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators database.
Internet Users per 100 People, 2011

 


15. EDUCATIONAL PERFORMANCE







What it is:
Next we look at the educational performance of students in different countries. To compare across countries, we present data from the Programme for International Student Assessment, which administers standardized math, science, and reading tests to 15-year-olds in over 60 countries every three years. The graph below provides results from the science test. The country rankings were relatively similar for the math and reading tests, with some variations (e.g., the United States ranked seventeenth on the reading test and thirty-first on the math test).






The results:
Students in Asian countries tended to achieve the highest test scores, including China, Singapore, Japan, and South Korea. Among European countries, students received high scores in Finland, the Netherlands, and Germany. The scores from the United States were average for developed countries. For less developed countries, scores tended to be lower.



 





Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Programme for International Student Assessment, PISA 2009 Key Findings.
Average PISA Science Test Score, 2009 (15-year-olds)

 


16. LIFE EXPECTANCY







What it is:
Average life expectancy at birth is a common measure of health outcomes in a country. We discuss health as one component of well-being indices in Chapter 6 and as a topic of economic development in Chapter 17.






The results:
Life expectancy at birth now exceeds 80 years in over 20 countries, including Japan, France, Spain, and Greece. For a developed country, the United States has a comparatively low life expectancy, even lower than some middle-income countries such as Costa Rica, Cuba, and Chile. Life expectancy is the lowest, below 50 years, in several African countries, including Zambia, Sierra Leone, and Lesotho.



 





Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators database.
Life Expectancy at Birth, 2010

 


17. SUBJECTIVE WELL-BEING







What it is:
Researchers are increasingly using surveys to measure well-being or happiness directly. The most common approach is to ask people to rate their overall satisfaction with their lives, on a scale from 1 (dissatisfied) to 10 (satisfied). The responses are referred to as "subjective well-being." We discuss subjective well-being in more detail in Chapter 6.






The results:
According to the most recent data, which cover 57 countries, Colombia has the highest level of average subjective well-being. Other relatively happy countries include Norway, Mexico, Canada, and Guatemala. Happiness levels in the United States are about average for a developed country. Happiness levels are relatively low in the poorest developing countries, such as Iraq, Zambia, and Rwanda, as well as Eastern European countries, such as Bulgaria, Ukraine, and Romania.



 





Source: World Values Survey, online database.
Average Life Satisfaction, 2005-2008 Results (1 = Dissatisfied, 10 = Satisfied)

 


18. CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS PER CAPITA







What it is:
Carbon dioxide (CO2) is the most important gas responsible for global climate change. CO2 is emitted whenever fossil fuels are burned. Scientific analysis indicates that the accumulation of CO2 in the atmosphere is raising global temperatures, leading to negative impacts on human societies and ecosystems. CO2 per capita gives us an idea of how much the average person in a county is affecting the environment. We learn more about CO2 and climate change in Chapter 18.






The results:
The countries with the highest CO2 emissions per capita are several oilproducing countries, including Qatar (the highest, at 44 tons per person), Kuwait, and Bahrain. The United States has the tenth-highest emissions per capita, around 17 tons per person. Emissions per person in European countries such as the UK and Germany are less than half of U.S. levels. While China is the world's largest emitter of CO2 overall, on a per-capita basis its emissions are only one-third of those in the United States. CO2 emissions are negligible in the world's poorest countries.



 





Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators database.
Carbon Dioxide Emissions per Capita, 2009 (Metric Tons per Year)

 


19. LOCAL AIR QUALITY







What it is:
While CO2 emissions contribute to climate change, breathing air with elevated levels of CO2 does not cause any adverse health effects. Local air pollutants, on the other hand, can cause numerous health effects, including asthma, lung cancer, and heart problems. One of the most important local air pollutants is particulate matter, which is emitted from power plants, industrial factories, motor vehicles, and other sources. Particulate matter pollution can be reduced through effective environmental regulations and technology. We discuss pollution further in Chapters 6 and 18.






The results:
A country with high CO2 emissions does not necessarily have poor local air quality. The United States is a prime example—CO2 emissions are high, but local air quality is relatively good due to environmental laws and modern technologies. Other developed countries have as good, or better, local air quality. Developing countries can have good or poor local air quality, depending on their level of development, regulations, and technologies.



 





Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators database.
Average National Particulate Matter Concentration, 2011 (Micrograms per Cubic Meter)
Data are for particulate matter smaller than 10 micrometers, referred to as PM10. For reference, the European Union pollution standard for average PM10 is 40 micrograms/cubic meter (μg/m3); California has a stricter standard of 20 μg/m3.














 
 
 




1
Economic Activity in Context




 
 

What do you expect—and what do you want—from the economic system in which you live? Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness? Justice, peace, national security, a pleasant environment, and general welfare? Do you feel that you have the right to a job when you need or want one? And will you feel satisfied with access to just any job, or do you hope for one that will use your knowledge and talents, will provide you with a decent income, and will earn respect from others?
Your beliefs and expectations, taken together with those of many other people, contribute to the mood of optimism or pessimism that helps create economic booms or slumps. Other aspects of your economic behavior may contribute to the country's overall productivity. Goals are not the only determining factor for beliefs and actions, but they are an important element. This book will pay attention to goals because they are a part of what makes up the economy.
But there is another, more important reason to ask you, at the outset, about your life goals. Macroeconomics is about how economies work. This is not only interesting as an intellectual puzzle. It matters because when the economy works well people have more opportunities to achieve their goals than when it is working badly. Depending on what your goals are, there are a variety of ways in which you could interpret what it means for an economy to be working "well" or "badly." As you read through this book, you will have plenty of opportunities to consider this idea, and to think about how an understanding of basic economic principles can be used to judge, or even to make, economic policies. The study of economics can help us to achieve our goals as individuals and create a society in which we are satisfied to live.

1. WHAT IS MACROECONOMICS ABOUT?

Economics is the study of how people manage their resources to meet their needs and enhance their well-being. Individuals and societies engage in four essential economic activities: resource maintenance, production, distribution, and consumption. Resource maintenance means tending to, preserving, or improving the natural, produced, human, and social resources that form the basis for the economy and life itself. Production is using or converting some of these resources to make goods or services. Distribution refers to the sharing of products and resources among people, while consumption refers to their final use. Economists study how individuals engage in these activities, both as individuals and together through social coordination.

economics: the study of how people manage their resources to meet their needs and enhance their well-being. The four essential economic activities are resource maintenance and the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services.

Often for convenience the study of economics is broken down into two parts: microeconomics and macroeconomics. This book, Macroeconomics in Context, is the companion to another textbook called (not surprisingly) Microeconomics in Context. Where microeconomics emphasizes the economic activities and interactions of individuals and particular organizations (such as businesses, households, community groups, nonprofit organizations, and government agencies), macroeconomics looks at how all of these activities join together to create an overall economic environment at the national—and often the global—level.

microeconomics: the study of the economic activities and interactions of individuals, households, businesses, and other groups at the subnational level
macroeconomics: the study of how economic activities at all levels create a national (and global) economic environment

Economic conditions at the aggregate level create the environment in which individual economic actors make their decisions. These conditions include rates of unemployment and inflation, ecological limits and constraints, degrees of economic inequality, and social/cultural assumptions about trust and responsibility.
For example, when you seek paid work in your chosen field, your success will depend in part on both micro-and macroeconomic factors. On the microeconomic side, you will need to have prepared yourself for the work—invested in your own "human capital," an economist would say. You will need to find a particular business or other agency that can use your skills—or find direct buyers for your services, if you decide to strike out on your own. You will want to find work that gives you a combination of job satisfaction, income, and benefits that you like.
But will employers in general be hiring? Some graduating classes are unlucky and flood the job market just as the national economy is "going sour"—that is, entering a recession. No matter how well-prepared you are, finding a job can be tough during a period of high unemployment, when many people who seek jobs are not successful in finding one. And if you do find a job, how far will your paycheck go toward meeting your standard-of-living desires? If you start working during a period of high inflation, when the overall level of prices is increasing, the purchasing power of a fixed paycheck will be quickly eroded.

recession: a downturn in economic activity, usually defined as lasting for two consecutive calendar quarters or more
unemployment: a situation in which people seek a paying job, but cannot obtain one
inflation: a rise in the general level of prices

Macroeconomic conditions also affect personal debt. If you are like most students these days, you will be paying back loans for a number of years. The higher the prevailing real interest rates in the economy, the more costly this borrowing will be. Your own economic well-being will also be tied to global issues such as trade flows and currency exchange rates—especially if you go to work for a business that does a lot of importing or exporting or you send money back to relatives in a home country. If you are lucky, all these factors will fall in your favor. If you are not ... well, then you can join the chorus blaming "the economy" for your troubles.
Such macroeconomic issues are considered "short run"—economists refer to them as having to do with macroeconomic "fluctuations." Sometimes unemployment is high, and sometimes it is low, and the same goes for inflation, interest rates, trade deficits, and exchange rates.
Other macroeconomic issues have to do with the long run. Can you expect your standard of living twenty years from now, or the standard of living of your children, to be higher or lower than what you enjoy now? Are you living in a society where all people have a chance to develop themselves, or are extremes of wealth and poverty becoming more pronounced over time? What is the supply of natural resources used in production processes, and what is the quality of those resources? What other social and environmental factors affect the ability of the economy to prosper, or threaten its success?
Macroeconomics seeks to explain an especially interesting phenomenon: the fact that bad things can often happen on a national or global level even though virtually no individual or microeconomic-level organization wants or intends them to happen. People generally agree that high unemployment, persistent high inflation, and destruction of the natural environment, for example, are bad things, yet they occur nonetheless.
Microeconomics and macroeconomics are terms that are applied rather loosely, covering or emphasizing different topics as times and circumstances change. Many issues have both macroeconomic and microeconomic aspects. For example, imposition of a sales tax will affect microeconomic behavior—people may consume less or shift their patterns of consumption toward untaxed items—but it also affects government revenues, which, as we will see, are an important element of macroeconomic analysis. No one speaks of "the microeconomy" because there are too many subnational economic systems of varied sizes that are studied in the field of microeconomics. However, the term macroeconomy is used to refer to a national economic system.

macroeconomy: an economic system whose boundaries are normally understood to be the boundaries of a country

People also speak of the global economy, meaning the system of economic rules, norms, and interactions by which economic actors and actions in different parts of the world are connected to one another. Economic actors (or economic agents) include all individuals, groups, and organizations that engage in or influence economic activity. As the global economy has become an increasingly important part of the experience of more and more people, it has become more essential to include its study in introductory macroeconomics courses. You can expect to find global as well as macroeconomic issues extensively covered in this book.

global economy: the system of economic rules, norms, and interactions by which economic actors and actions in different parts of the world are connected to one another
economic actor (economic agent): an individual, group, or organization that is involved in economic activities


Discussion Questions

1. You have evidently made a decision to dedicate some of your personal resources of time and money in college to studying economics. Why? What do you hope to learn in this course that will be helpful for you in reaching your goals?
2. Are you familiar with the following terms? While you will study them in detail in this course, see how well you can come up with a definition for them just from your previous knowledge. (It does not matter at this point if you are not familiar with them.)





unemployment
recession


inflation
economic boom


economic growth
money


development
fiscal policy


GDP
monetary policy


investment
sustainability



2. MACROECONOMIC GOALS

We have introduced the idea of an economy working "well" or "badly" and have referred to high unemployment, persistent high inflation, and destruction of the natural environment as bad things that virtually no one wants. "Bad" and "good" are value-laden terms. Do they belong in an economics textbook?
Social scientists often make a distinction between positive questions, which concern issues of fact, or "what is," and normative questions, which have to do with goals and values, or "what should be." For example, "What is the level of poverty in our country?" is a positive question, requiring descriptive facts as an answer. "How much effort should be given to poverty reduction?" is a normative question, requiring analysis of our values and goals. In our study of economics, we often find that positive and normative questions are inevitably intertwined. For example, consider the definition of poverty. To construct a definition of poverty, we need to combine facts about income distribution with a normative assessment of where to draw the poverty line. We also need to consider whether the definition of poverty should be based solely on income, or whether it should include information about people's assets or opportunities. Life rarely offers us a neat distinction between "what is" and "what ought to be"; more often, we have to deal with a mixture of the two.

positive questions: questions about how things are
normative questions: questions about how things should be
assets: property owned by an individual or company

Another important thing to realize is that positive statements often carry normative implications. Consider the statement "The total share of federal taxes paid by the top 1 percent of households, by income, rose from 14.2 percent in 1980 to 22.3 percent in 2009."1 This is a positive statement, but it seems to suggest that taxes on the top 1 percent have increased rather dramatically and that further tax increases might be unfair. But is this really true? A more complete analysis reveals that the main reason that the share of taxes paid by the top 1 percent rose so much over that period is that they received a much larger share of income. So we need to be careful about making conclusions based on incomplete or misleading positive statements.
Much of this textbook is concerned with positive issues. Using both empirical evidence and various theories, we describe—using the best available economic research—how an economy functions at the macro level. Yet, although a few people perhaps enjoy studying economic principles for their own sake, the main reason that anyone would study macroeconomics is to try to understand how we—as a society, country, and world—can reach our desired goals. Thus we cannot avoid the normative question of what goals the macroeconomy should achieve.
Not everyone has the same goals, either at a personal level or as part of their idea of a "good" society. However, agreement becomes easier at a more general level. Therefore, we start with the term well-being to describe the overall quality of life, recognizing that this broad goal has numerous normative components.

well-being: a term used to describe the overall quality of life

In the context of macroeconomics, we can say that three especially important components of well-being are good living standards, stability and security, and sustainability.

Three major macroeconomic goals are the achievement of good living standards, stability and security, and sustainability


2.1 LIVING STANDARDS

One macroeconomic goal is to achieve and maintain people's living standards at a high enough level that their lives can be long, healthy, and enjoyable and offer them the opportunity to accomplish the things that they believe give their lives meaning.
The most basic living standard issues relate to the quality of people's diets and housing, their access to means of transportation and communication, and the quality of medical attention that they receive. Taking a somewhat broader view, we might also include less tangible aspects of life, such as the quality of education that people receive and the variety of entertainment that they can enjoy.
In addition, the way in which people participate in producing goods and services—as well as their consumption of them—has important implications for their health and happiness. So, for working-age people, the quality of their working lives is part of their standard of living. And for people who cannot do much work because they are too young, old, ill, or handicapped, the quality of the hands-on care that they receive is a major component of their living standard.
As we will see in Chapter 6, we could add even more categories to broaden our notion of well-being, going beyond economic issues to include things like political freedom and social inclusion (see Box 1.1). Traditionally, however, economics has regarded living standards growth as the top concern.

living standards growth: improvements in people's diet, housing, medical care, education, working conditions, and access to transportation, communication, entertainment, and other amenities



BOX 1.1 ELEMENTS OF WELL-BEING
The following are some elements that might go into a broad concept of well-being. When you think about a good life for yourself, are there elements that you would wish to add to or subtract from this list?
• Satisfaction of basic physical needs, such as adequate nutrition, health care, and a comfortable living environment.
• Security that one's basic needs will continue to be met, as well as security against aggression or unjust persecution.
• Happiness, expressed though feelings of joy, contentment, pleasure, etc.
• The ability to realize one's potential, including physical, intellectual, moral, social, and spiritual development.
• A sense of meaning in one's life; a reason or purpose for one's efforts.
• Fairness, including appropriate rewards for one's efforts and fair and equal treatment by social institutions.
• Freedom to make personal decisions within the limits of responsible relations with others (and the limits of their decision-making capacity, as in the case of children).
• Participation in social decision-making processes.
• Good social relations, including those with friends, family, business associates, and fellow citizens, as well as peaceful relations among countries.
• Ecological balance, meaning that natural resources are preserved and, where necessary, restored to a healthy and resilient state.


How can living standards be maintained or improved? For a long time, "raising living standards" was considered nearly synonymous with "achieving economic growth." By economic growth, we mean growth in the level of marketed production or output. Traditionally, this has been measured within a country by the growth of its gross domestic product (GDP)—a measure that you will hear much more about in later chapters.

economic growth: increases in the level of marketed production in a country or region

Global economic growth has been impressive in recent decades. Figure 1.1 plots the sum of GDP for all countries from 1960 to 2006. The data from which this chart has been plotted are far from perfect—different countries have at different times used a variety of methods to calculate their GDP. The definition of GDP can also be controversial, as we explore in Chapters 5 and 6. Nevertheless, we can reasonably conclude from this picture that global production of goods and services has increased greatly over the past few decades. By this measure, the value of global production in 2010 was about 5.7 times the value in 1960.







Source: The World Bank Group, World Development Indicators Online.
Figure 1.1 Global Production, 1960-2010
As measured by summing up the GDP of all countries, global production has more than quintupled in the last five decades.

The growth in economic production has not been equal in all countries, and material living standards are still very low in much of the world. This fact is important for people's options and their enjoyment of life. Poverty can mean that people are crowded together in unsanitary urban slums or isolated in rural huts, have barely enough to eat, receive little or no education, and never see a doctor.
Worldwide, extreme poverty is still a major concern; according to a 2008 World Bank study, 1.4 billion people—about a quarter of the population of the developing world—had less than $1.25 to spend per day. The production of more and better housing, better roads, more grain, more schooling, and more medical care—more goods and services—is necessary to raise living standards in such situations.
Because of this underlying concern with living standards, for many decades economists focused very strongly on measures of economic growth and the question of how it could be maintained and increased. The process of moving from a general situation of poverty and deprivation to one of increased production and plenty is what has traditionally been referred to as economic development. (This topic is discussed at greater length in Chapter 17.)

economic development: the process of moving from a situation of poverty and deprivation to a situation of increased production and plenty, through investments and changes in the organization of work

Generally, economic development has been thought of as a process of increasing agricultural productivity, investing in machinery and technology, and making changes in the organization of work (from home-based shops to factories, for example), so that labor productivity rises—meaning that people can produce more in each hour that they work.

labor productivity: the level of output that can be produced per worker per hour

Of course, while increased production is necessary in such a situation, it is not sufficient on its own to improve living standards for the people living in a poor country. For one thing, the increase in production may not be enough to keep pace with a growing population. Improvement in general living standards can result only if production per person (GDP per capita) on average rises.
Some of the increase in global production shown in Figure 1.1 is simply a result of more people producing goods and services. When we adjust for the growth in the world's population, we see that production per capita, measured by dividing global production by global population, has also grown over the past several decades, but not by as much. Figure 1.2 shows that global production per capita increased by about a factor of 2.5 between 1960 and 2010, according to this measure.*







Source: The World Bank Group, World Development Indicators Online.
Figure 1.2 Global Production Per Capita, 1960-2010
Global production per person has more than doubled in the last five decades.

If we were to disaggregate from the global figures, we would see that increases in economic production over these years vary significantly across different regions and countries. In East Asian countries, GDP per capita increased more than sevenfold. In sub-Saharan Africa, however, GDP per capita increased only about 15 percent between 1960 and 2010.
Even if GDP per capita is rising, other factors are still important in ensuring that economic growth benefits the world's and each country's population as a whole.
• First, it matters what is produced. An economy may experience "economic growth" by increasing its production of military hardware or large public monuments, for example, but these kinds of production raise living standards less than growth in production of nutritious food, widely available health care, or the quality of basic education.
• Second, it matters how it is produced. In some poorer countries today, many workers—including young children—work 14-to 16-hour days in unsafe, badly ventilated mines and factories; many suffer severe illnesses and early death. And in both rich and poor countries, production is often carried out in ways that deplete or degrade essential natural resources.
• Third, it matters for whom economic growth occurs. How are the increases in production, or in incomes arising from production, distributed among the population? Do some regions, or some groups of people as defined by income class, race, ethnicity, gender, or other factors, receive more of the gains from growth than others? If the benefits of economic growth go only to a tiny global or national elite, the bulk of the population may remain very poor.
Sometimes these queries about "what, how, and for whom?" are referred to as the "three basic economic questions." Even given the qualifications raised by these questions, it is generally true that in regions that are very poor economic growth is necessary and important to increase well-being.
In richer regions, the situation may be different. In a country that is already rich, is economic growth still the key to improving living standards and increasing overall well-being? In most highly industrialized countries, populations are growing very slowly—in many countries they are declining or on a trajectory that will soon bring about population decline.* When the population is not growing, and when the majority of families already enjoy decent housing, safe water, plenty of food, readily available heating and refrigeration, a car or two (or more), airline travel, TVs and the like, do we really need more in general?
Some people would say that we do, but others believe that we should instead switch our national priorities into making sure that production is designed to increase well-being. In countries that already have a high level of production, living standards growth may be achievable even in the absence of economic growth, by improving cultural, educational, and environmental conditions, raising the quality of work-life and the quantity of leisure, and by promoting an equitable allocation of economic rewards.
We return to these questions—and to the critical issue of the relationships among economic growth, job creation, and well-being—in later chapters.

2.2 STABILITY AND SECURITY

While closely linked to goals for living standards, the goal of stability and security brings in a dimension that we have not yet discussed. Imagine that you are elderly, and looking back over your life you can say that on average, you enjoyed a good standard of living. This might arise from two quite different scenarios. In one scenario, you enjoy a fairly steady, or gently rising, living standard and are always able to plan confidently for your financial future.
In the other scenario, you are quite successful at some points in your life but also periodically have to face the real possibility of "losing it all." You do well and buy a very nice house, but then you become unemployed and your house is foreclosed on because you are not able to make the payments. Then you start to do well again and believe you are on a solid path to a pleasant retirement, but steeply rising price levels or a jumpy stock market reduces the value of your savings and pension. Even if, after the fact and "over the long run," you can say that on average you have done OK in terms of your living standards, the uncertainty and anxiety of living with economic fluctuations in the second scenario would take a toll on your overall well-being, relative to the more stable case.
High rates of unemployment are associated with many indicators of individual and social stress, such as suicide, domestic violence, and stress-related illnesses among those affected, and crime. Unpredictable fluctuations in employment levels and rates of inflation, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates make it difficult—and, in the worst cases, impossible—for individuals and organizations to make productive and economically sensible plans for the future. This has been a major concern for many young people who entered the work force during or after the major recession of 2007-9.
One common pattern is for fluctuations in the level of production to occur as a cycle in which recessions (or "contractions" or "slumps") and their attendant problem of high unemployment alternate with booms (also called "expansions" or "recoveries"), which often bring with them the problem of more rapidly rising prices. This is called the business cycle or trade cycle. Even if these problems are "short run" and do not last long—people eventually find jobs or inflation slows down—fluctuations cause considerable "ill-being" while they last. So creating a stable, secure economic environment is a separate important macroeconomic goal.

business (trade) cycle: recurrent fluctuations in the level of national production, with alternating periods of recession and boom

In this chapter, we follow the common convention of using GDP as an indicator of prosperity. In Part II of this book, as well as later, we discuss with more precision exactly what it is that GDP does—and does not—measure. For now, we will use GDP as an overall measure of economic activity. For example, consider Figure 1.3, which shows GDP for the United States since 1800. You can see that while the general trend is upward, the curve on the graph does not indicate steady growth. The curve is somewhat wavy. During some periods GDP fell as the country experienced economic contractions, and during other periods GDP rose very steeply due to rapid economic expansion. (As in all other graphs of production in this chapter, GDP numbers in Figure 1.3 are expressed in "real," or inflation-adjusted, terms.)







Source: Louis D. Johnston and Samuel H. Williamson, "The Annual Real and Nominal GDP for the United States, 1790-Present." Economic History Services, h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­w­w­.e­h­.n­e­t­/­h­m­i­t­/­g­d­p­/­.
Updated with data from the World Bank Development Indicators. h­t­t­p­:­/­/­d­a­t­a­.w­o­r­l­d­b­a­n­k­.o­r­g­/­i­n­d­i­c­a­t­o­r­
Figure 1.3 GDP in the United States, 1800-2010
GDP in the United States has grown over time, but it has not grown steadily. The economy has experienced alternating periods of expansion and contraction.

One widely accepted macroeconomic goal is the achievement of sufficient economic stability to enable individuals and families to enjoy economic security and to be able to make reasonable predictions about their future. In the light of new knowledge about our dependence on the natural world, which is undergoing radical alterations due to human economic activity, the goal of security now must also include a much longer time horizon, recognizing a serious responsibility to future generations. This leads us to our third goal: sustainability.

2.3 SUSTAINABILITY

We want good living standards and stability not only for ourselves right now but also for ourselves later in our lives and for our children, grandchildren, and other generations to come.
In order to understand whether we should be thinking of the goal of sustainability, we must address the questions:
• Are economic activities financially sustainable into the future? Or is a country incurring a high amount of debt that may create a heavy burden on its future inhabitants?
• Are economic activities socially sustainable into the future? Are disparities between the "haves" and the "have-nots" accelerating or diminishing? Are they based on justifiable causes or on unequal power relations? Are young people receiving the upbringing and education required to enable them to contribute to a healthy economy and society? Or is the current structure of economic activity setting the stage for future social disruption and political strife?
• Are economic activities ecologically sustainable into the future? Is the natural environment that supports life being treated in a way that will sustain its quality into the future? Or is it becoming depleted or degraded?
For many generations, it seemed that technological progress and economic growth were magical keys that unlocked the door to unlimited improvements in the standard of living. For example, real output per person in the United States in 1980 was about ten times what it had been in 1840.* "Developed" countries in North America, Western Europe, and elsewhere experienced long-run rising standards of living through industrialization, improvements in agricultural technology, and the development of service industries.
Can this process continue indefinitely? Some have argued that sustainability problems can be remedied by more GDP growth. For example, the issue of financial sustainability includes both concerns about the level of government debt (which accumulates whenever governments spend more than they take in) and external debt (what all people and organizations in a country owe to foreigners). Too much debt is a problem since it means that a large proportion of a country's income in the future may need to be directed toward paying back the debt rather than other, more socially beneficial, uses. Indebtedness, however, is usually considered manageable as long as the growth of GDP is at least keeping pace with the level of debt, so that debt does not increase as a percent of GDP.
Regarding social sustainability, some people believe that economic growth is also the way to relieve social ills and political strife. They reason that the bigger the pie, the bigger everyone's share can be, and that rising personal incomes will naturally lead to a peaceful and productive population. Concerning ecological issues, some economists think that any current negative effects of economic growth on the environment can be remedied by additional economic growth, since higher incomes give countries the wherewithal to invest in new exploration for resources and new pollution-controlling technologies. So, to the most growth-oriented economists, "sustainable growth" simply means making sure that the growth rate of GDP stays high well into the future.
In contrast to those who believe that economic growth, as traditionally defined, holds the best answers to financial, social, and environmental problems, by the end of the twentieth century some economists had started asking whether these might instead contribute to these problems.
To the extent that a country's economic prosperity depends on short-sighted or unrealistic financial planning, prosperity may be unsustainable. For decades, for example, many poorer countries were encouraged to borrow heavily from richer countries in order to make progress in economic development. However, many of them did not achieve the high rate of economic growth that was supposed to result from the borrowing, and a severe "debt crisis" resulted. Some very poor countries currently spend more funds simply to pay the interest on their debt than they pay for health care for their own population; many also pay more in principal and interest than they currently receive in grants and loans
Some industrialized countries, including the United States, also borrow heavily to fund their activities. Many fear that such borrowing may become so excessive that dramatically higher taxes will be required in the future in order to pay interest on the debt. Those called on to pay these higher taxes—and, hence, suffer lower living standards—would be future workers like you. Setting good priorities about how we borrow—and what we borrow for—is important for long-run sustainability. This issue will be discussed in detail in Chapter 16.
Turning to social sustainability, many economists and other observers have come to question whether "development" as traditionally defined will solve the problem of global disparities in living standards. Some economists suggest that historical factors such as the legacy of colonization, and political factors such as rich countries' protection of their own industries within the system of global trade, mean that it is impossible to expect poorer countries to "develop" in the same way as countries that industrialized earlier. Analysts have also estimated that giving everyone in the world an American lifestyle, including a meat-rich diet and multiple cars per family, would require an extra two to four planets to supply resources and absorb waste!
Traditional goals of unlimited material affluence have also been called into question within richer countries, and some social scientists have suggested that consumerist and "more-is-better" values may actually contribute to personal and social discontent and the weakening of social norms of trust and reciprocity. Societies that suffer wide divisions between "haves" and "have-nots," or a general sense that everybody is just out for him-or herself, are more likely to suffer social and political breakdown—perhaps to the point of violence—than societies where people enjoy a greater sense of social cohesion.
Regarding environmental issues, land development and certain agricultural practices have caused extinction of some species and notable decreases in genetic diversity in others. Contemporary "developed" economies are presently heavily dependent on the consumption of fossil fuels; but scientists warn that carbon dioxide emissions from the burning of fossil fuels are rapidly exacerbating global climate change.
This raises the question of whether it is sufficient to sustain the financial, economic, and ecological systems as they are now. Some of the ecological systems that support economic activity may already be severely degraded. In such cases, it is not enough to sustain what exists now—rather, we need to take on a goal of restorative development, to rebuild systems that are no longer supporting well-being in the present and the future.

restorative development: economic progress that restores economic, financial, social, or ecological systems that have been degraded and are no longer adequately supportive of human well-being in the present and the future

Some ecologically-oriented economists have suggested that that, instead of placing blind faith in technological progress and economic growth, society should adopt a precautionary principle. This principle says that we should err on the side of caution, or, as stated by one group of experts, "When an activity raises threats of harm to the environment or human health, precautionary measures should be taken even if some cause and effect relationships are not fully established scientifically."2 Such attention to environmental sustainability need not preclude also giving attention to the goals of living standards improvement and stability, but it does clearly call into question the idea that economic growth, in itself, is always the only or the best goal.

precautionary principle: the principle that we should err on the side of caution when dealing with natural systems or human health, especially when major health or environmental damage could result

Many economists in the twentieth century did not explicitly address the question of macroeconomic goals, content in the belief that economic growth would naturally contribute to the achievement of any other goals that we might choose. This textbook attempts to balance ideas on how to achieve economic growth with questions about what kinds of growth actually contribute to well-being and ideas on how present and future well-being can be enhanced by restorative development.

Discussion Questions

1. Which of the macroeconomic goals discussed above do you think should have the highest priority? Why? Are there other major goals that you think are missing from the preceding discussion?
2. No one would argue that the goal of macroeconomics is to make people worse off! Yet the above outline of macroeconomic goals suggests that trying too hard to achieve some narrowly defined goals may lead to such a result. Why do you think that some economists would view economic growth as the major goal, while others view it as potentially in conflict with other goals such as sustainability or restorative development?

3. MACROECONOMICS IN CONTEXT

Macroeconomics, as a field of study, is not a set of principles that is set in stone. Rather, the field has developed and changed over time as new empirical and theoretical techniques have been invented and as historical events have raised new questions for which people have urgently desired answers. To give you an idea of how the various principles in this book fit into social and historical contexts, we end this chapter with a short overview of the major historical developments in macroeconomics. This is not just dusty history; you will see as you progress through this textbook that many themes keep arising in slightly new forms, while other challenges are unique to our twenty-first-century world.

3.1 THE CLASSICAL PERIOD

Centuries ago, most people in the world were involved in agriculture or in home production, such as when a family would work together to turn raw wool into cloth. Merchants were a minority, and industrial production and large-scale trade were unknown. All this changed with the coming of the Industrial Revolution, which began in England in the mid-eighteenth century. In many countries, technological progress led to new methods of production, and more productive economies both increased and diversified their output. Necessities like food and clothing used up a decreasing proportion of the average family income, while a growing fraction of the population was able to acquire more comforts and luxuries—better bedding, plumbing, housing, and transportation, to name just a few of the improvements in living standards. Academic thinkers started to try to understand and explain how these changes came about—and classical economics was born.

classical economics: the school of economics, originating in the eighteenth century, that stressed issues of growth and distribution, based on an image of smoothly functioning markets

During this period, macroeconomic study focused on economic growth and distribution. The most famous classical economist was the Scottish philosopher Adam Smith (1723-1790), whose 1776 book An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations set the terms of discussion for centuries to come. Smith attributed the growing "wealth of nations" to various factors. One was changes in the organization of work, particularly the division of labor that assigned workers to specialized, narrowly defined tasks. Whereas in family-based production each individual had usually performed a variety of tasks, in industrial production a person would repeat one specific task over and over, presumably becoming more proficient with increased practice. Another factor was technological progress, such as the invention of new machines powered by burning coal. The third was the accumulation of funds to invest in plants and machinery ("capital accumulation"). Classical economists were also particularly concerned with theorizing about how the funds generated by selling output would come to be distributed between the people who worked in factories and the capitalists who owned the factories.

division of labor: an approach to production in which a process is broken down into smaller tasks, with each worker assigned only one or a few tasks
specialization: in production, a system of organization in which each worker performs only one type of task

Classical economists, including Smith, David Ricardo, Thomas Malthus, John Stuart Mill, and Karl Marx, were interested in several questions that are still among the most important issues for macroeconomics: How is the total wealth generated by a society divided between those who own the means of production and those who work for them? Is the existing division optimal? What are the forces that determine how society's wealth will be divided?
Smith is known in particular for promulgating the idea that market systems could coordinate the self-interested actions of individuals so that they would ultimately serve the social good. While Smith himself supported a number of government interventions and discussed the moral basis of social and economic behavior at length in other works, the school of classical economics has been popularly identified with the idea that individual self-interest is a positive force and that governments should let markets function without interference—that economies should be laissez-faire.*

laissez-faire economy: an economy with little government regulation

The classical economists, with the exception of Malthus and Marx, did not much address the problem of economic fluctuations. Most of them thought that a smoothly functioning market system should be entirely self-regulating, and full employment should generally prevail. This view was summarized in Say's Law, named after the French classical economist Jean-Baptiste Say (1767-1832), which was said to prove that "supply creates its own demand." The example Say gave was of a tradesman, for example, a shoemaker, who sold $100 worth of shoes. Say argued that the shoemaker would naturally want to spend the $100 on other goods, thereby creating a level of demand that was exactly equal in monetary value to the supply of shoes that he had provided. If this example is extended to the whole economy, it suggests that the quantities demanded and quantities supplied of goods will exactly balance. From this, Say also deduced that the system would always generate the right number of jobs for those needing work. Classical economists discussed issues related to a country's monetary system, but tended to assume that monetary issues affected only the price levels, and not the level of production, in a country.

Say's Law: the classical belief that "supply creates its own demand"


3.2 THE GREAT DEPRESSION, KEYNES, AND MONETARISM

In practice, however, economies do not always work so smoothly. Some periods, like 1904-6 and the 1920s in the United States, were boom years in which everyone seemed eager to invest and spend. People with extra funds would buy stocks (ownership shares in companies) or deposit their funds in banks (to be lent to others) with great confidence and optimism. But it appeared that these booms frequently ended in painful recessions. Suddenly, the tide would turn, and everyone would want to sell—not buy—and stock prices would plummet. A lack of confidence in banks would lead to "bank runs" or "banking panics," such as occurred in 1907 and 1930-33 in the United States, when many people tried to withdraw their deposits all at once. With financial markets in tatters, businesses and individuals would be unable or unwilling to maintain or expand their activities. Because people were cutting back on spending, produced goods would go unsold. Industries would cut back on production. People would become unemployed.
A great many people in the United States (and much of the rest of the industrialized world) suffered considerable hardship during the Great Depression that followed the 1929 stock market crash. Production dropped by about 30 percent between 1929 and 1933. At its worst, the unemployment rate during the Great Depression topped 25 percent—one in four workers in the United States could not find a job. High unemployment persisted throughout the 1930s, and classical economic theory did not seem to be of much help in either explaining or correcting the situation.
The publication of the British economist John Maynard Keynes's The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money in 1936 was a watershed event. In this book, Keynes (pronounced "canes") argued that Say's Law was wrong. It is possible for an economy to have a level of demand for goods that is insufficient to meet the supply from production, he said. In such a case, producers, unable to sell their goods, will cut back on production, laying off workers and thus creating economic slumps. The key to getting out of such a slump, Keynes argued, is to increase aggregate demand—the total demand for goods and services in the national economy as a whole.

aggregate demand: the total demand for all goods and services in a national economy

Keynes suggested a number of ways to achieve this. People could be encouraged to consume more, the government could buy more goods and services, or businesses could be encouraged to spend more. Some economists thought that the best way to encourage business spending was to keep interest rates low, so that businesses could borrow easily to invest in their enterprises. But, while Keynes believed that increasing investment spending would be the key to getting out of a depression, he thought that low interest rates alone would be insufficient to tempt discouraged and uncertain business leaders to start investing again. He wrote in The General Theory that the solution to business cycles lay in having the government take more direct control of the level of national investment. In his view, capitalist economies were inherently unstable, and only a more socially oriented direction of investment could cure this instability. This policy, however, was not generally adopted, and the Great Depression continued for the remainder of the 1930s.
It was the high government spending associated with national mobilization for World War II that finally brought the Great Depression to an end. Perhaps this is one reason that the followers of what came to be known as Keynesian economics did not follow Keynes on all points. While they retained his emphasis on deficiencies in aggregate demand, they tended to emphasize the use of fiscal policy to keep employment rates up. Fiscal policy is the manipulation of levels of government spending and taxation to raise or lower the level of aggregate demand.

Keynesian economics: the school of thought, named after John Maynard Keynes, that argued for the active use of fiscal policy to keep aggregate demand high and employment rates up
fiscal policy: the manipulation of levels of government spending and taxation to raise or lower the level of aggregate demand

Other economists in the years after the conclusion of World War II—most notably University of Chicago economist Milton Friedman—took a different tack. While the Keynesians argued that active government fiscal policies were the way to get out of a recession, the monetarists argued that bad government monetary policies were how economies tend to get into bad situations in the first place. In this view, it was primarily the U.S. government's poor use of its monetary policy tools, such as banking regulations and the issuance of currency (most often understood as "printing money"), that led to the Great Depression. They blamed government policies that encouraged overly "loose" money (i.e., easy credit, low interest rates, and high levels of money supply) for the overspending of the late 1920s. Then, they claimed, "tight" money policies (tight credit, higher-than-optimal interest rates, and low money supply) during the early 1930s turned what could have been a more minor slump into a major depression. They argued that governments should focus on keeping the money supply steady and not try to take an active role in directing the economy, even when unemployment is high. Like the classical economists, they believed that the economy would best be left to adjust on its own.

monetarist economics: the school of economic thought that focused on the effects of monetary policy and argued that governments should aim for steadiness in the money supply rather than play an active role
monetary policy: the use of tools controlled by the government, such as banking regulations and the issuance of currency, to try to affect the levels of money supply, interest rates, and credit

The Keynesian approach to monetary policy, in contrast, favors an active use of monetary policy together with fiscal policy to try to maintain full employment. This approach strongly influenced macroeconomic policy-making in the United States and many other countries after the Second World War. The idea became popular that the government might even be able to "fine tune" the economy, counteracting any tendencies to slump with expansionary (high spending or loose money) policies, and any excessive expansion with contractionary (low spending or tight money) policies, thereby largely eliminating business cycles. A related idea was that the government could choose to "trade off" unemployment and inflation—letting the economy suffer a little more inflation to get the unemployment rate down, or vice versa.

3.3 SYNTHESIZING CLASSICAL AND KEYNESIAN ECONOMICS

In the early 1970s, this rosy picture was shattered, however, as many industrialized countries began to experience rising unemployment combined with increased inflation. To explain this, many macroeconomists attempted to merge elements of both classical and Keynesian economics, making a distinction between the long run and the short run as follows:
• Classical theories assert, first, that economies should naturally settle at full-employment levels of output and, second, that the primary outcome of changes in the money supply are changes in the price level or rate of inflation. In an idealized smoothly functioning market system—as we see in detail in a later chapter—any unemployment (i.e., surplus labor) should be corrected by a drop in the (equilibrium) wage. In the emerging synthesis, full employment and purely inflationary effects came to be thought of as long-run outcomes, which occur only after all markets have had sufficient time to adjust.
• Keynesian economists after World War II had come to accept the idea that their theories should be explainable in terms of market models, but explained unemployment as being due to the fact that markets for labor do not adjust as quickly as classical theory implies. Some Keynesian economists argued that wages are "sticky" in real-world markets and will not fall fast enough during a slump for full employment to be quickly restored. Fiscal and monetary policies were thought, in this emerging synthesis, to be effective mechanisms for coping with this short-run phenomenon.
Thus the dominant macroeconomic theory that emerged argued that in the short run—a period of some months or years—we are in a primarily Keynesian world where fiscal and monetary policies can be effective. In the long run, however—after such a period of time that even "sticky" markets are able to adjust—we are in a classical world, where market adjustments ensure full employment and money only affects prices.
Economists thus explained the inflation that occurred in the first few years of the 1970s (in spite of the simultaneous presence of unemployment) as the long-run outcome of expansionary monetary policies of the previous years. It appeared that short-run active (Keynesian) government policies could have unintended negative long-term (classical) consequences.
While many economists came to agree on this general theoretical picture, debates have continued, now centered on the value of active government policies. Macroeconomists at the classical end of the spectrum tend to emphasize market efficiency and a small role for government. They are suspicious about the use of monetary policy because of the possible negative effects of inflation. They also reject active fiscal policy, arguing that increases in government spending or taxation primarily lead to a larger government. Large governments, they believe, discourage private sector activities and economic growth.
Economists on the Keynesian end of the spectrum, meanwhile, tend to emphasize the way in which unemployment can cause severe human suffering and may persist for a long time. They argue for a more active role for government. Waiting for markets to adjust on their own, they believe, may mean waiting too long. And, as Keynes himself put it, "In the long run, we are all dead."
This argument between classical and Keynesian economists is very much alive today. New developments in recent years—in particular the severe recession of 2007-9 and its aftermath—have revived many of these long-running debates about the appropriate role of government fiscal and monetary policy.

3.4 MACROECONOMICS FOR THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY

While issues of economic growth and the business cycle preoccupied macroeconomic thinking for generations, once again, in the twenty-first century, new developments are demanding new ways of looking at the economic world.
Most recently, great suffering, including loss of homes and income, resulted from the 2007-8 financial crisis and the ensuing recession and slow recovery. Deep concerns have arisen over levels of national debt, and there has been intense debate about appropriate policy responses. These issues are discussed in Parts III and IV of this book.
In a broader perspective, the persistence of substantial global poverty, as mentioned in the earlier discussion of social sustainability, has called into question the appropriateness of traditional ideas about economic development. Questions of what, how, and for whom—rather than just "how much"—are becoming ever more important in evaluating the effects of economic activity on human well-being. Increasingly unequal distributions of resources and disparities in power, on local, national, and global scales, are rising to the fore as critical issues for human well-being. Inequality and resource constraints have cascading effects in political instability as well as armed conflicts.
The environmental impact of fossil fuel-based economic growth has become a major focus of economic, social, and political concern, along with other environmental issues. Most previous economic theories assumed that resources and the capacity of the environment to absorb the by-products of economic growth were essentially unlimited—or at least that continued developments in technology would keep problems of depletion and pollution at bay. This has been increasingly questioned as the scale of human economic activity grows larger.







Source: Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, h­t­t­p­:­/­/­c­d­i­a­c­.o­r­n­l­.g­o­v­/­f­t­p­/­t­r­e­n­d­s­/­c­o­2­/­s­i­p­l­e­2­.0­1­3­ and h­t­t­p­:­/­/­c­d­i­a­c­.o­r­n­l­.g­o­v­/­t­r­e­n­d­s­/­c­o­2­/­s­i­o­-­m­l­o­.h­t­m­.
Updated using NOAA ESRL data. f­t­p­:­/­/­f­t­p­.c­m­d­l­.n­o­a­a­.g­o­v­/­c­c­g­/­c­o­2­/­t­r­e­n­d­s­/­c­o­2­_­m­m­_­m­l­o­.t­x­t­
Figure 1.4 Growth in Atmospheric Carbon Dioxide, 1815-2010
As fossil-fuel based industrialization and deforestation have increased, so has the atmospheric concentration of the gases involved in global warming.

The graphs of economic growth, seen earlier in this chapter, illustrate an impressive human ability to increase production. The growth in global atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2, the principal gas associated with climate change) illustrated in Figure 1.4 is equally impressive but more sobering, as it shows the human ability to affect our environment significantly—sometimes in dangerous ways. CO2 is released in fossil fuel-burning industrial production, transportation, and heating, and the more such production takes place, the more is released. Deforestation also contributes to increases in atmospheric CO2.
Unless emissions of greenhouse gases are reduced dramatically, we can expect to see a number of dangerous results from climate change, including increasingly severe disturbances to agriculture, disruptions in water supply, an expansion of the reach of tropical diseases, and threats from increasingly severe weather including hurricanes, floods, and droughts. Reconciling ecological sustainability and restoration with full employment and growth in living standards is rising in prominence as a macroeconomic issue. Related environmental issues concerning the depletion or degradation of a wide variety of critical natural resources will require new thinking about the relationship between production and living standards.
This is an exciting moment for you to be beginning the study of economics, when so much is at stake—including the kind of work, recreation, and consumption that you will be able to expect in your life—and when there is both need and opportunity for creative new ideas. If you had embarked on this course 20 years ago, you would likely have read a textbook that implied that "everything we need to know about the macroeconomy is here—just learn it." Given recent developments, it is more appropriate to invite you to contemplate and discuss how the economy works, how it doesn't, and how it should.

Discussion Questions

1. Which major historical events influenced the development of macroeconomics as a field of study? In addition to the problems listed in the text, do you think there are other current problems that macroeconomics should be addressing?
2. The fact that economists do not always agree, and that there are alternative "schools" of macroeconomic thought, can sometimes seem confusing. It may help to think about, or discuss in a group, how economics compares to other subjects that you or your classmates have studied. What kinds of changes in the fields of physics or biology have occurred in the past hundred years? Are there major debates, disagreements, and unsettled issues in other fields such as psychology, sociology, or political science?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. What is economics?
  2. How does macroeconomics differ from microeconomics?
  3. What is the difference between positive and normative questions?
  4. What is meant by "living standards growth"? Is this the same as "economic growth"?
  5. What is economic development? What factors are important in ensuring that economic growth benefits a country's population as a whole?
  6. Why are macroeconomic fluctuations a cause for concern?
  7. What global developments have caused financial, social, and ecological sustainability or restoration to become increasingly prominent as macroeconomic concerns?
  8. What is the "precautionary principle"?
  9. What historical developments and concerns motivated—and what beliefs characterized—the classical economists? The school of Keynesian economics? The work of the monetarists? The synthesis of Keynesian and classical thought?
10. Name two or more global issues that will likely shape the development of macroeconomics in the twenty-first century.

EXERCISES
  1. The more you pay attention to what is going on in the macroeconomy around you, the more meaningful this class will be to you. Find an article in a newspaper or newsmagazine (hard copy or on-line) that deals with a macroeconomic topic. Make a list of terms, concepts, people, organizations, or historical events mentioned in the article that are also mentioned in this chapter.
  2. Classify each of the following as to whether it is an example of a positive question or a normative question (some may have elements of both).
a. "What is the level of the U.S. national debt?"
b. "Is the national debt too high?"
c. "How low should the unemployment rate be?"
d. "What policies can lower the unemployment rate?"
e. "What kinds of production should be counted in measuring gross domestic product?"
f. "Is it better to have low unemployment or low inflation?"
  3. State whether the following statements are true or false. If false, also write a corrected statement.
a. Macroeconomics is about the activities of government agencies.
b. Economic growth always leads to improvements in living standards.
c. The three aspects to consider in thinking about sustainability are financial, monetary, and ecological.
d. Over a billion people live in absolute poverty, defined as $1.25 or less per day.
e. Poor countries have had little problem paying back economic development loans.
  4. State whether the following statements are true or false. If false, also write a corrected statement.
a. Fiscal policy refers to government influences on credit and interest rates.
b. Specialization and the division of labor are characteristics of industrial production.
c. Classical economists believe that the Great Depression was caused by aggregate demand that was too low.
d. During "bank runs" and stock market crashes, people lose confidence in the financial system and tend to cut back on their spending.
e. Keynesian economists believe that an economy that experiences a high rate of unemployment will quickly self-correct.
  5. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B:








Column A

Column B


a.
Keynesian economics
  1.
Lowering the income tax rate


b.
Classical economics
  2.
Studies how economics applies at the national and global level


c.
Monetary policy
  3.
Supply creates its own demand


d.
Fiscal policy
  4.
Expansion in GDP as a result of new production


e.
Living standards growth
  5.
A school that focuses on aggregate demand and encourages government action


f.
Business cycle
  6.
Government expansion of credit availability


g.
Monetarism
  7.
The short-run fluctuations of a national economy


h.
Macroeconomics
  8.
The school of economic thought originally associated with the idea of laissez-faire economics


i.
Say's law
  9.
More of the population gets access to basic health care


j.
Microeconomics
10.
Studies how economics applies at the level of households, businesses, and other organizations


k.
Economic growth
11.
A school of economic thought that argues that active government monetary policies usually make economic fluctuations worse




NOTES

1. Data from tax reports published by the Congressional Budget Office, w­w­w­.c­b­o­.g­o­v­.
2. This well-known formulation of the precautionary principle was spelled out in a 1998 meeting of scientists, lawyers, policymakers, and environmentalists at Wingspread, the headquarters of the Johnson Foundation in Racine, Wisconsin.


*These figures are corrected for inflation. We examine the process by which economists correct GDP figures for inflation in Chapter 5.
*For more on this subject see the Appendix to Chapter 18.
*Real output per person in the United States was 1.64 times greater in 2010 than it was in 1980.
*"Laissez-faire," a French term, means "leave alone" and is pronounced "lez-say fair."













 
 
 




2
Useful Tools and Concepts




 
 

Economists have developed a number of basic concepts that are useful when we want to describe how an economy works, and to think about how we might make it work better, as citizens and through government action. This chapter presents some of the most important concepts in economics, including how to approach tradeoffs (when we have to choose among different things that we might want); what markets really are (hint: they aren't just one thing); and the importance of such abstract things as trust and money. (You didn't think money was abstract? Wait and see!) Before we get into these concepts, however, we review economists' basic tools of investigation. The concepts and methods we discuss in this chapter reappear throughout the book and help us better understand modern macroeconomic debates.

1. OUR TOOLS FOR UNDERSTANDING

Explaining macroeconomic phenomena involves using three main modes of investigation: empirical, theoretical, and historical.

1.1 EMPIRICAL INVESTIGATION

Empirical investigation is observation and recording of specific happenings in the world. In economics, empirical investigation often involves numerical data. However, useful empirical investigation of a specific item of interest may also be represented in words or images.

empirical investigation: observation and recording of the specific phenomena of concern

When the observations take the form of showing how a variable changes over time, we call them time-series data. We saw important examples of time-series data in Chapter 1, in graphs that showed how GDP and atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) levels have grown over time.

time-series data: observations of how a numerical variable changes over time

We will be seeing many such graphs in this book—for price levels, employment, exchange rates, and other economic variables. The accompanying Graphing Review Box (Box 2.1) will help you refresh your skills in working with data and graphs.
It is tempting to think that if two economic variables seem empirically related to each other, changes in one variable are causing changes in the other. Sometimes this is true. In the case of the upward trends over time that we saw for both GDP and CO2 levels, as shown in Chapter 1, there is causality: Growing industrial production has led, over time, to increasing accumulations of CO2. There are good scientific reasons to believe that the rise in accumulated CO2 we observed in Figure 1.4 is a direct result of years of fossil fuel-intensive economic growth, as we observed in Figures 1.1 and 1.3.
But two variables may be related empirically (or be "correlated" with each other, to use the statistical term) without there being a well-defined causal relationship between them. For example, countries with higher GDP tend to have higher reported levels of cancer. Does this mean that higher GDP causes cancer? No, the true relationship is between GDP and life expectancy. Higher GDP is broadly associated with longer life expectancy, and people who live longer are more likely to develop cancer at some point in their lives. The specific causes of cancer include genetics, environmental exposure, diet, and other factors. This provides an excellent example for the warning that "correlation does not necessarily imply causality." In other words, the existence of an observable relationship between two economic variables does not imply that changes in one variable cause the changes in the other.


BOX 2.1 GRAPHING REVIEW
Empirical analysis involves collecting and interpreting numerical data. This review covers the two most common ways that economic data are presented in this book. The first way is in a table, such as Table 2.1, which presents time-series data for the U.S. economy over the period 2000-2012. The table provides data each year for two variables: the annual real growth rate of GDP and the annual average unemployment rate. So we can determine from the table, for example, that in 2004 the unemployment rate was 5.5 percent and real GDP grew at a rate of 3.5 percent.

Table 2.1 Unemployment Rate and Real GDP Growth Rate, United States, 2000-2012 (in percent)






Unemployment rate
Real GDP growth rate


2000
4.0
  4.1


2001
4.7
  1.1


2002
5.8
  1.8


2003
6.0
  2.5


2004
5.5
  3.5


2005
5.1
  3.1


2006
4.6
  2.7


2007
4.6
  1.9


2008
5.8
−0.3


2009
9.3
−3.1


2010
9.6
  2.4


2011
8.9
  1.8


2012
8.1
  2.2


Sources: U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, h­t­t­p­:­/­/­b­e­a­.g­o­v­/­i­T­a­b­l­e­/­i­n­d­e­x­_­n­i­p­a­.c­f­m­; U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, h­t­t­p­:­/­/­b­l­s­.g­o­v­/­c­p­s­/­c­p­s­a­a­t­0­1­.h­t­m­.

While tables can present detailed numerical data, it is not always obvious what is really happening by simply looking at a table. We could carefully study Table 2.1 to determine when unemployment is rising and when it is falling, but this is normally not the easiest way to observe trends over time. Instead, we can commonly present data in visual form, using graphs, to quickly "see" what is happening in an economy.
Figure 2.B1 presents a time-series graph of the unemployment rate. Graphs have a horizontal axis (also called the "x-axis") and a vertical axis (also called the "y-axis"). It is common practice to present time-series data with the time intervals on the x-axis. Presented this way, we can easily see that unemployment rose from 2000 to 2003, then fell for a few years, then rose significantly to nearly 10 percent by 2010, then fell somewhat in 2011 and 2012.
You can test yourself by using the data in Table 2.1 to construct a time-series graph for the GDP growth rate. You can do this using graph paper or a spreadsheet application such as Microsoft Excel.






Sources: United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, h­t­t­p­:­/­/­b­l­s­.g­o­v­/­c­p­s­/­c­p­s­a­a­t­0­1­.h­t­m­; United States Bureau of Economic Analysis, h­t­t­p­:­/­/­b­e­a­.g­o­v­/­i­T­a­b­l­e­/­i­n­d­e­x­_­n­i­p­a­.c­f­m­.
Figure 2.B1 Unemployment Rate, United States, 2000-2012
In addition to using graphs for time-series analysis of a single variable, we can also use graphs to explore the relationship between two different variables. This is important because it provides a way to test specific economic hypotheses. Referring back to Table 2.1, we might form the hypothesis that unemployment rates tend to be higher when GDP growth rates are lower. We call this a negative, or inverse, relationship—when an increase in one variable is associated with a decrease in another variable (or, vice versa, when a decrease in one variable is associated with an increase in another variable).
Negative (or inverse) relationship: the relationship between two variables if an increase in one variable is associated with a decrease in the other variable (or vice versa)
Figure 2.B2 plots the relationship between unemployment rates and GDP growth rates. Each "data point" on the graph tells us the values of both variables for a specific year. In the graph we have kept the unemployment rate on the y-axis, but the x-axis now indicates the GDP growth rate. So the data point for 2008, for example, indicates that the unemployment rate was 5.8 percent (by reading across to the y-axis), and the GDP growth rate was −0.3 percent (by reading down to the x-axis). Note that there is one data point for each year. You can test yourself by figuring out which data points match which years.
A visual inspection of Figure 2.B2 can help us determine whether our hypothesis of an inverse relationship between unemployment and GDP growth rates is correct. We can see that when GDP growth rates were at their highest, 3 percent or higher, unemployment rates were relatively low. In general, the graph seems to support our hypothesis, but there are some exceptions. For example, in the year when unemployment was at its maximum, in 2010, GDP growth was about average at 2.4 percent. To determine more accurately whether our hypothesis is supported by the data, we would need to undertake statistical analysis, often called "econometrics." If you are an economics major, you will likely take a future course on econometrics.






Sources: United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, h­t­t­p­:­/­/­b­l­s­.g­o­v­/­c­p­s­/­c­p­s­a­a­t­0­1­.h­t­m­; United States Bureau of Economic Analysis, h­t­t­p­:­/­/­b­e­a­.g­o­v­/­i­T­a­b­l­e­/­i­n­d­e­x­_­n­i­p­a­.c­f­m­.
Figure 2.B2 Relationship between Unemployment and GDP Growth Rate, United States, 2000-2012
Figure 2.B2 can tell us whether our two variables are related, or "correlated," but as mentioned in the text we cannot determine whether there is a causal relationship between the two variables. While we suspect that low GDP growth causes high unemployment, we cannot prove it using a graph. The causality could potentially be in the opposite direction—that high unemployment causes low GDP growth. Even if the variables seem related in a graph, the relationship could be random, or "spurious." For example, you may have read stories about how the outcome of sporting events can predict the performance of the stock market or the winner of presidential campaigns. However, it seems highly unlikely that such relationships are causal.
The opposite of an inverse relationship is a positive, or direct, relationship. In this case, an increase in one variable is associated with an increase in another variable—or a decrease in one variable is associated with a decrease in another.
Positive (or direct) relationship: the relationship between two variables if an increase in one variable is associated with an increase in the other variable
A good example of a positive relationship is between the growth rate of GDP and the growth rate of greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide and methane. When the economy is growing, manufacturing industries tend to produce more goods, people tend to fly and drive more, and construction activity tends to increase. All these factors tend to increase greenhouse gas emissions.
The relationship between GDP growth and the growth of greenhouse gas emission is shown in Figure 2.B3, which includes data for 1990-2012. In this case, we see a reasonably clear positive relationship—when the economy is growing rapidly greenhouse gas emissions also tend to increase. Again, we can undertake a more sophistical statistical analysis of the positive relationship, and we cannot demonstrate causality just by looking at a graph, but the graph provides strong support in favor of a positive relationship between the two variables.






Source: Greenhouse Gas data from United States Environmental Protection Agency, h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­w­w­.e­p­a­.g­o­v­/­c­l­i­m­a­t­e­c­h­a­n­g­e­/­g­h­g­e­m­i­s­s­i­o­n­s­/­u­s­i­n­v­e­n­t­o­r­y­r­e­p­o­r­t­.h­t­m­l­.
Figure 2.B3 Relationship between GDP Growth Rate and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Growth Rate, United States, 1990-2012


Empirical investigation creates the foundation for macroeconomic analysis. Looking at the data on unemployment and GDP growth, we can see, however, that more tools are clearly needed if economists are to try to explain, rather than simply describe, macroeconomic phenomena.

1.2 THEORETICAL INVESTIGATION

The adjective "empirical" is usually contrasted with "theoretical," where the latter refers to statements made on the basis of abstract thought, making assumptions and logical deductions. Theoretical investigation is essential to macroeconomics. This book introduces a number of theories of how the macroeconomy operates.

theoretical investigation: analysis based in abstract thought

Many economic theories are based on "thought experiments." In the physical sciences, much theorizing is based on controlled experiments in the laboratory. While it is sometimes possible for economists to carry out controlled experiments at the microeconomic level (creating a relatively new field of "experimental economics"), this is rarely possible in macroeconomics. Thus economists tend to create theories based on assumptions about economic agents and institutions, from which, with careful reasoning, they draw out potential implications for economic behavior.
In order to make it possible to build a theory, it is sometimes useful to isolate certain aspects of economic behavior from their larger historical and environmental context, in order to examine more closely the complex elements involved. A model is an analytical tool that highlights some aspects of reality while ignoring others. It can take the form of a simplified story, an image, a figure, a graph, or a set of equations, and it always involves simplifying assumptions. We look at some examples of economic models later in this chapter when we examine the production-possibility frontier and the basic neoclassical model. Other models appear throughout this course.

model: an analytical tool that highlights some aspects of reality while ignoring others

An important part of many models is the assumption of ceteris paribus, a Latin phrase that means "other things equal" or "all else constant." In order to focus on one or two variables, we assume that no other variables change. Of course, in the real world, things usually don't stay constant. Usually after a basic model is constructed, we can vary the ceteris paribus assumption, to see how changes in other variables will affect the model's conclusions.

ceteris paribus: a Latin phrase meaning "other things equal" or "all else constant"

Theories and models essentially simplify reality. Is this justifiable? It is if it gives us greater insight into how things actually work. A model plane, for example, cannot carry passengers or freight, but it can give aerodynamic engineers insights into how a real plane works and help them to design better features for real aircraft. In the same way, simplified models can help economists to understand the working of very complex real-world economies. Of course, economists may disagree about which models to use and as a result may come to different policy conclusions. In this text we try to make clear what simplifying assumptions we are using to build models and to indicate when there are different economic theories that may lead to conflicting policy recommendations.

1.3 HISTORICAL INVESTIGATION

Throughout the book, we also include a crucial third mode: historical investigation, which uses our knowledge of historical events to help explain macroeconomic phenomena. The Great Depression of the 1930s, major wars, the invention of computers, changing roles of women in the workforce, the financial crash of 2007-8 and the severe recession that resulted, sometimes called the Great Recession—all are examples of historical events that have had a significant macroeconomic impact.

historical investigation: study of past events

Economists have become increasingly aware that, while gathering and analyzing data and thinking theoretically about what could be true are valid and important tasks, knowledge of the real-world evolution of political, economic, and social life is indispensable to understanding macroeconomics.

Discussion Questions

1. Consider the following examples of investigation. For each one, indicate which mode of investigation it most closely represents—empirical, theoretical, or historical.
a. A biologist tries to determine the number of different species of plants found on a plot of rainforest
b. Albert Einstein develops his theory of relativity
c. An economist measures how GDP varies across countries
d. A sociologist examines the impact of movements for equal pay for women on women's social and economic status
e. An economist states that a rise in investment will lead to a fall in unemployment
2. Model building is sometimes compared to map making. If someone asks you how to get to your house, what will you put on the map you draw for them? What if the question asked has to do with the location of the highest point in town, the town's political boundaries, the public transit system, or how your dwelling links up to the local sewer system? Is it possible for a single, readable map to answer every possible question? Does the goal you have in mind for the map affect what you put on it?

2. ECONOMIC TRADEOFFS

Three fundamental economic questions are what, how, and for whom. As individuals, and as members of a larger society, people make choices about what should be produced, how it should be produced, and for whom it should be produced. These choices involve tradeoffs between different priorities and goals, and how these choices are made is a major focus of economic analysis.

2.1 ABUNDANCE AND SCARCITY

When you think of all the abundant natural resources in our world, all the human time and intelligence that exist, all the investments that have been made in organizing human societies, and the massive stock of machinery and other productive resources now accumulated, you realize that the world as a whole is wealthy indeed (even though some countries remain very poor). Although the distribution of resources is far from even, across countries or among people within countries, contemporary human society as a whole still has a rich resource base on which to build. No wonder that many world religions and ethical teachings encourage an attitude of gratefulness on the part of their adherents toward the sources of life's abundance.

abundance: resources are abundant to the extent that they exist in plentiful supply for meeting various goals

It may seem odd, then, that many economists emphasize the notion of scarcity—that is, the notion that there is too little to go around—when discussing society's choices concerning what, how and for whom. What this really means is that even with all the available resources, and even with a steady eye on the goal of well-being, not everything that is socially desirable can be accomplished, at least not all at once. The current capacity of a particular hospital, for example, may allow it to increase the number of heart transplants that it performs or to increase the amount of care that it can provide for the severely mentally ill, but not both. A given resource, such as an hour of your time, when dedicated to one beneficial activity (such as studying) will be unavailable for certain other beneficial activities (such as relaxing with your friends). Choices have to be made.

scarcity: resources are scarce to the extent that they are not sufficient to allow all goals to be accomplished at once

Macroeconomics is centrally concerned with how an overall economic environment emerges from the choices made by individuals and organizations and to what extent choices made by governments can make this economic environment better or worse.

2.2 SOCIETY'S PRODUCTION-POSSIBILITIES FRONTIER

Economists use the notion of a societal production-possibilities frontier to illustrate concepts of scarcity, tradeoffs, and efficiency. To make matters very simple, let's assume that society is considering only two possible flows of output over the coming year, which are to be made from a given stock of currently available resources, using the current state of technology. (The question of how much of the total resource stock of a society should be considered "currently available" is taken up in the next section.) The classic example is to take guns as one output and butter as the other. In more general terms, the guns-and-butter tradeoff can refer to any society's more general, and real-world, choice between becoming a more militarized society (guns) and becoming a more civilian-or consumer-oriented society (butter).
Figure 2.1 shows a production-possibilities frontier (PPF) for this case. In this graph, the quantity of butter produced over a year is measured on the horizontal axis. The quantity of guns is measured on the vertical axis. The points on the PPF curve illustrate the maximum quantities of guns and butter that the society could produce. For example, point A, where the curve intersects the horizontal axis, shows that this society can produce 120 units of butter if it does not produce any guns. Moving up and to the left, point B illustrates production, over the year, of 60 units of butter and 8 units of guns. (At this level of abstraction, it is not necessary to be specific about what is meant by "units." You may imagine these as kilos of butter and numbers of guns, if you like.) If the society produces no butter, how many guns can it produce? While it may seem odd to think about a society that only produces two goods, the PPF figure is nevertheless helpful for illustrating several important economic concepts.

production-possibilities frontier (PPF): a curve showing the maximum amounts of two outputs that society could produce from given resources, over a given time period








Figure 2.1 Society's Production-Possibilities Frontier
The PPF diagram illustrates the concept of scarcity, since combinations of goods that lie outside the frontier (such as C) are not attainable. A comparison of points that lie on the curve (such as A and B) illustrates the concept of trade-offs, since with efficient production the quantity of butter must fall if the quantity of guns produced rises. Inefficient use of resources is illustrated by points (such as D) that are inside the curve.

Scarcity. Point C in Figure 2.1 represents a production combination that is not attainable, given existing resources. To produce at that point would take more resources than society has. The PPF is specifically defined so that only those points on or inside it represent outputs that can actually be produced.
Tradeoffs. Points that lie on the PPF illustrate the important notion that scarcity creates a need for tradeoffs. Along the frontier, one can get more of one output only by "trading off" some of the other. Figure 2.1 illustrates the important concept of opportunity cost. Opportunity cost is the value of the best alternative to the choice that one actually makes. Looking at the PPF, we see that the cost of increasing gun production is less butter. For example, suppose that the economy is at Point A, producing 120 units of butter and no guns, but then decides that it needs to produce 8 guns. Point B illustrates that after some resources have been moved from butter production into producing the 8 guns, the maximum amount of butter that can be produced is 60 units. The gain of 8 guns comes at a "cost" to the economy of a loss of 60 units of butter. Likewise, starting from a point where the economy is producing some guns, the "cost" of producing more butter would be fewer guns.

opportunity cost: the value of the best alternative that is forgone when a choice is made

Efficiency. An efficient process is one that uses the minimum value of resources to achieve the desired result. Put another way, efficiency is achieved when the maximum value of output is produced from a given set of inputs.* Points that lie on the PPF illustrate the maximum combinations that a society can produce. But what about points inside the frontier, such as point D? At point D, the economy is not producing as much as it could. It is producing 40 units of butter and 4 guns, even though it could produce more of one or the other, or both. Some resources are apparently being wasted.

efficiency: the use of resources in a way that does not waste any inputs. Inputs are used in such a way that they yield the highest possible value of output, or a given output is produced using the lowest possible value of inputs.

There are at least three reasons why this could occur. First, the resources may be wasted because they are being left idle. For example, workers may be left unemployed, or cows could be left unmilked. Second, even if resources are fully employed, the technology and social organization being applied to the resources may be less than the best. For example, suppose the gun factory is poorly designed, so that a lot of the workers' time is wasted carting parts from one area to another. In this case, a better, more efficient organization of the workflow could increase production, with no increase in resources. Third, the allocation of resources between the two production activities (i.e., guns and butter) might not be optimal. For example, if gun factories are built on the best pasture land when they could just as well be built on poorer land, the ability of the economy to graze cows and produce butter would be hampered.
When an economy is imagined to be on the PPF and thus producing efficiently, the only way to produce more of one good is to produce less of the other. If an economy is inside the PPF, by contrast, it is producing inefficiently, and improvements in the employment of resources, the application of available technology and social organization, or allocation of resources among production activities could allow it to move toward the frontier (i.e., to produce more of both goods).
The bowed-out shape of the curve comes from the fact that some resources are likely to be better suited for production of one good than the other. We can see, for example, that the society only has to give up 60 units of butter production to get the first 8 guns. Workers, for example, can be pulled out of butter production and set to work on relatively plentiful supplies of the materials most suited for guns, such as easily tapped veins of iron ore and minerals for gunpowder. Gun manufacturing plants can—if allocation decisions are made wisely—be built on land unsuitable for pasture.
However, the very last gun, gained by moving from point B up to where the PPF hits the vertical axis, comes at the cost of 60 units of butter—the same cost as the first 8 guns! To shift production entirely to guns, it is necessary to use the most productive pastureland, and to redirect agricultural workers toward increasingly less accessible veins of mineral ores, or to the now-crowded gun assembly lines. This shift dramatically decreases butter production while adding little to the production of guns.
Of course, we could put on the axis many other pairs of outputs besides guns and butter and still illustrate these concepts. We could look at Coca-Cola and pizza, cars and bicycles, or health care and highways.*
This classic example, however, is a good one. In the real world, such guns/butter or militarization/peacetime tradeoffs can be crucially important (see Box 2.2).
What precise combination of outputs, such as guns and butter, or health care and highways, should society choose to produce? The PPF does not answer this question. The curve shows the range of efficient possibilities, but does not tell us which one of these combinations of outputs is best. To determine this, we would have to know more about a society's requirements and priorities. Is civilian satisfaction a high priority? Then the society would lean toward production of butter. Does the society fear attack by a foreign power? Perhaps then it would choose a point more toward the guns axis.
For good social decision making, this production question would have to be considered alongside questions of resource maintenance, distribution, and consumption, since all have effects on well-being. In a society with free speech and democratic discussion, there is wide room for disagreement about what the best mix of goods might be. The PPF provides a mental image for thinking about scarcity, tradeoffs, and efficiency but does not, itself, tell us how to choose among the possibilities that it illustrates.


BOX 2.2 THE OPPORTUNITY COST OF MILITARY EXPENDITURES
What do military buildups and wars really cost? One way to look at this is to consider what else could have been bought with the money spent on armaments.
World military expenditures in 2013 totaled $1.75 trillion, or 2.5 percent of world GDP The United States is by far the biggest spender, accounting on its own for 46 percent of the global total. The United Kingdom, France, China, and Japan are the next biggest military spenders. Smaller and poorer countries spend less, but some of the poorest countries—including Eritrea and Burundi—spend more on the military than they do on public services such as health care and education. Where do such countries get their weapons? The United States and Russia are the leading suppliers of military goods to international markets.
Meanwhile, about 10 million children every year—over 27,000 every day—die before they reach the age of 5, most of them from malnutrition and poverty. The Millennium Development Goals set out by the United Nations include eradicating extreme poverty, achieving universal primary education, reducing child mortality rates, and improving maternal health, gender equity, and environmental sustainability in the poorest areas of the world. All this comes at a cost, of course. The amount of money that would be needed to achieve these goals has been estimated to be in the range of $145 to 270 billion per year, that is, about 8-15 percent of what is currently spent on arms. This level of funding has not been forthcoming, however, and indications are that a number of the goals will not be met (see Chapter 17).
As U.S. president Dwight D. Eisenhower said in 1953, "Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired, signifies in the final sense a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed."
Sources: Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, SIPRI Military Expenditures Database, w­w­w­.s­i­p­r­i­.o­r­g­/­; United Nations Millennium Project, w­w­w­.u­n­m­i­l­l­e­n­n­i­u­m­ ­p­r­o­j­e­c­t­.o­r­g­/­r­e­p­o­r­t­s­/­c­o­s­t­s­_­b­e­n­e­f­i­t­s­2­.h­t­m­.

2.3 TRADEOFFS OVER TIME

We have said that a PPF reflects possible production combinations, given the stock of currently available resources, and using the current state of technology. These ideas deserve more investigation. If we remember that achieving well-being involves questions of how and for whom, then the question becomes complex. For example, we generally want to conserve resources so that we can produce goods not only right now but later in our lives. And we have an obligation to future generations to include them in our considerations of for whom.
Some production activities are also resource-maintenance activities, of course, and the flow of output from these adds to the stock of resources available for the future. Investments in plant and equipment can provide productive capacity not just for a few months, but often for years. Production of goods and services that protect the environment or that encourage the formation of new forms of knowledge and social organization also lead to an improved resource base.
Technological progress can lead to long-run improvements in productive capacity. New technologies can create new, more efficient methods for converting resources into outputs—or even create kinds of products never before imagined. To the extent that production is of this sort, production can add to the production possibilities for the future. The PPF may expand over time, out and to the right, making previously unobtainable points obtainable, as shown in Figure 2.2.

technological progress: the development of new products and new, more efficient, methods of production

Some productive activities contribute an ongoing flow of outputs without drawing down the stock of capital resources. Sustainable production activities, such as some agricultural and forestry processes may not deplete the resource base, and could even add to it (in which case we can term them "restorative").
But many other productive activities lead to resource depletion or degradation. The intensive use of fossil fuels is now depleting petroleum reserves, degrading air quality, and contributing to global climate change. Production processes that destroy important watersheds and wildlife habitats are also resource depleting. Mind-numbing drudgery, or work in dangerous circumstances, can degrade human resources by leaving people exhausted or in bad mental or physical health. These kinds of productive activities are at odds with resource maintenance.







Figure 2.2 An Expanded Production-Possibilities Frontier
When the PPF moves "out" (away from the origin) our choices are still constrained, but, overall, it becomes possible to get more of both things, as compared to the "lower" PPF.






Figure 2.3 Society's Production/Maintenance Frontier
We choose not only what to produce, but how to produce it; some production methods are more resource-depleting than others.

Taking a longer-term view, then, it is clear that getting the absolute maximum production, right now, out of the available resources is not an intelligent social goal. Decisions such as guns vs. butter need to be accompanied by another decision about now versus later. A fuller set of questions should include: What should be currently produced, what needs to be maintained, and what investments are needed to increase future productivity?
Figure 2.3 shows a production/maintenance frontier, which illustrates the tradeoff between resource-depleting kinds of production and resource-maintenance activities (the latter including both conservation and investment). Point A illustrates a societal decision to engage in considerable resource-depleting production in the present year, while putting little emphasis on maintenance for the future. Point B illustrates a decision to engage in a higher level of maintenance this year and in a lower level of resource-depleting production.
The consequences of choosing between points A and B are illustrated in Figure 2.4 where once again we portray a two-output (such as guns-vs.-butter) PPF. Now, however, the depiction is of some time in the future, following the current choice between A and B. As Figure 2.4 shows, a decision to maintain more for the future, by choosing point B in Figure 2.3, leads to a larger set of production possibilities in future years. A decision to engage in considerable resource depletion, by choosing point A in Figure 2.3, leads to the smaller future PPF shown in Figure 2.4.







Figure 2.4 Possible Future PPFs
Present-day decisions about how to produce will affect future possibilities concerning what can be produced.

Advances in technology, as we have noted, will always tend to push the PPF outwards (as in Figure 2.2). But this will not necessarily compensate for resource depletion. In order to maintain a healthy economy for the future, we need both technological progress and resource maintenance.

Discussion Questions

1. Suppose that your study time can be allocated to studying either for this course or for another course. Your two "outputs" are your grades in each course. Draw a production possibilities curve for these two outputs. Would the curve be shaped like the PPF in Figure 2.1? Discuss.
2. Consider the following activities. Which ones do you think would expand society's PPF in the future? Which ones would shrink it? (There may be room for disagreement on some.)
a. Increasing education spending
b. Expanding oil production
c. Building a wind power facility
d. Restoring wetlands
e. Building a new interstate highway
f. Using larger trawlers to catch more fish

3. THE ROLE OF MARKETS

As we saw in Chapter 1, one of the major areas of interest—and dispute—among economists concerns how markets function. Those who develop theories along the lines of classical economics believe that market systems function fairly smoothly and are largely self-regulating. Those who lean more toward the Keynesian side believe that market economies need some help from government policy to serve goals of human well-being. But what do economists mean by "markets"?

3.1 THE MEANING OF MARKETS

When people talk about markets, they may be referring to a number of different meanings of the word, from very concrete to very abstract. The language of economics has at least three different uses of the word "market," and the appropriate meaning must be judged from the context in which it appears. We start with the most concrete and move toward the more abstract definitions.
The most concrete and commonsense definition of a market is the idea that a market is a location—that is, a place where people go to buy and sell things. This is historically appropriate: Markets such as the Grand Bazaar in Istanbul or African village produce stands have flourished for ages as meeting places for people who wish to make exchange transactions. The same criterion applies today, even when the "market" has become a shopping center or mall, with many retail stores sharing one huge building, or a stock or commodity exchange, where brokers stand on a crowded floor and shout orders to buy or sell. A market, as suggested by these examples, can be defined as a physical place where there is an expectation of finding both buyers and sellers for the same product or service. In the electronic age, the market "location" may not be physical but virtual, for example the web site eBay. Most stock exchanges have also moved to electronic trading, although a role remains for brokers on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.

market (first meaning): a physical place or web location where there is an expectation of finding both buyers and sellers for the same product or service

However, not all markets are physical places where buyers and sellers interact. We can think of markets in more general terms as institutions that bring buyers and sellers together.
Institutions are ways of structuring the interactions between individuals and groups. Like markets, institutions can also be thought of in concrete or abstract terms. A hospital can be considered an institution that structures the interactions between doctors and patients. A university is an institution that structures the interactions between professors and students. But institutions can also be embodied in the customs and laws of a society. For example, marriage is an institution that places some structure on family relationships. Laws, courts, and police forces are institutions that structure the acceptable and unacceptable ways that individuals and groups interact.

institutions: ways of structuring interactions between individuals and groups, including both formally constituted establishments and patterns of organization embodied in customs, habits, and laws

Thinking of markets as institutions, rather than concrete places, leads to various ways of discussing particular markets. Many economists spend much of their time investigating one or more such specific institutional markets. They may track the trades made at various prices over time for a specific good, such as heating oil or AT&T bonds, try to forecast what might happen in the future, or advise on the specifics of market structures. When such an economist speaks of a market, he or she most often means the institutional market for such a specific good.

market (second meaning): an institution that brings buyers and sellers into communication with each other, structuring and coordinating their actions

In this sense, several different markets may operate under one roof, within the same organization. For example, in the United States, the Chicago Board of Trade operates many markets for a variety of farm products, including wheat, corn, and soybeans. Indeed, even a term such as "wheat" may be too general to define a market for some purposes, given the existence of such distinct varieties as "No. 2 dark winter wheat" and "No. 1 dark northern spring wheat." Or such an institutional market might cover a number of different physical locations, such as when an economist speaks of a market in regional terms. The "New England market for home heating oil," for example, may involve transactions by a number of different companies at a number of different physical or electronic locations.
In the most abstract terms, people sometimes talk of "the market" as a situation of idealized, unencumbered exchange. In this idealized market, buyers and sellers are imagined to come to instantaneous, costless agreements. This definition of the market may refer to all market relationships at a national or even global level. When economists speak of the merits (or limitations) of "free markets," they are often referring to the concept at this level of abstraction. What people have in mind in this case is not so much specific, institutional markets as a particular model of how markets could behave, in an ideal case.

"the market" (third meaning): a phrase that people often use to mean an abstract situation of pure exchange or a global system of exchange relationships

Economists who have a "pro-market" view believe that markets should generally be left to function with very little government intervention in order to maximize economic prosperity. Other economists recognize the effectiveness of markets but believe that problems such as poverty, inequality, environmental degradation, and declining social ethics may be caused or exacerbated by unchecked and unregulated markets.

3.2 THE BASIC NEOCLASSICAL MODEL

The basic neoclassical model, traditionally taught in detail in most microeconomics courses at the introductory level, is a model of market exchange that—while abstracting away from many real-world factors, some of which are discussed below—portrays in a simple and elegant way some important aspects of markets. Neoclassical economics arose during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. It took the eighteenth-century classical idea that economies can be thought of as systems of smoothly functioning markets and expressed this idea in terms of formalized assumptions, equations and graphs. (The prefix "neo-" in "neoclassical" means "new.")

basic neoclassical (traditional microeconomic) model: a model that portrays the economy as a collection of profitmaximizing firms and utility-maximizing households interacting in perfectly competitive markets

In this model, the world is simplified to two kinds of economic actors. Households are assumed to consume and to maximize their utility (or satisfaction). Firms are assumed to produce and to maximize profits. Households are considered the ultimate owners of all resources of land, labor, and capital. They rent the services of these to firms through "factor markets," receiving monetary payments in return. Firms produce goods and services, which they sell to households on "product markets" in return for monetary payments. This model can be portrayed in the circular-flow diagram in Figure 2.5. The model further assumes that there are so many firms and households involved in the market for any good or service that a situation of "perfect competition" reigns, in which prices are determined purely by forces of supply and demand.

utility: the level of usefulness or satisfaction gained from a particular activity such as consumption of a good or service








Figure 2.5 The Circular Flow Diagram for the Basic Neoclassical Model
The neoclassical circular flow diagram represents a model in which there are only two kinds of economic actors, interacting through markets.

In this idealized world, goods and services are produced, distributed, and consumed in such a way that the market value of production is as high as it can be. The model combines important observations about markets with assumptions about human values and human behavior, as both producers and consumers. (In reading the following statements about the neoclassical model, see if you can recognize which parts are "positive" observations of facts, and which are assumptions, which may include a "normative" slant, toward "the way things ought to be.") Full social and economic efficiency is said to arise because:
• The prices set by the forces of supply and demand in smoothly functioning markets carry signals throughout the economy, coordinating the actions of many individual decision makers in a highly decentralized way
• The profit motive gives perfectly competitive firms an incentive to look for low-cost inputs and convert them into highly valuable outputs. Production decisions are thus made in such a way that resources are put to their most (market) valuable uses
• Consumption decisions made by individuals and households are assumed to maximize the "utility" or satisfaction of consumers
• Maximizing the market value of production is assumed to be a reasonable proxy for maximizing human well-being
We explore the working of markets in more detail in Chapter 4. Extending the model to include international trade is discussed in Chapter 14.

3.3 THE ADVANTAGES OF MARKETS

Because information and decision making in a market economy are decentralized, and producers have an incentive to respond to consumer desires, market systems can lead to a more efficient use of resources. While the workings of real-world markets are more complex, the principle of efficiency highlighted in the basic neoclassical model is of great importance.
The fact that market exchange is voluntary, not coerced, is often considered as an additional advantage of markets. Market systems generally offer people some choice about where they work and what they buy. Other market advocates claim that, by offering financial incentives, markets encourage people to be creative and innovate and to communicate with one another.
However, it is one thing to recognize that markets have advantages and another to claim that markets are always the best way to organize economic activity or to deny that markets may sometimes need government regulation or intervention.
Classically minded macroeconomists tend to emphasize potential efficiency gains from markets and stay fairly close to the basic neoclassical model in their theories. They tend to believe that most economic decisions should be left to "free markets."
More Keynesian-oriented macroeconomists, by contrast, tend to emphasize how real-world markets might differ from the smoothly functioning markets that exist in theory. Real-world markets require an impressive set of associated institutions to work well, they point out. And markets on their own are not well-suited to addressing certain kinds of economic problems.

3.4 THE INSTITUTIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF MARKETS

Contemporary large-scale markets do something amazing: They allow many, many separate decision makers, acting on decentralized information, to coordinate their behavior, resulting in highly complex patterns of voluntary exchange transactions. They do not, however, operate in a vacuum. Economists have identified a number of even more basic institutions that market institutions require in order to function. We classify these in four broad groups: institutions related to property and decision making; social institutions of trust; infrastructure for the smooth flow of goods and information; and money as a medium of exchange.

Institutions Related to Property and Decision Making

For markets to work, people need to know what belongs to whom. Private property is the ownership of physical or financial assets by nongovernment economic actors. Actors must also be allowed to make their own decisions about how to allocate and exchange resources. Prices, in particular, must not be under the control of governments or powerful economic actors; generally, they should be set by the interactions of market participants themselves.

private property: ownership of assets by nongovernment economic actors

The institutions of private property and individual decision making exist both formally, in codes of law, and informally, in social norms. Social acceptance of institutions is important, and not to be taken for granted. For example, some Western economists expected markets to grow quickly in the countries of the former Soviet Union as soon as communism was dismantled and opportunities for markets opened up. However, many people were accustomed to being told by the state where to work and what to do. Norms of individual initiative and entrepreneurship, it turns out, do not just arise naturally but need to be fostered and developed.

Social Institutions of Trust

A second critical institutional requirement for markets is that a degree of trust must exist between buyers and sellers. When a buyer puts down her payment, she must trust that the seller will hand over the merchandise and that it will be of good quality. A seller must be able to trust that the payment offered is valid, whether it is in the form of currency, a personal check, a charge on a credit or debit card, or a promise of future payment such as an installment loan.
Cultural norms and ethical or religious codes can help to establish and maintain an atmosphere of trustworthiness. One-on-one exchanges between customers and businesses help to build trust and make future transactions smoother. Many companies have built up a reputation for making quality products or providing good service. Marketers try to capitalize on the tendency of buyers to depend on reputation by using advertising to link certain expectations about quality and price to a recognizable brand name, thus creating "brand loyalty" among repeat customers.
Trust may exist without social institutions of enforcement, but especially in large, complex, mobile societies where buyers and sellers may not be individually known to one another, markets require social institutions that protect the interests of both sellers and buyers.
For example, contracts are often used to define the terms of an exchange. An informal or implicit contract exists when the terms of an exchange are defined verbally or through commonly accepted norms and traditions. Explicit contracts are formal, usually written, agreements that provide a legally enforceable description of the agreed-upon terms of exchange. For formal contracts to work, there must be laws that define contracts, state the legal obligation to honor contracts, and establish penalties for those who fail to do so. There must also be a system for enforcing those laws.

implicit contract: an informal agreement about the terms of exchange, based on verbal discussions and on common norms, traditions, and expectations
explicit contract: a formal, often written, agreement that states the terms of exchange and may be enforceable through a legal system

In highly marketized economies, many other institutions have evolved to deal with the issue of trust. For example, credit bureaus keep track of consumer credit trustworthiness, Better Business Bureaus keep track of complaints against businesses, money-back guarantees give consumers a chance to test the quality of a good before they commit to purchasing, and escrow accounts provide a place where money can be held until goods or services are delivered. Government agencies such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and local boards of health are charged with monitoring the quality and purity of many goods that are sold.
Even in complex transactions among large groups of strangers, social norms are still essential. Detailed formal contracts are costly to write and costly to enforce. It is not practical to police every detail of every contract, and it is impossible to cover every conceivable contingency. The legal system can work smoothly only if most people willingly obey most laws and believe that it is dishonorable to cheat. In effect, relationships, social norms, and the government-created apparatus of law are institutions that must exist side by side, reinforcing one another. None of these alone can carry the whole burden of making complex contracts work and, hence, make markets possible.

Infrastructure for the Smooth Flow of Goods and Information

A third set of basic institutions for market functioning relates to making possible a smooth flow of goods and information. Most obviously, a system of physical infrastructure for transportation and storage is needed that provides the basic foundation for moving goods around. Such infrastructure includes roads, ports, railroads, and warehouses in which to store goods awaiting transport or sale. This sort of infrastructure can be most noticeable in its absence, as in economies ravaged by war or by natural disaster.

physical infrastructure: the equipment, buildings, physical communication lines, roads, and other tangible structures that provide the foundation for economic activity

In addition, infrastructure needs to be in place for the flow of information. Producers and sellers need information on what, and how much, their customers want to buy; in a well-functioning marketized economy, this information indicates what, and how much, should be produced and offered for sale. At the same time, consumers need to know what is available, and how much they will have to pay, to get the products that are on the market. Ideally, consumers should be able to compare all potential purchases, as a basis for deciding what to acquire and what to do without. It seems unlikely that this ideal condition for perfect markets will ever be reached, but Web-based exchange systems such as Amazon and eBay have brought it much closer to realization.

Money as a Medium of Exchange

The final critical institution required for markets to operate smoothly is a generally accepted form of money. Coins made from gold, silver, and other metals were the most common type of money for many centuries; paper currency developed later. Today, financial instruments such as bank account balances and electronic transfers play an even larger role. While once backed by precious metals in Fort Knox, the value of a U.S. dollar is now based only on the understanding that other people will accept it in exchange. In this sense, money is also a social institution that depends on trust, as well as part of the institutional infrastructure of functioning markets. Money is discussed at greater length in Chapter 11.

3.5 THE LIMITATIONS OF MARKETS

As we have noted, the idealized model of a completely free private market (as in the basic neoclassical model) rarely exists in practice. Actual market-oriented economies always include a mixture of decentralized private decision making and more public-oriented decision making.
This is not because voters and government officials are unaware of the advantages that markets can have in helping an economy run efficiently. Rather, it is because real-world economies include a number of important, complex factors that are not taken into account in the basic neoclassical model. We discuss these issues more fully in later chapters; here we briefly define and discuss some of the major factors that are important for macroeconomics, including public goods, externalities, transaction costs, market power, questions of information and expectations, and concerns over human needs and equity.

Public Goods

Some goods cannot, or would not, be provided well by private individuals or organizations acting alone. A public good (or service) is one whose use by one person does not diminish the ability of another person to benefit from it (referred to as "nondiminishable" or "nonrival") and whose benefit it would be difficult to keep any individuals from enjoying ("nonexcludable").

public goods: goods for which (1) use by one person does not diminish usefulness to others, and (2) it would be difficult to exclude anyone from benefiting

For example, if a local police force helps make a neighborhood safe, all the residents benefit. Public roads (at least those that have no tolls) are also public goods, as is national defense. A system of laws and courts provides the basic legal infrastructure on which all business contracting depends. Environmental protection that makes for cleaner air benefits everyone. Some economic sectors share characteristics of public and private goods. Education and quality child care are to some extent public goods because everyone benefits from living with a more skilled and socially well-adjusted population.*
Because it is difficult to exclude anyone from benefiting from public goods, they cannot generally be bought and sold on markets. Even if individual actors would be willing to pay for them if necessary, they have little incentive to pay because they cannot be excluded from the benefit. Economists call people who seek to enjoy a benefit without paying for it free riders. Because of the problem of free riders, it often makes sense to provide public goods through government agencies, supported by taxes, so that the cost of the public benefit is also borne by the public at large. The effect of taxation and government spending on the macroeconomic environment is an important theme in this book.

free riders: people who seek to enjoy the benefit of a good without paying for it


Externalities

Some market activities create externalities—side effects or unintended consequences. Externalities affect persons or entities such as the environment that are not among the economic actors directly involved in the economic activity. These effects can be either beneficial ("positive externalities") or harmful ("negative externalities"). Sometimes positive externalities are referred to as "external benefits" and negative externalities are referred to as "external costs." Externalities are one of the primary ways in which the true social value of a good or service can differ from its market value.

externalities: side effects or unintended consequences, either positive or negative, that affect persons or entities such as the environment that are not among the economic actors directly involved in the economic activity that caused the effect

Examples of negative externalities include a manufacturing firm that dumps pollutants in a river, degrading water quality downstream, or a bar that plays loud music that annoys its neighbors. Examples of activities that have positive externalities include child rearing by parents who, out of love for their children, raise them to become law-abiding citizens and at the same time create benefits for society at large, and getting vaccinated against a communicable disease, which people do to protect themselves, but at the same time protect those around them from the disease's spread. In both cases, individual actions have social benefits. Well-educated, productive citizens are an asset to the community as well as to their own families, and disease control reduces risks to everyone.
Some of the most important externalities relate to the economic activity of resource maintenance. Relying on markets alone to coordinate economic activities allows many activities to take place that damage or deplete the natural environment, because the damage often does not carry a price tag and because people in future generations are not direct parties to the decision making.
If economic activities affected only the actors directly involved in decision making, we might be able to think about economic activity primarily in terms of individuals making decisions for their own benefit. But we live in a social and ecological world, in which actions, interactions, and consequences are generally both widespread and interrelated. If decisions are left purely to individual self-interest, then from a societal point of view too many negative externalities and too few positive externalities will be created. The streets might be strewn with industrial wastes, while children might be taught to be honest in dealings within their family but not outside it. Market values and human or social values do not always coincide.*

Transaction Costs

Transaction costs are the costs of arranging economic activities. In the basic neoclassical model, transaction costs are assumed to be zero. If a firm wants to hire a worker, for example, it is assumed that the only cost involved is the wage paid. In the real world, however, the activity of reaching a hiring agreement may involve its own set of costs.

transaction costs: the costs of arranging economic activities

The firm may need to pay costs related to searching, such as placing an ad in print or on the web or paying for the services of a recruiting company. The prospective worker may need to pay for preparation of a résumé and transportation to an interview. One or both sides might hire lawyers to make sure that the contract's terms reflect their interests. Because of the existence of such costs, some economic interactions that might lead to greater efficiency, and that would occur in an idealized, transaction cost-free, frictionless world, may not happen in the real world.

Market Power

In the basic neoclassical model, all markets are assumed to be "perfectly competitive," such that no one buyer or seller has the power to influence the prices or other market conditions that they face. In the real world, however, we see that many firms have market power. For example, when there is only one firm (a monopolist) or a few firms selling a good, they may be able to use their power to increase their prices and their profits, creating inefficient allocations of resources in the process. Workers may also be able to gain a degree of market power by joining together to negotiate as a labor union. A government, too, can have market power, for example when the Department of Defense is the sole purchaser of military equipment from private firms.

market power: the ability to control, or significantly affect, the terms and conditions of the exchanges in which one participates

Businesses may also gain power by their sheer size—many corporations now function internationally and have revenues in the tens of billions of dollars. The decisions of individual large corporations can have substantial effects on the employment levels, economic growth, living standards, and economic stability of regions and countries. Governments may need to factor in the responses of powerful business groups in making their macroeconomic decisions. National leaders may fear, for example, that raising business tax rates or the national minimum wage may cause companies to leave their country and go elsewhere. Corporations frequently also try to influence government policies directly, through lobbying, campaign contributions, and other methods. We explore the implications of corporate globalization for macroeconomic policy at more length in a later chapter.

Information and Expectations

In the basic neoclassical model, in which purely decentralized decisions lead to efficient outcomes, people are assumed to have easy access to all the information that they need to make good choices. This analysis is static; that is, it deals with an idealized case in a timeless manner. The model does not consider the time that it might take for a person to make a decision or that it might take for a factory to gear up to produce a good. In the real, dynamic, world, obtaining good information may be difficult, and planning for an uncertain future is a big part of anyone's economic decision making.

static analysis: analysis that does not take into account the passage of time
dynamic analysis: analysis that takes into account the passage of time

A manufacturing business, for example, might be considering whether to borrow funds to build an additional factory. If the company's directors were able to know exactly what the demand for its products will be like in the future and what interest rates will be—along with additional information about things such as future wages, energy costs, and returns on alternative investments—the decision would be a simple matter of mathematical calculation.
But the directors will have to guess at most of these things. They will form expectations about the future, but these expectations may turn out to be incorrect. If their expectations are optimistic, they will tend to make the new investment and hire new workers. Often optimism is "contagious," and if a lot of other business leaders become optimistic, too, then the economy will boom. If, however, people share an attitude of pessimism, they may all tend to cut back on spending and hiring.
Because no one business wants to take the risk of jumping the gun by expanding too soon, it can be very difficult to get a decentralized market economy out of a slump. How people get their information, how they time their actions, and how they form their expectations of the future, then, are all important topics in macroeconomics that are not addressed in the basic neoclassical model. Taking these factors into account suggests why markets sometimes do not work as smoothly as that model suggests or lead to such efficient results.

Human Needs and Equity

Another important issue concerns distribution of income and the ability to pay for goods and services. In the basic neoclassical model, the only consumer demands for goods and services that can affect the market are those that are backed up by a consumer's ability to pay. This has several implications.
First, there is nothing in the model that ensures that resources are distributed in such a way that people can meet their basic human needs. If a few rich people have a lot of money to spend on diamonds, for example, while a great number of poor people lack the money to pay for basic health care, "free markets" will motivate producers to respond to the demand for diamonds, but not to the need for basic health care.
For this reason, governments often adopt more deliberate policies of economic development, government provision, subsidies, or income redistribution, to try to ensure that decent living standards become more widespread. These policies can sometimes incorporate market mechanisms and sometimes replace them.
Second, the model does not take into account nonmarketed production, such as the care given to children, the sick, and the elderly by family and friends. There is nothing in the basic neoclassical model that ensures that these sorts of production will be supplied in adequate quantities and quality.
Lastly, it is also the case that problems such as unemployment and inflation tend to affect some people more than others, so how a country deals with these problems also has distributional consequences.
Clearly, although market systems have strong advantages in some areas, they cannot solve all economic problems. Economists sometimes use the term market failure to refer to a situation in which a market form of organization would lead to inefficient or harmful results. Because of the existence of public goods, externalities, transaction costs, market power, questions of information and expectations, and concerns for human needs and equity, macroeconomic systems cannot rely on "free markets" alone if they are to contribute effectively to present and future human well-being.

market failure: a situation in which markets yield inefficient or inappropriate outcomes

To some extent private nonmarket institutions may help remedy "market failure." For example, a group of privately owned factories located around a lake may voluntarily decide to restrict their waste emissions, because too much deterioration in water quality hurts them all. Likewise, a widespread custom of private charitable giving may help alleviate poverty. But sometimes the problems are so large or widespread that only government, public actions at the national or international levels seem to offer a solution. Exactly how much government action is required, and exactly what governments should do, however, are much-debated questions within contemporary macroeconomics.

Discussion Questions

1. In what sense is the term "market" being used in each of the following sentences? "Go to the market and get some bananas." "The market is the best invention of humankind." "The labor market for new Ph.D.s is bad this year." "The advance of the market leads to a decline in social morality." "The market performance of IBM stock weakened last month." Can you think of other examples from your own readings or experience?
2. "Indeed it has been said that democracy is the worst form of government," said British Prime Minister Winston Churchill (1874-1965), "except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time." Some people make the same claim about more marketized forms of economic systems. What do they mean? Would you agree or disagree?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. What are the three main modes of economic investigation? Describe each.
  2. What is a model? How does the ceteris paribus assumption simplify the creation of a model?
  3. How do abundance and scarcity create the possibility of, and the necessity of, economic decision making?
  4. What three requirements are met in producing along a production-possibilities frontier?
  5. Draw a societal production-possibilities frontier, and use it to explain the concepts of tradeoffs (opportunity cost), attainable and unattainable output combinations, and efficiency.
  6. What kinds of decisions would make a PPF expand over time? What kinds of decisions would make it shrink over time?
  7. What are the three different meanings of the term "markets"?
  8. What are some of the assumptions of the basic neoclassical model? Why are markets said to be efficient according to this model?
  9. What are the four institutional requirements of markets?
10. What is a public good? Why will private markets generally undersupply public goods?
11. What are negative and positive externalities? Give examples of each.
12. Besides public goods and externalities, describe four real world factors that can cause market outcomes to be less than ideal.

EXERCISES
  1. Consider the following data, taken from the Economic Report of the President 2013. Perform the graphing exercises below using either pencil and graph paper or a computer spreadsheet or presentation program.






Year
Unemployment rate (%)
Inflation (% per year)


2005
5.1
3.4


2006
4.6
2.5


2007
4.6
4.1


2008
5.8
3.8


2009
9.3
−0.4


2010
9.6
1.6


2011
8.9
3.2


2012
8.1
2.1



a. Looking at the data listed in the chart, can you detect a trend in the unemployment rate during these years? In the inflation rate? If so, what sort of trends do you see?
b. Create a time-series graph for the unemployment rate during 2005-2012.
c. Create a scatter-plot graph with the unemployment rate on the horizontal axis and inflation on the vertical axis.
d. Using your graph in part (c), do the two variables seem to have an empirical relationship during this period, or do the points seem to be randomly scattered? If there appears to be an empirical relationship, is it inverse or direct?
  2. The notion of "scarcity" reflects the idea that resources cannot be stretched to achieve all the goals that people desire. But what makes a particular resource "scarce"? If there seems to be more of it around than is needed, such as desert sand, is it scarce? If it is freely open to the use of many people at once, such as music on the radio waves, is it scarce? What about resources such as social attitudes of trust and respect? Make a list of a few resources that clearly are "scarce" in economists' sense. Make another list of a few resources that are not.
  3. How is the concept of efficiency related to the concept of scarcity? Consider, for example, your own use of time. When do you feel time to be more, and when less, scarce? Do you think about how to use your time differently during exam week, compared to when you are on vacation?
  4. Suppose that society could produce the following combinations of pizzas and books:






Alternative
Quantity of pizzas
Quantity of books


      A
50
  0


      B
40
10


      C
30
18


      D
20
24


      E
10
28


      F
  0
30



a. Using graph paper (or a computer program), draw the production-possibilities frontier (PPF) for pizza and books, being as exact and neat as possible. (Put books on the horizontal axis. Assume that the dots define a complete curve.)
b. Is it possible or efficient for this society to produce 25 pizzas and 25 books?
c. Is it possible or efficient for this society to produce 42 pizzas and 1 book?
d. If society is currently producing alternative B, then the opportunity cost of moving to alternative A (and getting 10 more pizzas) is _____ books.
e. Is the opportunity cost of producing pizzas higher or lower moving from alternative F to E than moving from alternative B to A? Why is this likely to be so?
f. Suppose that the technologies used in producing both pizzas and books improve. Draw one possible new production-possibilities frontier in the graph above that represents the results of this change. Indicate the direction of the change that occurs with an arrow.
  5. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B:








Column A

Column B


a.
A positive externality
  1.
An apple pie producer trusts that apple growers will supply the apples that they promise to deliver


b.
Theoretical investigation
  2.
The annual harvest of apples in a country from 1970 to 2000


c.
Time-series data
  3.
Producing a combination along a production-possibilities frontier


d.
A public good
  4.
Apple growers will seek to maximize their profits


e.
Opportunity cost of buying an apple
  5.
You do not get to have an orange


f.
Scarcity
  6.
There is only one apple producer who is able to make very high profits


g.
Efficient production
  7.
Does not take into account the passage of time


h.
Technological progress
  8.
An orchard used to grow a full crop of apples cannot also be used to grow a full crop of pears


i.
An institutional requirement of markets
  9.
The apple tree that you plant for your own enjoyment also pleases people passing by


j.
Market power
10.
Can expand a production-possibilities frontier outward over time


k.
A negative externality
11.
An inspection program for imported apples protects the country's orchards from a severe tree disease


l.
An assumption of the basic neoclassical model
12.
Einstein develops the theory of relativity


m.
Static analysis
13.
The production of apple pie creates water pollution that harms downstream communities




*Note that, in using the term "value of output" in this definition, economists generally mean the money value that the output can be sold for in the market. If a different definition of value were used—for example, if the reference was to the value in increasing human or ecological health, or some other aspect of well-being—then some production processes might appear to be more or less efficient than they are when the measuring rod is simply market value.
*Using more advanced mathematics, we can construct equations showing the production possibilities for a society producing many different goods. This is typically done in more advanced economics classes, but the principles involved are exactly the same as in our simple two-good example.
*Education is partly a private good—for example, you can pay for your own college education and gain individual benefit from it—but the social benefit of education is acknowledged in the many forms of government support for education, subsidized student loans, scholarships, and the like.
*Some people criticize the economics profession for relegating many important consequences of economic activity to the category of externalities, mistakenly assuming that this means that economists believe that anything "external" to the market is not important. In fact, economists take externalities very seriously, recognizing that their presence indicates a failure of the market to operate as it should.













 
 
 




3
What Economies Do




 
 

You cannot build a comfortable, secure house without a good understanding of construction materials, pipes, and building techniques. Likewise, we first need to examine some of the "building blocks" of any economy in order to understand how societies might be able to achieve the macroeconomic goals of good living standards, stability, and sustainability. While an in-depth analysis of specific parts of the economy is the subject of microeconomics, not macroeconomics, some familiarity with micro-level activities is a prerequisite for a macroeconomic understanding of how all these activities add up to make a national (and global) economy.

1. INTRODUCING THE FOUR ESSENTIAL ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES

In introducing the subject matter of economics in Chapter 1, we briefly mentioned that the four essential economic activities are resource maintenance, production, distribution, and consumption. Now it is time to look at these more directly.

1.1 RESOURCE MAINTENANCE

Resource maintenance means tending to, preserving, or improving the stocks of resources that form the basis for the preservation and quality of life. A capital stock is a quantity of any resource that is valued for its potential economic contributions. Capital stocks are also often referred to as "capital assets."

resource maintenance: the management of capital stocks so that their productivity is sustained or improved
capital stock: a quantity of any resource that is valued for its potential economic contributions

We can identify five types of capital that contribute to an economy's productivity. Natural capital refers to physical assets provided by nature, such as land that is suitable for agriculture or other human uses, fresh water sources, healthy ocean ecologies, a resilient and diverse stock of wild animals and plants, and stocks of minerals and fossil fuels that are still in the ground. Manufactured capital means physical assets that are generated by applying human productive activities to natural capital. These include such things as buildings, machinery, stocks of refined oil, transportation infrastructure, and inventories of produced goods that are waiting to be sold or to be used in further production. Human capital refers to individual people's capacity for productive work, particularly the knowledge and skills each can personally bring to his or her work. Social capital means the existing institutions and the stock of trust, mutual understanding, shared values, and socially held knowledge that facilitates the social coordination of economic activity.

natural capital: physical assets provided by nature
manufactured capital: physical assets generated by applying human productive activities to natural capital
human capital: people's capacity for work and their individual knowledge and skills
social capital: the institutions and the stock of trust, mutual understanding, shared values, and socially held knowledge that facilitates the social coordination of economic activity

Lastly, there is a fifth sort of resource, financial capital, which is a fund of purchasing power available to economic actors. While financial capital is not part of any physical production activity, it indirectly contributes to production by making it possible for people to produce goods and services in advance of getting paid for them. It also facilitates the activities of distribution and consumption. An example of financial capital would be a bank checking account, filled with funds that have been either saved up by the economic agent who owns it or lent to the agent by a bank.

financial capital: funds of purchasing power available to facilitate economic activity

Notice that economists' description of "capital" is different from what you might hear in everyday use. In common usage, sometimes people take "capital" to mean only financial capital. We hear this in everyday references to "capital markets," "undercapitalized businesses," "venture capital," and so on. Economists take a broader view.
Capital stocks may increase or decrease as a consequence of natural forces, as in the case of a natural forest; or they may be deliberately managed by humans, in order to provide needed inputs for the production of desired goods and services. When people work to increase the quantity or quality of nonfinancial resources in order to make benefits possible in the future, this is what economists mean by investment. Advances in technology also expand or improve the stocks of capital, including manufactured, human, and social capital, thereby increasing the productivity of economic activity.*

investment: actions taken to increase the quantity or quality of a resource now, in order to make benefits possible in the future

The activity of "resource maintenance" is about making sure that investments are sufficient to provide an economy with a good asset base for future years and future generations. You, right now, are investing in your "human capital" by studying economics.

1.2 PRODUCTION

The second of the four basic economic activities is production. Production is the conversion of resources into usable products, which may be either goods or services. Goods are tangible objects, like bread or books, whereas services are intangibles, like TV broadcasting, teaching, or cutting hair. Manufactured assets, such as machines and buildings, are goods that are produced for investment purposes, to assist in the production of other goods and services. Popular bands that create music, recording companies that produce CDs or host downloads and streaming of music, local governments that build roads, and individuals who cook meals are all engaged in the economic activity of production.

production: the conversion of resources to goods and services

The economic activity of production converts some resources, which we call inputs, into new goods and services, which we refer to as outputs. This conversion is a flow that takes place over a period of time. The way in which this production occurs depends on available technologies. Production processes can also lead to undesirable outputs, such as waste products. We consider only useful outputs to be economic goods and services.

inputs: resources that go into production
outputs: the results of production
waste products: outputs that are not used either for consumption or in a further production process

Inputs include materials that become part of the produced good, supplies that are used up in the production process, and labor time. For example, were we to ask a chef how to prepare one of his specialties, say, ginger chicken, we would be given an answer in terms of ingredients (chicken, ginger, oil, etc.) and a method for combining them. The food ingredients become part of the produced good. Other inputs used in the process probably include the natural gas or electricity that provides heat and other supplies such as paper towels. The chef's labor time is necessary for the dish to be prepared and is used in the process.
But the recipe, the chef's skills, and the stove and cooking implements that will be used neither become part of the produced good nor are "used up," although they are crucial for the production process. These can be best understood as flows of services arising out of capital stocks (see Section 2.1 below). The production process draws on services from social capital, in the form of the social knowledge embodied in a recipe; services of the chef's human capital in the form of the chef's acquired knowledge and services of manufactured capital in the form of the stove and implements. But unlike the materials and supplies mentioned above, these capital stocks are not themselves transformed or used up in production.
In the case of commercial production, the services of another form of capital—financial capital—are also vitally important. This is because the production process takes time. Imagine that the chef and her husband, for example, are also entrepreneurs. They need to be able to buy the ingredients, buy or rent kitchen space, and get to work well before they can prepare the meal and sell it. They therefore need to have financial capital available at the start of the process—either financial assets of their own or loans that they can use to pay the bills until their revenues start coming in. If, at the end of the process, they can sell the meal, cover all their expenses, and make a profit, they will end up with more financial capital than before. This is illustrated in Figure 3.1.
The reliance of commercial production on manufactured and financial capital is very important for macroeconomics, as we will see when we study issues of credit and investment. Production by noncommercial organizations such as households, nonprofit organizations, and governments is generally intended for purposes other than making a financial profit, but it also begins with resources—including financial resources, if any of the inputs are going to be bought on markets.







Figure 3.1 The Role of Financial Capital in Commercial Production
1.3 DISTRIBUTION

Distribution is the sharing of products and resources among people. In contemporary economies, distribution activities take two main forms: exchange and transfer.

distribution: the allocation of products and resources among people

When you hand over money in return for goods and services produced by other people or when you receive a wage for the work you have provided to an employer, you are engaging in exchange. As we discussed in Chapter 2, markets are social institutions that facilitate exchange relations. People are generally much better off if they specialize in the production of a limited range of goods and services and meet at least some of their other needs through exchange rather than trying to produce everything they need by themselves.

exchange: trading one thing for another

Distribution also takes place through transfer. Transfers are payments given with nothing specific expected in return. For example, wealth is transferred from one generation to the next by inheritance. Social Security payments from the federal government to the elderly are another example of transfers.

transfer: the giving of something with nothing specific expected in return

Distribution can take place through transfers of goods, services, or assets as well as transfers of money. Local public school boards, for example, distribute educational services to child and teenage students in their districts, tuition-free. Parents in households transfer food and care to children. These sorts of nonmonetary transfers are called in-kind transfers.

in-kind transfers: transfers of goods or services


1.4 CONSUMPTION

Consumption refers to the process by which goods and services are, at last, put to final use by people. In some cases, such as eating a meal or burning gasoline in a car, goods are literally "consumed" in the sense that they are used up and are no longer available for other uses. In other cases, such as enjoying art in a museum, the experience may be "consumed" without excluding others or using up material resources.

consumption: the final use of a good or service to satisfy current wants

In macroeconomics, the activity of consumption is frequently contrasted with the resource-maintenance activity of investment. The two activities are linked by the activity of saving, or refraining from consumption today in order to gain benefits in the future.

saving: refraining from consumption in the current period

For example, suppose that a subsistence farmer grows a crop of com. To the extent that the farmer eats some of the com, the farmer consumes—the com is used up in the process of eating and is not available for future use. To the extent that the farmer sets aside some of this year's com crop for planting next season, the farmer saves. This is an example in which saving is directly turned into investment: It puts aside a resource that will aid production in the future.
In a modern, financially sophisticated economy, the situation is more complex, but the basic idea is the same. Modern households can save by spending less money on consumption than their income would allow. Governments and nonprofit organizations can save by spending less on consumption goods than their budgets would allow. Businesses save by retaining some of their earnings, instead of paying out to their shareholders (as dividends) all of what they make beyond their (noninvestment) expenses.
Savings may be used directly to purchase investment goods, for example when a business uses retained earnings to buy new software. The larger part of the flows of savings described above are put aside in less direct ways, by adding to the stock of financial assets available. Financial intermediaries such as banks and bond markets allow savers to lend their financial capital to other households, nonprofits, businesses, and governments that want to borrow. Some of the borrowers will use the funds to pay for the creation of new investment goods, such as buildings, factories, or a college education.

Discussion Questions

1. Think of a common activity that you enjoy. For example, perhaps you like to get together with friends and listen to CDs while popping popcorn in the microwave. List the stocks of natural, manufactured, human, and social capital that you draw on while engaging in this activity.
2. Classify each of the following according to which economic activity, or activities, it involves, from this list: production, resource maintenance, distribution, and consumption. If any seem to include aspects of more than one activity, name the activities and explain your reasoning.
a. Harvesting a crop of com
b. Attending college
c. Building an addition onto a factory
d. Receiving a Social Security payment
e. Cutting someone's hair

2. RESOURCE MAINTENANCE: ATTENDING TO THE ASSET BASE OF THE MACROECONOMY

The activity of resource maintenance involves sustaining, and sometimes restoring, the asset base of an economy. These important macroeconomic goals require care in maintaining what we have and rebuilding all kinds of capital stocks that may have become depleted or degraded. Several concepts are important for understanding the economics of resource maintenance.

2.1 STOCKS VERSUS FLOWS

When noneconomists use the term "stock," they usually mean ownership shares in enterprises that are traded on the "stock market." To an economist, however, the concept of a stock refers to something as it is measured at a particular point in time. For example, the amount of water in a bathtub can be measured at one particular instant, and that quantity would be considered a stock. The number of computers in an office at ten o'clock on Tuesday morning is a stock, as is the number of trees in a forest at two o'clock on Saturday afternoon.

stock: something whose quantity can be measured at a point in time

In contrast to stocks, flows are measured over a period of time. For example, the water that goes into a bathtub from a faucet is a flow; its quantity can be measured per minute or per hour. The number of computers purchased by an office over the course of this month or this year is a flow. So is the number of computers sold or junked over a period of time. As trees grow or are cut down or felled by lightning, these flows add to or subtract from forest resources.

flow: something whose quantity can be measured over a period of time

Flows are like a movie; stocks are like a still photograph. Flows can either add to stocks or decrease them. Figure 3.2 is a generalized stock-flow diagram, which shows how flows change the level of a stock over time, either by adding to it or taking away from it.

stock-flow diagramml: an illustration of how stocks can be changed, over time, by flows

For example, the balance in your checking account at the beginning of the month is a stock value. The deposits and withdrawals you make to your checking account are flows; your bank statement will tell you what the various flows were during a month. The "ending balance" listed on the statement is a stock value.
Figure 3.3 gives an alternative representation of the relation of stocks and flows, this time showing a stock at only one point in time. Like water flowing through the tap (additions) and the drain (subtractions) of a bathtub, flows raise or lower the level of the water in the tub (stock).







Figure 3.2 The General Stock-Flow Diagram
Starting from an initial quantity of a stock, flows into and out of the stock determine how great the quantity is the next time the stock is measured.






Figure 3.3 A "Bathtub"-Style Diagram
Like water flowing into a bathtub, flows that add to a stock will tend to raise its level over time. Like water flowing out of a bathtub, flows that subtract from a stock will tend to lower its level over time.
2.2 INVESTMENT AND DEPRECIATION

Investment, as mentioned earlier, is a primary form of the activity of resource maintenance. When you read the word "investment" in this textbook, the image in your mind should be of someone buying new computers for an office or planting new trees in a forest —not of someone playing the stock market or "investing in" corporate bonds. Those sort of financial transactions usually merely shift the ownership of an existing financial asset from one economic actor to another; they do not add to productivity-enhancing capital stocks for the economy at large.
"Disinvestment," or the depletion or reduction in quality of capital stocks, can also occur, due to the forces of nature or human activities. When a capital stock is reduced, we say it has undergone depreciation. Natural capital depreciates when rivers become fouled by pollution or more trees are cut down than are naturally regenerated. Manufactured assets commonly lose their usefulness over time, as computers become obsolete, roads develop potholes, and equipment breaks. (See Box 3.1.) Human capital depreciates if skills are forgotten or not kept up to date, or if age or illness renders a person less productive, and social capital can depreciate if norms of trust and peaceful interaction become less widely held.

depreciation: a decrease in the quantity or quality of a stock of capital

The concept of gross investment is a measure of all flows into the capital stock over a period of time. Net investment, by contrast, adjusts this measure for the fact that some portion of the capital stock also depreciates over the same period. The capital stock at the end of the period is equal to the capital stock at the beginning of the period plus only net investment. If depreciation is rapid, net investment can be negative—if the replenishing flow of new investment is not sufficient to keep up with depreciation, the level of the stock will fall.

gross investment: all flows into the capital stock over a period of time
net investment: gross investment minus an adjustment for depreciation of the capital stock



BOX 3.1 LAWMAKERS ARE QUICK TO PLEDGE INFRASTRUCTURE OVERHAUL, BUT THE COST IS STAGGERING
The collapse of a major highway bridge in Minnesota in August 2007 killed thirteen people and injured over one hundred. One of Congress' more obscure priorities—the upkeep of the nation's infrastructure—suddenly gained urgency in the wake of the Minneapolis bridge collapse. But the job of rebuilding it may be easier for engineers than politicians.
Key lawmakers pledged to push for billions of additional dollars to repair America's transportation infrastructure. But they will run into plenty of political obstacles.
Repairing structurally deficient or functionally obsolete bridges—more than 1 50,000 or about one-fourth of the nation's bridges—would require an investment of at least $65 billion. "The reality remains that we have outdated and failing structures around the country and the trust fund used to fix them is rapidly going bankrupt," said [the chair of] the Senate transportation appropriations subcommittee.
Source: Richard Simon, "Rough Roads Ahead for Congress," Los Angeles Times, August 9, 2007.


Resource-maintenance activities help to keep up the quantity and quality of important capital stocks. They include such activities as monitoring the water quality of a lake, repairing machinery, or keeping employees' skills up to date. Going beyond simple maintenance of the status quo, restoration means bringing back qualities that have been lost; for example, farming in such a way that the quality of the soil is actually enhanced.
Sometimes resource maintenance "activity" means not engaging in activity. For example, many fishing communities, sometimes under strict government regulation, have ceased fishing for species that are declining and may be in danger of extinction. Similarly, people who make voluntary decisions to minimize their gasoline consumption are helping to maintain petroleum resources as well as the health of the climate. While this may look like inactivity, including resource maintenance as an economic activity implies that minimizing some kinds of consumption can contribute to well-being.

2.3 RENEWABLE RESOURCES, NONRENEWABLE RESOURCES, AND SUSTAINABILITY

In recent years, people have recognized the complexity of questions concerning the rate of depreciation of many forms of natural capital. Types of natural capital can be classified as either renewable or nonrenewable. A renewable resource regenerates itself through biological or other short-term processes, which may be helped by human activity. The quantity and quality of its stock depend simultaneously on the rate at which the stock maintains its productivity and grows and on the rate at which it is harvested or polluted. A healthy forest will go on indefinitely producing trees that may be harvested, yielding a flow of lumber that will be used up in production processes such as paper making.

renewable resource: a resource that regenerates itself through short-term processes

Other kinds of natural capital are nonrenewable resources. Their supply is fixed, although new discoveries can increase the stock that is known to be available. For example, there is a finite amount of fossil-fuel reserves and a finite amount of each kind of mineral available on earth. For nonrenewable resources, there are no self-regenerating flows—at least over time spans relevant to human lives. (While oil reserves or species diversity could in principle be "renewed," the time scale for this to take place would be millions of years.) The stock can only diminish over time as a result of human use or natural deterioration.

nonrenewable resource: a resource that cannot be reproduced on a human time-scale, so that its stock diminishes with use over time

How much of its stock of natural resources a society chooses to turn into inputs for current production processes, rather than to preserve for the future, is clearly a very important economic question. Even those natural inputs that are renewable—such as lumber from forests and fish from the seas—may be exhausted if so much of them is destroyed or extracted that they can no longer renew themselves. In addition, there are limits to the ability of nature to absorb polluting by-products of production processes. There are tipping points past which degraded natural capital may dramatically alter in some essential respect.
For example, in the case of climate change, rising global temperatures due to human-made emissions from the burning of fossil fuels and the use of other chemicals may bring dramatic changes during this century. Ocean levels could rise by as much as a meter or more because of melting of the West Antarctic ice cap and other factors. This would cause the flooding of many low-lying areas, including southern Florida and Bangladesh. In New Orleans (2005 Hurricane Katrina) and New York and New Jersey (2012, Hurricane Sandy), we have already seen how rising seas can combine with human changes to local geography (e.g., wetlands) to cause massive destruction from flooding. Some island countries, such as the Maldives, are already losing significant land mass. Resource maintenance for natural capital means tracking the size, quality, and changes in natural resources and making wise decisions about their management.
Sometimes, when it is pointed out that processes of production and consumption in the industrialized countries are currently depleting many important natural capital stocks much more rapidly than they can be replenished, the issue of substitutability is raised. The depletion of any one resource (such as fossil fuels) is a less serious problem for future well-being, if other resources (such as wind or solar energy) can be cheaply and safely substituted for it in production and consumption. The extent of substitutability that can be achieved depends both on the characteristics of the resources and on the speed of technological advances.

substitutability: the possibility of using one resource instead of another

During the late nineteenth and the first half of the twentieth centuries, there was widespread confidence that technological progress would solve resource and environmental problems. In the late twentieth century, however, this faith began to fade in light of increasingly evident ecological damage. Ecologists emphasize the complexity of natural systems and our relative ignorance of long-term, irreversible, or potentially catastrophic effects of economic behavior on the natural systems that support us. They suggest that, instead of placing blind faith in technological progress and economic substitutability, society should adopt a precautionary principle, as was discussed in Chapter 1.
A sustainable socioeconomic system creates a flow of whatever is needed (in an economic system, this is goods and services) by using its renewable capital stocks without depleting or degrading them. Although a portion of some (especially nonrenewable) capital stocks may be used up in the process of production, the overall quality and quantity of the resource base for sustaining life and well-being are preserved.

sustainable socioeconomic systemml: a system in which the overall quality and quantity of the resource base required for sustaining life and well-being do not erode

"Restorative" is a stronger word than "sustainable." We might not actually want to sustain some resources only at their present level but, instead, hope to restore the fertility of now-degraded soils and the quantity of water in important aquifers and to be able eventually to reverse the release of greenhouse gases through carbon absorption, reducing the CO2 in the atmosphere to a less dangerous level.
A restorative socioeconomic system uses its resources in ways that restore desirable qualities to resources that have lost them. Although this is most obvious in the case of environmental resources, there are cases of erosion of social capital resources such as trust and trustworthiness, when corruption comes to be taken for granted in government, business, or regulatory practices. Restoration can occur through better oversight, more visible public response (for example when white-collar criminals are given significant prison sentences) and—most difficult, but most effective—aroused public consciousness of values and application of these values in social interactions.

restorative socioeconomic systemml: a system in which successful efforts are made to restore social, environmental, manufactured or human capital that has deteriorated

Other examples of restorative systems are those that invest in restoring degraded portions of the built environment (bridges, communications infrastructure, etc.) or use inmate education or reentry programs to overcome the degrading impact of prison on young offenders.

Discussion Questions

1. Linda thinks a rich person is someone who earns a lot of money. Carlos thinks a rich person is someone who has a big house and owns lots of corporate shares and bonds. How would the distinction between stocks and flows lend clarity to their discussion?
2. Do you think that a cheap and safe substitute for the use of fossil fuels in cars will ever be found? What about a substitute for the ozone layer, an atmospheric layer that protects the earth from damaging radiation from the sun? Discuss.

3. DISTRIBUTION: WHO GETS WHAT, AND HOW?

It is important to distinguish between distribution in the form of exchange and distribution in the form of transfer—and also to understand the significance of each. In particular, macroeconomists are usually especially interested in who receives the incomes generated by production and the roles that the government plays in economic distribution. This section examines distribution among households residing in a single country, with the United States as the main example. The issue of distribution across countries is taken up in Chapter 17.

3.1 LABOR AND CAPITAL INCOMES

In exchange relations, as mentioned earlier, two actors trade with each other on mutually agreed-upon terms. One thing is delivered, and something else is expected in return, in a quid pm quo ("something for something") relation. In product and labor markets, exchanges typically involve a flow of goods or services from seller to buyer, in return for a monetary payment. The monetary payments, in turn, create flows of labor and capital income.
For example, when customers buy shoes from a shopping mall shoe store, the incomes created include the payment of a wage to the shoe salesperson, rent to the owners of the mall, and profits to the owners of the business. Labor income is compensation received by workers in the form of wages, salaries, and fringe benefits. Capital income includes rents, profits, and interest. ("Rent," as economists use the term, refers not just to rent for housing but to payments for the use of any capital asset, such as machinery or an e-mail list.)

labor income: payment to workers, including wages, salaries, and fringe benefits
capital income: rents, profits, and interest
rent: payments for the use of any capital asset

Controversy may arise over profits, rents, or interest if they are seen as excessive according to prevailing standards of fairness and equity. Most economists believe that there is a legitimate role for fair and reasonable profits and dividends, interest payments, and rents. But many economists also acknowledge that ill-gained or excessive capital incomes do not serve the social good.
Persistently high profits may be a sign that a company has excessive market power, indicating that a market is not competitive. Profits might not be a sign of economic health if the companies that earn them create significant negative social or environmental externalities in the process of obtaining them. Large capital incomes that arise from practices that violate the human dignity of workers are also socially harmful. When high capital incomes contribute to a concentration of wealth and power, political democracy itself may be threatened. Profits, interest, and rents are legitimate compensation, in this view, only if they are earned and used in ways that serve the common good as well as the good of the individual owner of capital.

3.2 TRANSFERS AND TAXES

While incomes from production are vital to supporting economic life, distribution by means of one-way transfer also has a very significant role to play in explaining distribution in contemporary economies. Transfers are flows of money, goods, or services for which nothing specific is given in return—or at least nothing specific at the time of the transfer. Transfers can take place between individuals or between the government and individuals; macroeconomists are particularly interested in transfers involving the government.
Transfers from the government are often made in response to people's dependency needs. Our individual basic needs during some portions of our lifetimes—as infants and children or when incapacitated by age or illness—cannot be satisfied through exchange, because we have little or nothing to give at those times. During childhood, we have no choice but to rely on others—in our families, communities, and countries—to transfer to us the care, shelter, food and education that we need to survive and flourish. We may need such transfers again later in life if we become unemployed or incapacitated by injury, ill health, or old age. Some government programs deliver specific goods and services directly as in-kind transfers, such as when public schools deliver education services, government programs provide free medical services, or international aid programs deliver food.

dependency needs: the need to receive care, shelter, or food from others when one is unable to provide these for oneself

In the United States, the government runs various cash transfer programs designed to help households achieve income security. Economists often distinguish between two major types.
In the case of social insurance programs, transfers are designed to help people if certain specific events occur. Because people cannot predict how long into old age they will live or whether unfortunate events will befall them, it is difficult for workers to know just how much to save for retirement or "a rainy day." By coming together to create a pool of social insurance, people can be ensured of basic provisioning even if their personal needs turn out to exceed their personal savings. At certain times in their lives, people contribute to these programs (through taxes), and at other times they receive benefits.

social insurance programs: programs designed to transfer income to recipients if and when certain events (like retirement or disability) occur

Social insurance programs in the United States include the federal Social Security and Medicare programs (mostly for retired persons) and programs at all levels of government that have been designed to help workers and their families should a worker suffer a disability or a period of unemployment. Eligibility for these programs generally depends on having a family member in the paid labor force for a period of time, but does not depend on the income or wealth of the recipient.
Means-tested programs, by contrast, are intended to help people who simply have insufficient resources. Unlike the beneficiaries of most social insurance programs, recipients of these programs do not need to have established a substantial history of market work in order to qualify for means-tested benefits, but they must demonstrate that their other means of support (income and resources) are very low. In recent years, access to means-tested programs in the United States has become increasingly restrictive, with many now limiting assistance to a certain number of months or requiring recipients to work a minimum number of hours per week to remain eligible.

means-tested programs: programs designed to transfer income to recipients based on need

Other funds flow toward the government. Federal income taxes are collected on wage income and on many forms of capital income. Most states also collect income taxes, and you are probably familiar with state sales taxes from your purchases in stores, or on-line.*
Many localities collect taxes on real estate, calculated as a percentage of the value of the property.
A proportional income tax applies the same percentage tax rate to all income levels. A regressive income tax applies a higher tax rate to poorer households. A progressive income tax system is one that taxes higher-income households more heavily, in percentage terms, than lower-income households. A progressive tax embodies the principle that those with high incomes should pay more in taxes because of their greater ability to pay without making a critical sacrifice. While a very poor household, for example, might have to give up eating some meals in order to pay even a small percentage of their income in taxes, a very rich household could pay a substantially larger percentage without much loss in well-being.

proportional income tax: a tax in which the same share of income is collected from households, irrespective of income level
regressive income tax: a tax in which a larger share of income is collected from poorer households
progressive income tax: a tax in which a larger share of income is collected from those with higher incomes

To give some examples, a 10 percent proportional tax would collect $1,000 from someone with an income of $10,000 per year and $100,000 from someone with an income of $1 million per year. If, instead, the system collected 10 percent from the poorer person and more than 10 percent from the richer, it would be progressive. If the richer person pays a smaller percentage, the tax is regressive. In the United States, the federal income tax is a progressive tax, although the rates paid by the highest earners have dropped over time.
Other taxes can also be evaluated based on their proportional, progressive, or regressive impacts. Sales taxes on basic consumer goods, for example, tend to be regressive, since poorer people spend a larger proportion of their income on such goods.

3.3 THE DISTRIBUTION OF INCOME

In the previous sections, we discussed the broad sources of household income. But how is income distributed across households? Where do you stand, in terms of outcomes of the distributional process? Is your family in the top, middle, or lower portion of the income distribution?
The U.S. Census Bureau has, for a number of decades, published information on the distribution of incomes in the United States, as shown for 2009 in Table 3.1. The Census Bureau measures incomes by summing up households' incomes from wages and salaries, rent, interest, and profits, and cash transfer payments received from government agencies.
To understand what this table means, imagine dividing up U.S. households into five equal-size groups (called "quintiles"), with the poorest households all in one group, then the next poorest in the next group, and so on. The last group to be formed has the richest one-fifth (or 20 percent) of households. The highest-income household in the poorest group would, according to Table 3.1, have an income just short of $20,453. This group, the poorest fifth, received 3.4 percent of the household income in the country. The richest fifth, those with incomes of $100,000 or more, received 50.7 percent—that is, half—of the income received in the United States.
Suppose we look at just the top 5 percent of households by income. Households in this top group have an annual income above $180,000. In 2010, this group—which comprises one-twentieth of the total population—received more than one-fifth of the total income in the country (21.7 percent). If we look at the top 1 percent, or the top .01 percent, we would see even more concentration of income.

3.4 MEASURING INEQUALITY

Economists frequently use a graph called a Lorenz curve—named after the statistician Max Lorenz, who first developed the technique—to describe the pattern of inequality within an economy. A Lorenz curve for household income in the United States, based on the data in Table 3.1, is shown in Figure 3.4. To construct this curve, you first draw the axes, as shown in the figure. The horizontal axis represents households, lined up from left to right in order of increasing income. The vertical axis measures the cumulative percentage of total income received by households up to a given income level.

Lorenz curve: a line used to portray an income distribution, constructed on a graph by having percentiles of households on the horizontal axis and the cumulative percentage of income on the vertical axis



Table 3.1   Distribution of U.S. Household Income in 2009





Group of households
Share of aggregate income (%)
Lower limit of each fifth ($)


Poorest fifth
  3.4
           0


Second fifth
  8.6
  20,453


Middle fifth
14.6
  38,550


Fourth fifth
23.2
  61,801


Richest fifth
50.3
100,000


Richest 5 percent
21.7
180,000


Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Historical Income Tables—Households, 2010.







Figure 3.4 Lorenz Curve for U.S. Household Income, 2009
A Lorenz curve is a way of graphically portraying an income distribution. For example, point C indicates that the poorest 60 percent of households received about 27 percent of total household income. If income were perfectly equally distributed, the Lorenz curve would be a straight line from the origin to point E.

In our example, the data shown in Table 3.1 are entered into the Lorenz curve in Figure 3.4 as follows. First, point A represents the fact that the lowest 20 percent of households received 3.4 percent of total income. Point B indicates that the lowest 40 percent of households received 3.4 percent + 8.6 percent = 12.0 percent of total income; point C indicates that the lowest 60 percent of households received 3.4 percent + 8.6 percent + 14.6 percent = 26.6 percent of total income; point D similarly shows the income of the lowest 80 percent. The Lorenz curve must start at the origin, at the lower left corner of the graph (because 0 percent of households have 0 percent of the total income) and end at point E in the upper right corner (because 100 percent of households have 100 percent of the total income).
While Figure 3.4 shows the Lorenz curve for the United States, Figure 3.5 shows one for Sweden, a country with low income inequality. Note how much closer the curve is to the diagonal in Sweden. If there were a hypothetical country where income was distributed equally among all households, the Lorenz curve would be the same as the diagonal line in Figure 3.4. This diagonal line thus represents a situation of maximum equality. At the other extreme, if one household received all the income, then the Lorenz curve would hug the horizontal axis until all but the very last household was accounted for and then shoot up to point F, creating a vertical line at the right-hand side. Such a line would represent a situation of maximum inequality.







Figure 3.5 Lorenz Curve for Sweden Household Income, 2009
The Lorenz curve for Sweden shows a much more equal income distribution, with the curve being much closer to the straight line indicating hypothetical perfect equality.

As noted, the more the curve sags, the greater is the extent of inequality in the income distribution. This observation led the economist Corrado Gini to introduce a numerical measure of inequality now known as the Gini ratio (or, as it is sometimes called, the "Gini coefficient"), defined as the ratio of the area between the Lorenz curve and the diagonal to the total area under the diagonal line. Referring to areas A and B in Figure 3.6, the Gini ratio is A/(A + B). Clearly, the Gini ratio can vary from 0 for perfect equality (in which everyone receives the same income) to 1 for complete inequality (in which one individual receives all the income in the society, and everyone else gets none). According to calculations by the U.S. Census Bureau, the Gini ratio for U.S. household income in 2010 was 0.47.

Gini ratio (or Gini coefficient): a measure of inequality, based on the Lorenz curve, that goes from 0 (perfect equality) to 1 (complete inequality). Greater inequality shows up as a larger area between the curved line and the diagonal.








Figure 3.6 The Gini Ratio, A/(A + B)
The Gini ratio (or Gini coefficient) sums up the income distribution in a single number: the ratio of the area A to the sum of the areas A and B. If income were perfectly equally distributed, the Gini ratio would be equal to 0.

The Gini coefficient for the U.S. is higher than the values for all other major industrialized countries, signifying that the United States has a greater degree of income inequality. The Gini coefficient is 0.23 for Sweden, 0.32 for Canada, 0.34 for the United Kingdom, and 0.27 for Germany. Countries with a more unequal distribution of income than the United States tend to be lower-income or less industrialized countries, such as South Africa (0.65), Colombia (0.56), and Brazil (0. 52).
Perhaps, you might object, something is wrong with the measure of income we are using. Shouldn't the effect of tax and transfer programs be more fully included? It is true that government tax and transfer policies—and especially the transfer side—have significant effects on the U.S. household income distribution. Even with the most thorough accounting for transfer aid to low-income households, however, the income of the top fifth of the population is still roughly ten times that of the bottom fifth.
Some important goods and services are obtained, of course, without the use of cash income. Many families prefer to produce at least some services (such as child care and cooking) for themselves. In addition, many of the things that we enjoy—such as pleasant parks, safe roads, and clean air—add to our well-being without requiring payments out of our cash income. If we were to look at the distribution of well-being rather than just the distribution of income, we would need to take account of these non-income sources of important goods and services. Some of these goods may contribute to lessening inequality—for example, everyone, rich or poor, can enjoy a public park or use a public library.
Evidence suggests, however, that at least in some cases the distribution of such nonpurchased goods may accentuate, rather than lessen, measures of inequality. Proponents of "environmental justice," for example, point out that polluting industries and toxic waste disposal sites tend to be disproportionately located near poor and minority communities. Some broader efforts to assess well-being that go beyond money incomes and GDP are described in Chapter 6.

3.5 INCOME INEQUALITY OVER TIME

The U.S. household income distribution has been recorded every year since 1967. A similar but not quite identical measure, the family income distribution, has been recorded since 1947. These data show that inequality was gradually decreasing—that is, income was becoming more equally distributed—until 1968. In that year, the Gini ratio for household income was 0.388, the lowest (most equal) on record in the United States. Since 1968 the Gini ratio has increased almost every year.
Figure 3.7 shows what has happened in recent decades at the very top and the very bottom of the income distribution. The general trend has been for a larger share of income to go to the richest 5 percent of households (from about 16 percent in 1968 to about 22 percent in 2010), while the share going to the bottom quintile (and, not shown in this figure, the middle quintiles, too) has gradually fallen. As noted in the wake of the Occupy Wall Street movement, with proclamations about "the 99 percent," the trends are even more dramatic when we look at income going to the top 1 percent of households in the United States (see Box 3.2). Why has income inequality increased in the United States over the last four decades?







Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Historical Income Tables—Households, 2010.
Figure 3.7 Income Shares of the Richest and Poorest Households, 1968-2010
Inequality in the United States has been increasing since 1968. The share of the richest 5 percent of households in aggregate income rose from about 16 percent to about 22 percent, while the share of the poorest 20 percent of the population fell from about 4.2 percent to about 3.2 percent.

One point on which economists agree is that some of the increase in inequality has been due to changing demographic characteristics of the U.S. population. Increases in the proportion of the population that is elderly, and increases in single parenthood, have tended to drive down incomes at the low end. People too old to work and people in single-parent households (where paid work and caring activities compete for a limited resource—the adult's time) often lack economic resources. As of 2011, about 22 percent of U.S. children lived in poor families. (A household is defined as poor if its income falls below a poverty threshold based on its family size. In 2011, the poverty line for a family of four was $23,021.) Meanwhile, the increasing number of women entering the labor force has helped boost the income of married-couple households at the top.
Demographic change, however, is only part of the story. Economists continue to debate the relative importance of at least four other explanations. (Note that all these explanations propose reasons why the poor have become poorer, or more people have fallen into poverty, while the last one also addresses why the rich have gotten richer.)


BOX 3.2 "WE ARE THE 99 PERCENT"
The slogan of the "Occupy Wall Street" movement, which featured protests in more than 250 locations across the United States, was "We are the 99 percent." This slogan refers to economic inequality between the top 1 percent and the rest of Americans. But is it really accurate to draw a distinction between the top 1 percent and everyone else?
We can compare data on the income growth of the top 1 percent relative to other income groups. According to analysis by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, from 1 979 to 2007 (prior to the financial crisis), the after-tax incomes of the bottom 80 percent increased about 40 percent in real terms. Moving up the income ladder, the incomes of the next 1 5 percent increased at a greater rate—by about 60 percent. Those in the next 4 percent, or the top 5 percent except for the top 1 percent, did even better, with income nearly doubling. However, the incomes of those in the top 1 percent increased by more than 300 percent. These data suggest that the top 1 percent has done significantly better than all other income groups, even those only slightly lower on the income ladder.
However, the top 1 percent was hit the hardest by the financial crisis. While the incomes of all economic groups fell during the Great Recession, the after-tax incomes of the top 1 percent fell by the greatest percentage—about 37 percent between 2007 and 2009. The average income in the top 1 percent fell from more than $1.3 million to less than $900,000. Meanwhile, the incomes of those in the middle 20 percent fell from $58,000 to $57,000.
Perhaps the greatest difference between the top 1 percent and everyone else is what has occurred since the economy began to recover. The incomes of the top 1 percent have started to rise again, but the incomes of the bottom 99 percent have stayed essentially unchanged. According to analysis by economist Emmanuel Saez, 93 percent of all income growth in the United States in 2010 went to the top 1 percent. These results show that the United States has gone through two recoveries. The 1.2 million households whose incomes put them in the top 1 percent of the United States saw their earnings increase 5.5 percent [in 2011], according to estimates released by the U.S. Census Bureau. Earnings fell 1.7 percent for the 96 million households in the bottom 80 percent—those that made less than $1 01,583.
Sources: Congressional Budget Office, "The Distribution of Household Income and Federal Taxes, 2008 and 2009," July 10, 2012; Annie Lowrey, "Incomes Flat In Recovery, But Not for the 1 percent," New York Times, February 16, 2013; Peter Robison, "Top 1 Percent Got 93 Percent of Income Growth as Rich-Poor Gap Widened," Bloomberg.com, October 2, 2012.


First, international trade has been increasing. Competition from imports has eliminated many industrial jobs that formerly fell in the middle of the U.S. income distribution. If middle-income industrial jobs are replaced by lower-income service and retail jobs, inequality will increase.
Second, new technologies such as computers and biotechnology have become more important, increasing the income of skilled workers who understand and use the new techniques and equipment, while leaving behind the less-skilled workers who remain in low-technology occupations, and eliminating many low-skilled jobs entirely.
Third, unions have grown weaker and government policy has become markedly less supportive of unions and low-wage workers.
Finally, the compensation given to top executives and board members of large corporations has skyrocketed. According to a study by the Economic Policy Institute, in 1965 chief executive officers (CEOs) of large U.S. corporations earned an average of 20 times the amount earned by the average hourly worker. In 1995, they earned 122 times as much. In 2012, they made 273 times as much.1
The last two issues are not simply economic. They also relate to political shifts that have increasingly eroded regulatory support for unions, as well as the aspect of culture that could be described as "what people admire." During the last quarter of the twentieth century, and into the twenty-first, cultural attitudes shifted toward admiring "winners" who drew huge salaries and used their wealth in conspicuous consumption. This shift pushed into the background other American values, of thrift, hard work, and fairness—values that even began to seem old-fashioned.
The shift in values included political changes that gave increasing power to people and institutions (most notably corporations) representing large concentrations of wealth. Both the values and the power relations of the early twenty-first century have often been compared to the situation in the 1920s. The comparison became more evident as the bursting of the financial and housing bubbles in 2008 created a close parallel to the onset of the Great Depression at the end of the 1920s. These cultural and political issues relate closely to the next topic—the distribution of wealth (as distinct from the distribution of income).

3.6 WEALTH INEQUALITY

The distribution of wealth (what people own in assets—a "stock") tends to be much more unequal than the distribution of income (what people receive over a time period—a "flow"). Most people own relatively little wealth, relying mainly on labor income or government, nonprofit, or family transfers to support their expenditures. It is possible to have negative wealth. This happens when the value of a person's debts (such as for a car, house, or credit cards) is greater than the value of her assets. For people in the middle class, the equity that they have in their house is often their most significant asset. By contrast, those who do own substantial physical and financial wealth are generally in a position to put much of it into assets that increase in value over time or yield flows of capital income—which can in turn be invested in the acquisition of still more assets.
The distribution of wealth is, however, less frequently and less systematically studied than the distribution of money income. In part, this is because wealth can be hard to measure. Much wealth is held in the form of unrealized capital gains. A household receives a capital gain if it sells an appreciated asset, such as shares in a company, land, or antiques, for more than the price at which it purchased the asset. An asset can appreciate in value for a long time before it is actually sold. No one, however, will know exactly how much such an asset has really gained or lost in value until the owner actually does sell it, thus "realizing"—turning into actual dollars—the capital gain. Another reason it is harder to get information on wealth is that although the government requires people to report their annual income from wages and many investments for tax purposes, it does not require a comprehensive report of asset holdings.

capital gain: an increase in the value of an asset over time

The most recent figures for wealth distribution in the United States are from 2000, and they indicate that the Gini ratio for the distribution of wealth in the United States was .80, indicating much more inequality than is found in the distribution of income.2 In 1998 the top 1 percent of U.S. households owned about 38 percent of all household assets, and the top 10 percent owned about 71 percent, while the bottom 40 percent owned only 0.2 percent.3

Discussion Questions

1. In your own life so far, how big a role has exchange played in giving you what you need to live? (That is, to what extent have you received assets, goods, or services because of something specific that you have traded in return?) How big a role has transfer played? Do you expect this to change in the coming years?
2. What do you think is the minimum level of income that an individual, or a small family, would need to live reasonably well in your community? (Think about the rent or mortgage on a one- or two-bedroom residence, etc.) What does this probably mean about where the average level of income in your community fits into the U.S. income distribution shown in Table 3.1?

4. THE THREE SPHERES OF ECONOMIC ACTIVITY

Economic activity takes place in three major spheres, which we designate here as the core, public-purpose, and business spheres. Economists often refer to these groups as household, government, and business spheres. In this text, however, we use the term "core" instead of "households," in order to emphasize the importance of communities, in addition to households, in the "core" activities described below. (Think of the maxim "It takes a village to raise a child.") Instead of "government," we use the term "public purpose" to include both government and nongovernmental nonprofit organizations whose activities are of growing importance in modern societies. We now explore the roles of the core, public-purpose, and business spheres.

4.1 THE CORE SPHERE

Long before the invention of money, organized markets, and systems of government, human societies organized themselves along lines of kinship and community to undertake the economic activities essential to maintaining and improving the conditions for human life. The core sphere is made up of household, family, and community institutions that organize resource management, production, distribution, and consumption, usually on a small scale, and largely without the use of money.

core sphere: households, families, and communities

One distinguishing characteristic of the core sphere is how work activities are rewarded; instead of monetary rewards, work tends to be rewarded directly by what it produces. For example, work in a home garden is rewarded with tomatoes, and the reward from good child care is a happy and healthy child. People may volunteer their services to their community because they recognize that living in a healthy community is important. People play cards, soccer, or music together because they find these activities intrinsically enjoyable. Another distinguishing characteristic is that core sphere activities tend to be organized to respond to immediately perceived needs, rather than, for example, to the ability to pay.
The core economy is the central location of many important economic activities that sustain human life. These include:
Bearing and raising children. Parents—even when assisted by family planning services, child-care centers, public schools, extended family, and the like—still carry the primary responsibility for fertility decisions and for caring for and nurturing children. Bearing and raising a child is the ultimate "human capital" activity—populating the society for the future. Younger children need direct feeding, dressing, bathing, holding, and responsive interaction with caring adults. Older children need less hands-on care but still need supervision and help in learning many physical, mental, and emotional skills. Much of the work of childrearing also involves the building up of "social capital"—helping children learn to function in larger communities. Community supports like playgroups and carpools can also assist in the productive activities of childrearing work.
Decisions regarding investment in skills and education. Other human capital decisions are also often made on a household basis. How long children stay in school or whether an adult goes for further education or training is often a household decision.
Care of the sick, elderly, or otherwise needy. In countries like the United States, hospitals, nursing homes, mental health clinics, and other institutions exist for people who are acutely ill or incapacitated. However, families, friends, and neighbors remain the first source of support for people with dependency needs. People who are temporarily mildly ill, recovering from surgery, or upset over life events are cared for primarily by friends and family. People with chronic mental or physical health problems may require considerable support services from their families and other people in their communities, perhaps for decades.
The final stage of production of many goods and services. Pasta cannot be eaten until it is cooked. A vacuum cleaner provides no services until someone plugs it in and pushes it around. Grass seed does nothing until someone plants it. Household production activities such as cooking, cleaning, and house and yard maintenance convert many goods and services (often bought on markets) into forms suitable for final use. These production processes generally involve the use of labor time, materials, and the services of household capital goods (such as stoves and lawn mowers). As we will see in Chapters 5 and 6, national accounting frameworks have been slow to recognize the importance of household production.
The organization of savings and investment. Households decide how much of their cash income to allocate to saving. The next decision is how to allocate their financial savings—whether to hold them in retirement funds, real estate, money market funds, and so on. While households also save through more structured (and less voluntary) channels such as pension plans, the savings decisions of individual households are of much interest to macroeconomists. Family and friends also frequently use savings to make gifts or loans among themselves—for example, to finance food and rent in times of need or to help a friend or relative to acquire the funds for the down payment on a house or to start a business.
The allocation of consumption spending. Households are the final decision makers about whether to buy denim pants or DVDs, sports cars or fuel-efficient hybrids. As we will see, the level and composition of consumption in an economy as a whole plays an important role in determining macroeconomic living standards, stability, and sustainability.
Decisions regarding the supply of labor services. Decisions to work in the labor market, to become self-employed, or to engage in household production are often made not simply by individuals but by households as part of a joint plan for family support.
The organization of the use of leisure time. In addition to putting in work time in core sphere production, people enjoy "play" time with their family, friends, and neighbors. Vacations and visits are very often planned on a family basis, and activities of recreation and relaxation are largely organized around core sphere networks of family and community. Having leisure time, and the goods and services to enjoy it with friends and family, is a substantial component of the standard of living.
When the core sphere is working effectively to support the quality of life, important goods and services are provided to many, many people, even if the scale of production in each specific case is quite small. Because most core sphere activities involve face-to-face interaction, the core sphere is the primary location in which the ability to form good social relations is developed.
Of course, core spheres can also work badly or inadequately. For example, responsibilities for children or elderly and ill people may be inequitably assigned between women and men. Such responsibilities may also overwhelm the personal resources of impoverished families and communities. One extreme example is the situation of parents, grandparents, or communities in sub-Saharan Africa trying to care for children orphaned by HIV/AIDS or by war. There are a huge number of these children, and the core sphere often lacks adequate resources to feed and clothe the children and their caregivers, let alone providing for education and physical safety. In richer locations, too, there are limits to what can be accomplished within small-scale, largely informal networks of personal relations. For many economic goals, more formal and larger-scale organizations are also needed.

4.2 THE PUBLIC-PURPOSE SPHERE

The public-purpose sphere includes governments and their agencies, as well as nonprofit organizations such as charities and professional associations, and international institutions such as the World Bank and the United Nations.

public-purpose sphere: governments and other local, national, and international organizations established for a public purpose beyond individual or family self-interest and not operating with the goal of making a profit

The distinguishing characteristic of these institutions is that they exist for an explicit purpose related to "the public good"—that is, the common good of some group larger than a household or informal community. Definitions of "the public good," however, may vary widely and may even contradict one another. Although on the microeconomic scale these organizations can include nonprofit groups assembled for bowling, singing, child care, or sharing resources, those of most concern to macroeconomics are charged with purposes such as defending a country's borders, relieving poverty, providing formal health care and education, protecting the natural environment, and stabilizing global financial markets.
Organizations in the public-purpose sphere tend to be larger and more formally structured than those in the core sphere and are often more monetized. Work is often motivated by a mixture of pay and volunteerism. Jobs in nonprofit organizations often pay less than jobs of equivalent skill and responsibility in the business sphere. It is sometimes said that government employees are in "public service."
We can break down the economic functions of public-purpose organizations into two general categories: regulation, in which the public-purpose organization sets rules or standards for the actions of other economic entities, and direct provision, in which a public-purpose organization itself takes on economic activities.
Regulation. One very basic function of public-purpose organizations is to regulate economic activities—that is, to set the standards and "rules of the game" by which other economic actors "play." Public-purpose organizations that promote, legislate, or enforce property rights, rules about contracts or disclosure of information, laws, or norms of obligation; promulgate standards; or perform other coordinating functions create the legal and social infrastructure for economic activity.

regulation: setting standards or laws to govern behavior

Many people think of "regulation" entirely in terms of "government regulation," and it is true that the government sets many rules and standards with which other economic actors are legally obligated to comply. Government regulation of financial and securities markets, for example, plays an important role in macroeconomics. However, many nonprofit groups participate in regulating economic activity, particularly in the area of standard setting.
For example, chances are that you have taken a standardized exam like the AP, SAT I or II, GRE, GMAT, or TOEFL. These are all developed and administered by the Educational Testing Service, which is a large private nonprofit organization. Although we might not commonly think of such privately provided standards as "regulation," the standards implicit in these exams do, in fact, influence what is taught by institutions, if they wish their students to be well prepared for taking them. Public-purpose organizations often provide the legal, social, and informational infrastructure that both support and constrain other actors in their economic activity.
Direct Provision. Direct public provision is often used to supply goods or services that cannot be supplied equitably or efficiently by private provision. Some things are provided by the public-purpose sphere because, as a society, we believe that everyone should have access to them, regardless of the kind of family or community in which they were born and regardless of their ability to pay. Public schooling from kindergarten through high school is a primary example. In large U.S. cities, public hospitals (whether run by government or by a nonprofit group) provide necessary emergency medical care to the poor and uninsured.
Compared to Canada and most of Europe, the United States puts fewer resources into these activities. Canada and most European countries have more extensive public health systems, which provide widely accessible nonemergency care as well. France and the Canadian province of Quebec provide highly subsidized care and education for prekindergarten children.
Nonprofit organizations also often offer services related to education, health care, and welfare. Both governments and private charities often transfer income to people in need. Other goods and services are provided by public-purpose organizations because they are of a type that is called a "public good," as discussed in Chapter 2. Sometimes, it is more efficient for a public-purpose organization to provide a good or service because of the presence of significant externalities, transaction costs, market power, or advantages to centralized information (as also discussed in Chapter 2).
Although in some instances public-purpose organizations offer goods and services for sale, much as businesses do, this is generally not their primary focus. Public-purpose organizations usually raise much of the money that they need to function by soliciting (or, in the case of governments, requiring) monetary contributions in the form of taxes, donations, or membership fees.
The interplay of governments and nonprofits in providing and regulating services can be quite complex. For example, in the United States the government's Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulates the exchange of securities such as stocks and bonds. The SEC accepts what are called Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) as the authoritative standard for financial reporting. These principles are actually written, however, by the nonprofit Financial Accounting Standards Board.
The main strength of public-purpose institutions is that (like core institutions) they can provide goods and services of high intrinsic value, but (unlike core institutions) they are big enough, or sufficiently well-organized, to take on jobs that require broader social coordination. Unlike in the business sphere, the provision of goods and services itself, and not the financial results of these activities, remains the primary intended focus of public-purpose organizations.
The public-purpose sphere has its weaknesses, of course. Institutions in the public-purpose sphere are sometimes accused of being rigid, slow to adapt, and inefficient because of excessive regulation and a bloated bureaucracy. Organizations can lose sight of the intrinsic, common-good goal of providing "public service" and become more interested in increasing their own organizational budget. Because public-purpose organizations are commonly supported by taxes or donations that are often not tightly linked to the quality of their services, they may not have financial incentives to improve the quality of what they provide. Many current debates about reforms in governments and nonprofits concern how incentives for efficiency can be improved without eroding these organizations' orientation toward providing goods and services of high intrinsic value.

4.3 THE BUSINESS SPHERE

The U.S. government defines businesses as "entities that produce goods and services for sale at a price intended at least to approximate the costs of production."4 The business sphere is made up of such firms. A business firm is expected to look for opportunities to buy and manage resources in such a way that, after the product is sold, the owners of the firm will earn profits.

business sphere: firms that produce goods and services for profitable sale

Whereas the core sphere responds to its members' direct needs, and the public-purpose sphere responds to its constituents, business firms are responsive to demands for goods and services, as expressed through markets by people who can afford to buy the firms' products.
Private for-profit enterprises in the United States and many other countries fall into four main legal forms: proprietorships, partnerships, corporations, and cooperatives. Proprietorships are businesses owned by single individuals or families. Partnerships are owned by a group of two or more individuals. Corporations are business firms that, through a process of becoming chartered by a state or federal government, attain a legal existence separate from the individuals or organizations who own it. Individual owners can come and go, but the corporation remains. If the corporation goes bankrupt and is forced to dissolve, the owners of a corporation cannot lose more than their investment. On the other hand, there is no legal limit to the profit they can make if the corporation is successful. This asymmetry, along with its other legal advantages, makes the corporation the preferred structure for major business activities in most countries.
Corporations that issue stock are governed by shareholders according to the principle of "one share, one vote." In principle, shareholders elect a board of directors, who in turn hire professional managers to run the day-to-day operations of the corporation. (In fact, shareholders often lack the power to propose directors other than those put forward by the existing board or management. There are ongoing struggles about how or whether to increase the investors' control in this respect.) Cooperatives, in contrast to corporations, cannot issue stock and are governed by a different ownership principle. Each member of the cooperative, no matter what his or her position, has one and only one vote. In practice, cooperatives are owned by one of three groups: their workers, their suppliers, or their consumers.
A strength of business organization is that, because businesses have at least one clear goal of making profit, they can operate with superior efficiency. A profit orientation drives firms to choose the most valuable outputs to produce and to produce them at the least possible cost. The profit motivation also encourages innovation: People are more motivated to come up with clever new ideas when they know that they may reap financial rewards. We all benefit, in terms of our material standard of living, from business efficiency and innovations that bring us improved products at lower prices.
The relative weakness of the business sphere comes from the fact that business interests may or may not coincide with overall social well-being. Firms may act to enhance social well-being—for example, by making decisions that consider the full needs of their customers and their workers and that take into account externalities, including those that affect the natural environment. They may be guided in these directions by the goodwill of their owners and managers, by pressure from their customers or workers, or by government regulation.
Production for market exchange, however, has no built-in correction for market externalities. And sometimes "innovation" can take a perverse form. A prime example is the creation of new forms of mortgage "derivatives"—financial instruments based on often-unreliable home mortgages—that were widely traded by investment banks and that were instrumental in causing the financial crisis of 2007-8 (discussed further in Chapter 15). In fields such as health care and education, where it can be difficult to define clear goals, businesses may increase profits by "innovatively" cutting comers on the less measurable and less-often-marketed aspects of quality of life.

4.4 A COMPARATIVE NOTE: LESS INDUSTRIALIZED ECONOMIES

Many less industrialized economies have large informal spheres of small market enterprises operating outside government oversight and regulation. Although this sphere could be classified as "business" because it involves private production for sale, it is also similar to the "core sphere" in that the activities are very small in scale and often depend on family and community connections. Like the core sphere, informal business activities are often ignored in government-compiled accounts.

informal sphere: made up of businesses operating outside government oversight and regulation. In less industrialized countries, it may constitute the majority of economic activity

In the United States, street-level illegal drug trade and housecleaning services provided "off the books" are two examples of the "informal" sphere. In less industrialized countries, however, it is sometimes the case that most people are employed in small-scale agriculture, trade, and services that are not included in formal national accounts.
If we were focusing mainly on less developed countries, it would be necessary to pay a great deal more attention to the complicating reality of "informal" economic activity and perhaps to discuss it as a fourth sphere. For industrialized economies, however, we can deal with this issue by simply noting, as we have just done, that it could legitimately be classified as occurring within either the business sphere or the core sphere, leaving open the question as to which of these classifications is more appropriate.

4.5 PUTTING ECONOMIC ACTIVITY IN CONTEXT

The four essential economic activities occur as a result of interactions within and between the three spheres. As mentioned earlier, these activities include market interactions, as well as nonmarket interactions such as household production and regulation. The title of this book —Macroeconomics in Context—reminds us that it is important to realize that all economic activity occurs within a broader social and environmental context. This is illustrated in Figure 3.8.







Figure 3.8 Social and Environmental Contexts of Economic Activity
Businesses (both foreign and domestic), households and communities (the core sphere) and public-purpose institutions (governments and nonprofit organizations) are all involved in productive activities in the economy. Economies are, in turn, embedded in a context of larger social institutions and the natural (physical) environment.

The fundamental process that undergirds economic activity is an ecological one: Economic activity relies upon natural resources for material inputs into all production, transforming them into products for human use. Economic activity invariably generates pollution and waste materials. These wastes may, in turn, affect the flow of natural inputs that are available for future inputs. For example, if we overburden a river with toxic chemicals, the water may not be usable in the future for drinking water supplies.
The social context of economic activity includes politics, culture, ethics, and other human motivations, as well as institutions and history. This social context determines what constitutes acceptable economic activity. For example, we do not allow legal markets for human organs or illicit drugs. It also determines the relative weight that a society attaches to the different macroeconomic goals discussed in Chapter 1, such as how to assess a potential tradeoff between improving material living standards and ecological sustainability.
A useful understanding of economics must take into account the interactions between the economy and its contexts, showing how the economy is dependent on these contexts, and how these environmental and social spheres are in turn affected by the economy.
In Chapter 4, we focus specifically on the workings of the market economy, but as we proceed through the text, we will return to the issues of the relationship between the economy and its social and environmental contexts.

Discussion Questions

1. Education is sometimes provided within the core sphere (at-home preschool activities and home schooling), often provided by the public-purpose sphere (public and nonprofit schools), and sometimes provided by for-profit firms (including some "charter schools" or firms offering specific training programs). Can you think of some possible advantages and disadvantages of each type of provision?
2. Make a list of several things from which, over the past few days, you have eaten, drunk, been entertained by, been transported by, been sheltered by, or received other services. (For example, "dinner at Gina's," "my apartment," or "the health clinic.") Then, using the definitions above, determine which of the three spheres provided each item.


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. What are the four essential economic activities?
  2. What five types of capital contribute to productivity? Describe them.
  3. How does economists' use of the term "capital" differ from common use?
  4. What do economists mean by "investment"?
  5. Describe the economic activity of production.
  6. What are the two main forms that the activity of distribution takes? Describe.
  7. Describe the relationship between consumption and saving.
  8. Describe the difference between a stock and a flow, giving examples.
  9. Explain the difference between gross and net investment.
10. What is the difference between renewable and nonrenewable resources?
11. What is a sustainable socioeconomic system? What is the difference between sustaining and restoring a system?
12. What are the two major forms of income received in exchange?
13. What is the main reason for transfer programs?
14. What is the difference between means-tested and social insurance programs?
15. Describe progressive, proportional, and regressive taxation.
16. What share of aggregate income does each quintile of households receive?
17. What is a Lorenz curve? What does it measure?
18. What is the Gini ratio? What does a higher value of the ratio signify?
19. Has income inequality in the United States decreased or increased over recent decades? What are some of the reasons?
20. Is wealth more or less equally distributed than income? Why?
21. What are the three spheres of economic activity?
22. What are some major characteristics and functions of the core sphere?
23. What are some major characteristics and functions of the public-purpose sphere?
24. What are some major characteristics, and strengths and weaknesses, of the business sphere?

EXERCISES
  1. Which of the following are flows? Which are stocks? If a flow, which of the five major kind(s) of capital does it increase or decrease? If a stock, what kind of capital is it?
a. The fish in a lake
b. The output of a factory during a year
c. The income that you receive in a month
d. The reputation of a business among its customers
e. The assets of a bank
f. The equipment in a factory
g. A process of diplomatic negotiations
h. The discussion in an economics class
  2. Which of the following are examples of exchange? Of transfer?
a. De Beers mining company sells diamonds to wholesalers
b. De Beers mining company takes diamonds from the mines
c. You pay interest on credit card balances
d. Your bank donates posters for a local community fair
  3. Statistics from the government of Thailand describe the household income distribution in that country, for 2009, as follows:





Group of households
Share of aggregate income (%)


Poorest fifth
  5.5


Second fifth
  8.8


Middle fifth
13.2


Fourth fifth
21.5


Richest fifth
51.0


Source: National Statistics Office Thailand, "Household Socio-Economic Survey," table 9, w­w­w­.n­s­o­.g­o­.t­h­/­e­n­g­/­s­t­a­t­/­s­o­c­i­o­/­s­o­c­t­a­b­6­.h­t­m­.

a. Create a carefully labeled Lorenz curve describing this distribution. (Be precise about the labels on the vertical axis.) You will need to add the shares of the poorest fifth and second fifth to get the lowest 40%, and so forth.
b. Compare this distribution to the distribution in the United States.
  4. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B:








Column A

Column B


a.
An important function of the core sphere
  1.
Fish in the ocean


b.
Social capital
  2.
Regulation


c.
Progressive taxation
  3.
A very unequal income distribution


d.
A nonrenewable natural resource
  4.
Taxation that collects proportionately more from the poor


e.
Capital gain
  5.
What you are adding in the way of new computers to your office, minus what has become obsolete


f.
Quintile
  6.
A gift of food


g.
An important function of the public purpose sphere
  7.
A house that you own increases in value over time


h.
Net investment
  8.
A shared language within a community


i.
Regressive taxation
  9.
A very equal income distribution


j.
A Gini ratio close to 1
10.
Raising children


k.
A renewable natural resource
11.
A group containing 20 percent of the total


l.
Manufactured capital
12.
Taxation that collects proportionately more from the rich


m.
In-kind transfer
13.
A factory building


n.
A Gini ratio close to 0
14.
Iron ore


  5. Suppose that a tax system is set up as follows: Everyone gets to subtract $3,000 from their income and then pays the government 20 percent of the rest. Is this tax proportional, progressive, or regressive? Show yourreasoning. (Hint: calculate what households with incomes of $10,000 per year, $50,000 per year, and $100,000 per year would pay in taxes and what percentage of their total income their taxes represent.)
  6. How does inequality vary across countries? Choose two countries not mentioned in the text and write a paragraph comparing their performance on the Gini ratio and according to income share by quintile. Which country seems to have a more unequal distribution of income? For data, consult the United Nations Development Program's Human Development Report (available at w­w­w­.u­n­d­p­.o­r­g­). Or, if your library subscribes, consult the World Development Indicators Online database. Note which data source you used.

NOTES

1. Lawrence Mishel and Natalie Sabadish, "CEO Pay in 2012 Was Extraordinarily High Relative to Typical Workers and Other High Earners," Economic Policy Institute Report, 2013. w­w­w­.e­p­i­.o­r­g­.
2. James B. Davies, Susanna Sandstrom, Anthony Shorrocks, and Edward N. Wolff, The World Distribution of Household Wealth. United Nations University World Institute for Development Economics Research (UNU-WIDER), February 2008.
3. Edward N. Wolff, "Recent Trends in Wealth Ownership, 1983-1998," Jerome Levy Economics Institute Working Paper No. 300, Annandale-on-Hudson, NY, May 2000.
4. U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, "A Guide to the NIPAs," p. M-20, w­w­w­.b­e­a­.d­o­c­.g­o­v­/­b­e­a­/­a­n­/­n­i­p­a­g­u­i­d­.p­d­f­ (February 17, 2002).


*This effect was noted in our discussion of production possibilities in Chapter 2.
*Some on-line transactions are free of sales tax, but recently there have been increasing efforts to apply state sales taxes to on-line sales.













 
 
 




4
Supply and Demand




 
 

The on-line auction site eBay has more than 122 million active users. Every second, $2,390 worth of products—recreational vehicles, high-definition televisions, commemorative coins, T-shirts, condominiums, you name it—are traded. From its beginnings in the United States in 1995, eBay has grown into a global marketing service for individuals and small businesses. Perhaps you have bought or sold something on eBay. If you have, then you have had direct experience with a real-world market very similar, in some ways, to the sort of idealized market that forms the basis for economists' theory of supply and demand.

1. MARKETS AND MACROECONOMICS

As we discussed in Chapter 2, markets are places where individuals, businesses, and other organizations engage in buying and selling. The economic theory of supply and demand is an exceptionally useful example of a "thought experiment" that seeks to describe, in abstract terms, how people make their decisions about buying and selling.
The theory provides a simple, elegant picture of how potential sellers decide how much of a good or service to offer to sell (supply) on a market, and how potential buyers decide how much to purchase (demand). The theory then goes on to show how a well-functioning market coordinates these decisions to determine price and quantity traded.
In the real world, markets sometimes work much as the theory predicts; at other times, there are other forces that push decisions, and prices, away from the result predicted in the theory. When real-world corresponds closely to the theory, the result is that "the market"—not any particular individual agent or bureaucracy—determines the number of units of a good or service that are actually sold on a market, and the price at which the units sell.

1.1 CLASSICAL AND KEYNESIAN VIEWS OF MARKETS

The direct study of actual markets is more of a microeconomic topic than a macroeconomic one, as we defined these terms in Chapter 1. One reason that we particularly need to introduce (or review, for those of you who have taken microeconomics) the model of supply and demand here is that understanding this model is crucial for understanding the classical approach to macroeconomics. Classical macroeconomists tend to believe that markets generally function smoothly, as portrayed in this model—at least as long as governments do not interfere.
Keynesian economists, by contrast, tend to believe that market economies need more help from government policies. They agree that the model of supply and demand has an important role to play in economics, but claim that understanding the workings of the macroeconomy requires that one go beyond this model, for two reasons. First, real-world markets may deviate in important ways from the one portrayed in the abstract model. Second, explaining economic phenomena at the national level may require a different set of theoretical tools from those designed for analyzing individual markets for particular goods.
The first four sections of this chapter lay out the basic supply and demand model. In the last section, we return to the question of how this model sometimes may be, and sometimes may not be, helpful in understanding macroeconomics.

1.2 MARKET COMPETITIVENESS

The sort of market imagined in the classical world has two noteworthy characteristics. It is envisioned as:
Perfectly competitive. In a perfectly competitive market, there are many buyers and sellers of a good, all units of the good are identical, anyone can enter or leave the market at will, and everyone has perfect information.

perfectly competitive market: a market in which there are many buyers and sellers, all units of the good are identical, and there is free entry and exit and perfect information

Self-correcting. In a market that is self-correcting, imbalances between buyers and sellers do not persist because the market naturally adjusts without any outside influence (e.g., government).

self-correcting market: a market that automatically adjusts to any imbalances between sellers (supply) and buyers (demand)

In the real world, no market is perfectly competitive in the literal sense (although some are far more competitive than others), and although markets do tend to be self-correcting, in many cases, imbalances persist for some time. Why, then, do we make such assumptions about markets? The real world, as we know, is complex, and models are, by their nature, simplifications of this reality. Just as economists frequently invoke the ceteris paribus (meaning "all else equal") condition even though we know that it can never be so, the general sense in modeling is that it is acceptable to use assumptions that are not literally true as long as they can tell us something useful about reality.
eBay, for example, is a good real-world example of a market in which there are many buyers and sellers. Other kinds of markets are less perfectly competitive. If you want to buy the Microsoft Windows operating system, for example, the sole ultimate supplier is Microsoft. Microsoft's dominance means that the market for computer operating systems is far from perfectly competitive.
The market for airline tickets illustrates the idea of self-correction. When demand for flights rises sharply during the peak season, it creates a temporary shortage that is very quickly eliminated by increased prices. Labor markets often behave differently. When business demand for labor diminishes, wages tend not to fall accordingly—instead, some workers are laid off.
Many of the controversies in macroeconomics come down to a question of the degree to which real-world markets—and, in particular, real-world labor markets and financial markets—are similar to, or differ in important ways from, the perfectly competitive and self-correcting markets assumed in basic market theory.

Discussion Questions

1. Have you ever traded on eBay or a similar Internet auction site? If you have, describe to your classmates how it works.
2. Think about a case recently in which you exchanged money for a good or service. Was that market "perfectly competitive"?

2. THE THEORY OF SUPPLY

We start with an example: a simplified market for coffee, the type that people carry in a disposable cup. Let us assume, to start with, that all cups of coffee sold in the market are identical. We will also assume that the coffee sellers are all well informed and interested primarily in their potential monetary gain.
Each seller has a slightly different idea of what is an acceptable price, based on his/her costs of production and desire to make a profit. No producer will accept less than $0.70 for a cup of coffee, but at a price of $0.70, sellers would supply 300 cups to the market. At a price of $0.80,400 cups would be offered. In fact, it turns out that each time the price rises by 10 cents an additional 100 cups of coffee are supplied. This precise relationship is of course unlikely in the real world, but the general principle holds true: at higher prices, sellers are motivated to offer more of the product.

2.1 THE SUPPLY SCHEDULE AND CURVE

The result of this pattern is shown in Table 4.1, which we call a supply schedule. A supply schedule shows us, in the form of a table, the quantity of a good or service that would be offered by the sellers at each possible price.

Table 4.1   A Supply Schedule for Coffee




Price ($/cup)
Cups of coffee supplied/week


0.70
   300


0.80
   400


0.90
   500


1.00
   600


1.10
   700


1.20
   800


1.30
   900


1.40
1,000


1.50
1,100


1.60
1,200


From the supply schedule, we can graph a supply curve, as shown in Figure 4.1, which shows the same information in a different form. If we asked how much coffee would be offered for sale at a price of $1.00, for example, we could look across from $1.00 on the vertical (price) axis over to the supply curve and then drop down to the horizontal (quantity) axis to find that the answer is 600.

supply curve: a curve indicating the quantities that sellers are willing to supply at various prices

Note that the supply curve in Figure 4.1 slopes upward. This seems reasonable, consistent with an expectation that suppliers of a good or service will tend to offer more for sale, the higher the price they receive. Price and quantity have a positive (or direct) relationship along the supply curve.







Figure 4.1 The Supply Curve for Cups of Coffee
The supply curve shows the same information as the supply schedule. At higher prices, more cups of coffee are offered on the market by people who are in a position to sell.

We see movement along a supply curve when we note, for example, that the quantity of coffee that will be offered for sale rises from 600 to 700 as the price rises from $1.00 to $1.10. This is a case of change in quantity supplied. It is important to refer to movement along a supply curve as change in the quantity supplied in order to avoid confusion with the topic of the next section, which deals with changes in the whole supply curve.

change in quantity supplied: movement along a supply curve in response to a price change

Check yourself by answering this question with reference to Table 4.1 or Figure 4.1: By how much does the quantity supplied change when the price changes from $1.10 to $1.40?

2.2 CHANGES IN SUPPLY

In contrast to changes in quantity supplied, we say there has been a change in supply when the whole supply curve shifts.

change in supply: a shift of the supply curve in response to some determinant other than the item's price

Why might the whole curve shift? As we noted in Chapter 2, models make frequent use of ceteris paribus assumptions. The supply curve shown in Figure 4.1 holds, we presume, for a given set of circumstances. But what if circumstances were different?
Suppose that more coffee sellers entered the market, with the result that 400 more cups of coffee would be offered at each price. The supply curve would shift to the right from S1 to S2 as illustrated in Figure 4.2. Now, at a price of $1.00, for example, 1,000 cups of coffee are offered, instead of 600. We can describe the increase in supply by saying either that "supply has risen" or that "the supply curve has shifted." (It may seem confusing that a supply /«crease shifts the supply curve down. Remember to start the "story" by reading across horizontally from the price axis. Then you will notice that the shift goes toward higher numbers on the quantity axis.)
We would see a similar result if a new coffee-making technology made its production less costly. With lower costs of production, suppliers become willing to accept, say, $0.40 less per cup (this if a new coffee-making technology made its production less costly). In this case as well, 1,000 cups would be offered at $1.00, whereas before it took a price of $1.40 to elicit a supply of this size. This would also be termed an "increase in supply" and again the supply curve would shift, as illustrated in Figure 4.2.







Figure 4.2 An Increase in Supply
The supply curve shifts outward (to the right) when sellers decide to supply a larger quantity to the market at a given price, or to charge less for a given quantity.






Figure 4.3 A Decrease in Supply
The supply curve shifts backward (to the left) when sellers decide to supply a smaller quantity to the market at a given price, or to charge more for a given quantity.


If instead, the number of sellers goes down, or the cost of production for each cup of coffee rises, the supply curve will move to the left of the original one, as shown in Figure 4.3. We say that "supply has decreased," or "supply has fallen," or "the supply curve has shifted back."
Thus the number of sellers and the costs of production are among the things that can affect the location of the supply curve. Many other factors also affect the location of the supply curve. These nonprice determinants of supply generally depend on what, specifically, is being sold in a market. While we have rather arbitrarily chosen a simple coffee market for our example, the determinants of supply will vary depending on whether the item in question is an asset, a produced good, or a service and on particular characteristics of the item. For example, in the market for oil, the determinants of supply will include the success of oil exploration and discovery (a big new discovery will increase supply), while in the market for computers, technological innovations that lower chip costs will increase supply. In the market for com, a bad harvest would reduce supply, but new, more productive varieties of com would increase it. You can easily think of similar examples for other goods and services.

Discussion Questions

1. Explain in words why the supply curve slopes upward.
2. Verbally explain the difference between a change in quantity supplied and achange in supply. Considering the supply side of the market for lawn-mowing services, what kind of change (increase or decrease, in quantity supplied or supply) would each of the following events cause?
a. A rise in the going price for lawn-mowing services
b. More people decide to offer to mow lawns
c. Gasoline for lawn movers becomes much more expensive (assume that the person doing the mowing buys the gas)

3. THE THEORY OF DEMAND

Now let us consider the market from the point of view of potential buyers of coffee. Potential buyers will also consider price, but of course they will prefer a lower price. Let's suppose that in this market no potential buyers are willing to pay more than $2.30 for a cup of coffee. But a drop in the price per cup would induce more purchases of coffee. This reasonable assumption about the way potential buyers behave allows us to construct a demand schedule.

3.1 THE DEMAND SCHEDULE AND CURVE

In Table 4.2, we show the demand schedule that reflects these assumptions. A demand schedule describes, in the form of a table, the quantity of a good or service that buyers are willing to purchase at each possible price.

Table 4.2   A Demand Schedule for Coffee




Price ($/cup)
Cups of coffee demanded/week


0.20
1,000


0.50
   900


0.80
   800


1.10
   700


1.40
   600


1.70
   500


2.00
   400


2.30
   300


From the demand schedule, we can graph a demand curve, as shown in Figure 4.4. Note that the demand curve in Figure 4.4 slopes downward. It seems reasonable to expect that, generally, the higher the price of a good, the fewer people will want to (or be able to) buy. Price and quantity have a negative (or inverse) relationship along the demand curve.

demand curve: a curve indicating the quantities that buyers are ready to purchase at various prices

Suppose that the price of coffee rose from $1.40 to $2.00. According to our demand schedule, the number of cups of coffee that will be purchased falls from 600 to 400. The demand curve has not shifted, but movement along the demand curve is referred to as a change in quantity demanded.

change in quantity demanded: movement along a demand curve in response to a price change

Check yourself by answering this question with reference to Table 4.2 or Figure 4.4: By how much does the quantity demanded change when the price changes from $2.00 to $0.80?







Figure 4.4 The Demand Curve for Cups of Coffee
The demand curve shows the same information as the demand schedule. At higher prices, fewer cups of coffee are desired by people looking to buy.
3.2 CHANGES IN DEMAND

As with supply, we distinguish between a change in quantity demanded and a change in demand. When there is a change in demand, the whole curve shifts.

change in demand: a shift of the demand curve in response to some determinant other than the item's price

Why might the whole curve shift? One reason might be the increasing trendiness of drinking coffee. Whereas a generation ago one seldom saw people walking in the street holding a container of coffee, it may soon be almost as rare to see someone not holding one. It means that there are now many more buyers, and the change is reflected as a shift in demand. Specifically, suppose that at every price there are now 300 more cups of coffee demanded in the market. Such a change is illustrated by the shift to the right from D1 to D2 in Figure 4.5. We say that "demand has risen" or "the demand curve has shifted." (Because of the curve's negative slope, in this case this also means shifting "up.")







Figure 4.5 An Increase in Demand
The demand curve shifts outward (to the right) when more buyers want to buy at a given price, or buyers are willing to pay a higher price for a given quantity.

We would see the same result if, instead of new buyers entering the market, the existing buyers each became willing to pay $0.90 more for a cup of coffee. The situation could arise, for example, if the prices of alternatives, such as tea or hot chocolate, had risen substantially. If this were to happen, the lack of reasonably priced alternatives—what economists call substitute goods—would likely increase the maximum price that existing coffee drinkers would be willing to pay for a cup. A classic example of substitute goods is Coke versus Pepsi. An increase in the price of a substitute good tends to increase the demand for the good in question, because people who are unwilling to pay the higher price will shift to the substitute good whose price has not risen. An increase in the price of tea or chocolate could thus lead to an "increase in demand" for coffee. The change would also be illustrated by Figure 4.5.

substitute good: a good that can be used in place of another

The coffee market may also be affected by changes in the prices of goods that are complementary to coffee. Complementary goods are those that are used along with the good in question. A classic example of complementary goods is hot dogs and mustard. For purposes of our example, suppose coffee is frequently consumed with sugar or pastries. An increase in the price of sugar and products that use sugar would make coffee less attractive, since the price of the "package" of coffee plus pastry is now higher. Demand for the good in question tends to decrease with an increase in the price of a complementary good. This is shown in Figure 4.6.

complementary good: a good that is used along with another good








Figure 4.6 A Decrease in Demand
When the demand curve shifts inward (to the left), we say that demand has decreased.

Thus the number of potential buyers, their ability to pay, and prices of substitutes and complements are among the things that can affect the location of the demand curve. Many other factors affect the location of demand curves, depending on the specific market in question. For example, in the market for steel, overall economic growth will increase the demand for steel, while the development of substitute materials, such as plastic composites for use in automobiles, will decrease it. Hotter weather will increase demand for ice cream, but will decrease the demand for sweaters—and so forth. We can easily identify many examples of other demand shifts in everyday life.

Discussion Questions

1. Explain verbally why the demand curve slopes downward.
2. Verbally explain the difference between a change in quantity demanded and a change in demand. Considering the demand side of the market for lawn-mowing services, what kind of change (increase or decrease, in quantity demanded or demand) would each of the following events cause?
a. A new office park is built, surrounded by several acres of lawn
b. There is a recession, putting many people out of work; many homeowners have less money, but more time to mow their own lawns
c. The going price for lawn-mowing services rises
d. A more natural, wild yard becomes the "in" thing, as people become concerned about the effects of fertilizers and pesticides on the environment

4. THE THEORY OF MARKET ADJUSTMENT

Now that we have considered the sellers and the buyers separately, it is time to bring them together. In our hypothetical market, every cup of coffee will sell at the same price. (Remember, they are identical—why would anyone pay more, or accept less, than the going price?) We are now ready to ask: How many cups of coffee will be sold in the market and at what price?

4.1 SURPLUS, SHORTAGE, AND EQUILIBRIUM

Using the original supply and demand curves, reproduced here in Figure 4.7, we can look for the answer by considering possible prices. Suppose that we start with a high price of $1.40. At this price, 1,000 cups of coffee will be offered for sale, but consumers are collectively interested in buying only 600. Economists call a situation in which the quantity supplied is greater than the quantity demanded a surplus. It is illustrated in the upper part of Figure 4.7.

surplus: a situation in which the quantity that sellers wish to sell at the stated price is greater than the quantity that buyers will buy at that price








Figure 4.7 Surplus, Shortage, and Equilibrium
At a price of $1.40 a surplus occurs because the quantity of cups of coffee being offered for sale is larger than the quantity that people want to buy. On the other hand, at a price of $0.80 many people want to buy cups of coffee but few want to sell, so a shortage occurs. Only at market equilibrium (point E) does quantity supplied equal quantity demanded.

Because suppliers who are willing to sell at this price cannot find buyers, what will they do? For a number of sellers, $1.40 is more than they need to persuade them to sell. To find buyers, they will suggest a lower selling price. At $1.20, a surplus still occurs—900 cups of coffee are available at that price, but the market demands less than 700, so there will be further downward pressure on the price. When the price finally reaches $1.10, each and every cup made available will find a buyer. The number of cups of coffee supplied—and demanded—is equal to 700. The market price is $1.10. Economists call this a situation in which the "market clears" and an equilibrium is reached. "Equilibrium" describes a situation that has reached a resting point, where there are no forces acting to change it. (Economists borrowed this term from natural science.) In a market situation, equilibrium is reached when the quantity supplied is equal to the quantity demanded. The price will stop falling. Figure 4.7 illustrates the market-clearing equilibrium point, labeled E.

equilibriumml: a situation of rest, in which there are no forces that create change
market-clearing equilibriumml: a situation in which quantity supplied equals quantity demanded

What if the price had started out too low, for example at $0.80? In this case a shortage would occur, in which the quantity supplied is less than the quantity demanded, as illustrated in the lower part of Figure 4.7. Because at this price 800 cups of coffee are demanded, but only 400 are supplied, the buyers who are willing to pay more than $0.80 for a cup of coffee will bid the price up. Sellers will find that they can easily get more than $0.80 for a cup of coffee, so they will raise prices. As the price rises, quantity demanded will fall, while quantity supplied will increase. At $1.10, demand is just 700 cups, exactly matched by a supply of 700.

shortage: a situation in which the quantity that buyers wish to buy at the stated price is greater than the quantity that sellers are willing to sell at that price

The theory of market adjustment says that market forces will tend to make price and quantity move toward the equilibrium point. Surpluses will lead to declines in price, and shortages will lead to rises in price. Surplus and shortage are both instances of market disequilibrium. Disequilibrium will tend to lead to changes in price and quantity. Only at equilibrium is there no tendency to change. In this example, the equilibrium price is $1.10, and the equilibrium quantity is 700.

theory of market adjustment: the theory that market forces will tend to make shortages and surpluses disappear
market disequilibriumml: a situation of either shortage or surplus


4.2 SHIFTS IN SUPPLY AND DEMAND

With the two curves now combined, we can investigate how market forces will cause equilibrium prices and quantities to change in response to changes in the underlying nonprice determinants of supply and demand.
In our coffee market, let us compare the original case shown in Figure 4.7 to a case in which supply has risen. How would the market result now differ, compared to the original case? In Figure 4.8, the original equilibrium is marked as Ej with supply curve S1 When the supply curve shifts to S2, we see that a surplus results at the original equilibrium price of $1.10. At point E2, with a price of $0.80, the market clears, with 800 cups of coffee being sold. As Figure 4.8 illustrates, an increase in supply will tend to decrease equilibrium price and increase equilibrium quantity.







Figure 4.8 Market Adjustment to an Increase in Supply
With an increase in the supply of cups of coffee, there now would be a surplus at the original equilibrium price of $1.10. Market adjustment forces should cause the price to fall, until a new equilibrium is established at a price of $0.80. 700 cups of coffee will sell at this new equilibrium price. The equilibrium price has fallen and the equilibrium quantity has risen.

Suppose that instead of an increase in supply in this market, we have an increase in demand. In Figure 4.9, we see the effect of that demand increase: At the original equilibrium price of $1.10, a shortage results. The price will be bid up to $1.40, where 1,000 cups of coffee will be offered. As Figure 4.9 illustrates, an increase in demand will tend to increase equilibrium price and increase equilibrium quantity.
Notice that both supply and demand increases tend to increase the equilibrium quantity transacted. Their price effects, however, go in opposite directions. Increases in supply make the good more plentiful, driving its equilibrium price down. Increases in demand drive up the equilibrium price.
Likewise, decreases in supply and demand both tend to decrease the equilibrium quantity transacted. A decrease in supply will tend to raise the equilibrium price, as the good is harder to get. A decrease in demand will tend to decrease the equilibrium price, as fewer attempts are made to obtain the good. These effects are summarized in Table 4.3.







Figure 4.9 Market Adjustment to an Increase in Demand
With an increase in demand, there would be a shortage of cups of coffee at the original equilibrium price of $1.10. Market forces should cause the price to rise, until a new equilibrium is established at $1.40. 1000 cups of coffee will sell at this new equilibrium price. The equilibrium price has risen and the equilibrium quantity has risen.

Table 4.3   Effects of Changes in Supply and Demand






Effect on equilibrium price
Effect on equilibrium quantity


Increase in supply
fall
rise


Decrease in supply
rise
fall


Increase in demand
rise
rise


Decrease in demand
fall
fall



What if both curves shifted at the same time? What if, for example, there were increases in the number of sellers of coffee and in the number of buyers? In this case, the new equilibrium would be found at the intersection of two new curves, rather than one new curve and one old one. Comparing the new equilibrium with the original one in the case in which both supply and demand increase, for example, the equilibrium quantity clearly rises, but the effect on the equilibrium price is ambiguous. That is, the equilibrium price may go up, down, or stay the same depending on two factors: how far each of the curves shifts and how steep each of the curves is (the second of these is related to the price elasticity of supply or demand, a concept that is discussed below). In other cases, it may be the change in the price that is clear, but the change in equilibrium quantity that is ambiguous—again, depending on the same two factors. You can experiment with various combinations of changes to see how they affect equilibrium. (See Box 4.1 for some examples of changes in the real-world market for coffee).

price elasticity: a measure of the sensitivity or responsiveness of quantity supplied or demanded to changes in price


4.3 ELASTICITY

When there is a change in market price, by how much will the equilibrium quantity change? Economists are often interested in the answer to this question. The price elasticity of demand measures the degree to which buyers of a good respond to a change in its price. Mathematically, it is defined as the absolute value of the percentage change in quantity demanded divided by the percentage change in price:

price elasticity of demand: a measure of the responsiveness of quantity demanded to changes in price




BOX 4.1 COFFEE MARKETS IN THE REAL WORLD
After reaching a 14-year high in May 2011, wholesale coffee bean prices began to tumble. By July 2013 prices for arabica beans, the most-consumed coffee in the world, had fallen over 60 percent. How can our market model provide insights into changing coffee prices in the real world?
Our model suggests that falling prices can occur either due to an increase in supply or a decrease in demand, or both. According to data from the United States Department of Agriculture, global coffee supplies increased over this time period. At the same time, consumption in coffee-growing countries and coffee exports both increased. So these data suggest that the main reason prices fell so much over 2011-2013 was an increase in the supply of coffee.
In the 2012/2013 growing season Brazil, the world's largest coffee producer, had a bumper crop with production up 14 percent over the previous year. Vietnam, the world's second-largest producer, has been scaling up its coffee production in recent years. Between 2010 and 2012 production there increased nearly 30 percent. Other major coffee-producing countries, including Colombia and Indonesia, also had production gains.
With coffee bean prices so low, you may wonder why in June 2013 Starbucks announced that it was increasing its prices. According to a Starbucks spokesman, the reasons for the price increase included higher costs for labor, raw materials, and rent. The cost of the actual coffee beans represents a minor portion of the total cost of producing a retail cup of coffee. Starbucks may also have raised its prices because it perceived that consumers will continue to demand their products despite slightly higher prices (i.e., that demand for coffee is inelastic).
Sources: U.S. Department of Agriculture, "Coffee: World Markets and Trade," June 2013; Kavilanz, Parija, "Next Week You'll Pay More for a Starbucks Latte," CNN Money, June 21, 2013.


The larger the quantity response is, relative to the size of the price change, the "more elastic" demand is said to be. If the response is small, demand is said to be relatively "price inelastic."
You can think of price elasticity of demand as a measure of the responsiveness of quantity demanded to changes in price.
Figure 4.10 graphs two different demand curves, along with identical supply curve shifts. In Figure 4.10(a), with the relatively flat demand curve, we see that there is a large drop in the quantity demanded associated with a small increase in price. In Figure 4.10(b), by contrast, with a relatively steep demand curve, only a small decrease in quantity demanded is associated with a substantial increase in price. The difference derives from the fact that the demand curve shown in (a) is much more price elastic than the demand curve in (b).







Figure 4.10 Price Elasticity of Demand
When a small change in price leads buyers to make a large change in the quantity they demand, demand is said to be relatively elastic. If buyers' response is, instead, weak, demand is said to be relatively inelastic.

Goods for which there are many substitutes, which are merely wanted rather than needed or which make up a large part of the budget of the buyer tend to have relatively price-elastic demand. Different brands of beverage, for example, will tend to be price-elastic, because they can readily substitute for one another. Demand for automobiles is also price-elastic—because a car is such a large expense that buyers will tend to be sensitive to price. However, goods for which there are few substitutes, that are badly needed, or that make up a small part of the buyer's budget tend to have relatively inelastic demand. We would expect demand for our earlier example of coffee to be relatively price-inelastic, possibly for all three reasons!* Essential medications and gasoline are two other examples of relatively price-inelastic goods.
The price elasticity of supply measures the same sort of responsiveness, but this time on the part of sellers. Mathematically, it is defined as the percentage change in quantity supplied divided by the percentage change in price. When suppliers respond to a small increase in price by offering a much larger quantity of goods, we say that supply is relatively elastic. If they hardly react at all, supply is relatively inelastic. Like the price elasticity of demand, the price elasticity of supply is calculated as:

price elasticity of supply: a measure of the responsiveness of quantity supplied to changes in price

Elasticity = % change in quantity supplied / % change in price
Given that supply curves normally slope upward, price and quantity supplied change in the same direction, and thus taking the absolute value is not required.

Discussion Questions

1. Think about the market for high-quality basketballs. In each of the following cases, determine which curve shifts and in which direction. Also draw a graph and describe, in words, the changes in price and quantity. (Treat each case separately.)
a. A rise in basketball players' income
b. An increase in wages paid to the workers who make the balls
c. A decrease in the price of basketball hoops and other basketball gear
d. The country's becoming obsessed with soccer
2. Have you ever found yourself shut out of a class that you wanted to take because it was already full? Or has this happened to a friend of yours? Analyze this situation in terms of surplus or shortage. Are classes supplied "in a market"? Do you think that it would be good if they were?

5. MACROECONOMICS AND THE DYNAMICS OF REAL-WORLD MARKETS

Although supply and demand analysis can be a very useful tool for understanding how markets work, few if any markets truly approach perfect competition, and seldom are they as fluid as in the simple models depicted here. Markets may be characterized by market power (as mentioned in Chapter 2 and with the example of Microsoft). Goods and services sold in markets may not be as simple as our example of cups of coffee; more commonly there are different brands and types of product, with different characteristics. Buyers and sellers may have imperfect information, or be bound by long-term contracts. The role of assumptions and expectations can be significant. For example, if people were used to paying more for the services of lawyers than for the services of teachers, lawyers would be very resistant to changes in the relative prices. In general, wages, which are a special kind of price, can be affected by a variety of things aside from simple supply and demand. This special case is examined further in future chapters.
There is one additional reason to look closely at the standard market model. This is its assumption that, when the market functions in a smooth, idealized way, taking decisions out of the hands of individuals, the results are purely "objective," with no bias toward any person or group. In fact, this model does have an undeniable bias, toward those with money—and a larger bias toward persons or organizations with more money. This is because "demand" in the context of supply-and-demand interactions means "willingness and ability to pay." So pure market results are based on the distribution of purchasing power—money—in the society.

5.1 WHEN PRICE ADJUSTMENTS ARE SLOW

An issue of particular importance to macroeconomics is the question of the speed at which real-world price adjustments take place. How long will it take our hypothetical coffee traders to reach equilibrium? Minutes? An hour? A day? The theory of supply and demand does not tell us. The graphs represent a static model. Recall from Chapter 2 that this means that the model does not take into account the passage of time.
Some markets, such as stock markets, tend to clear quickly. But other markets involve significant time delays. For example, consider the market for shirts. When you go into a clothing store, you see a rack of shirts and, on their tags, a given price. The price probably reflects a markup by the retailer over what he or she paid to a distributor to get the shirts. The distributor in turn probably charged a markup over the price charged by the manufacturer. Now, if the shirts were overpriced, they would not sell very well. In the terms we introduced, there will be a surplus. If the market worked as fluidly as just described, the supplier and demander would quickly be able to fine tune the price and quantity to get it just right, as we saw in our hypothetical coffee market in Figure 4.7. The price would fall, the surplus of shirts would disappear immediately, and equilibrium would be restored.
In a realistic, complicated case such as this one, however, there is actually a chain of markets involved—the manufacturer sells to the distributor, the distributor to the retailer, and the retailer to the final buyer. A quick adjustment of prices is unlikely. More commonly, when retailers mark down the prices on the shirts they have in stock in order to clear them out, the drop in the price will not immediately travel back up the supply chain. In the next order that the retailers place with their distributors, the retailers might just ask for a smaller quantity of shirts, at the price at which the distributor is offering them—especially if the retailer were small relative to the distributor and had little power to bargain over prices. Any changes in prices or quantities at the manufacturing level would only develop over time, as the manufacturers saw the level of their inventories either rise (because the shirts are not selling) or fall (because the distributors order more).
Because of the time it takes for all these things to happen, some economists believe that the most likely first response to a surplus is that manufacturers would cut production—perhaps laying off workers—rather than reducing their price. In such a case, the quantity produced adjusts to meet the quantity demanded at a given price, rather than the price adjusting to clear the market. If such quantity adjustments happened throughout the economy, unemployment could rise.

quantity adjustments: a response by suppliers in which they react to unexpectedly low sales of their good primarily by reducing production levels rather than by reducing the price and to unexpectedly high sales by increasing production rather than raising the price

Suppliers may also be reluctant to change the prices that they offer because of menu costs—literally, the costs of changing the prices listed on such things as order forms and restaurant menus. Other factors that could slow the process of price adjustment include union contracts, lengthy production processes, and information problems.

menu costs: the costs to a supplier of changing prices listed on order forms, brochures, menus, and the like


5.2 WHEN PRICES SWING TOO MUCH: MARKET INSTABILITY

Other markets have adjustment processes in which prices may change rapidly. In electronic stock markets, for example, thousands of trades may take place every minute, as buyers and sellers find each other and quickly negotiate a price. Such a market can probably be thought of as in equilibrium, or moving quickly toward one, nearly all the time.
Very rapid adjustments of prices, however, create their own set of problems, especially in relation to the macroeconomic goal of stability. In our hypothetical market for coffee, we assumed that people wanted coffee simply because of the taste or perhaps the energy boost, both reasonable assumptions. But there are markets in which buyers are not really interested in the item itself at all—only its price and the direction in which it is likely to go. Speculation is the buying and selling of assets with the expectation of profiting from appreciation or depreciation in their values, usually over a relatively short period of time. Speculators buy items such as stocks in companies, commodities futures (e.g., contracts to buy or sell items such as pork bellies or copper at a specific price on a future date), foreign exchange, real estate, or other investment vehicles, purely in the hopes that they will be able to sell them in the future for more than they have paid.

speculation: buying and selling assets with the expectation of profiting from appreciation or depreciation in their value

When many people come to believe that the price of something will rise, a speculative bubble can occur, in which people buy the asset because so many other people also believe that its price will continue to rise. In a mass phenomenon often referred to using terms such as "herd mentality" or "bandwagon effect," speculators' mutually reinforcing optimism causes asset values to rise far above any price that could be rationalized in terms of "economic fundamentals."

speculative bubble: the situation that occurs when mutually reinforcing investor optimism raises the value of an asset far above what can be justified by fundamental value

In the case of a stock price, for example, the rational economic basis for valuation should be the returns that an investor can expect from the firm of which the stock represents an ownership share, while in the case of real estate the value should be determined by the stream of likely rents, from the present into the future. Someone who buys a home to live in should rationally select one whose costs (mortgage payments plus lost income on the money used for down payment) are similar to the rent that would be demanded for a comparable property.
During a bubble, however, people pay less attention to (or take a biased view of) such fundamental factors. Instead, demand for an asset is determined largely by purchasers' perception that they will be able to find someone to whom they can sell the asset at a higher price. Eventually, however, people begin to figure out that prices have become unrealistically high. Then demand drops, the bubble bursts, and prices fall. This happened during the "dotcom" bubble of the late 1990s (see Figure 4.11).







Source: Yahoo! Finance, Monthly data.
Figure 4.11 The Stock Market Bubble of 1999-2000
Enthusiasm about new technologies, and Internet e-commerce in particular, temporarily drove the prices of many companies' stocks very high. During the bubble, the prices of stocks as determined by supply and demand rose far above the prices that would occur if valuation had been based on the companies' actual performances.

It is fairly easy, of course, to recognize a bubble after the fact. However, during the spectacular rise in stock prices that took place in the late 1990s, many otherwise rational and intelligent people convinced one another—and themselves—that the stock market boom reflected an immense jump in productivity, not a speculative bubble. This led to a major crash in stock prices during 2000-2.
In spite of the painful lesson of this crash, soon afterward the buildup began for another boom and bust, this time originating in the U.S. market for subprime mortages. Such mortgages are housing loans given to people whose income or credit history is not good enough to qualify them for regular mortgages.

subprime mortgage: a mortgage given to someone with poor credit



BOX 4.2 RECOVERY IN THE HOUSING MARKET
The housing market is considered an important indicator of the overall economy. In the wake of the Great Recession, the average house price in the United States fell by about one-third between 2006 and 2011. Finally, in 2012 the housing market began to show signs of recovery. By the end of 2012 prices were rising at an annual rate of over 7 percent.
The rising prices are a function of both supply and demand factors. The number of homes sold nationally in 2012 was up by about 30 percent compared to the previous year. At the same time, the supply of homes for sale reached its lowest level since 2005.
The increase in house prices varied significantly across regions of the country. The biggest gains were found in areas hit the hardest when the housing bubble burst in 2007. Prices increased by 23 percent in Phoenix, 14 percent in Detroit, 13 percent in Las Vegas, and 10 percent in Miami. Of the 20 major metropolitan markets, only New York City saw further declines in house prices in 2012.
The reasons housing prices have increased include an improvement in the overall economy, lower unemployment rates, very low mortgage rates, and the tight supply. Richard Green of the USC Lusk Center for Real Estate, said the recovery in housing prices hasn't been even across all the different price segments. He said the upper end of the market has done well as the wealthier families' earnings have recovered and foreign buyers have come into the market. The lower end of the market has recovered due to purchases by investors looking for bargains. "It's the middle market that needs help—particularly in the form of higher income—if it is going to have a sustained recovery," Green said.
Source: Chris Isidore, "Housing Recovery Gains Strength," CNN Money, February 26, 2013.

Many banks aggressively marketed subprime housing loans to prospective homeowners from early 2004 to 2007, sometimes using fraudulent techniques and making profits by collecting fees on each loan made. Some of the world's largest banks moved aggressively into this area, bundling and repackaging the mortgages in such a way that their riskiness was not immediately apparent. Eventually, however, softening of housing prices and rising adjustable interest rates caused a steep increase in the number of U.S. homeowners who were defaulting on their loans. Securities based on "bundled" subprime mortgages rapidly lost market value as questions were finally raised about the actual worth of the assets on which they were based. During the subprime crisis, many people lost their homes, and many of the largest commercial banks lost billions of dollars. We will examine this financial crisis in Chapter 15. (See Box 4.2 for a presentation of recent developments in the housing market).
Situations of speculative bubbles and volatile (that is, rapidly changing) prices have important implications for macroeconomics, even though there is some disagreement among economists about the importance of market volatility. Those who take a classical point of view tend to downplay such market-related problems, believing that even if market performance sometimes seemed counter to human welfare, it would still be better than what could be achieved by any sort of regulation or intervention. Other economists, in particular those with Keynesian views or those who are particularly concerned with the economics of less industrialized countries or the fate of the less-well-off in any society, believe that some sort of regulation is needed to prevent market volatility. We discuss both the need for and nature of such regulations in later chapters.
5.3 FROM MICROECONOMICS TO MACROECONOMICS

How far does the model of supply and demand get us in explaining macroeconomic phenomena? That question can be broken down into two parts. First, are markets in the real world similar to the one portrayed in the model? Second, even to the extent that individual markets do behave as the model predicts, might explaining national-level economic phenomena require different theoretical tools? In other words, does it follow that what works for a market necessarily works for entire economies?
Later chapters of this book will explore these questions, starting with the ways in which we measure macroeconomic activity, then examining different approaches to analyzing the behavior of the economy as a whole.

Discussion Questions

1. Think of several things that you regularly buy. For which of these goods or services do prices seem to change rapidly? For which do they seem to change slowly? Can you explain why?
2. Has there been any talk of "speculative bubbles" in news reports recently? If so, what markets are being discussed? What explanations are given for why prices may be so high?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. Describe three characteristics of the type of market featured in classical analysis.
  2. Define and sketch a supply curve.
  3. Illustrate on a clearly labeled graph (a) a decrease in quantity supplied and (b) a decrease in supply.
  4. Describe two factors that might cause a supply curve to shift.
  5. Define and sketch a demand curve.
  6. Illustrate on a clearly labeled graph (a) a decrease in quantity demanded and (b) a decrease in demand.
  7. Describe two factors that might cause a demand curve to shift.
  8. Describe how goods can be "substitutes." Describe how the demand curve for a good may be affected by an increase in the price of a second good that is a substitute for the first.
  9. Describe how goods can be "complementary." Describe how the demand curve for a good may be affected by an increase in the price of a second good that is complementary to the first.
10. Draw a graph illustrating surplus, shortage, and equilibrium.
11. Describe, using graphs, how an increase in supply affects equilibrium quantity and price. Repeat for a decrease in supply.
12. Describe, using graphs, how an increase in demand affects equilibrium quantity and price. Repeat for a decrease in demand.
13. Describe what is meant by the price elasticity of demand and the price elasticity of supply.
14. Describe why sellers of a good might adjust the quantity of what they produce, rather than the price.
15. What are some of the problems that can be created by large price swings?

EXERCISES
  1. Suppose that the supply and demand schedules for a local electric utility are as follows: The price is in cents per kilowatt hour (kWh), and the quantity is millions of kilowatt-hours. The utility does not operate at prices less than 13 cents per kWh.





Price
Quantity supplied
Quantity demanded


17
9
3


16
7
4


15
5
5


14
3
6


13
1
7


12
—
8


11
—
9


a. Using graph paper and a ruler or a computer spreadsheet or presentation program, carefully graph and label the supply curve for electricity.
b. On the same graph, draw and label the demand curve for electricity.
c. What is the equilibrium price of electricity? The equilibrium quantity? Label this point on your graph.
d. At a price of 17 cents per kWh, what is the quantity supplied? What is the quantity demanded? What is the relationship between quantity supplied and quantity demanded? What term do economists use to describe this situation?
e. At a price of 14 cents per kWh, what is the relationship between quantity supplied and quantity demanded? What term do economists use to describe this situation?
f. Sometimes cities experience "blackouts," where the demand for the utility is so high relative to its capacity to produce electricity that the system shuts down, leaving everyone in the dark. Using the analysis that you have just completed, describe an economic factor that would make blackouts more likely to occur.
  2. Continuing from the previous problem, suppose that new innovations in energy efficiency reduce people's need for electricity. The supply side of the market does not change, but at each price buyers now demand 3 million kWh fewer than before. For example, at a price of 11 cents per kWh, buyers now demand only 6 kWh instead of 9 kWh.
a. On a new graph, draw supply and demand curves corresponding to prices of 16 cents per kWh or less, after the innovations in efficiency. Also, for reference, mark the old equilibrium point from the previous exercise, labeling it E1.
b. If the price were to remain at the old equilibrium level determined in part (c) of question 1 above, what sort of situation would result?
c. What is the new equilibrium price? The new equilibrium quantity? Label this point on your graph E2.
d. Has there been a change in demand? Has a change in the price (relative to the original situation) led to a change in the quantity demanded?
e. Has there been a change in supply? Has a change in the price (relative to the original situation) led to a decrease in the quantity supplied?
  3. Using your understanding of the nonprice determinants of supply and of demand, analyze each of the following market cases. Draw a graph showing what happens in each situation, indicate what happens to equilibrium price and quantity, and explain why. The first case is done as an example:
Question: Market for gasoline: A hurricane hits the Gulf of Mexico, destroying many refineries that produce gasoline from crude oil.
Answer:





S shifts back.
P rises.
Q falls.
The hurricane reduces the number of producers.
a. Market for bananas: New health reports indicate that eating bananas leads to important health benefits
b. Market for shoes: A new technology for shoe making means that shoes can be made at a lower cost per pair
c. Market for Web design services: Several thousand new graduates of design schools enter the market, ready to supply their services
d. Market for expensive meals: A booming economy raises the income of many households
e. Market for grapes from California: A freeze in Chile, usually a major world provider of fresh fruit, raises the price of Chilean grapes
f. Market for salsa dance lessons: The only nightclub in town featuring salsa music triples its entrance fee
g. Market for bottled water: A rumor circulates that the price of bottled water is about to triple. (Think only about the demand side.)
h. Market for Web design services: Several thousand new graduates of design schools enter the market, ready to supply their services and, at the same time, many firms want to create new Web sites.
  4. Sketch a supply curve graph illustrating a student's willingness to sell his textbooks from all his classes, right now. Assume that the student will receive offers of this sort: "I'll give you [a fixed number of dollars] apiece for all the books you want to sell." Carefully label the vertical and horizontal axes. Suppose that at an original offer of $30 per book, the student will be willing to sell three books, because he knows that he can replace these three for less than $30 each at a local bookstore. Mark this point on your first graph. Assume further that at $40 he would be willing to sell four books, at $50 he would supply five books, and so on. Now, on separate graphs labeled (a), (b), and (c), show this line and his offer at $30 and the precise new point or an approximate new curve that illustrates each of the following contrasts. Consider them separately, assuming no Internet resources in considering (c).
a. He is offered $70 per book instead of $30
b. He discovers that the textbook materials for many of his classes are available free on the Internet
c. The local bookstore raises its prices substantially
  5. State whether the following statements are true or false. If false, write a corrected statement.
a. A fall in the price of a good will cause its supply curve to shift to the left
b. Increased costs of supplying a good will cause the supply curve to shift to the left
c. Afall in the price of a substitute good will cause the demand for the good in question to fall
d. A decrease in supply will have a small effect on the quantity demanded if the demand curve is very elastic
  6. Consider the market for diamond rings. For each of the following, draw a graph and describe the likely effects on equilibrium price and quantity (assuming the market functions like the one described in the text). Explain your reasoning.
a. Valentine's Day is approaching
b. Manufacturers discover new industrial uses for diamonds, driving up the prices that jewelers have to pay to obtain the gems
c. New deposits of diamonds are discovered
d. The price of cubic zirconium "gems" (high-quality fake diamonds) falls
e. People experience an increase in their wealth
  7. Suppose that a newspaper report indicates that the price of wheat has fallen. Which of the following could be possible explanations? (There may be more than one.) Illustrate one case on a supply and demand graph.
a. A drought has hit wheat-growing areas
b. An increase in the price of rice
c. Due to increasing health concerns, tobacco farmers have begun growing other crops
d. A new science report suggests that wheat is bad for one's health
  8. Prices of many financial assets such as stocks and foreign exchange are now readily available on the Internet. Search for a chart like Figure 4.11 for a stock index or foreign currency of your choosing and print it out. During the period covered by the graph that you found, does it seem as if this market is fairly calm or is it characterized by periods of volatility? (Caution: because price swings can be made to look relatively large or small simply by changing the scale of the graph, in answering this question you may want to choose a fairly long time series or compare the behavior of the asset you have chosen with a similar asset.) Is there any evidence of a speculative bubble?
  9. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B.








Column A

Column B


a.
Substitute goods
  1.
The stock market


b.
Shifts the supply curve
  2.
A tiny drop in the price of a good leads to a big increase in quantity demanded


c.
A "bubble"
  3.
Shoes and shoelaces


d.
Complementary goods
  4.
A shoe manufacturer responds to a decline in shoe sales by cutting back on production and laying off workers


e.
Speculation
  5.
Tea and coffee


f.
Market equilibrium
  6.
Quantity supplied is greater than quantity demanded


g.
Auction market
  7.
Buying an asset largely in the hope of selling it later for a higher price


h.
Quantity adjustment
  8.
Quantity supplied is equal to quantity demanded


i.
Price-elastic demand
  9.
A change in the number of sellers


j.
Surplus
10.
When investors' optimism pushes the price of an asset artificially high




*Individual brands of coffee, by contrast, would have elastic demand, because they can substitute for one another.













 
 
 





P A R T

Macroeconomic Basics


II



















 
 
 




5
Macroeconomic Measurement: The Current Approach




 
 

In order to make good macroeconomic policy choices, we need to have reliable information on how the economy is performing. Gross domestic product (GDP) is the metric that is most often cited to assess overall economic performance.* For example, a common definition of a recession is when an economy's GDP decreases for two consecutive quarters. Of course, other variables, such as unemployment, inflation, and interest rates, are of great interest to economists and policymakers, but they tend to rely most heavily on GDP data to guide their policy recommendations.
In this chapter, we take a detailed look at GDP and related national economic data. But before we begin, a note of caution is in order. Although it is true that GDP growth improves average material living standards, which in turn contributes to well-being, it is not true that GDP growth always increases well-being. For example, if GDP grows simply because people are working longer hours, we would need to evaluate the increase in GDP against the loss in leisure time to determine whether well-being has actually increased. In Chapter 6, we look at the limitations of, and alternatives to, GDP as a measure of well-being, in order to place our discussion of GDP "in context" with our broader discussion of well-being.

1. AN OVERVIEW OF NATIONAL ACCOUNTING

The idea of creating a system of national accounting to guide U.S. economic policies first took hold during the Great Depression in the 1930s. Presidents Herbert Hoover and Franklin Roosevelt knew that national production was down, but other than a few numbers representing the volumes of railroad shipments and steel production, they had no information on how much it was down. Likewise, they had little way of knowing whether the policies that they were trying to implement were actually helping the economy to rebound.
The Department of Commerce commissioned economist Simon Kuznets to begin to develop national accounts. The first set of accounts was presented to Congress in 1937. Interest in keeping national accounts increased in the 1940s because of the need for national economic mobilization during World War II. Now, every functioning country compiles national accounts using standardized approaches.
National accounting involves more than just measuring GDP. Thus we refer to a system of National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA) that collects data on production, income, spending, prices, and employment. In the United States, the national accounts are maintained by a federal agency, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA).

National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA): a set of statistics compiled by the BEA concerning production, income, spending, prices, and employment
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA): the agency in the United States in charge of compiling and publishing the national accounts


1.1 CONVENTIONS ABOUT NATIONAL ACCOUNTING SECTORS

Before we focus on how GDP is measured, we first need to discuss some of the "conventions," or assumptions, used in the NIPA. National accounting conventions are simply habits or agreements, adopted by agencies in order to try to make the accounts as standardized and comparable across different countries and periods as possible. Some of these conventions concern how data are categorized. For example, there are conventions concerning what is classified as investment versus consumption or a durable versus a nondurable good. Other conventions address how estimates are made for some components of the NIPA for which readily available data are lacking. Of course, there are alternatives to the common conventions, but the emphasis is on standardization rather than always choosing the "best" approach.

national accounting conventions: habits or agreements, adopted by government agencies in order to make national accounts as standardized and comparable across different countries and periods as possible

One of the common national accounting conventions concerns how the entire economy is broken down into four national accounting sectors.* These sectors, as defined by the BEA, are:
1. Households and institutions sector: This includes both households and nonprofit institutions that serve households, such as nonprofit hospitals, universities, museums, trade unions, and charities. The BEA also refers to the households and institutions sector as the "personal" sector. (Note how this overlaps with, but is not identical to, the "core sphere" described in Chapter 3.)
2. Business sector: The BEA business sector is somewhat broader than just for-profit businesses. Certain business-serving nonprofit organizations, such as trade associations and chambers of commerce, are included in this category. In addition, government agencies that produce goods and services for sale—such as the U.S. Postal Service, municipal gas and electric companies, and airports—are also classified as being in the business sector.
3. Government sector: The government sector includes all federal, state, and local government entities, except for the "business-like" government enterprises mentioned above.
4. Foreign sector: The entities in the first three sectors include, for the national accounts, only those located within the physical borders of the United States. The foreign sector (or "rest of the world") includes all entities—household, nonprofit, business, or government— located outside the borders of the United States. An individual in another country who buys imported U.S. products, for example, or a company located abroad that sells goods or services to the United States, figures into U.S. accounts as part of the foreign sector.

1.2 CONVENTIONS ABOUT CAPITAL STOCKS

Although natural, manufactured, human, and social capital are all crucial resources for economic activity, it is largely only manufactured capital that is currently included in the accounting of national nonfinancial assets. This might be because the national accounts were originally devised at a time when the rise of manufacturing made the accumulation of machinery and factory buildings appear to be the main road to prosperity. In the twenty-first century, the rise in importance of knowledge, along with concerns for ecological issues, suggests that additional accounts should be added—a topic we take up in Chapter 6.
The first category of manufactured capital in the national accounts is fixed assets. Fixed assets include equipment owned by businesses and governments, structures such as factories and office buildings, and residences (i.e., houses and apartment buildings). In 1999, in partial recognition of the increasingly important role of knowledge and technology in production, computer software was added as an additional type of fixed asset.

fixed assets: equipment owned by businesses and governments; structures; residences; and software

A second—and much smaller—component of the manufactured capital stock is inventories. Inventories are stocks of raw materials, such as crude oil awaiting refining, or manufactured goods, such as the shoe inventory of a retail shoe store, that are held until they can be used or sold. The BEA only counts inventories held by the business sector.

inventories: stocks of raw materials or manufactured goods held until they can be used or sold


Table 5.1 The Estimated Size of U.S. Manufactured Capital Stock, 2011




Type of capital
Value in trillions of dollars at the end of the year


Equipment and software (businesses and government)
  7.0


Structures (businesses and government)
21.5


Residences
17.6


Inventories
  2.2


Consumer durable goods
  4.7


Total value of manufactured capital
53.0


Sources: BEA, Fixed Asset Accounts, table 1.1; NIPA, table 5.9; and authors' calculations.

 
Equipment used by governments and businesses is included in "fixed assets." But what about equipment owned by households, such as cars and stoves, that are used in household production of goods and services? The BEA calls all goods bought by households that are expected to last longer than three years consumer durable goods. In 2003, the BEA began including consumer durables in its accounts of assets.

consumer durable goods: consumer purchases that are expected to last longer than three years. These are generally items of equipment, such as vehicles and appliances, used by households to produce goods and services for their own use.

The BEA estimates of the dollar value of the country's stock of manufactured assets at the end of 2011 are given in Table 5.1.

1.3 CONVENTIONS ABOUT INVESTMENT

The way that the national accounts measure investment spending may seem confusing if one does not keep in mind some basic facts. First, recall from Chapter 3 that economists generally use the term "investment" to mean additions to stocks of nonfinancial assets. This contrasts with the common use of the term "investment" to refer to financial investment, such as the purchase of stocks and bonds. Second, it is important to remember that investment represents a flow. A machine added to a factory in 2013, for example, is considered part of the national stock of nonresidential assets for every year from the time it is installed until the time it is junked. However, the machine was an addition to assets only in 2013, and hence its value would be counted as an investment only in that one year. Lastly, as was also discussed in Chapter 3, gross investment includes all measured flows into the capital stock over a period while net investment adjusts this measure for the fact that some portion of the capital stock wears out, becomes obsolete, or is destroyed—that is, depreciates—over the period.
For example, suppose that an office complex built in 1980 is torn down this year and replaced by a new, larger office complex. Measured gross investment for this year would include the full value of the new office complex. Net investment for this year would be calculated as the value of the new office complex minus the value of the depreciated building that was torn down. If the new building has 100,000 square feet of space, while the old one had 60,000 square feet, for example, the economy has a net gain of only 40,000 square feet of office space. Net investment, which measures only the value of the new space and any improvements in quality, gives a better idea of the actual addition to productive capacity.

gross investment: all flows into the capital stock over a period of time
net investment: gross investment minus an adjustment for depreciation

Gross investment in fixed assets is always zero or positive. However, if, over a period of time, the capital stock depreciates faster than it is being replaced, net investment can be negative. This can sometimes happen to manufactured capital stocks when a country is hit by major disasters such as wars or floods, or during a period when new investment is very low, meaning that gross investment is less than depreciation.

depreciation: a decrease in the quantity or quality of a stock of capital

Ideally, productive investments by all sectors would be recognized in the national accounts. But it was not until 1996 that government investment in fixed assets was recognized, and household investment in consumer durables is still, by convention, not considered part of investment in the national accounts.

Discussion Questions

1. The BEA definitions of sectors use some conventions that are not obvious. To which sector might the BEA assign each of the following entities? Why?
a. A local city government-owned golf course that charges fees similar to those at local private courses
b. A large nonprofit hospital
c. A U.S.-owned movie company whose offices and studio are in Japan
d. A nonprofit trade association, such as the Chocolate Manufacturers Association
2. Under the BEA definitions, would spending on education be counted as investment? Would buying shares in a company be considered investment? Why?

2. DEFINING GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT

As we mentioned earlier, the most referenced single number that comes out of the national accounts is GDP. A wide range of policymakers and media outlets await the announcement of newly published figures on GDP with great anticipation (see Box 5.1). The figures on the growth rate of GDP are often taken to signal the success or failure of macroeconomic policy-making.

gross domestic product (GDP) (BEA definition): a measure of the total market value of final goods and services newly produced within a country's borders over a period of time (usually one year)

According to the BEA, GDP is supposed to measure the total market value of final goods and services newly produced within a country's borders over a period of time (usually one year).
This definition contains several key phrases. Let us consider each of them.
"Market value": For most components of GDP, we can simply refer to the market prices of goods and services to determine their contribution to GDP. However, in some cases (as we discuss later in the chapter), we do not have market prices for certain goods and services and thus need to estimate their value using another approach.
"Final goods and services": A final good is one that is ready for use. That is, no further productive activity needs to occur before the good can be consumed (if it is a good that is used up as it is put to use) or put to work producing other goods and services (e.g., if it is a piece of equipment). The reason for limiting measurement to final goods and services is to avoid double counting. For example, suppose that over the course of a year, paper is produced by one company and sold to another company that uses it to make books. The books are then sold to their final buyers. Books in this case are the final goods, while the paper used in them is an intermediate good. By limiting the accounting to final goods, production is only counted once—the paper is only counted as part of the books.

final good: a good that is ready for use, needing no further processing
intermediate good: a good that will undergo further processing

"Over a period of time": Since GDP measures a flow, it of course must be measured over a time period. Macroeconomists usually work with GDP measured on a yearly basis. Estimates of GDP are released more often than once a year—generally on a quarterly basis (the first quarter covering January through March, the second April through June, and so on). However, even when only a part of the year is being covered, GDP and its growth rates are usually expressed in annual terms.
"Newly produced": Only new goods and services are counted. For example, if you buy a book published in 2010 at a used bookshop, the value of the book itself is not included in this year's GDP. Only the retail services provided by the used bookshop are "newly produced," and are part of this year's GDP.
"Within a country's borders": This means that the goods and services are produced within the physical borders of the country. If a U.S. citizen goes abroad to work, for example, what he or she produces while away is not part of U.S. GDP. On the other hand, the work of a Japanese citizen at a Japanese-owned factory is part of U.S. GDP if that factory is located inside the borders of the United States.


BOX 5.1 U.S. ECONOMY CONTRACTS FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE THE GREAT RECESSION
The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis reported in January 2013 that the U.S. economy contracted for the first time since the Great Recession officially ended in 2009. Real gross domestic product (GDP) for the last quarter of 2012 shrank at an annual rate of 0.1 percent. The decline in GDP was attributed to decreases in private inventory investment, government spending, and exports. The decline in federal defense spending was particularly large, at 22 percent. The BEA also noted that personal consumption expenditures increased by 2.2 percent, with a significant increase in durable goods expenditures of 13.9 percent.
Did the decline in GDP suggest the United States in early 2013 was on the brink of another recession? Most economists rejected this idea. The negative influences on GDP were viewed as temporary factors, rather than indicative of a trend. And indeed, GDP growth resumed, though at only moderate rates, later in 2013.
It's "the best-looking contraction in U.S. GDP you'll ever see," Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist for Capital Economics said in a research note. "The drag from defense spending and inventories is a one-off. The rest of the report is all encouraging."
Also, the decline in private inventories was viewed as a sign that businesses would need to increase purchases to restore depleted inventories. In the wake of this report, most economists projected that the economic recovery in the United States would continue, with projections for annual GDP growth of 2.0 percent to 2.5 percent GDP in 2013.
Sources: "National Income and Product Accounts Gross Domestic Product, 4th quarter and annual 2012 (advance estimate)," BEA News Release, January 30, 2013; "U.S. Economy Contracts for First Time Since Recession," CNN Money, January 30, 2013.

3. MEASURING GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT

The BEA publishes tables showing the components of GDP, as well as many other tables dealing with assets, employment, prices, and other topics in the NIPA. (These are easily accessed at w­w­w­.b­e­a­.g­o­v­.) To understand these tabulations, however, you need to understand how aggregate production, spending, and income are related in an economic system.
Imagine a simple economy with no foreign sector, no depreciation, no inventories, and in which all the profits that companies earn end up in the bank accounts of households. In this case, three quite different measures of counting GDP would in theory all add up to the same number:
Value of Production = Value of Spending = Value of Income
Using a production approach, which might seem to be the most natural and direct method, we could sum up the dollar value of all final goods and services produced in each national accounting sector—by the household and institutions sector, the business sector, and the government sector.
Using the spending approach, we could look at who buys the final goods and services that have been produced. Since we assumed that no goods are carried as inventory in this very simple economy, everything produced must be bought. Totaling the dollar value of spending on all various kinds of goods and services by all sectors in this imaginary simple economy will indicate a second way of arriving at the figure for a country's aggregate production.
Lastly, because in this simple economy everyone who is involved in production also receives monetary payment for their contribution to it, we could, alternatively, take an income approach. In this approach, we total the compensation received by everyone involved in production, including workers, investors, creditors, and owners of land or equipment rented for productive use.
In this very simple economy if, say, $10 billion worth of goods and services is produced, then the amount spent on goods and services must also be $10 billion and the amount of payment received as income must also be $10 billion. Sometimes in dealing with national accounts economists hence use the terms "production," "income," and "expenditure" interchangeably.
While there is a rough equivalence in theory among the product, spending, and income approaches to calculating GDP, making estimates for an actual economy requires a number of conventions and adjustments. We now consider each approach in more detail.

3.1 THE PRODUCT APPROACH

The BEA measures the "value" of final goods and services primarily by their dollar market value. For example, if the business sector produces 1,000 automobiles of a certain type this year, which are which are then sold to final users for $20,000 each, this production contributes $20 million to GDP.
Rather than looking at the final sale, however, it is sometimes useful for accounting and analytical purposes to follow an alternative approach. This is to think about how much each industry contributes to the value of the final good or service. In the value-added approach to GDP accounting, you start with the raw materials—say, iron ore—used in producing a good or service—say, an automobile—and then see how much market value is added at each stage in the production process.

value-added: the value of what a producer sells, less the value of the intermediate inputs it uses, except labor. This is equal to the wages paid out by the producer plus its profits

For example, suppose a steel manufacturer buys $500 worth of iron ore from a mining company and uses this ore to produce steel automobile frames, which it then sells to Ford Motor Company for $1,800 each. The difference between the price of the iron ore and the cost of any other materials needed to convert iron ore into automobile frames, including energy and equipment costs, represents value added. So if the steel manufacturer requires another $200 in additional materials and other costs to produce an automobile frame, then the difference between their total costs ($700) and the selling price ($1,800) is the value added at this stage in production ($1,100). This $1,100 is the amount that is left over after paying for inputs, and it becomes either wages to steel workers or profits to the steel manufacturing company. Similarly, we can determine the value added by Ford Motor Company as the difference between all its input costs (except labor) and the final selling price of the car. If the car sells for $20,000, Ford's value added can be calculated by subtracting the price of the steel, rubber, glass, energy, and all other purchased inputs. Supposing that these added up to $12,000, Ford's value added would be $8,000.
The BEA maintains an extensive set of tables, called Input-Output Accounts, to keep track of the contributions to GDP by various industries. These tables show that outputs of each industrial sector (e.g., agriculture, manufacturing, or services) can become inputs (intermediate goods) to production in other sectors.
If we add up the value-added contribution of each step in the production process, we should end up with the final market price of the good. The fact that these numbers should be the same serves as a "check" on the validity of data that the BEA collects from different sources.
While finding the market value of goods may seem fairly straightforward for manufacturing industries, in practice the idea of "market value" is often much harder to determine. In many cases the BEA uses imputation to estimate the value of components of GDP. An imputation is a sort of educated guess, usually based on the value of similar outputs or on the value of inputs used in production.

imputation: a procedure in which values are assigned for a category of products, usually using values of related products or inputs

For example, the housing stock of a country produces a flow of services—the services of shelter. For housing units that are rented, the rent paid is the market value of the housing services. But how can we find out the value of the services generated by houses occupied by their owners? For these, the BEA must impute a value. They use data from the rental housing market to impute what owner-occupiers might be said to be "paying in rent" to themselves.
In cases where no similar marketed product exists, the BEA often falls back on using a value-added approach, looking exclusively at the value of inputs. We know, for example, that governments purchase many intermediate goods, and then produce goods and services. But rarely are government outputs—new highways, the services of parks, the services of public education, national defense, and so on—actually sold on markets. How, then, can the production of the government be valued?
In the actual GDP accounts, the value of government production is imputed by adding up the amount that governments pay their workers, the amount that they pay for intermediate goods and services, and an allowance for depreciation of fixed assets. Likewise, the production of nonprofit institutions is measured in large part by looking at their inputs. For example, data on payroll expenses form an important part of the information used in estimating the value of the services produced by nonprofit agencies.
Imputations are also used when data are difficult or impossible to obtain. Although it might be tempting to imagine the BEA as an all-knowing agency that can directly observe all market transactions, gathering data is a laborious (and often expensive) process. The BEA relies on a variety of censuses and surveys to obtain information, as well as on data such as government budgets and tax records. Market transactions that people take pains not to have observed by the government—such as illegal drug deals or work performed "off the books" to avoid taxes—hence are usually not represented in the national statistics. The BEA updates all its estimates periodically, as it receives better data or improves its statistical techniques—hence you may see many slightly varying numbers quoted for, say "U.S. GDP, 2013" depending on when the data were published.
In one significant case, however, the designers of the national accounts decided not even to attempt to impute a value for production: the production of goods and services within households for their own use. The official measure of production by households includes the value of services produced by the house itself (i.e., the rent or imputed rent) and production within the households to the extent that work is paid (i.e., done by hired housekeepers, babysitters, or private gardeners). But activities such as unpaid child care, cooking, or the cleaning or landscaping of a home done without pay by household members—traditionally, mostly by women—are not counted in GDP. This creates an anomaly in the accounts. For many years, textbooks noted that "if a man marries his housekeeper, GDP falls." That is, marriage would convert the woman's housekeeping work from being paid and counted to being unpaid and uncounted.
We can summarize the product approach to measuring GDP using the equation:
GDP = Business production + Household and institutions production + Government production
This sort of equation is called an identity or an accounting identity. It holds simply because of the way in which the various terms have been defined. Once we agree on the definitions of terms, then there remains nothing controversial about an identity. (When we begin to deal with macroeconomic modeling in Chapter 9 we introduce another kind of equation, called a behavioral equation. A behavioral equation represents an economist's supposition about how an economic actor behaves—and because it may or may not hold well in practice, it can be more controversial.)

identity (accounting identity): an equation in which the two sides are equal by definition

Note that the foreign sector does not contribute to the production of GDP in the above equation. Can you explain why? (Hint: Look back at the definition of GDP.)
Table 5.2 presents the BEA estimate of GDP in 2012 using the product approach, divided into national accounting sectors and subsectors. Not surprisingly, given the conventions and accounting procedures, the BEA attributes a very large share of productive activity to the business sector. In 2012, the business sector was estimated to have produced goods and services worth about $12 trillion, or about 76 percent of the total GDP of $15.68 trillion. The household and institutions sector and the government sector were each estimated to have contributed about 12 percent. (In Table 5.2, as in later tables, the totals for sectors are often divided into values for subsectors.)

Table 5.2 Gross Domestic Product, Product Approach, 2012





Sector and subsector
Production by sector (trillions of dollars)
Production by subsector (trillions of dollars)


Households and institutions production
  1.93



    Private households

1.07


    Nonprofit institutions

0.86


Business production
11.87



Government production
  1.87



    Federal government

0.62


    State and local governments

1.26


Total: Gross domestic product
15.68



Source: BEA, NIPA, table 1.3.5, January 30, 2013.
Note: Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding.


3.2 THE SPENDING APPROACH

The spending approach adds up the value of newly produced goods and services bought by the household and institution, business, foreign, and government sectors. The estimated values for these expenditures for 2012 are listed in Table 5.3.
Purchases of goods and services by households and nonprofit institutions serving households are called "personal consumption expenditures" by the BEA. By convention, they are all considered "final" goods and services (even though, as discussed earlier, many of these are used in household and nonprofit production processes).

Table 5.3 Gross Domestic Product, Spending Approach, 2012





Sector and type of spending
Spending by sector (trillions of dollars)
Spending by type (trillions of dollars)


Household and institutions spending




(personal consumption expenditures)
11.12



Durable goods

1.22


Nondurable goods

2.56


Services

7.34


Business spending




(gross private domestic investment)
  2.06



Fixed investment

2.00


Change in private inventories

0.06


Net foreign sector spending




(net exports of goods and services)
−0.57



Exports

2.18


Less: Imports

2.75


Government spending




(government consumption expenditures and gross investment)
  3.07



Federal

1.21


State and local

1.85


Total: Gross domestic product
15.68



Source: BEA, NIPA, table 1.1.5, January 30, 2013.
Note: Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding.

Business spending on final goods and services is called "gross private domestic investment" by the BEA. This includes business spending on fixed assets including structures, equipment, and software, as well as the value of changes in inventories within that sector. Why isn't business spending on wages or on materials such as energy and raw materials counted here? Recall that GDP only accounts for final goods and services. Including the value of intermediate inputs with business spending as well would result in double counting.


BOX 5.2 WITH THE STROKE OF A PEN, GDP INCREASES BY $560 BILLION
In July 2013, U.S. GDP increased by $560 billion-overnight. No change took place in actual production. What happened was that the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), which is responsible for calculating GDP, decided to change the way it counts business spending.
The BEA established a new category called "intellectual property products," which includes "entertainment originals" such as TV shows that generate long-term streams of income. Production costs for such items are counted as investment, which is a part of GDP rather than as business expenses, which are excluded from GDP as "intermediate goods." Similarly, research and development expenditures, previously considered to be a business expense like paper clips or electricity, will now also be treated as investment with the possibility to generate future income.
This change increased GDP by 3.6 percent in a single month. This won't be added to figures for economic growth, though. Economic growth will now be calculated using the adjusted method, so that while the overall level of GDP will rise, its trend over time will not change. The Commerce Department reported that rate as an annual 1.7 percent during the second quarter of 201 3—unaffected by the BEA's new method for calculation. It will, however, affect the debt-to-GDP ratio, making the national debt look a little smaller relative to current GDP.
Source: Jared Bernstein and Dean Baker, "What is 'Seinfeld' Worth?" New York Times, August 1, 2013.

 

Sometimes it is not so easy to say what is an intermediate good and what is a final good. Recently, the BEA changed its definitions to include business spending on intellectual property, as well as research and development, as investments (final goods) rather than intermediate goods. Making this change raised the value of GDP by $560 billion—not reflecting any actual increase in production, just a change in the way production is defined (see Box 5.2).
The simple economy that we discussed when noting how, in concept, "production = spending = income" was a closed economy, with no foreign sector. Although sometimes countries isolate themselves from world trade (China during the 1960s being a prime example), for the most part global economic relations have become increasingly important as advances in transportation and communication have accelerated. Because the United States is an open economy, we need to take into account interactions with the foreign sector.

closed economy: an economy with no foreign sector
open economy: an economy with a foreign sector

Some of the goods and services produced inside the United States are bought by entities in the foreign sector. The value of these exported goods must be added to the value of domestic spending in calculating GDP. In addition, some of the spending by U.S. residents is for goods and services produced abroad. Such spending is, in fact, already included in the calculation of spending by the various other sectors in Table 5.3. So the value of imported goods and services must be subtracted to arrive at a measure of domestic production.
Net exports measures the overall impact of international trade on GDP. It is the difference between exports and imports:

net exports: the value of exports less the value of imports

Net exports = Exports − Imports
Net exports may be either positive (if we sell more abroad than we buy) or negative (if we buy more than we sell). In 2012, for example, we can see in Table 5.3 that the United States imported goods and services worth $0.57 trillion (or $570 billion) more than the value of the goods and services exported. (In the table, the fact that the value of imports is subtracted rather than added is denoted by putting the number in italics.) Hence, that year, U.S. net exports were negative.
Lastly, we come to the expenditures made by the government sector. The BEA calls these "government consumption expenditures and gross investment" and breaks them down by whether they are made at the federal level or at the state and local level. These figures represent only spending for final goods and services, so they exclude the parts of government budgets that go for transfers (such as Social Security). In 2012, about two-thirds of federal government spending was on national defense.
Based on the spending by different sectors, we can summarize the spending approach with the identity:

GDP = Household and institution spending
     + Business spending
     + Net foreign sector spending
     + Government spending

Or, if we want to highlight the portions that are (by convention) considered consumption versus those considered investment, we can summarize this approach with the identity:

GDP = Personal consumption
     + Private investment
     + Government consumption
     + Government investment
     + Net exports


3.3 THE INCOME APPROACH

The production-related incomes (such as from wages, rents, and profits) earned by all people and organizations located inside the United States can be summed up in a measure called national income (NI).

national income (NI): a measure of all domestic incomes earned in production

If this were a simple economy with no foreign sector and no depreciation, the sum of the incomes from production (NI) would exactly equal GDP. But in our more complex economy, three adjustments are needed to reconcile figures on domestic income and domestic production.
First, we need to note that some domestic incomes reflectforeign production. For example, as mentioned above, the profits of a U.S. company may include earnings from overseas plants. Such incomes must be subtracted from NI order to reconcile this measure with the figure for gross domestic product. Conversely, the income from some domestic production is received by foreign residents, and so not counted in NI. A German-owned factory in the United States may send its profits back to its Berlin headquarters, for example. The value of these incomes must be added to NI in order to approximate GDP.
In 2011, income receipts from the rest of the world exceeded income paid out to foreign residents by more than $250 billion. These "net income receipts from the rest of the world" are shown in Table 5.4. When net income receipts from the rest of the world are added to GDP, the result is a measure called gross national product (GNP). For many years, GNP was used as the primary measure of U.S. production. It measures a country's production in terms of the output produced by its workers and companies, no matter where in the world they were located. The BEA switched its emphasis from GNP to GDP in 1991, believing that it is more important, for the purposes for which the accounts are used, to track economic activity within the borders of the United States. Most other countries, and international economic agencies that collect national income data, also use GDP as the standard measure.
Second, we need to account for the fact that not all of GDP creates income, since some domestic production simply goes into replacing structures, equipment, and software that have worn out or become obsolete. So we must add depreciation (what the BEA calls "consumption of fixed capital") to NI to get a number closer to GDP. This is a bit confusing—but it is in effect the reverse of what we did above, when we subtracted depreciation from gross investment to get net investment. (In calculating incomes, depreciation is typically deducted from profits.)

Table 5.4 Gross Domestic Product, Income Approach, 2011




Types of income and adjustments
Income and adjustments (trillions of dollars)


National income
13.36


Less: Net income receipts from the rest of the world
  0.25


Plus: Depreciation (consumption of fixed capital)
  1.94


Plus: Statistical discrepancy
  0.03


Total: Gross domestic product
15.08


Source: BEA, NIPA, table 1.7.5, January 30, 2013, and authors' calculations.

 
The third adjustment in Table 5.4 is what is called the "statistical discrepancy." It reflects the fact that, no matter how diligently the BEA compiles the accounts, it cannot exactly reconcile the results from the income approach with the results from the product and spending approaches.
We can summarize the meaningful parts of the income approach by the identity:

GDP = National income
     − Net income payments from the foreign sector
     + Depreciation


Discussion Questions

1. The previous section explained why a country's "production" and "income" can be thought of as roughly equal in a conceptual sense. Why, in practice, does the value of domestic production actually differ from the total of domestic incomes?
2. Sometimes GDP is defined as "The total market value of all final goods and services newly produced in a country over time." Given the above discussion, how true is this definition, really? Does GDP really count only goods and services exchanged in markets? Does it really account for all production?

4. GROWTH, PRICE CHANGES AND REAL GDP

Economic growth (traditionally defined as increasing GDP) is a statistic that is closely followed by policymakers and the media. Inflation, or the growth rate of prices, is another of the macroeconomic statistics that is considered most significant. We now consider the measurement of these two factors and how they relate to each other.

4.1 CALCULATING GDP GROWTH RATES

So far, we have concentrated on calculating GDP in only one year. To calculate rates of economic growth, economists must look at how GDP changes over time. The percentage change in GDP from year to year can be calculated using the standard percentage-change formula. The standard formula, for something that takes one value in year 1 (Value1) and another in year 2 (Value2), is:





So to compute the growth rate of GDP from, say, 2011 to 2012, we calculate:





For example, U.S. GDP in 2011 was estimated at $15.08 trillion, while in 2012 it was estimated at $15.68 trillion. Fitting these into the equation, we have





indicating that GDP grew 4.0 percent between 2011 and 2012.
The BEA and newspapers commonly report the GDP growth rates for quarters, expressed in terms of an "annual growth rate." This is a measure of how much the economy would grow if it were to continue to expand for the entire year at the speed reported for the three-month period.

4.2 NOMINAL VS. REAL GDP

Does the number we just calculated mean that the level of aggregate production in 2012 was 4.0 percent larger than production in 2011? Not necessarily. The measure of GDP used in the previous section is nominal or current-dollar GDP, or GDP expressed in terms of the prices of goods and services that were current at the time. The 2012 figure for GDP that we used, for example, is based on prices as they were in 2012, and the 2011 figure is based on prices that prevailed in 2011.

nominal (current dollar) GDP: gross domestic product expressed in terms of current prices

Not only does output change between two years, but generally the prices at which output is valued change as well. If prices rose between 2011 and 2012, part of the measured GDP growth would be an increase in prices rather than in actual production. Real GDP is a measure that seeks to reflect the actual value of goods and services produced, by removing the effect of changes in prices.

real GDP: a measure of gross domestic product that seeks to reflect the actual value of goods and services produced, by removing the effect of changes in prices

For example, suppose a very simple economy produces only two goods, apples and oranges, as shown in Table 5.5. Column (2) shows the price of each good in each year, while Column (3) gives the physical production, measured in pounds. Nominal GDP is just the sum of the dollar values of the goods produced in a year, evaluated at the prices in that same year:
Nominal GDP = Total production valued at current prices
As we can see in Table 5.5, in Year 1 the value of nominal GDP is $200. In Year 2, the value of nominal GDP is $300. The percentage growth of GDP from Year 1 to Year 2 can be calculated as 50 percent, applying the percentage-change formula from the previous section.
But if you look carefully, you can see that only part of the change in nominal GDP is due to an increase in production: The quantity of oranges produced rises from 50 pounds to 75 pounds from Year 1 to Year 2. The rest of the GDP increase is due to an increase in the price of apples, from $1.00 to $1.50. Note that the quantity of apples produced has not changed.

4.3 CALCULATING REAL GDP

Until 1995, the BEA calculated real GDP using the "constant-dollar method." Because the constant-dollar method is relatively easy to understand and contains most of the information that you need to have as a beginning economics student, we cover it in some detail.

Table 5.5 Calculation of Nominal GDP in an "Apples-and-Oranges" Economy






(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)


Description
Price per pound ($)
Quantity (pounds)
Contribution to nominal GDP [column (2) × column (3)] ($)


Year 1





    Apples
$1.00
100
$100


    Oranges
$2.00
  50
$100





$200


Year 2





    Apples
$1.50
100
$150


    Oranges
$2.00
  75
$150





$300



 
The constant-dollar method uses prices from one particular year, called the base year, to evaluate the value of production in all years.

base year (in the constant-dollar method of estimating GDP): the year whose prices are chosen for evaluating production in all years. Normally real and nominal GDP are equal only in the base year.

Constant-dollar real GDP is calculated by doing the same sort of multiplying and summing exercise as shown in Table 5.5, but using the same prices for all years:
Constant-Dollar Real GDP = Total production valued at base year prices
Applying the constant-dollar method to our simple "apples-and-oranges" example, for instance, we might take Year 1 as the base year and express GDP in both Year 1 and Year 2 in terms of Year 1's prices. Calculations of constant-dollar real GDP for each year are shown in Table 5.6. While the quantities in Column (3) are the same as in Table 5.5, the prices in Column (2) are all from Year 1. GDP in Year 2 expressed in "constant (Year 1) dollars" is the sum of quantities in Year 2 multiplied by prices in Year 1. This comes out to be $250. In the base year, real and nominal GDP are the same.
Using the percentage growth rate formula from the previous section, we can see that constant-dollar real GDP has grown by 25 percent. Note that this is less than the 50 percent growth figure for nominal GDP. Some of the growth in nominal GDP is due to price changes, not production changes.
The convention of using "constant dollars," however, has a number of problems. One of the most bothersome is that it makes measured GDP growth calculations depend on which year is chosen as base. For example, what if we chose Year 2 as the base instead of Year 1 ? Applying Year 2 prices to both years would yield a measured growth rate of 20 percent, instead of the 25 percent that we calculated using Year 1 as the base. (You can check this as an exercise.) The method also suffers from various biases, which become more important the more dissimilar relative prices and spending patterns are between the base year and a current year.

Table 5.6 Calculation of Constant-Dollar Real GDP






(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)


Description
Price per pound in base year ($)
Quantity (pounds)
Contribution to real GDP [column (2) x column (3)] ($)


Year 1 (Base)





    Apples
$1.00
100
$100


    Oranges
$2.00
  50
$100





$200


Year 2





    Apples
$1.00
100
$100


    Oranges
$2.00
  75
$150





$250


*Bold type indicates base year prices


 





Source: BEA NIPA Tables 1.1.5 and 1.1.6, published 1/30/2013.
Figure 5.1 Real versus Nominal GDP, Chained 2005 Dollars, 1980-2012
Nominal GDP grows faster than real GDP when prices are rising.
 

Beginning in 1996, the BEA switched to calculating real GDP using the "chained-dollar" method. The concept behind the new measure is still the same—real GDP still is an attempt to measure output changes free of the influence of changing prices. Although there is still one year for which real and nominal GDP are equal, it is now called the "reference year," and real GDP is currently expressed in BEA publications in terms of "chained (2005) dollars." An advantage of the chained-dollar method is that, unlike the constant-dollar method, it yields a unique growth rate. But the chained-dollar method requires a steep jump in computational complexity. Because these calculations are much harder than for the constant-dollar method, their explanation is in the Appendix to this chapter.
In Figure 5.1 you can see how measures of real and nominal GDP diverge. Because prices were generally rising over the period 1980-2012, nominal GDP grew faster than real GDP, as shown by the more steeply rising line. The difference between the rate of growth of nominal GDP and the rate of growth of real GDP is the inflation rate (discussed in the next section). Note that the reference year in Figure 5.1 is 2005; thus real and nominal GDP are the same in that year.

4.4 PRICE INDEXES AND INFLATION RATES

Price indexes are interesting both for how they relate to calculation of real GDP and on their own because of their relevance to the policy interest in measuring (and controlling) inflation. An index number measures the change in magnitude, in this case the price level, compared to another period. Generally, the value of the index number in the reference or base year is set at 100, though sometimes other values (such as 1 or 10) are used.

index number: a figure that measures the change in magnitude of a variable, such as a quantity or price, compared to another period

The price index most often reported in the news is the consumer price index (CPI), calculated by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The CPI measures changes in the prices of goods and services bought by households.

consumer price index (CPI): an index measuring changes in the prices of goods and services bought by households

Calculating price increases is not quite so straightforward as it might seem at first sight. For example, in Table 5.5 the price of apples increased from $1.00 per pound to $1.50 per pound. Using the standard percentage-change formula, we would say that the price of apples increased by 50 percent. However, we also see in Table 5.5 that the price of oranges did not change. So how do we calculate the overall price change in our two-good economy?
We would not simply average the two price changes to arrive at an overall price increase of 25 percent. Instead, we must realize that changes in some prices are more significant to consumers because they either purchase more of certain products (such as gallons of milk) or because they spend a large portion of their incomes on something (such as rent).
Thus the CPI is calculated using a weighted average of the prices of the various goods and services that it tracks. The mathematics of this is worth a little explaining. A "weighted average" is an average in which the different numbers being averaged together are "weighted" to indicate their relative importance in the calculation. You are probably already familiar with this, in the calculation of your own Grade Point Average. Each grade that you receive for a course is "weighted" by the number of credits (or hours) the course is worth. These weighted grade points are added up and then divided by the total number of credits or hours to yield your GPA. An "A" received for a two-credit course thus receives less emphasis in the calculation than an "A" received for a four-credit course.
Similarly, in measuring price levels in the economy, we want to give greater emphasis to prices for goods and services that affect consumers the most and less emphasis to the prices of relatively minor goods and services. The way to do this is to weight each price by the corresponding quantity that is sold at that price.
Once again, however, we face choices about which standards to use. Should we use as weights the quantities bought in Year 1, Year 2, or some combination? Until recently, the BLS used a constant-weight method to calculate the CPI. Quantities bought during one period are chosen as the "base." These quantities are said to represent a typical "market basket" of goods bought by households. A constant-weight price index is calculated according to the following formula:





The price-index problem is analogous to the calculation of "constant-dollar" GDP—only now it is a common set of quantity weights, rather than prices, from the base period that are applied to every calculation.
Consider, again, our "apples-and-oranges" economy. Table 5.7 shows how we would calculate the numerator and denominator for the constant-weight price index formula, considering Year 2 the current year and using the Year 1 "market basket" as the base. The sum of current (Year 2) prices weighted by base quantities is $250, while the sum of base prices weighted by base quantities is $200. The CPI for Year 2 is therefore calculated as (250/200) x 100 = 125. The price index for the base year (here, Year 1) always equals 100.

Table 5.7 Calculation of a Constant-Weight Price Index






(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)


Description
Price per pound ($)
Quantity in base year
Sum of (prices x base quantities) [column (2) x column (3)] ($)


Year 1 (Base)





Apples
$1.00
100
$100


Oranges
$2.00
  50
$100





$200


Year 2





Apples
$1.50
100
$150


Oranges
$2.00
  50
$100





$250


*Bold type indicates base year quantities

 
The growth rate of prices—that is, the inflation rate affecting consumers—is measured by the growth rate of this price index:





So, in this case, with the price index rising from 100 to 125, the inflation rate is 25 percent.
Unfortunately, when a price index is based on constant weights, it may tend to overstate inflation for periods after the base year. When the price of a good is rising particularly quickly relative to other goods, people tend to look for cheaper substitutes. But a constant-weight index assumes that people are still buying the same quantities of the expensive goods. Various innovations have recently been made in the CPI to attempt to get around this problem. Currently, the "market basket" is updated periodically using data from ongoing household expenditure surveys (see Box 5.3). The BLS now also publishes "chained" price indexes. The mathematics of these more advanced calculations will not be presented here.
The CPI is not the only price index in use. The producer price index (PPI) measures prices that domestic producers receive for their output and so tracks many intermediate goods not included in the CPI market basket. Import and export price indexes track prices of goods traded between domestic residents and the foreign sector. Because they track different goods, these indexes—and inflation rates calculated from them—may vary. Box 5.3 How Quantity Weights Can Lose Vaudity Over Time


BOX 5.3 HOW QUANTITY WEIGHTS CAN LOSE VAUDITY OVER TIME
Why do economists and statisticians make a fuss about updating the quantity weights used in calculating the Consumer Price Index? Consider how household expenditure patterns have changed over time.
In 1901, nearly half the budget of a typical urban, working family went toward food, while 15 percent toward shelter and an equal proportion toward clothing. The family probably spent nothing at all on cars or gasoline— because automobiles were not yet in wide use!
By 1950, the picture had changed considerably. Now only a third of the family's spending was on food, while only 11 percent was on shelter and 12 percent on clothing. On average, families were now spending about 12 percent of their budget on expenses related to private vehicles.
In recent data on consumer expenditures, the share devoted to food has dropped even further—to 13 percent (possibly the lowest the world has ever seen). Expenditures on clothing have dropped to less than 5 percent of a household's budget, on average. Meanwhile, families are spending more on shelter (20 to 30 percent of their budget) and private vehicle expenses (16 percent of their budget), than they were in the mid-twentieth century.
Using expenditure patterns from one of these periods to "weight" the CPI in another would clearly result in biased figures. Using the 1901 expenditure pattern nowadays, for example, would mean that auto and gasoline prices would not figure into the CPI at all.
The invention of new goods and services (e.g., MP3 players) and quality improvements in existing goods (e.g., in products for home entertainment and computing) continue to create special challenges for the economists working to measure price changes.
Sources: Eva Jacobs and Stephanie Shipp, "How Family Spending Has Changed in the U.S.," Monthly Labor Review (March 1990), pp. 20-27; U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Consumer Expenditure Survey 2011, data tables; and authors' calculations.

4.5 GROWTH AND GROWTH RATES

We have calculated year-to-year growth rates for GDP and prices. But suppose that we want to ask how much GDP has grown over the past five years or twenty years? How do we calculate those numbers? The answer is rather complicated, but fortunately you can use BEA's published NIPA tables to answer such questions.
An even simpler (though less precise) way to get a grasp on the relation of annual growth rates to changes over a longer period is by using the rule of 72. Taking 72/x, where x equals the annual growth rate, will give you approximately the number of years it will take for an amount to double if it grows at that constant rate (as long as the numbers you are using are not extremely high or low). For example, if real GDP grew at a constant 4 percent rate per year, it would double in about eighteen years (since 72/4 = 18).

rule of 72: a shorthand calculation that states that dividing 72 by an annual growth rate yields approximately the number of years it will take for an amount to double


Discussion Questions

1. The "constant-dollar" method of estimating real GDP uses prices for one year to calculate measures of GDP for all years. Why is it sometimes important to evaluate GDP in the current year using prices from some other year? Why can't we just always use current prices? Explain.
2. How is the "constant-dollar" method of estimating real GDP similar to the use of "constant weights" in the computation of the price indexes? Explain.

5. SAVINGS, INVESTMENT, AND TRADE

At a personal level, you produce goods and services, earn income, consume, save, and borrow or lend. One of the reasons that you keep personal accounts might be to try to track your inflows and outflows, so that you know whether you are depleting your personal assets or accumulating them. If you can save money out of your current income, you are improving your financial position for the future. However, if you spend down your savings or go into debt merely to finance a high level of consumption, you may find yourself in trouble later on. Spending down financial savings or going into debt can be a good choice for your future only if you use the funds to gain another valuable asset. Students often go into debt in order to finance their education, for example, with the idea that it will pay off later by enabling them to earn a higher income than they would have been able to otherwise.
There are analogous issues at the national level. Besides keeping track of economic growth and inflation, systems of national accounting serve another important purpose. They allow us to look at the savings-and-assets situation of a national economy as a whole (at least as far as manufactured assets and financial flows are concerned).

5.1 THE RELATIONSHIP OF SAVINGS, INVESTMENT, AND TRADE

The category at the national level that is analogous to your personal day-to-day consumption spending is the consumption spending done by the "household and institutions" and "government" sectors. This is spending on goods and services that are presumably "used up" right now—they are not expected to help the country over the long term. The analogous category to your income is—at least roughly—GDP.
Recall that the spending approach to GDP says that
GDP = Personal consumption + Private investment + Net exports + Government consumption + Government investment
Rearranging, we obtain
GDP − Personal consumption − Government consumption = Private investment + Government investment + Net exports
Because saving is what is left over from income after spending on consumption (the left-hand side of the equation above), we can combine private and government investment on the right-hand side to get:
Saving = Investment + Net exports.
Thinking about these quantities in terms of valuable goods and services, this important identity says, intuitively, that goods and services that are produced in our domestic economy in excess of what we currently use for consumption can be investment goods—additions to our stock of manufactured assets (including replacement of depreciated assets)—or can be sold to foreign countries (in excess of the value of what we import from them).

5.2 NET DOMESTIC PRODUCT AND SAVING

The investment concept used in defining gross domestic product (GDP) is gross investment. To calculate what the level of production is during a year, above and beyond the production that simply replaces worn-out manufactured capital, we need another concept, net domestic product (NDP). NDP is GDP less depreciation (just as net investment, we saw earlier, is gross investment less depreciation):

net domestic product (NDP): a measure of national production in excess of that needed to replace worn-out manufactured capital, calculated by subtracting depreciation from GDP

Net domestic product = GDP − Depreciation
Similarly, we can differentiate between gross saving and net saving. To really find out the extent to which we have "put something aside for the future," we would subtract depreciation from our gross measure of saving. For example, even if our savings were positive, if they did not finance enough investment to make up for the deterioration of capital stock, we would actually start the next year in a worse position. Net saving is thus gross saving minus depreciation.
Net saving = (Gross) Saving − Depreciation
Net saving is a better measure than gross saving of whether we are "putting something aside for the future."
How much has the United States been "putting something aside for the future" lately? According to BEA data, gross savings in the United States were $1.84 trillion in 2011. But since fixed capital depreciation in 2011 was $1.94 trillion, net savings were actually negative! Net savings in the United States were also negative in 2010 and 2009. Compared to other countries, the United States has had relatively low savings rates for many years.

Discussion Questions

1. Suppose that the country of Atlantis is investing and exporting a great deal, while it imports little. What can you say about its level of national saving? Suppose the country of Olympus invests more than it saves. How can it do this?
2. Do you think it is a problem that the United States has a relatively low savings rate? What might be done to raise this rate, by individuals, corporations, or government? Review Questions


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. For what purpose was national accounting in the United States originally begun?
  2. Who compiles the National Income and Product Accounts?
  3. What are the four accounting sectors of the economy, according to the BEA? What sorts of entities are included in each sector?
  4. What forms of capital assets are tracked by the BEA?
  5. Explain the difference between gross and net investment.
  6. Explain four key phrases that appear in the definition of GDP.
  7. What are the three approaches to GDP measurement?
  8. Explain why, in a simple economy, the three approaches would yield the same figure for the value of total production.
  9. Explain why the following two approaches arrive at the same number for the value of a final good: (a) looking at the market price of the good and (b) counting up the value-added at each stage of its production.
10. How are "market values" determined for goods and services that are not exchanged in markets or when data is not available?
11. Describe the components of GDP according to the product approach.
12. Describe the components of GDP according to the spending approach.
13. What are the major differences between GDP and national income?
14. Describe the reasoning behind the "constant-dollar" approach to calculating real GDP.
15. What are some problems with the "constant-dollar" approach to calculating real GDP?
16. Describe the reasoning behind the "constant-weight" method traditionally used in estimating the price indexes.
17. Is there only one kind of price index? Explain.
18. Explain how savings, investment, and trade are related in the national accounts.
19. Explain how a country can finance an excess of imports over exports.

EXERCISES
  1. If you look at the government-supplied statistical tables regarding the national accounts, you might find that they often go into considerable detail about "farm" vs. "nonfarm" activities, while it is much harder to dig out good information on, for example, the activities of the finance industry. Can you conjecture how this might relate to the history of the national accounts?
  2. In which line (or lines) of Table 5.2 (the product approach) would the value of each of the following be counted? "Not counted in any category" is also an option.
a. Production of fresh apples, domestically grown for profitable sale
b. State health inspection services
c. Education services provided by a private, nonprofit domestic college
d. Child-care services provided by a child's parents and relatives
e. Production by a U.S.-owned company at its factory in Singapore
  3. In which line (or lines) of Table 5.4 (the income approach) would the value of each of the following be counted? If it is part of "net income flows from the rest of the world," explain whether it reflects domestic (or foreign) production and whether it reflects domestic (or foreign) income. "Not counted in any category" is also an option.
a. Wages paid by your local supermarket to its employees
b. Profits received by a U.S. electronics firm from its factory in Mexico
c. Business spending to replace worn-out equipment
d. Wages paid by a U.S. electronics firm to the employees of its factory in Mexico
e. Profits received by a Japanese automaker from its factory in the United States
  4. In which line (or lines) of Table 5.3 (the spending approach) would the value of each of the following be counted? "Not counted in any category" is also an option.
a. A new refrigerator bought by a family
b. A book newly produced in Indiana and bought by a store in Mexico
c. New computers, manufactured in Asia, bought by a U.S. accounting company
d. Meals produced and served in Virginia to military personnel
e. New computers, produced in the United States, bought by a U.S. computer retail chain and not yet sold by the end of the year
f. A three-year-old couch bought by a used furniture store in Arizona
g. Cleaning services bought by a nonprofit hospital in New York
h. The services of volunteers in an environmental action campaign
  5. Using the relations among accounting categories demonstrated in the tables and identities in the text, use the information on values in the chart on the next page (measured in Neverlandian pesos) from the country of Neverland in 2010 to find values for the following categories:
a. Private household production
b. Business production
c. Fixed investment spending (by business)
d. Federal government spending
e. National income




Household and institutions spending = 650
Business spending = 50


Household and institutions production =150
Exports = 225


Net income payments from the rest of the world = 5
Imports = 125


Nonprofit institutions production = 50
Government production = 200


State and local government spending = 30
Statistical discrepancy = 0


Change in private inventories = 2
GDP = 850


Depreciation = 60



  6. Suppose an extremely simple economy produces only two goods, pillows and rugs. In the first year, 50 pillows are produced and sold at $5 each; 11 rugs are produced and sold at $50 each. In the second year, 56 pillows are produced and sold for $5 each; 12 rugs are produced and sold at $60 each.
a. What is nominal GDP in each of the two years?
b. What is the growth rate of nominal GDP?
c. What is real GDP in each year, expressed in terms of constant Year 1 dollars?
d. What is the growth rate of real GDP (in constant Year 1 dollars)?
  7. Assume the same simple economy described in the previous question.
a. Calculate a constant-weight price index for the second year, using the first year as the base.
b. What is the growth rate of prices (inflation rate) from the first to the second year?
  8. List the key simplifying assumptions of the traditional macro model concerning:
a. The forms of capital included in the model
b. The sectors of the economy
c. Who in the economy produces and invests
  9. Go to the Bureau of Economic Analysis Web site (w­w­w­.b­e­a­.g­o­v­). What are the latest figures for real GDP, current dollar GDP, and the growth rate of GDP? What time period do these represent? In what sort of dollars is real GDP expressed?
10. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B:




Column A
Column B


a. A negative (subtract-ed) item in GDP
  1. The year in which real and nominal values are equal


b. A major cause of difference between GDP and NI
  2. Purchases of computer software


c. An imputed value
  3. Consumption of fixed capital (depreciation)


d. An entity in the government sector
  4. Unpaid household production


e. Reflects the prices of all goods and services counted in GDP
  5. Implicit price deflator


f. Base year
  6. National income


g. An assumption of the traditional macro model
  7. Spending on imported cheese


h. Something not counted in by the BEA in calculating GDP
  8. A measure that seeks to remove the effects of price changes


i. Real GDP
  9. Uses a fixed "market basket"


j. A component of the "income approach" to GDP accounting
10. What homeowners "pay" themselves in rent


k. A constant-weight price index
11. "Governments do not produce"


l. Part of business investment (gross private domestic investment)
12. A state university


11. Go to the Bureau of Labor Statistics Web site (w­w­w­.b­l­s­.g­o­v­) and locate its information on the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (called the "CPI-U"). What is its current value? What month is this for? How does its value in this month compare to its value for the same month a year ago? (That is, by what percentage has the index risen? Use the "seasonally adjusted" number.)
12. (If Appendix is assigned.) The "chained Year 1 dollar" estimate of real GDP in the apples-and-oranges example (see Appendix) is smaller than the "constant Year 1 dollar" estimate of real GDP. Can you explain why? (Hint: Compare the GDP growth rates derived using the two methods.)

APPENDIX: CHAINED DOLLAR REAL GDP

The key new concept in the "chained-dollar" method is an emphasis on estimating quantity indexes for GDP in the current year relative to the year before and relative to the reference year.

quantity index: an index measuring changes in levels of quantities produced

Chained-dollar measures of real GDP and GDP growth are based on the use of index numbers. The ratio of two values of GDP in adjacent years, measured at a common set of prices, can be used as a quantity index to measure production in one year relative to another.
The calculation of chained-dollar real GDP starts with the calculation of a Fisher quantity index, which measures production in one year relative to an adjacent year by using an average of the ratios that would be found by using first one year and then the other as the source of prices at which production is valued. The type of average used is a "geometric" average. Instead of adding two numbers and then dividing by two, as you would in calculating the most common type of average (the arithmetic mean), to get a geometric average you multiply the two numbers together and then take the square root. The formula for this Fisher quantity index is:

Fisher quantity index: an index that measures production in one year relative to an adjacent year by using an average of the ratios that would be found by using first one year and then the other as the source of prices at which production is valued

 





This index has a value of 1 in the reference year, which we take to be Year 1.
The growth rate of real GDP between the reference year and the next year can then be calculated as:
growth rate = (Fisher quantity index − 1) × 100
For example, we have already made many of the necessary calculations for the "applesand-oranges" economy in Tables 5.5 and 5.6. Plugging these in, we get





The growth rate of real GDP for the "apples-and-oranges" economy between these two years is
growth rate = (1.225 − 1) × 100 = 22.5 percent
Note that this growth rate is between the two growth rates (20 percent and 25 percent) we obtained by using the constant-dollar method with various base years. The Fisher quantity index method gives us a unique average number for estimated growth.
A quantity index for the current year in terms of a reference year that may be several years in the past is created by "chaining together" year-to-year Fisher quantity indexes to make a chain-type quantity index comparing real production relative to the reference year. The chain-type quantity index has a value of 100 in the reference year. In any subsequent year, it is set equal to the chain-type quantity index from the previous year multiplied by the Fisher quantity index calculated for the current year.

chain-type quantity index: an index comparing real production in the current year to the reference year, calculated using a series of year-to-year Fisher quantity indexes

Finally, estimation of real GDP in (chained) dollar terms is made by multiplying the chain-type quantity index for a year times the level of nominal GDP in the reference year and dividing by 100.
For example, suppose that we take our "apples-and-oranges" economy, making Year 1 the reference year. Year 1's chain-type quantity index is thus set equal to 100, and its nominal and real GDP are equal. These are shown in Table 5.8. The chain-type quantity index for Year 2 is the previous year's value (100) times the Fisher quantity index that we just calculated (1.225). We multiply this result, the new index number 122.5, times nominal GDP in the base year ($200) and divide by 100 to get real GDP, $245. Whew!

Table 5.8 Deriving Real GDP in Chained (Year 1) Dollars





Type of measure
Year 1
Year 2


Nominal GDP
$200
$300


Fisher quantity index (current to previous year)





___
1.225




100 × 1.225


Chain-type quantity index
100
= 122.5




(122.5 × $200)/100


Real GDP (chained Year 1 dollars)
= $200
= $245


This can be continued for many years into the future—or into the past. (For example, if the Fisher quantity index calculated for Year 3 were to come out to be 1.152, then the chain-type quantity index for Year 3 would be 122.5 × 1.152.) If you want to check to see that this method actually makes some sense, calculate the percentage change in real GDP from Year 1 to Year 2 using the values in the table above. You will find it does, in fact, equal 22.5 percent!
A price index can be calculated for Year 2 (using Year 1 as the reference year) as (300/245) × 100 = 122.5, showing a 22.5 percent price increase over Year 1. This kind of price index is known as a "GDP deflator" or "implicit price deflator."

GDP deflator (implicit price deflator): a price index created by dividing nominal GDP by real GDP

The new method has some other drawbacks, as well. The sum of real components of GDP in chained-dollar terms do not generally exactly add up to real GDP. Users of the data are also warned not to make comparisons of chained-dollar amounts for years far away from the reference year. The BEA tries to make the data more usable by providing tables in which, for example, year to year growth rates in components of GDP are already calculated for the user.


 

*A closely related measure is gross national product (GNP). The difference between GNP and GDP concerns whether foreign earnings are included. GNP includes the earnings of a country's citizens and corporations regardless of where they are located in the world. GDP includes all earnings within a country's borders, even the earnings of foreign citizens and corporations. GDP is the more common measure used when comparing international statistics.
*We call them "national accounting sectors" to differentiate them from the classification of the economy into sectors discussed in Chapter 7, where we refer to "production" sectors.













 
 
 




6
Macroeconomic Measurement: Environmental and Social Dimensions




 
 
1. A BROADER VIEW OF NATIONAL INCOME ACCOUNTING

As discussed in Chapter 5, GDP is a good (though not perfect) summary of the annual flow of goods and services through the market. In the 80-plus years since the introduction of U.S. national income accounting, GDP has become the official barometer of living standards and business cycles. It appears in newspapers and political debates as a measure of government performance and an indicator of economic, political, and social progress.
GDP is not just something that economists look at; rather, numbers on the size and growth rate of GDP affect critical national and international policies. It is a measure by which we judge presidents and a basis on which multilateral institutions determine how much money they will lend to developing countries. GDP numbers are widely used as a proxy for national success.
Yet GDP was never intended to play such a role. Economists dating back to Simon Kuznets, the originator of U.S. national accounting systems, have warned that GDP is a specialized tool for measuring market activity, which should not be confused with national well-being. As suggested in Box 6.1, GDP often rises with increases in things that most people would want to have less of, while it often fails to rise with positive contributions to individual and social well-being that are not bought and sold in markets.
As discussed in Chapter 3, marketed economic activity occurs within broader social and environmental contexts. These contexts can have an effect on national welfare that is no less important than marketed economic activity. The various alternatives to national accounting presented in this chapter represent our growing awareness of the importance of these social and environmental contexts of economic activity.
In Chapter 1, we mentioned that neglect of the questions of what, how, and for whom can mean that growth in production per capita may not lead to increased welfare. Now we can go into more detail about the problems that arise from focusing on production alone—or from focusing only on the money value of output, with too little attention to the details of what is being produced. Many economists, and others analysts, believe that if we are really to understand this more complete picture of the economy, and what it is doing for human well-being, national governments need to start gathering new kinds of data and creating new indicators.
Before we begin to discuss specific options for adjusting, replacing, or supplementing GDP, we first need to ask ourselves three important questions:
1. What should we measure? GDP measures only economic production. Are there some things that GDP excludes that should be included as a component of well-being, such as health outcomes or environmental quality? Should some parts of GDP be excluded because they harm well-being, in the short or long term?
2. What should be used as the unit of measurement? Although GDP is measured in dollars, what units should be used to measure other variables of well-being, such as levels of violence or air quality?
3. Should we seek to combine disparate well-being indicators into a single "bottom-line" number, or should we keep the variables disaggregated (i.e., split up into component categories)? One tempting approach is to convert all variables to dollars to allow for comparability. But what techniques can we use to measure variables such as environmental quality or social capital in dollars, and should we even try?


BOX 6.1 THERE'S NO G-D-P IN "A BETTER ECONOMY"
The year-end numbers have been tabulated, and America is winning the race by a large margin. The nation's closest competitor, China, scores only half as high, and European nations, Japan, and Brazil lag way behind with little chance of catching up.
This statement is not about medal counts from the summer Olympics; it's not about citizens' health; and it's certainly not about student test scores in math and science. It's about GDP The United States continues to dominate the race for the biggest economy.
Gross domestic product has become the most watched and most misinterpreted of all economic indicators. It's a measure of economic activity—of money changing hands. Despite the mundane nature of this economic indicator, politicians fiercely compete with each other to see who can promise the fastest GDP growth. Government programs and investments in technology get the green light only when they are predicted to spur GDP growth. Economists, bankers, and businesspeople pop the champagne corks when they hear "good news" about quarterly GDP numbers.
And while the United States leads in GDP, it also leads in military spending, the number of people in prison, and the percentage of people who are obese. These other first-place finishes seem at odds with America's position atop the GDP standings—that is, until you realize that spending on war, incarceration, and disease, as well as other "defensive expenditures," all count toward GDP The arithmetic of GDP doesn't consider what the money is actually being spent on, and over time, we've been spending more and more money on remedial activities and calling this "progress."
Counting all these negatives in GDP (not to mention omitting positive activities such as raising children, volunteering, and caring for elderly people) seems like an oversight or an accounting mix-up. But it also seems like something that could be easily fixed. Many people, including Nobel laureates in economics (and even the laureate who invented national income accounting) have issued stern warnings not to confuse GDP with national progress, and many forward-thinking economists have proposed alternative indicators of progress.
Source: Rob Dietz and Dan O'Neill, "There's No G-D-P in 'A Better Economy,'" Stanford Social Innovation Review, January 7, 2013.

 

One response to the last question has been the development of satellite accounts,* which are intended to supplement standard accounts by tracking data on other well-being indicators, such as health, education, and other aspects of social and environmental well-being. For example, the United Kingdom maintains environmental accounts that track data on forested area, oil and gas reserves, waste generation, greenhouse gas emissions, and expenditures on environmental protection.

satellite accounts: additional or parallel accounting systems that provide measures of social and environmental factors in physical terms, without necessarily including monetary valuation

The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) uses dollar-denominated satellite accounts to highlight certain existing components of GDP. For example, the BEA is creating a new satellite account that highlights health-care expenditures that fall under GDP but are currently obscured by the aggregate measure.1 Beginning in 1994 the BEA also operated a satellite account that was designed to see how GDP would be different if research and development were counted as investment rather than spending. As noted in Chapter 5, this change was incorporated into the core GDP account beginning in 2013.2 Future uses of satellite accounts in the BEA may start experimenting with changes such as valuing household labor or counting environmental losses as losses.
In general, the BEA's satellite accounts rely on monetary valuation and are readily comparable to GDP. Other countries use satellite accounts in which the unit of measurement is physical units. Even where resources can be easily valued in dollars, data in physical units may be more meaningful. Consider that we could measure the economic value of oil and gas reserves by multiplying the quantity of reserves in physical units multiplied by the market price. But suppose that the market price increases considerably at the same time that reserves are drawn down. Although the economic value of reserves could increase, that information would fail to tell us that our physical reserves have declined.
Often it is very difficult to convert variables to monetary units. How can we express changes in violence or health levels in terms of dollar values? Such questions raise important methodological issues, such as whether the economic value of higher asthma rates includes only medical expenditures and lost productivity or whether other quality of life factors need to be considered. Some may raise ethical objections to attaching dollar values to variables such as traffic deaths or biodiversity.
Satellite accounts can be viewed as a "dashboard" approach to national accounting. The dashboard on a car provides not only a speedometer but also a gas gauge and an indicator of temperature and battery level—and we have in recent years come to recognize the value of adding an indicator of how many miles are being driven per gallon of fuel. The dashboard on an airplane contains even more indicators, and an economy is considerably more complex than an airplane.* Proponents of this approach agree that GDP is a very useful record of national output for historical and international comparisons, but believe that GDP tells us only one of the things that we want to know about the economy. Some of the things that it does not tell us are very important, and they deserve to have their own indicators.
As we delve into additional categories that we might wish to have reported in national accounts, we may find ourselves straying into areas where measurement becomes more difficult. Thus we can add a fourth question to our list above: Should we include only variables that can be measured objectively (whether in money or other units), or should we also consider subjective data? In particular, should one or more of our "dashboard" indicators present the results from surveys that ask people about their well-being? We consider this possibility in the next section.
Due to funding cutbacks, in the United States progress on improving macroeconomic measurement in the national accounts has slowed considerably. Nevertheless, many private groups, as well as subnational entities (such as states) in the United States and official statistical agencies in a number of other countries are making progress in developing better measures to address the social and environmental issues of the twenty-first century.
For example, the national statistical agencies of the UK, France, and Germany are currently constructing alternative measures of well-being. There has been a proliferation of new indicators, more than a dozen of which have emerged in the past decade. Some are concentrating on developing refined measures of national assets and production, keeping as close as possible to the framework of the National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA). Others are working to develop wholly new indicators, hoping either to replace GDP as the major measure of economic success or to persuade the public and policymakers that GDP is useful only for some purposes and that other measures are needed to make different assessments.

Discussion Questions

1. GDP can be characterized as a (rough) measure of the amount of "throughput" taking place in an economy—as measuring the level of activity whose purpose it is to turn renewable and nonrenewable resources into new products. How does "throughput" relate to sustainable well-being? Is more "throughput" always a good thing?
2. In Chapter 3, we discussed how economies are based on natural, manufactured, social, and human capital. Only the value of manufactured capital (structures and equipment)—and recently, software—is estimated in the current national accounts. Can you think of ways that the stocks of natural, social, and human capital might be measured? What kind of information would be needed?

2. WHY GDP IS NOT A MEASURE OF WELL-BEING

Recognizing the limitations of GDP and the need to develop indicators that incorporate social and environmental factors, in 2008 French president Nicolas Sarkozy created the Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress. The commission was chaired by Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz, and the chair of the advisory board was another Nobel laureate economist, Amartya Sen. Other members of the commission included numerous prominent economists.
In September 2009, the commission produced its nearly 300-page report. It concluded that it is necessary to shift from an emphasis on measuring economic production to measuring well-being. It also distinguished between current well-being and sustainability, recognizing that whether current well-being can be sustained depends upon the levels of capital (natural, physical, human, and social) passed on to future generations.

2.1 SUBJECTIVE WELL-BEING

As mentioned above, GDP was never intended to measure welfare or well-being. Even if increases in GDP produce increases in well-being, ceteris paribus, many other factors may be equally or more important in determining well-being levels. In other words, well-being is clearly multidimensional. The Sarkozy Commission, for example, defined eight dimensions of well-being, including material living standards, health, education, political voice, social connections, and the environment.
Objective data can be collected that provide information on many of these dimensions, such as average life expectancy, literacy rates, and air pollution levels. But such data still do not tell us exactly how these factors relate to well-being. If the goal of economics is to promote well-being, you may wonder why economists do not try to measure it directly. Until recently, most economists believed that it was not possible to obtain quantitative data on something that is inherently subjective; we cannot hook up individuals to a machine and measure their well-being in unambiguous quantitative terms. But we can take a much more intuitive approach—we can simply ask people about their well-being. Although this approach may seem unscientific, a large body of scientific research has emerged in recent decades that suggests that data on subjective well-being (SWB) provides meaningful information regarding social welfare levels and the factors that influence well-being.

subjective well-being: a measure of welfare based on survey questions asking people about their own degree of life satisfaction

Collecting data on SWB involves surveying individuals and asking them a question such as: "All things considered, how satisfied are you with your life as a whole these days?" Respondents then answer based on a scale from 1 (dissatisfied) to 10 (satisfied). How much credence can we give to the answers to such questions?
A wide variety of efforts, such as the World Happiness Report from Columbia University's Earth Institute,3 the Gallup World Poll, and the European Social Survey, have come up with remarkably consistent measures of "happiness" or "life satisfaction." The Sarkozy Commission concludes:
Research has shown that it is possible to collect meaningful and reliable data on subjective as well as objective well-being. Quantitative measures of [SWB] hold the promise of delivering not just a good measure of quality of life per se, but also a better understanding of its determinants, reaching beyond people's income and material conditions. Despite the persistence of many unresolved issues, these subjective measures provide important information about quality of life.4
The Sarkozy Commission recommends using SWB data in conjunction with objective data on various well-being dimensions such as income levels and health outcomes to obtain a more comprehensive picture of welfare.
Most relevant for our study of macroeconomics is how SWB results correlate with standard economic measures of national welfare such as GDP. We can study the relationship in two ways:
1. Are average SWB levels higher in countries with higher GDP per capita?
2. As GDP per capita increases in a particular country over time, do SWB levels rise?
SWB data have been collected for many developed and developing countries. Figure 6.1 plots average SWB against per-capita GDP, adjusted for differences in purchasing power, for 56 countries. In general, SWB is positively correlated with higher levels of GDP, but note that the benefits of income gains decline at higher income levels, as shown by the curved trendline. However, SWB can be high in both rich and poor countries. In fact, the countries with the highest SWB levels are Mexico and Colombia, both middle-income countries.
Figure 6.1 also shows that while SWB varies among richer countries, all developed countries have relatively high SWB. There are no countries above a per-capita GDP of $20,000 per year that have an average SWB below 6.0, and many poorer countries have an average SWB below 6.0. Thus it appears from this graph that for at least some developing countries, increasing GDP could lead to higher SWB levels. But income gains in richer countries are associated with much smaller increases in SWB.






Sources: SWB from World Values Survey online data analysis, 2005-2008 survey wave; GDP from World Development Indicators online database.
Figure 6.1 Average Subjective Well-Being and GDP per Capita
 

The other way to analyze country-level SWB data is to consider how SWB changes as a country develops economically over time. The longest time series of SWB data comes from the United States, dating back to 1946. While real GDP per capita has increased by about a factor of three since 1946, average SWB levels have essentially remained constant. But an analysis of country trends in SWB over the period 1981-2007 found that average SWB rose in 45 of 52 countries, with economic growth leading to greater SWB gains for low-income countries. India is an example of a country that has experienced significant gains in SWB levels as its economy has grown in recent decades.5
Based on both approaches to evaluating SWB, the results imply that as people are able to meet their basic needs, such as adequate nutrition and basic health care, their happiness generally increases. Beyond that, further income gains are associated with smaller increases in SWB or no increase at all. At higher income levels, people seem more likely to judge their happiness relative to others. So even if everyone's income doubles, average happiness levels may be unchanged.
As the Sarkozy Commission mentions, further work is needed to understand the relationship between SWB and other well-being measures. But the results so far suggest that SWB should be one of the indicators on our "dashboard" of well-being measures.

2.2 CRITIQUES OF GDP

Many important issues are not included adequately, if at all in GDP. In addition, some things that are included in GDP can be misleading or represent actively harmful activities.
• A critical issue is household production, which is examined at more length later in this chapter. While standard accounting measures include the paid labor from such household activities as child care and gardening, these services are not counted when they are unpaid.
• Standard measures do not count the benefits of volunteer work, even though such work can contribute to social well-being as much as economic production does. Also, the free services provided by many nonprofit organizations (e.g., a homeless shelter funded by donations) go unaccounted, even if the workers in the organization are paid.
• Leisure is another important neglected factor. A rise in output might come about because people expend more time and effort at paid work. The resulting increase in measured output does not take into account the fact that overwork makes people more tired and stressed and takes away from time that they could use for enjoying other activities. But if people spend more time in leisure, increasing their well-being, this will not be reflected in GDP (except insofar as they spend money on leisure-related activities).
• Also inadequately reflected are issues around loss (or gain) of human and social capital formation. Social and political factors that may significantly affect well-being include the health and education levels of a country's citizens, as well as political participation, government effectiveness (or lack thereof), and issues of trust, corruption, or other aspects of the economic and social culture.
• Another significant criticism of GDP, when used as a general measure of economic progress or success, is that interactions between the economy and the natural world are often ignored. GDP generally does not account for environmental degradation and resource depletion, while treating natural resources that do not go through the market as having no monetary value.
• Some outputs merely compensate for, or defend against, harmful events that result, directly or indirectly, from the economic activity represented in GDP. Referred to as defensive expenditures, these show up as positive contributions to GDP but we do not account for the associated negative impacts. Consider, for example, an oil spill that results in massive clean-up efforts: The billions of dollars spent cleaning up after the 2011 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico turned up as positive additions to GDP, even while the environmental and human losses are mostly not reflected. When environmental issues are mostly invisible, there can be an appearance of economic growth even as the ecological basis for future economic health is being seriously undermined.

defensive expenditures: money spent to counteract economic activities that have caused harm to human or environmental health

• Products or production methods that reduce, rather than increase, well-being may show up as additions to GDP. Unhealthy foods and drugs and dangerous equipment, for example, may lower, not raise, overall well-being. Even if people are willing to pay for such goods and services, either individually (perhaps influenced by advertising) or through their governments (perhaps influenced by interest group lobbyists), such decisions might reflect poor information or bad judgment when looked at from the point of view of well-being. In terms of production methods, if people are miserable at their jobs, suffering boring, degrading, unpleasant, or harmful working conditions, their well-being is compromised. The divergence between output and well-being is especially obvious in cases where workers' lives or health are threatened by their working conditions, even while their work results in a high volume of marketed goods and services.
• Another gap between GDP and well-being is financial debt. GDP counts consumption levels as rising even if the rise is financed by unsustainably large debt burdens, whether the debt is held by consumers or by governments. When debts are high enough to require painful changes in future consumption, not accounting for financial debt is similar to not accounting for unsustainable tolls exacted on the natural environment.
• Finally, increased economic activity in a given country is counted as an addition to GDP even if it increases inequality. Two countries with the same per-capita GDP may have a significantly different income distribution and, closely related, different levels of overall well-being. At an individual level, if someone making just $20,000 per year receives a raise of $1,000, this is counted as the same societal gain as it would be if that raise went to someone with an income of $100,000. Obviously, the additional income means much more for the individual well-being of the person with the lower salary. Although economists generally accept this concept (called the diminishing marginal utility of income), GDP counts income gains the same regardless of whether the person receiving the increase desperately needs the income or is already rich.
The foregoing examples all indicate the social dangers of pursuing policies geared only to raising GDP. A narrow national focus solely on increasing output may result in decreased leisure and less time for parenting, friendships, and community relations; it can increase levels of stress and mental illness, or raise economic inequality to a socially destructive level. For all these reasons, improvements are needed in the design of measures of national success and in defining and gathering the data needed for such measures. The next two sections describe three leading alternative measures.

3. ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES TO REPRESENTING WELL-BEING
3.1 THE GENUINE PROGRESS INDICATOR (GPI)

In 1989, economist Herman Daly and theologian John Cobb Jr. suggested an alternative measure to GDP that they called the Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare (ISEW). This measure was later transformed into the Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI), one of the most ambitious attempts to date to design a replacement to GDP.* The GPI is a measure of economic well-being that adds many benefits and subtracts many costs that are not included in GDP. It is designed to differentiate

between economic activity that diminishes both natural and social capital and activity that enhances such capital... . In particular, if GPI is stable or increasing in a given year the implication is that stocks of natural and social capital on which all goods and services flows depend will be at least as great for the next generation, while if GPI is falling it implies that the economic system is eroding those stocks and limiting the next generation's prospects.6

The starting point of the GPI is personal consumption expenditures (PCE). In the United States, about 70 percent of GDP consists of personal consumption, with the remainder made up of government consumption, investment, and net exports. In calculating the GPI, the level of PCE is first adjusted for income inequality, measured by dividing PCE by a factor that reflects the change in the Gini ratio since 1968. (Recall from Chapter 3 that a higher Gini ratio indicates greater inequality; the ratio was at a low point in the United States in 1968, and has generally risen since then.)
Next, some items that increase well-being but are not measured in PCE are added, including estimates of the value of time spent on household and volunteer work and the value of higher education. A measure of the services of consumer durables is added, reflecting the well-being gained from having items such as appliances and cars. Although most government spending is excluded from the GPI because it is argued that such spending is defensive, services such as those that come from government spending on highways and streets is added.
Then cost items are subtracted, including estimates of social costs, such as the costs of crime and lost leisure time, and environmental costs, including water pollution, the loss of wetlands, and damage from CO2 emissions. A few other adjustments are made, including an addition for the amount by which the net (manufactured) capital stock grows, on a per-worker basis, based on the rationale that constant or increasing stocks are necessary for sustainability. A measure of net foreign borrowing is subtracted, because consumption financed from foreign borrowing is offset by increased debt, and thus does not represent a net addition to national well-being. The cost of consumer-durable purchases is subtracted to avoid double counting, given that a measure of the services of consumer durables has already been included. The adjustments made in order to arrive at the GPI for a recent year (2004) are described in Table 6.1.

Table 6.1 Genuine Progress Indicator, United States, 2004





Component of GPI
Value (billions of dollars)


Personal consumption

7,589


Personal consumption after inequality adjustment

6,318


Value of household work and parenting
+
2,542


Value of higher education
+
   828


Value of volunteer work
+
   131


Service value of consumer durables
+
   744


Service value of highways and streets
+
   112


Costs of crime
−
     34


Loss of leisure time
−
   402


Costs of underemployment
−
   177


Cost of consumer durables
−
1,090


Costs of commuting and auto accidents
−
   698


Costs of environmental defensive expenditures
−
     21


Costs of pollution
−
   178


Value of lost wetlands, farmland, and forests
−
   368


Costs of nonrenewable energy depletion
−
1,761


Damage from carbon emissions and ozone depletion
−
1,662


Adjustment for capital investment and foreign borrowing
+
   135


Genuine Progress Indicator

4,419


Talberth et al., The Genuine Progress Indicator 2006: A Tool for Sustainable Development. Redefining Progress, 2007, pp. 1-2. h­t­t­p­:­/­/­r­p­r­o­g­r­e­s­s­.o­r­g­.


 





Talberth et al., The Genuine Progress Indicator 2006: A Tool for Sustainable Development. Redefining Progress, 2007, pp. 1-2. h­t­t­p­:­/­/­r­p­r­o­g­r­e­s­s­.o­r­g­.
Figure 6.2 Comparison of GDP and GPI per Capita, United States, 1950-2004
 

As we might expect, with all the adjustments outlined above, the GPI differs significantly from GDP in magnitude and trends. The largest positive adjustments to inequality-adjusted personal consumption are the value of household work and parenting and the benefits of higher education. But the additions are more than offset by the various deductions, most importantly the deductions for nonrenewable energy depletion and CO2 emissions. Thus the GPI is significantly less than personal consumption.
Trends in real (i.e., inflation-adjusted) GDP per capita and real GPI per capita are tracked from 1950 to 2002 in Figure 6.2. Not only is per-capita GPI lower than per-capita GDP, but its growth trajectory has diverged from GDP since 1978. Since that year, the GPI has flat-lined, while GDP continued to grow, indicating that environmental and social costs omitted from GDP have been increasing faster than the value of the omitted benefits. Relying on the GPI instead of GDP would suggest significantly different policy recommendations, focusing more on reducing environmental damage, preserving natural capital, developing renewable energy resources, and redressing rising inequality.
GPI estimates have been developed for countries other than the United States, including Australia, China, Germany, and India. The GPI has also been applied at the subnational level, not only in the United States (as discussed below) but also in other countries. For example, a 2009 analysis of the Auckland region in New Zealand showed that, unlike in the United States, in 1990-2006 the GPI grew at nearly the same rate as the region's GDP (Figure 6.3, p. 136). Even in this case, environmental losses grew at a more rapid rate than the GPI—rising 27 percent during this period while the GPI rose 18 percent. But the positive contributions to the GPI, in particular growth in personal consumption, were enough to more than offset the environmental losses.
The state of Maryland, in the United States, also measures its GPI, defining each of the variables in Table 6.1 as an economic, environmental, or social component. Figure 6.4 (p. 136) breaks down the state's GPI into these three aggregate components, over the period 1960-2010.7 While the economic contributions to the GPI rose steadily, the net social contributions increased only slightly, and the environmental costs (negative contributions) more than doubled.
Calculating the GPI requires converting various environmental factors into a single metric—dollars. Among the questions this raises is: Can disparate environmental and social resources and amenities be compared directly, by any metric? Other approaches to measuring national well-being have been developed that avoid the use of a monetary metric but consider different aspects of the environment or quality of life rather than using a dollar value.






Source: McDonald, et al., A Genuine Progress Indicator for the Auckland Region, Auckland Regional Council and New Zealand Centre for Ecological Economists, 2009.
Figure 6.3 New Zealand's Auckland Regional GPI vs. GDP, 1990-2006
 





Source: h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­w­w­.g­r­e­e­n­.m­a­r­y­l­a­n­d­.g­o­v­/­m­d­g­p­i­/­m­d­g­p­i­o­v­e­r­v­i­e­w­.a­s­p­
Figure 6.4 Components of the GPI for Maryland, 1960-2010
3.2 THE BETTER LIFE INDEX (BLI)

A major challenge to efforts to create better indicators is the difficulty of obtaining measurements of the non-monetary variables. The Better Life Index (BLI) launched by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is somewhat more ambitious than the GPI in attempting to include more variables that are not commonly included, precisely because they are hard to measure.*(We consider measurement issues at greater length below, in our discussion of environmental indicators.)
BLI considers well-being a function of the following 11 dimensions:


    1. Income, Wealth, and Inequality: The main variables used for this dimension are disposable household income and net financial wealth.* The BLI also considers the degree of inequality in income and wealth.
    2. Jobs and Earnings: The main variables comprising this dimension are the unemployment rate, the long-term unemployment rate, and average earnings per employee.
    3. Housing Conditions: Sufficient housing is important to provide security, privacy, and stability.
    4. Health Status: The BLI includes life expectancy and a subjective evaluation of one's overall health status.
    5. Work and Life Balance: The BLI measures the proportion of employees who work long (50 or more) hours per week, the time available for leisure and personal care, and the employment rate for women with school-age children.
    6. Education and Skills: This is measured as the percentage of the adult (25-64 year old) population that has a secondary-school degree, and students' cognitive skills based on standardized testing.
    7. Social Connections: This dimension is measured by people's responses to a standardized question asking whether they have friends or relatives on whom they can count in times of need.
    8. Civic Engagement and Governance: This dimension is based on voter turnout data and a composite index that measures citizen input into policy-making.
    9. Environmental Quality: The main variable used to measure environmental quality is air pollution levels, specifically levels of particulate matter. Secondary environmental variables include an estimate of the degree to which diseases are caused by environmental factors, people's subjective satisfaction with their local environment, and access to green space.
  10. Personal Security: This dimension focuses on threats to one's safety. It is measured using homicide and assault rates.
  11. Subjective Well-Being: This dimension measures people's overall satisfaction with their lives as well as reported negative feelings.


Although the BLI includes many components, it is designed to produce an overall well-being index. The results for each dimension are standardized across countries, resulting in a score from 0 to 10. But how do we assign a weight to the various components? One approach is simply to weigh each of the 11 dimensions equally. The BLI report makes no specific recommendations for weighing the different dimensions, but its Web site allows users to select their own weights for each of the dimensions (see w­w­w­.o­e­c­d­b­e­t­t­e­r­l­i­f­e­i­n­d­e­x­.o­r­g­). The OECD is collecting user input and will use this information to gain a better understanding of the factors that are most important for measuring well-being.

3.3 THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDEX (HDI)

In contrast to the BLI, the United Nations Human Development Index (HDI) is calculated based on only three components of well-being: life expectancy at birth, years of formal education, and real per-capita GDP. Although they are denominated in different units—both years and money—no attempt is made to translate one into the other. Rather, relative performance is presented in a scaled index (Figure 6.5, p. 138).
Like the BLI, the HDI then faces the issue of how to assign relative weights. The standard HDI approach is to give equal weight to each of the three indicators. Inclusion of standard measures of income as one-third of the indicator makes it highly, although not perfectly, correlated with GDP; of the 30 countries with the highest HDI scores in 2011, all but one was also ranked in the top 40 by national income per capita.

 






Human Development Index (Scale: 1 - 100)





95 - 100 — Australia, Norway, Ireland Canada, Netherlands, Germany, Japan, Sweden, United States, Denmark,
90 - 94.9 — Switzerland, Spain, France, Belgium, Italy, Finland, Austria, Greece
85 - 89.9 — United Kingdom, Poland, Singapore
80 - 84.9 — Argentina, Portugal, Mexico
75 - 79.9 — Russia, Colombia
70 - 74.9 — Brazil, China, Philippines, Thailand, Turkey
65 - 69.9 — Indonesia
60 - 64.9 — South Africa
55 - 59.9 — Kenya, India, Bangladesh
50 - 54.9 — Pakistan
45 - 49.9 — Nigeria




Source: UNDP, Human Development Report, 2011 data.
Figure 6.5 Selected countries as ranked in the Human Development Index
 

At the same time, the results often show that countries with similar GDP levels vary dramatically in overall human welfare, as measured by the HDI. For example, Belize, Namibia, and Panama have similar levels of GDP, but their HDI scores vary significantly. Panama has the highest score in this group because of high education levels and relatively long life expectancy. Namibia's low life expectancy pulls down its HDI score. Angola, Vietnam, and Zimbabwe also have similar per-capita GDP values but widely varying HDI scores. Vietnam does well on the two nonmonetary measures while Angola scores poorly on both of them, and Zimbabwe scores well on education but not longevity.
The relative simplicity of the HDI has made it much easier to apply in countries with less money to spend on data collection; hence, it has been especially valuable for developing countries. It has been an annual feature of every UN Human Development Report since 1990. In a number of countries, the HDI is now an official government statistic; its annual publication inaugurates serious political discussion and renewed efforts, nationally and regionally, to improve lives and is followed by many development agencies interested in tracking progress. The HDI continues to be modified, with new versions that adjust for inequality and gender equity.

3.4 OTHER NATIONAL ACCOUNTING ALTERNATIVES

Aside from the three measures just described (GPI, BLI, and HDI), many other proposals have been made either to supplement GDP, adjust it, or replace it. To give a sense of this landscape, we briefly describe a sample of them. Except for the first one, they are all indicators that have been developed for use in specific locales.
• The Happy Planet Index (HPI) has been proposed by the new economics foundation of London, UK. Like the HDI, the HPI is designed to compare the success of different countries, to see how efficiently (in environmental terms) each country is able to promote the well-being of its inhabitants. The measure multiplies life expectancy by a measure of life satisfaction, then divides by ecological footprint, a measure of ecological impact.* Life expectancy is a statistic obtainable for almost all countries. Life satisfaction has been measured in a variety of ways: The HPI uses subjective well-being data from the Gallup World Poll. HPI has been calculated for 151 countries. The index tends to rise with per-capita GDP up to $5,000, after which it tends to decline, because thereafter the ecological footprint increases more rapidly than life satisfaction or life expectancy (see Box 6.2).


BOX 6.2 THE HAPPY PLANET INDEX
The Happy Planet Index asserts that the goal of society is to create long and happy lives for its members. To do this, natural resources must be used and wastes generated. The HPI is made up of three variables that reflect these concepts:
1. Average life expectancy: This measures whether a society's members lead long lives.
2. Average subjective well-being: This measures whether a society's members lead happy lives. The data are obtained from surveys that ask people how satisfied they are with their lives. Despite the simplicity of the approach, years of research have demonstrated that the results provide reasonably accurate estimates of an individual's welfare.
3. Ecological footprint: This measures a society's overall ecological impact. It is defined as the amount of land required to provide a society with the resources that it consumes and assimilate the waste that it generates. While it has been subject to methodological critiques, by converting all ecological impacts into a single value, it provides an overall assessment of sustainability.
Average subjective well-being, scaled between 0 and 1, is multiplied by life expectancy to obtain the "happy life years" of a society. Then the HPI is calculated as:
HPI = Happy Life Years/Ecological Footprint
The HPI has been calculated for 143 countries. The countries with the highest HPI scores are those whose citizens tend to be rather happy and long-lived but have relatively modest ecological footprints, including Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Guatemala, and Vietnam. One interesting aspect of the HPI is that a country's HPI ranking tends to be unrelated to its GDP The United States ranks 114, just above Nigeria.
The interpretation and policy implications of the HPI are unclear. For example, India and Haiti have a higher HPI score than Germany or France. Does this imply that India and Haiti are more desirable to live in, or more ecologically sustainable, than Germany or France? Probably not. Another issue is whether a country's policies can affect happiness levels, which may be more a construction of inherent social and cultural factors rather than policy choices.
But despite its limitations, the HPI has received attention as an alternative or supplement to GDP, especially in Europe. A 2007 report to the European Parliament cites several strengths of the HPI, including:
• It considers the ends of economic activity, namely, happiness and life expectancy.
• The innovative way it combines well-being and environmental factors.
• Its calculations are easy to understand.
• Data can be easily compared across countries.
So while the HPI is unlikely to become a widespread alternative to GDP it does provide information that is not currently captured in any other national accounting metric.
Sources: Y. Goossens et al. (2007), Alternative Progress Indicators to Gross Domestic Product (GDP). London: new economics foundation, w­w­w­.n­e­w­e­c­o­n­o­m­i­c­s­.o­r­g­.

 

• The Measure of America presents an HDI modified for application in the United States. For example, although the standard HDI measures access to knowledge using the average number of years that students spend in school, Measure of America uses average achievement scores at various grade levels. The results, calculated down to the level of congressional districts, are available at w­w­w­.m­e­a­s­u­r­e­o­f­a­m­e­r­i­c­a­.o­r­g­.
• Another indicator that has been developed for national or regional use in this country is the Index of Social Health of the United States. Created by the public policy organization Demos, this index is a composite indicator combining data on infant mortality, child abuse, child poverty, teenage suicide, teenage drug abuse, the high school dropout rate, unemployment, weekly wages, health insurance coverage, poverty among the elderly, food insecurity, affordable housing, and several other categories of social concern. (See w­w­w­.d­e­m­o­s­.o­r­g­/­d­a­t­a­-­b­y­t­e­/­i­n­d­e­x­-­s­o­c­i­a­l­-­h­e­a­l­t­h­-­u­n­i­t­e­d­-­s­t­a­t­e­s­-­1­9­7­0­-­2­0­0­8­/­.)
• Indicators of Well-Being in Canada are listed on the Web site of the Canadian Department of Human Resources and Skills Development. Data collected by Statistics Canada are used to develop indicators of well-being in the domains of work, education, financial security, family life, housing, social participation, leisure, health, security, and environment.
• Other national examples include Italy, which has a Regional Quality of Development Index, a composite index of 45 variables pertaining to environment, economy, rights, gender equality, education, culture, working conditions, health, and political participation. France has the Fleurbaey/Gaulier Indicator, which is similar to GPI but tries to incorporate even more monetary values of nonmonetary factors (job security, healthy life expectancy, environmental sustainability), using subjective valuations of these factors to create adjusted "equivalent incomes." They are aggregated and then reduced by the degree of inequality in the equivalent incomes.
• The Gross National Happiness (GNH) concept was proposed in Bhutan in 1972 as a guiding principle for economic development that takes a holistic approach to improving the quality of people's lives. Although the concept of GNH has been used for decades, the attempt to quantify it is recent.8 In 2010 it was formally defined along nine different dimensions of welfare, including 33 distinct indicators. For example, the education dimension includes literacy and education rates; the psychological well-being dimension includes subjective well-being and an indicator of spirituality; and the governance dimension includes data on political participation and government performance. The index is made up of both objective and subjective data.
One lesson from all these alternatives is that there is not necessarily a positive correlation between the total of final purchases in an economy (one of the things that GDP is designed to measure) and other measures of well-being in the present or of economic possibility (even as measured by GDP) in the future. In many instances, GDP is rising while other measures stay flat or fall.
The next two sections focus on the issues surrounding two particular elements that have been seriously underrepresented in GDP. Section 4 discusses issues of accounting for household production. Section 5 takes up environmental accounting, including subsections on the methodological problems of how to assign values to things that are not sold through markets.

Discussion Questions

1. Does the Genuine Progress Indicator include anything that you think should be left out or fail to account for something that you think should be included? Think hard about what you really think human well-being is about.
2. Give examples of each of the following:
• Efforts to supplement GDP
• Efforts to adjust GDP
• Efforts to replace GDP
Are there some alternatives discussed above that would fit into more than one of these categories? Are there some that are difficult to fit into any of them? Would you suggest any other ways of categorizing efforts that are being made to improve how we measure the success of an economy in achieving well-being for present and future people?

4. MEASURING HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTION

The preceding section described efforts around the world to improve the statistics that are used to assess a country's economic performance. Part of this movement includes interest in gathering data on household production. Many countries, including Australia, Canada, India, Japan, Mexico, Thailand, and the UK, have conducted or are conducting national time-use surveys to aid their understanding of unpaid productive activities. The United Nations Statistical Commission and Eurostat (the statistical office of the European Union) are encouraging countries to develop satellite accounts that provide the necessary information to adjust measures of GDP so that they take into account both household production and interactions between the economy and the environment, while not changing the official definition of GDP.
Efforts to calculate household labor actually predate standard GDP accounts. In 1921 a group of economists at the National Bureau of Economic Research calculated that the value of household services would be about 25 to 30 percent of marketed production. Decades later, in 1988, economist Robert Eisner reviewed six major proposed redesigns of the National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA), all of which included substantial estimated values for household production.9 Despite numerous demonstrations of its practicality dating back more than 85 years, however, household production has never been included in the U.S. GDP accounts.
There are strong arguments to suggest that current GDP figures are less accurate for having neglected household production. Most obviously, GDP is understated—a substantial area of valuable productive activity has been overlooked (see Box 6.3). This was stressed by Simon Kuznets, the architect of national income accounting, when he presented his original set of estimates to Congress in 1937. With his typical candor, he noted what was missing, pointing in particular to "services of housewives and other members of the family."
Even the most conservative estimates of the total value of household production arrive at numbers equal to about 25-30 percent of standard GDP in the United States, and less conservative estimates put the value as equal to or greater than the value of marketed production.
One of the major economic shifts during the twentieth century was the movement of a large proportion of women from unpaid employment as full-time homemakers to paid employment outside the home. In 1870, 40 percent of all U.S. workers were women working as full-time homemakers; by 2000, the proportion had dropped to 16 percent. This increase in work outside the home, as well as the increase in purchases of substitutes for home production, such as paid child care and prepared foods, was counted as an increase in GDP. The value of lost household production, however, was not subtracted. This failure to account for reductions in some home-produced goods and services means that GDP growth during the period was overstated. For example, an article in the May 2012 Survey of Current Business found that

if "home production"—the value of the time spent cooking, cleaning, watching the kids, and so forth—were counted, it would raise the level of nominal GDP nearly 26 percent in 2010. Back in 1965, when fewer women were in the formal labor force and more were working in the nonmarket sector, GDP would have been raised by 39 percent. Because the inclusion of "home production" would add more to the level of GDP in 1965 than in 2010, factoring in the value of these nonmarket activities was found to reduce the average annual growth rate of GDP over this period.10



BOX 6.3 WHAT ARE STAY-AT-HOME MOMS REALLY WORTH?
What is the fair market value of all the work a typical stay-at-home mom does in a year? To answer this question we can multiply the hours spent at different tasks by the typical wage paid to workers who perform those tasks. For example, according to 2012 research by insure.com, the typical mom spends 14 hours per week cooking. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates the average wage for cooks at about $9 per hour. This implies that the annual value of a mom's cooking labor is over $6,000. Applying the same approach to other household tasks, including child care, cleaning, shopping, yard work, and driving, the annual value of a full-time stay-at-home mom is over $60,000. Similar research by salary.com comes up with an even larger market value—about $113,000 annually!
While there are some stay-at-home dads in the United States, about 150,000, they are far outnumbered by the 5 million stay-at-home moms. But the number of stay-at-home moms has been declining in recent decades as more women have entered the workforce. While this brings additional income to households, the income is partially offset by additional expenses. In many states, the cost of full-time child care exceeds the typical annual cost of college tuition. For example, in Massachusetts the average cost of child care is $19,000 per year.
While the additional household income and market expenditures are counted as increases to GDP the median salary in the United States for a woman working full-time is only about $37,000. So based on the values presented above, it isn't clear whether total social welfare increases or decreases when many women are compelled to enter the workforce.
Source: "What Are Stay-at-Home Moms Really Worth?" Fiscal Times, May 4, 2012, w­w­w­.t­h­e­f­i­s­c­a­l­t­i­m­e­s­.c­o­m­/­A­r­t­i­c­l­e­s­/­2­0­1­2­/­0­5­/­0­4­/­W­h­a­t­-­A­r­e­-­S­t­a­y­-­a­t­-­H­o­m­e­-­M­o­m­s­-­R­e­a­l­l­y­-­W­o­r­t­h­.a­s­p­x­.

 

Comparisons between countries are also made more difficult by the lack of accounting for household production in GDP. In countries of the global South, where such activities make up a much higher proportion of total production than they do in the developed countries of the global North, GDP is even more inadequate as an indicator of national production. When we focus on well-being—rather than money flows—as the goal of an economy, it becomes especially evident that there is important economic activity in households that is going unreported in national income accounts.
Why does this matter? One important reason is that the omission of most household production from the national accounts may contribute to a subtle bias in the perceptions of policymakers who base their economic decisions on them. Because household work is not measured, it may be easy to think that it is not important or not even part of the economy.
The U.S. Social Security retirement system, for example, makes payments to people based only on their market wages and years in paid work. Some advocates suggest that people should also get credit for time spent raising children—for example, a year of Social Security credit for time taken off with each child, in recognition of the contribution that such unpaid work makes to social and economic life. Having home production counted in GDP might help make policymakers more aware of its productive contributions.11 Interestingly, critiques of GDP for its failure to count household labor arise out of both conservative principles, which emphasize family values, and progressive ones, which seek to recognize the value of labor that has been historically and disproportionately performed by women.

4.1 TIME-USE SURVEYS

A first step in determining a value for household production is to find out how much time people spend in unpaid productive activities. In the past, estimates of time use in the United States came from small and sporadic surveys. However, in 2003, following the lead of many other industrialized countries, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) began to collect data for the first national ongoing survey of time use. The American Time Use Study (ATUS), conducted by the BLS, asks people age sixteen or over in a nationally representative sample to report in detail how they used their time on one particular day.12
The results of the survey for 2011 indicate that, on average on any given day, 83 percent of women and 65 percent of men spend some time engaging in household activities, including housework, food preparation and cleanup, lawn and garden care, or household management (such as paying bills). When averaged over all responses (including those who had not spent any time on household activities), women spent an average of 2.2 hours per day on these activities, while men spent 1.4 hours. On an average day, 19 percent of men reported doing housework, such as cleaning or doing laundry, compared with 53 percent of women.

4.2 METHODS OF VALUING HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTION

After time use has been measured in terms of hours spent on various activities, standard national accounting procedures require that these hours be assigned a monetary value using market or quasi-market prices. Economists have developed two main methods of assigning a monetary value to household time use: the replacement-cost method and the opportunity-cost method.
In the replacement-cost method, hours spent on household labor are valued at what it would cost to pay someone else to do the same job. In the most popular approach—and the one used to generate the most conservative estimates—economists use the wages paid in a general category such as "domestic worker" or "housekeeper" to impute a wage. A variant of this method, which usually results in higher estimates, is to value each type of task separately: child-care time is valued according to the wage of a professional child-care worker, housecleaning by the wages of professional housecleaners, plumbing repair by the wages of a plumber, and so forth.

replacement-cost method (for estimating the value of household production): valuing hours at the amount it would be necessary to pay someone to do the work

The opportunity-cost method starts from a different view, based on microeconomic "marginal" thinking. Presumably, if someone reduces his or her hours at paid work in order to engage in household production, he or she is assumed to value the time spent in household production (at the margin) at least at the wage rate that he or she could have been earned by doing paid work for another hour. That is, if you choose to give up $30 that you could have earned working an extra hour in order to spend an hour with your child, you must presumably think that the value of spending that hour with your child is at least $30. This leads to using the wage rate that the household producer would have earned in the market to value the time spent doing household work. In this case, estimates of the value of nonmarket production can be quite a bit higher than using the replacement-cost method, since some hours would be valued at the wage rates earned by doctors, lawyers, and other more highly-paid workers.

opportunity-cost method (for estimating the value of household production): valuing hours at the amount that the unpaid worker could have earned at a paid job

Neither approach to imputing a wage rate is perfect. However, it would be hard to argue that perfection has been achieved in any of the other measurements and imputations involved in creating the national accounts, and many argue that imputing any value for household labor time, even using minimal replacement costs, is more accurate than imputing a value of zero.
Similar arguments have been made concerning unpaid volunteer work in communities and nonprofit organizations—the time that people spend coaching children's sports teams, visiting nursing homes, serving on church and school committees, and so on. In the American Time Use Survey, 13 percent of the people surveyed reported participating in organizational, civic, and religious activities on their surveyed day, a figure that includes organized volunteer activities. If volunteer work as well as household work were both counted in national accounts, the proportion of production attributed to the core sphere of the economy would rise considerably.

Discussion Questions

1. Do you think that national governments should incorporate a monetary estimate of the value of household production in national accounting statistics? How do you think the inclusion of household production would affect the measurement of economic activity in developed versus developing countries?
2. Think back on at least one household activity in which you have engaged in the past couple of days that in principle would be replaceable by market or third-person services. How would that activity be valued by the replacement-cost method? By the opportunity-cost method? What sorts of manufactured capital goods were important, along with your labor, in the activity?

5. ACCOUNTING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT

The natural environment underpins all economic activities. To express this observation in accounting terms, consider the example of a developing country that depends heavily on natural resources. If its forests are cut down, its soil fertility depleted, and its water supplies polluted, surely the country has become poorer. But national income accounting will merely record the market value of the timber, agricultural produce, and industrial output as positive contributions to GDP.
The danger of omitting important environmental considerations from our measures of success is not limited to developing countries. The United States also depends in many ways on its natural resources. Soil depletion has not yet raised the cost of land-based food but is likely to do so in the future without significant changes in farming practices. The market price of fish has increased with depletion of many species. The United States shares with all other countries a reliance on weather patterns that support existing lives and lifestyles; if human activities increase the level of greenhouse gases emissions that lead to serious disruptions in climate, more severe storms, and rising sea levels, more and more money will be spent in what we have described as "defensive expenditures." Serious attention is now being paid to whether these should go into our national accounting on the plus or the minus side.
Recall Figure 3.8, which indicated that the natural environment provides resources and environmental services as inflows to economic activity and that economic activity also releases waste products into the environment. How can these environmental connections be reflected in national accounting?
Environmental economists describe the economic functions of the natural world under three headings*:
1. Resource functions: The natural environment provides natural resources that are inputs into human production processes. They include mineral ores, crude petroleum, fish, soil, and forests. Some of these resources, such as fish and forests, are renewable while others, such as minerals and petroleum, are not.
2. Environmental service functions: The natural environment provides the basic habitat of clean air, drinkable water, and suitable climate that directly support all forms of life on the planet. Water filtration provided by wetlands and erosion control provided by tree-covered hillsides are other examples of services provided by ecosystems. People enjoy the services of the natural environment directly when they enjoy pleasant scenery or outdoor recreation.
3. Sink functions: The natural environment also serves as a "sink" that absorbs (up to a point) the pollution and waste generated by economic activity. Car exhaust dissipates into the atmosphere, for example, while used packaging goes into landfill, and fluid industrial waste ends up in rivers and oceans. Some waste breaks down relatively quickly into harmless substances. Others are toxic or accumulate over time, eventually compromising the quality of the environment.
Although for centuries these environmental functions were treated as though they were provided "free" and in unlimited amounts, more recently the problems of depletion of resources, degradation of environmental services, and overuse of environmental sink functions have become increasingly apparent. The next section describes some efforts to account for them.

5.1 ENVIRONMENTALLY ADJUSTED NET DOMESTIC PRODUCT

The most basic approach to "green" accounting is to start with traditional measures and make adjustments that reflect environmental concerns. In current national income accounting, it is commonly recognized that some of each year's economic production is offset by the depre ciation of manufactured, or fixed, capital such as buildings and machinery.* In other words, while economic activity provides society with the benefits of new goods and services, each year the value of previously produced assets declines, and this loss of benefits should be accounted for. Thus national accounting methods produce estimates of net domestic product (NDP), which starts with GDP and then deducts the annual depreciation value of existing fixed capital. For example, in 2010 the GDP of the United States was $14.7 trillion. But the depreciation of fixed capital that year totaled $1.9 trillion.** Thus the NDP of the United States in 2010 was $12.8 trillion.
Extending this logic, we can see that each year the value of natural capital may also depreciate as a result of resource extraction or environmental degradation. In some cases, the value of natural capital could increase as well if environmental quality improves; that, after all, is the point of restorative development. The net annual change in the value of natural capital in a country can simply be added or subtracted from NDP to obtain what has been called environmentally adjusted NDP (EDP). Thus:

environmentally adjusted net domestic product (EDP): GDP less depreciation of both manufactured and natural capital

EDP = GDP − Dm − Dn.
where Dm is the depreciation of manufactured capital and Dn is the depreciation of natural capital.
This measure requires estimating natural capital depreciation in monetary terms, rather than physical units such as biomass volume or habitat area. The methods discussed in Chapter 5 can theoretically be used to estimate such values, but to estimate all types of natural capital depreciation in monetary terms is a daunting task that would require many assumptions. Thus the estimates of EDP that have been produced focus on only a few categories of natural capital depreciation.
One of the earliest attempts at green accounting estimated EDP for Indonesia over a 14-year period, 1971-84.13 This pioneering analysis deducted the value of depreciation for three categories of natural capital: oil, forests, and soil. The values of GDP and EDP over this time period are shown in Figure 6.6.***
The results suggest several important points:
• Natural capital depreciation can amount to a significant portion of GDP, in this case about 20 percent; in other words, natural capital depreciation offset about 20 percent of total economic production. Thus, GDP presents an overly positive assessment of social welfare.
• Measuring the growth of GDP to illustrate changes in social welfare may not produce accurate results. Over the time period covered in Figure 6.6, GDP grew at an annual rate of 7.1 percent. However, EDP grew at an annual rate of only 4.0 percent. So this case demonstrates that looking only at GDP to determine the trend in national welfare may lead policymakers to conclude that growth is robust. But accounting for environmental degradation shows that much of the apparent growth was at the expense of the environment.
• Monetization of natural capital needs to be approached carefully. Figure 6.6 indicates a noticeable spike in EDP in 1974. Does this indicate an appreciation of natural capital and an environmental improvement? Not necessarily; in fact, this spike is mainly a result of a dramatic increase in world oil prices resulting from the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo, rather than a change in the actual oil reserves in Indonesia. Similarly, in some years the total volume of timber decreased, but the market price went up, resulting in an increase in the overall value of timber resources. This increase in value masks the physical degradation of timber resources. So if we measure the value of natural capital at market prices, we may lose important information regarding the actual physical stock of those resources.*






Source: Robert Repetto, et al., Wasting Assets: Natural Resources in the National Income Accounts. Washington, D.C.: World Resources Institute, 1989.
Figure 6.6 Indonesian GDP Adjusted for Resource Depreciation
 

Since this pioneering study, many countries have attempted to arrive at a valuation of their natural resources and environment (see Box 6.4). Similarly, the World Bank has developed an indicator of adjusted net saving, which seeks to measure what a society is truly saving for its future, starting with net savings (gross savings minus manufactured capital depreciation) and making adjustments for education, pollution, and the depreciation of natural capital.14

5.2 VALUING ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS

If assigning a monetary value to manufactured assets that are used for only a few years is difficult, think about how much more difficult it is to determine a dollar measure for natural assets! Consider, for example, the value of uranium reserves still in the ground. Perhaps uranium will become more valuable a hundred years in the future because countries turn increasingly to nuclear power. Or the price of uranium may fall in the future as countries, concerned about safety and the disposal of nuclear wastes, explore other energy sources instead. The discovery of previously unknown mineral deposits, changes in policies, shifts in consumer demand, and new technologies are among the factors that make predicting the future over the long term very difficult and thus make it very hard to determine the value of many assets.
Other assets are difficult to value because, although we have a sense that overall ecological balance is important to human as well as other life on the planet, some forms of natural capital have no apparent market value. Biologists tell us, for example, that in recent decades there has been a worldwide decline in populations of amphibians (frogs, toads, and salamanders), along with a large increase in deformities in these animals. Clearly, degradation of the natural environment is occurring. But since the market value of most frog species is zero, there are wide disagreements about how—or even whether—a dollar value can be put on these losses.*


BOX 6.4 ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTING IN CHINA
In 2004 China's State Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) announced that it would undertake a study to estimate the cost of various types of environmental damage. The initial findings released in 2006 indicated that environmental costs equaled about 3 percent of China's GDP The report was widely criticized because it failed to include numerous categories of environmental damage such as groundwater contamination. Shortly afterward, Zhu Guangyao, the deputy chief of SEPA, released a separate report that concluded that environmental damage was closer to 10 percent of China's GDP—a value similar to what many observers were expecting.
In a 2007 report jointly produced by the World Bank and SEPA, the health and nonhealth costs of air and water pollution alone were estimated to be 5.8 percent of China's GDP
The results indicate that much of China's recent economic growth has been partially offset by increased resource depletion and pollution. Recognizing the costs of environmental damage, the Chinese government set targets in 2006 for such variables as energy consumption per unit of GDP, releases of major air pollutants, and total forest cover. China's investment in pollution control and renewable energy is growing rapidly. However, the Chinese government's effort to develop green GDP measures have abated somewhat in recent years, and some of the targets that were set in 2006 were not met.
Further analysis of the cost of pollution and resource depletion in China can help the government implement policies that achieve true human development.
Past policies and decisions have been made in the absence of concrete knowledge of the environmental impacts and costs. [New], quantitative information based on Chinese research under Chinese conditions [can] reduce this information gap. At the same time ... substantially more information is needed in order to understand the health and nonhealth consequences of pollution, particularly in the water sector.
Source: World Bank and SEPA, 2007, Cost of Pollution in China, p. xix.

 

As an example, suppose that a hillside is stripped of its forest covering, and the wood is sold as pulp for papermaking. The lack of vegetation now means that run-off from rain increases, and "Streamside," a town at the bottom of the hill, suffers flooding and has to repair many buildings. In the national accounts as currently constructed, the logging activity contributes to GDP in this year (in the form of valuable wood products) and the activity of repairing buildings is counted as an economic activity that also adds to GDP in this year.
Or consider an alternative scenario, in which the town realizes that flooding is likely and fills sandbags to line its riverbank. It thereby avoids costly repairs. But, again, both the logging and the sandbag making are counted as adding to GDP.
What is wrong with this, of course, is that the initial environmental services of the forest in terms of water retention were not counted as part of GDP. If they had been, we would have noticed that the efforts of the town did not reflect new production so much as a shift in production from the "nature sector" to the human sector. Had we included the "nature sector" from the beginning, our national accounts would have shown a decrease in the production of that sector (decreased water retention) offsetting the increase in production of the human sector (that is, repairing buildings or constructing sandbag barriers).
But how should we go about evaluating the environmental services received from the trees on the hillside? Normally, economists would try to value the production of water retention services of an existing forest by looking at some places in which this value has been translated into dollar terms. Let's imagine that near Streamside there is another town, "Sandybank," which has an identical situation, with identical logging, but it has avoided damage by spending $100,000 on sandbagging. Our goal is to figure out the dollar value of a year's worth of water retention services provided by the forest near Streamside.
Suppose that the cost of repairs in Streamside, after the flooding, was $5 million. If you estimate the value of the water retention services of the hillside forest using the damage-cost approach, you would say that the services are worth $5 million.

damage-cost approach: assigning a monetary value to an environmental service that is equal to the actual damage done when the service is withdrawn

However, we could also use the experience of Sandybank as the basis for our value estimate. Using the equally plausible maintenance-cost approach, we could say that the value of the forest's services is $100,000. (This is similar to the "replacement-cost" approach discussed earlier in the chapter.) As often happens, the two approaches do not agree—in this case the value of the forest's services could be estimated at either $5 million or $100,000.

maintenance-cost approach: assigning a monetary value to an environmental service that is equal to what it would cost to maintain the same standard of services using an alternative method

Economists and environmental scientists face a similar choice in many other areas; for example, whether to measure the value of unpolluted air in terms of effects of pollution on human health (damage) or in terms of the cost of pollution-control devices (maintenance). So far, some national and international agencies have adopted one convention and some the other in their experimental environmental accounts.
If the withdrawal of environmental services makes people suffer or die, then we enter the even more controversial area of trying to assign dollar values to human suffering and human lives. And many environmental effects cross national lines. What is the monetary value of a global "public good" such as a stable climate? On whose account should we tally the loss of deep-sea fisheries located in international waters?
One approach to the problem of valuation is simply to use satellite accounts, as described above, which can be recorded in physical terms, without monetary valuation. So, for example, we might note that the forest cover in a country has declined by 10 percent without attempting to value all the ecological functions of forests. Many governments have already committed in principle to creating such accounts for their own country, and some, such as Norway, maintain extensive satellite accounts for many resource and environmental categories.

Discussion Questions

1. In Burgess County, current irrigation methods are leading to rising salt levels in agricultural fields. As a result, the number of bushels of corn that can be harvested per acre is declining. If you are a county agricultural economist, what two approaches might you consider using to estimate the value of the lost fertility of the soil during the current year? What sorts of economic and technological information would you need to come up with your estimates?
2. Some people have argued that the monetary valuation of environmental costs and benefits is important because "any number is better than no number"—without valuation, these factors are omitted from GDP accounts. Others say that it is impossible to express environmental factors adequately in dollar terms. What are some valid points on each side of this debate? How do you think this debate should be resolved?

6. CONCLUSION: MEASURING ECONOMIC WELL-BEING

No one—and especially not their creators—would argue that alternative macroeconomic indicators have been perfected. It is quite possible to argue about whether damage cost or replacement cost should be used in evaluating environmental services, for example, or whether more direct measures of poverty should be included in the HDI. Much is still open for discussion.
No single approach has emerged as the "best" way to adjust, replace, or supplement GDP. As we have seen, any macroeconomic indicator involves numerous assumptions. One of the strengths of some of the new measures is that they allow users to see how the results change under different assumptions. For example, the BLI allows users to adjust the weights on each of the 11 well-being dimensions according to their personal preferences. Some have suggested that the best approach is to use multiple indicators, along the lines of the "dashboard" analogy mentioned earlier. One thing is clear—reliance on a single traditional GDP measure omits or distorts many crucial variables. Thus all the alternative approaches discussed in this chapter have some value in providing broader perspectives on the measurement of well-being.

Discussion Questions

1. Of the various alternative indicators presented in this chapter, which one would you advocate as the best approach for measuring economic well-being? What do you think are the strengths and weaknesses of this indicator?
2. Suppose that your national government officially adopted your preferred indicator from the previous question. How do you think this would change specific policy debates in your country? What new policies do you think could be enacted?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. What are the two major contexts for economic activity?
  2. What are satellite accounts?
  3. What is subjective well-being (SWB), and how is it commonly measured?
  4. Based on the scientific research, what is the relationship between the average level of SWB in a country and its GDP per capita?
  5. Do average levels of SWB increase as a country develops economically?
  6. What are some of the main critiques of GDP as a measure of well-being?
  7. What is the Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI), and how is it measured?
  8. What is the relationship between GDP per capita and GPI per capita in the United States over the past several decades?
  9. What is the Better Life Index?
10. What is the Human Development Index?
11. What are some examples of household production?
12. What is the difference between the replacement-cost method and the opportunity-cost method for valuing household production?
13. What are the three main functions of natural systems?
14. What is environmentally adjusted net domestic product?
15. What are the potential problems with estimating environmental impacts in monetary terms?
16. What is the damage-cost approach to estimating the value of environmental services?
17. What is the maintenance-cost approach to estimating the value of environmental services?

EXERCISES
1. Describe in a short paragraph why measures of output do not always measure well-being. Include some specific examples beyond those given in the text.
2. Indicate whether each of the following actions or impacts would increase GDP.
a. An individual purchases bottled water to avoid a contaminated municipal water supply.
b. An individual obtains her drinking water from a water fountain at her workplace to avoid a contaminated municipal water supply.
c. A homeowner pays a lawn-care company for landscaping services.
d. A neighbor agrees to help a homeowner with landscaping work in exchange for assistance with plumbing work.
e. A paper company employs workers to plant trees.
f. An environmental organization provides volunteers to plant trees.
3. In calculating the Genuine Progress Indicator,
a. Which factors are subtracted because they represent negative effects on well-being?
b. Which factors are not included in GPI, even though they are included in GDP, because they are defensive expenditures or because of differences in accounting methods?
4. Go to the OECD's Web site for the Better Life Index (w­w­w­.o­e­c­d­b­e­t­t­e­r­l­i­f­e­i­n­d­e­x­.o­r­g­). Note that you can adjust the weights applied to each of the 11 well-being dimensions using a sliding scale. Adjust the weights based on your personal opinions. To which factors do you assign the most weight? To which factors do you assign the least weight? Briefly summarize the rationale for your weights. Also, which countries rank the highest according to your weighted BLI?
5. The UNDP Human Development Report is available at its Web site (w­w­w­.u­n­d­p­.o­r­g­). Consult this report, and choose a country that is not included in Figure 6.5. Write a paragraph describing this country's performance on the HDI as well as on three other indicators reported in the tables (such as inequality, HIV rates, or malnourishment).
6. Suppose that you buy a bread-making machine, flour, and other foodstuffs, take them home, and bake bread with a group of young children who are in your care (unpaid). How would these activities be accounted for in current GDP accounting? How might they be accounted for in an expanded account that includes household production?
7. Estimate how much time you spend each week doing two unpaid household production tasks (e.g., cleaning, cooking, or repairs). Then, locate data on the typical wages paid to workers who perform these tasks on the Bureau of Labor Statistics Web site (w­w­w­.b­l­s­.g­o­v­/­b­l­s­/­b­l­s­w­a­g­e­.h­t­m­). Based on these data, what is the monetary value of your weekly household production for these tasks?
8. Which of the following describe a resource function of the natural environment? An environmental service function? A sink function?
a. A landfill
b. A copper mine
c. Carbon dioxide (a byproduct of combustion) entering the atmosphere
d. Wild blueberries growing in a meadow
e. A suitable temperature for growing corn
f. A view of the Grand Canyon
9. In 2011, the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico caused heavy damage to the fishing and tourism industries of Louisiana and other coastal states. In addition, there were long-term ecological impacts on fish and wildlife. Describe how this might be accounted for in the 2011 national accounts of the United States, if they were environmentally adjusted:
a. In terms of depreciation of assets
b. In terms of flows of produced goods and services. (Describe in detail how two approaches to assigning dollar values might be applied.)
10. Consumption of oil, gas, and coal currently fuels the U.S. economy but also has other effects. How might the following be accounted for in the U.S. national accounts, if they were environmentally adjusted?
a. Depletion of domestic oil, natural gas, and coal reserves
b. Release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere
c. Smoggy air that hides scenery and makes outdoor activity unpleasant
11. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B.




Column A
Column B


a. Depreciation of natural capital
  1. Valuing time at the wage that someone gives up


b. Satellite accounts
  2. Comparison with GDP supports the diminishing marginal utility of income


c. An indicator of well-being including 11 dimensions
  3. Costs of cleaning up a toxic waste site


d. An example of nonmarket production
  4. The value of fish killed by toxic waste


e. Opportunity-cost method
  5. Government production


f. Subjective well-being
  6. The effect on copper reserves of copper mining


g. Maintenance costs
  7. Better Life Index


h. Defensive expenditures
  8. The service performed by a garbage dump


i. A way of measuring well-being (not production) using dollar amounts
  9. Cleanup costs following an oil spill


j. Damage costs
10. Monetary or physical measures that can be related to GDP


k. Sink function
11. Genuine Progress Indicator



NOTES

1. w­w­w­.b­e­a­.g­o­v­/­s­c­b­/­p­d­f­/­2­0­0­8­/­0­5­%­2­0­M­a­y­/­0­5­0­8­_­h­e­a­l­t­h­c­a­r­e­.p­d­f­.
2. w­w­w­.b­e­a­.g­o­v­/­s­c­b­/­p­d­f­/­2­0­1­0­/­1­2­%­2­0­D­e­c­e­m­b­e­r­/­1­2­1­0­_­r­-­d­_­t­e­x­t­.p­d­f­.
3. w­w­w­.e­a­r­t­h­.c­o­l­u­m­b­i­a­.e­d­u­/­s­i­t­e­f­i­l­e­s­/­f­i­l­e­/­S­a­c­h­s­%­2­0­W­r­i­t­i­n­g­/­2­0­1­2­/­W­o­r­l­d­%­2­0­H­a­p­p­i­n­e­s­s­%­2­0­R­e­p­o­r­t­.p­d­f­.
4. Stiglitz, Joseph E., Amartya Sen, and Jean-Paul Fitoussi, 2009.Report by the Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress, p. 16. h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­w­w­.s­t­i­g­l­i­t­z­-­s­e­n­-­f­i­t­o­u­s­s­i­.f­r­/­e­n­/­i­n­d­e­x­.h­t­m­.
5. Robert Ingelhart, Roberto Foa, Christopher Peterson, and Christian Welze, "Development, Freedom, and Rising Happiness," Perspectives on Psychological Science 3(4) (2008): 264-285.
6. Talberth et al. (2007), The Genuine Progress Indicator 2006: A Tool for Sustainable Development. Redefining Progress, pp. 1-2. h­t­t­p­:­/­/­r­p­r­o­g­r­e­s­s­.o­r­g­/­.
7. w­w­w­.g­r­e­e­n­.m­a­r­y­l­a­n­d­.g­o­v­/­m­d­g­p­i­/­m­d­g­p­i­o­v­e­r­v­i­e­w­.a­s­p­. The GPI has also been applied at the state level in Vermont.
8. Karma Ura, Sabina Alkire, Tshoki Zangmo, and Karma Wangd, "A Short Guide to Gross National Happiness Index," Centre for Bhutan Studies, Thimpu, Bhutan, 2012.
9. Robert Eisner, "Extended Accounts for National Income and Product," Journal of Economic Literature 26(4), December 1988, 1611-1684.
10. Benjamin Bridgman, Andrew Dugan, Mikhael Lal, Matthew Osborne, and Shaunda Villones, "Accounting for Household Production in the National Accounts, 1965-2010," Survey of Current Business (May 2012): 23-36.
11. A prominent advocate of this view is Marilyn Waring, author of If Women Counted (San Francisco: Harper and Row, 1988).
12. w­w­w­.b­l­s­.g­o­v­/­t­u­s­/­d­a­t­a­f­i­l­e­s­_­2­0­1­0­.h­t­m­.
13. Repetto, Robert, et al. (1989), Wasting Assets: Natural Resources in the National Income Accounts. Washington, D.C.: World Resources Institute.
14. See h­t­t­p­:­/­/­d­a­t­a­.w­o­r­l­d­b­a­n­k­.o­r­g­/­d­a­t­a­-­c­a­t­a­l­o­g­/­e­n­v­i­r­o­n­m­e­n­t­a­l­-­a­c­c­o­u­n­t­i­n­g­/­.

 

*The United Nations differentiates between "internal" satellite accounts (those that are linked to standard accounts and typically measured in monetary units) and "external" satellite accounts (not necessarily linked and measured in either physical or monetary units). See h­t­t­p­:­/­/­u­n­s­t­a­t­s­.u­n­.o­r­g­/­u­n­s­d­/­n­a­t­i­o­n­a­l­a­c­c­o­u­n­t­/­A­E­G­/­p­a­p­e­r­s­/­m­4­S­a­t­e­l­l­i­t­e­A­c­c­o­u­n­t­s­.p­d­f­.
*An example of the dashboard approach is the Key National Indicators System, housed at the National Academies. Created by act of Congress but not yet funded, the proposal creates a dashboard of more than 200 indicators. For more info, see w­w­w­.s­t­a­t­e­o­f­t­h­e­u­s­a­.o­r­g­.
*Another predecessor to the GPI and the ISEW was the Measure of Economic Welfare, by William Nordhaus and James Tobin. This 1973 effort was the first serious attempt to create an alternative to GDP.
*The OECD is a group of the world's advanced industrialized countries, now including some developing countries, such as Mexico. The BLI was created, in part, as a response to the 2009 Sarkozy Commission report discussed above.
*In addition to the main variables discussed here, most of the dimensions also consider secondary variables. For example, the dimension of income and wealth also includes data on household consumption and a subjective evaluation of material well-being.
*A country's ecological footprint is a measure of the amount of land required to provide its inhabitants with all their natural resources and assimilate their wastes, including carbon dioxide emissions.
*A fourth category of environmental value stems not from use but from mere appreciation of the existence of species and environmental amenities; this is felt by some people even if they do not expect to see, for example, a blue whale or Victoria Falls. The "existence value" of a given species or resource is difficult to quantify, but it is recognized as a legitimate economic value by economists.
    *Depreciation is simply a measure of the loss of capital value through wear and tear. For accounting purposes, it can be calculated using a "straight-line" formula according to which, for example, a new machine is estimated to lose 10 percent of its original value each year over ten-year period or using more complex valuation methods.
  **Estimates of fixed capital depreciation are obtained from tax records. Businesses are not taxed on the value of their fixed capital depreciation—thus they have a strong incentive to claim this deduction.
***The analysis actually refers to EDP as "NDP*," which the study authors called "adjusted net domestic product." But to avoid confusion with the more common usage of the term "net domestic product"—only deducting for fixed capital depreciation—we call their environmentally adjusted values EDP.
*Various suggestions have been made to overcome this barrier. For example, rather than using current market prices in a given year, one could use a five-year moving average to smooth out price spikes and dips.
*Going beyond the "existence value" that some people would ascribe to amphibians, others use the analogy of how canaries are used in coal mines. Given their high sensitivity to air quality, canaries in distress indicate the danger of bad air before it rises to the level that causes humans to lose consciousness. Amphibians are highly sensitive to ground and water pollutants, including chemicals that are common in consumer products; their situation may be an important warning about dangers to human beings. But this does not resolve the question of how to value them.













 
 
 




7
The Structure of the U.S. Economy




 
 

The U. S. economy is the largest in the world. In 2012 it produced over $15.5 trillion in final goods and services—almost 22 percent of total global economic production as measured by GDP of all the world's countries. In order to understand in more detail how a national economy functions, in this chapter we take a closer look at the U.S. economy. This also requires thinking beyond the country's borders, because the management of a country's natural resources or financial system can affect the welfare of other countries or the entire planet. Thus while our discussion in this chapter focuses on the United States, at times we consider this country in a broader international framework.
Although the U.S. economy has grown significantly over time, it has also changed. An elaboration of these changes also provides more historical context to our study of macroeconomics. A clear example is the role of agriculture in the U.S. economy. Early in U.S. history, most people worked as small farmers. The United States is currently one of the world's major agricultural producers, but less than 2 percent of the workforce is directly engaged in agriculture.* What is the rest of the workforce doing? You may, or may not, be surprised to know that more than three-quarters of the workforce is engaged in producing "services" of one kind or another, with about 5 percent working in government, while as of 2012 only about 17 percent of workers were employed in manufacturing and construction.1 This chapter provides some insight into what is going on in this complex macroeconomy.

1. THE THREE MAJOR PRODUCTIVE SECTORS IN AN ECONOMY
1.1 A QUICK REVIEW OF CATEGORIES

Although macroeconomics often considers "the economy" as a whole, it is very far from being a homogeneous entity. We have already considered some ways to classify a macroeconomy into smaller units.
• In Chapter 1 we described four essential economic activities: production, distribution and consumption of goods and services, and resource maintenance.
• In Chapter 3 we defined the three economic spheres: core, business, and public purpose.
• In Chapter 5 we saw that the U.S. national accounts classify the economy into four accounting sectors: households and institutions, businesses, government, and the foreign sector.
The traditional accounting division by sector, explained in Chapter 5, was a way of defining groups according to who produces goods and services. In this chapter, we turn to different classification groups, which we refer to as output sectors, based on what is being produced. This is slightly confusing, but it is important to remember that these sectors are not the same ones discussed in Chapter 5.

output sectors: divisions of a macroeconomy based on what is being produced

The three productive sectors that constitute any national economy are called primary, secondary, and tertiary. The primary sector involves the harvesting and extraction of natural resources and rudimentary processing of these raw materials. Industries in the primary sector include agriculture, commercial fishing, mining, and the timber industry. Generally, the products produced in the primary sector are not sold directly to households for final consumption but to manufacturers as inputs. For example, the wheat grown, harvested, sorted, and dried in the primary sector would be sold to milling and baking companies in the secondary sector, which would then process the wheat into bread.

primary sector: the sector of the economy that involves the harvesting and extraction of natural resources and simple processing of these raw materials into products that are generally sold to manufacturers as inputs

The secondary sector involves converting the outputs of the primary sector into products suitable for use or consumption. The secondary sector includes manufacturing industries such as automobile production, the chemical industry, petroleum refining, the pharmaceutical industry, and electronics production. It also includes the construction of buildings and highways and utilities such as those that generate and distribute electricity.

secondary sector: the sector of the economy that involves converting the outputs of the primary sector into products suitable for use or consumption. It includes manufacturing, construction, and utilities.

Finally we have the tertiary sector, also called the service sector. This sector involves the provision of services rather than tangible goods. The tertiary sector includes such services as the transportation, marketing, and retailing of physical goods. It also includes direct services without the distribution of any physical goods, such as consulting, education, technology, finance, administration, and tourism.

tertiary sector: the sector of the economy that involves the provision of services rather than of tangible goods

There is no simple mapping from the three spheres that make up the economy (as described in earlier chapters) into the three output sectors just described. Firms in the business sphere of the economy are distributed among all three sectors. Entities from the public-purpose and core spheres can also be classified as working in one or more of the sectors. In the core sphere, for example, a household growing food in a garden is contributing to the primary sector. Production of home-cooked meals is a secondary-sector activity. The activities of care and maintenance in the home are best understood as services—thus in the tertiary sector. Much of the work of government and nonprofit organizations (in the public-purpose sphere) is accounted for in the tertiary sector but may also be active in each of the other two sectors.

1.2 THE RELATIVE SIZE OF THE OUTPUT SECTORS IN THE UNITED STATES

In looking at the National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA) in Chapter 5, you might have been surprised to see that less than a quarter of GDP comes from production that has to do with physical things, and less than 18 percent of workers are involved in that production—when production is measured in terms of the money value of output.
The italicized caveat summarizes some of what we reviewed in Chapter 6, where we noted that the percentages just cited do not include work that is done without pay, such as volunteer work, or child care by parents. Indeed, they leave out many other issues of importance to human well-being. Nevertheless, because in many instances the most available and consistent data are to be found in the National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA) from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), this chapter relies on the NIPA to classify the three output sectors in the United States.
This means that our discussion of the relative proportions of economic production is based on the market value of goods and services. In such an analysis, a financial service that is produced in a few minutes might count for more than the education produced by a primary school teacher in a year—or, to use an image cited by Adam Smith, the production of a handful of diamonds could count for more than the production of a reservoir full of water.
Based on such measures, this chapter shows that in the United States, as in most countries, the production of physical things is a relatively small, and declining, part of the measured economy. Does this mean that we are moving toward a "dematerialized" economy, more concerned with the production of services such as communication and education than manufactured goods? Is this shift toward services good news for the environment? What does it mean for our quality of life, as workers, consumers, and citizens?
Market value does not tell us everything that we need to know about the human value of different goods, services, and other economic activities. In some parts of the chapter, we go beyond NIPA figures to discuss the parts of the existing economy that do not show up there and also to consider issues of potentially great importance for the future that are not yet well represented in current accounts.
As you will remember from Chapters 5 and 6, while most government activity is included in NIPA data, with outputs valued essentially in terms of the government's cost of procuring inputs, many nonprofit as well as most core contributions to the economy are not measured in traditional national income accounting. However, we can begin to understand the relative size of the three sectors by using NIPA data.
Table 7.1 presents, based on NIPA data, the market value of the annual production of the three output sectors in the United States. We see that the private (i.e., nongovernment) tertiary sector dominates the U.S. economy, contributing 64.3 percent of total GDP (close to two-thirds). Because the majority of government activities (about 13% of GDP) also involve providing services, this implies that about three-quarters of the U.S. GDP derives from services.
Does this mean that the other sectors are relatively unimportant? Not at all. The tertiary sector relies heavily on outputs from the other two sectors. Consider, for example, that a restaurant would not be able to provide food services without meat and vegetable products, furniture made from wood, and building and equipment based on rock, metal ores, or petroleum products (plastics). Some of the money that the restaurant pays for the products derived from agriculture, wood, and metal finds its way back to workers and owners in the primary sector, but the larger portion goes to secondary industries such as construction and fabrication of equipment.
Even a partner in an investment firm will need a desk in an office building, with computer and communications media, all ultimately based on outputs from the primary and secondary sectors. In the latter case, the economic value added in the tertiary sector is a giant step beyond what had been created in the other two sectors. You might wonder whether this is a sensible assessment of "value." Has the investment manager, compared to the restaurateur, contributed much more to the real wealth and well-being of the economy as is suggested by the difference in their value added? (We discuss this issue further in section 4.2 on financialization.)

Discussion Questions

1. Think about the businesses and industries in your community. How would you classify those businesses according to each of the three sectors described above? Does your answer to this question concur with the notion that the majority of economic activity takes place in the tertiary sector?
2. Try to estimate what share of your total expenditures is spent on products from the primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors. How do you think your expenditure patterns will change in the future? For example, assuming that your income will rise after you graduate, do you think that your share of expenditures on services will increase or decrease?

2. THE PRIMARY SECTOR IN THE UNITED STATES

The primary sector, as we have discussed, is concerned with the harvesting and extraction of natural resources. Countries vary widely in their natural resource endowments, and their particular resource advantages or deficits affect their economic development and future prospects. This is especially true of the United States. When Europeans arrived in North America in the fifteenth through the nineteenth centuries they found extraordinary natural resources: fresh and salt waters teeming with fish, forests full of birds and animals, and huge stocks of valuable timber and great plains that were suitable for highly productive agriculture. Europeans and later immigrants brought with them, and developed after their arrival, methods of using these resources that have changed the landscape and the human experience of living here to an extraordinary extent. A quick look at the food, water, and energy systems illustrates the evolution of the production and use of primary sector products in the United States.

Table 7.1 Value Added by Output Sector in the United States, 2011 (billions of dollars)






Industry
Value Added
Percent of GDP



Primary Sector





    Agriculture, forestry, and fishing
173.5    
1.2        



    Mining
289.9    
1.9        



    Primary Sector Total
463.4    
3.1        



Secondary Sector





    Utilities
297.9    
2.0        



    Construction
529.5    
3.5        



    Durable goods manufacturing
910.1    
6.0        



    Nondurable goods manufacturing
821.3    
5.4        



    Secondary Sector Total
2,558.9    
17.0        



Tertiary Sector





    Wholesale trade
845.1    
5.6        



    Retail trade
905.7    
6.0        



    Transportation and warehousing
447.9    
3.0        



    Information
646.6    
4.3        



    Finance and insurance
1,159.3    
7.7        



    Real estate and rental and leasing
1,898.8    
12.6        



    Professional, scientific, and technical services
1,151.5    
7.6        



    Management of companies and enterprises
283.6    
1.9        



    Administrative and waste management
448.8    
3.0        



    Educational services
174.2    
1.2        



    Health care and social assistance
1,136.9    
7.5        



    Arts, entertainment, and recreation
148.0    
1.0        



    Accommodation and food services
443.1    
2.9        



    Tertiary Sector Total
9,689.5    
64.3        






GDP Attributed to Government
1,993.8    
13.2        



Economy Total
15,075.7    
100.0        



Source: U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, Survey of Current Business, 2011.
Note: The category of "real estate" included in the tertiary sector differs from "construction" (in the secondary sector), because it refers to the services of existing structures, as well as to the services provided by those who help people buy, sell, or lease properties. Real estate appears to be the largest single industry listed in Table 7.1, accounting for 12.6 percent of GDP. This is an artifact of the way GDP is calculated. As mentioned in Chapter 5, GDP includes the non-marketed value of services that are provided by owner-occupied housing—the value of the housing services that owners "rent to themselves."
The total for GDP is greater than the sum of GDP for the three private sectors and government because the total includes additional industries not classified separately.


2.1 THE FOOD SYSTEM

Food, or the land on which it is raised, is a renewable—though, like fish, also potentially exhaustible—resource. Throughout its early history, the United States was an agrarian economy. In the late 1700s approximately 90 percent of the labor force was composed of farmers. By 1880, farmers still made up about half the labor force. Now less than 2 percent of the U.S. workforce is employed in agriculture yet agriculture currently occupies 42 percent of the entire land area of the United States—around 1 billion acres—and thus continues to dominate the geographic landscape of the country.
During the twentieth century, agriculture in the United States underwent dramatic changes. Major trends included a decline in the total farm population, a decrease in the total number of farms, an increase in average farm size, and an increase in agricultural productivity (i.e., output per acre, as well as output per worker). There are now about 2 million farms in the United States, of which about 92 percent are classified by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as "small family farms": those with annual sales of $250,000 or less. The small farms produce less than one-third of the country's agricultural output. Meanwhile, farms with annual sales of more than $1 million (only about 1 percent of all farms) account for nearly half the value of agricultural production. The largest farms in the country tend to be owned as corporate enterprises with annual sales of millions of dollars. Farm receipts in the United States are approximately evenly divided between livestock and crops. The majority of the grain produced in the United States (about 60 percent) is not directly used for human consumption but instead is fed to livestock.
Agricultural productivity has increased as human labor has been replaced by mechanization and as the use of modern agricultural technologies has spread. For example, in the past hundred years, average corn yields in the United States have risen from around 25 to 140 bushels per acre, and wheat yields have increased from 12 to 40 bushels per acre. One American farmer now provides enough food and clothing for about 130 people.
Most of the agricultural products that people consume are not obtained directly from farmers but undergo significant processing prior to being sold to consumers. As we see in Figure 7.1, less than 12 cents of every dollar spent on food in the United States is paid to farmers. Food services—restaurants and other places serving food away from home—receive more than one-third of what Americans pay for food. The next largest portion (18.6 cents of every dollar) is spent on food processing before the point of sale to consumers or food services. Of each dollar, 13.6 cents goes to the retailer who mediates between the producers/processors and consumers. The remainder is spent for packaging, transportation, energy, finance, insurance, and "other," which includes advertising (2 cents) and legal and accounting services (1.8 cents).
Figure 7.1 suggests that the impact of agriculture extends well into the secondary and tertiary sectors. Even though few people are directly employed in agriculture, nearly 20 percent of all American jobs can be considered dependent on agriculture. Most of these jobs are in wholesaling, retailing, or food services.

2.2 WATER

Depletion of groundwater supplies in the United States is a serious threat to agriculture as well as to patterns of habitation. Agriculture is responsible for about four-fifths of our country's water use, much of it used to irrigate crops in Western states. More than one-third of the irrigation water used in the country comes from groundwater aquifers, which are renewable resources that recharge very slowly and can become depleted when withdrawals exceed the rate of natural recharge (somewhat analogous to catching fish at a greater rate than its populations reproduce). Currently, the United States is withdrawing groundwater approximately four times faster than it is being replenished, most obviously in Texas, Kansas, and Nebraska, which rely on water from the Ogallala Aquifer, the world's largest known aquifer. The water table for the Ogallala Aquifer is declining as much as 2 feet per year, and water supplies from the aquifer have already been exhausted in some areas. The declining water table in the aquifer has motivated increased use of efficient irrigation practices, but over time many more areas will lose access to this resource. Most likely, these areas will need to either switch to different crops that require less water or be removed from agricultural production.






Source: Patrick Canning, "A Revised and Expanded Food Dollar Series: A Better Understanding of Our Food Costs," U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Research Report No. (ERR-114), February 2011.
Figure 7.1 The Allocation of a Dollar Spent on Food in the United States
What we eat comes from the primary sector, but only about 18.4 percent of the final cost of food is directly associated with the primary sector activities of growing food and supplying energy for its production, processing, etc. 22.4 percent of the final cost is attributed to the secondary sector, for processing and packaging (though we should note that the physical inputs to packaging also derive from the primary sector). All the rest—59 percent—goes to tertiary sector activities.
 

Fortunately, water conservation methods have dramatically decreased both the absolute and the per-person amount of fresh water used in the United States since their peak in 1980. Per-person use is about 25 percent lower today than it was then. Reasons for what is essentially a behavioral change include higher energy costs, resulting in energy conservation, as well as federal and state laws mandating efficiency in appliances (more fresh water is used to produce electricity than for any other purpose except farming). For example, through technology and redesign the average amount of water in a standard flush toilet—the domestic appliance with the largest water use—fell from 6 gallons to 1.6. And farmers have been increasingly relying on a variety of strategies to reduce water use, including crops (some genetically modified) that require less water and drip irrigation, which applies tiny amounts of water directly to the roots of crops.

2.3 THE ENERGY SYSTEM

Modern production and consumption systems require energy—a lot of energy. The United States is the world's second-largest consumer of energy, behind China. But in per capita terms, U.S. energy consumption is about four times that of China. Although the United States has less than 5 percent of the world's population, it uses about 20 percent of the world's energy. New York State, with 19.5 million residents, uses as much energy as 800 million residents of sub-Saharan Africa (all the residents of that region, except the Republic of South Africa). The United States has one of the highest per-capita energy usage rates in the world, exceeded only by a few countries, such as the high-latitude countries of Canada, Norway, and Iceland. It is worth noting that the last two of these derive most of their electricity from renewable sources (Norway 97 percent, Iceland 100 percent), while Canada gets 63 percent of its electricity from renewables (mostly hydropower).
We can also compare countries by looking at the amount of energy used per dollar of GDP. A low number is generally indicative of an economy that is energy efficient in its production processes. The United States is about average among industrialized countries in the energy efficiency of production—more efficient than Finland or Canada, but less efficient than Switzerland, Germany, or Japan.
Figure 7.2 (p. 158) shows the sources used to obtain energy in the United States. We can see that the country is heavily dependent on fossil fuels; petroleum is the single most important energy source, and carbon-based fossil fuels (petroleum, coal, and natural gas) provide 82 percent of all energy used in the country. Coal, often viewed as a fuel from an earlier industrial age, is still the primary fuel for electricity generation in the United States; as of 2012 it was the source of about 40 percent of the nation's electricity. Meanwhile, petroleum provides nearly all the fuel for transportation.
Nuclear power is primarily used to generate electricity, providing about 20 percent of the country's electricity supply. Although some energy analysts predicted a "nuclear renaissance" in the early twenty-first century, cost considerations and the 2011 accident at the nuclear power plant in Fukushima, Japan, have caused most plans to expand nuclear power in the United States to be shelved. Thus the current trend is for the national share of energy derived from nuclear power to decline in the future, as aging plants are decommissioned.






Source: Monthly Energy Review, United States Energy Information Administration, February 25, 2013.
Figure 7.2 Energy Consumption in the United States, by Energy Source, 2012
Over 80 percent of the energy consumed in the United States comes from fossil fuels. While the share of energy coming from renewables such as wind, solar, and geothermal energy is increasing, these still provide less than 2 percent of energy supplies.
 

The United States currently obtains a small share of its energy from renewable resources, but the utilization of renewable energy is increasing rapidly. Wind energy is the fastest-growing energy source in the country, increasing by over 2,400 percent between 2000 and 2011. A few states, such as Iowa and South Dakota, get nearly 25 percent of their electricity from wind. Solar energy use has also grown significantly, increasing more than 200 percent between 2000 and 2011. A 2013 article in Energy Policy outlined how New York State could supply all its energy needs from wind, solar, and water power by 2030, creating 58,000 jobs in the process. The main author of the study commented, "You could power America with renewables, from a technical and economic standpoint. The biggest obstacles are social and political—what you need is the will to do it."2
The United States is not only the world's second-largest consumer of energy; it is also the world's second-largest energy producer (again, behind China). In 2010 the United States produced 15 percent of the world's energy. It has experienced an energy boom in recent years, with an increase in total energy production of about 14 percent between 2005 and 2012. The majority of this growth is due to increased production of natural gas and oil. Novel extraction technologies, particularly hydraulic fracturing, commonly known as "fracking," have made it economically viable to tap fossil fuel deposits 2 miles or more below the ground (see Box 7.1 for a discussion of the debate over fracking).
In the 1950s, the country was essentially energy independent, obtaining only about 15 percent of its oil from imports. At the onset of the first energy crisis in 1973, the United States had come to rely on imports for about 35 percent of its oil. In 2006, this dependence peaked at 60 percent but as a result of increased domestic production it has declined since then. In 2012 the United States imported 40 percent of its oil supplies.
A common fallacy is that the United States obtains most of its imported oil from the Middle East. In fact, less than 20 percent of the country's oil imports come from Persian Gulf countries. The largest exporter of oil to the United States is Canada, which supplies three times as much oil as Saudi Arabia. Other important sources of foreign oil include Mexico, Venezuela, and Russia.
Although energy use permeates every aspect of economic activity in the United States, the production of energy currently employs less than a million workers, or about 0.5 percent of the workforce, and directly contributes a similar small share to GDP. Yet fluctuations in energy supply and prices can have significant impacts on economy-wide variables such as GDP growth, inflation, and employment. Increases in energy prices lead to downstream increases in the price of many other products and higher inflation rates. Dramatic energy price increases in recent decades, particularly in the price of oil, have precipitated recessions at both the national and international levels.


BOX 7.1 FRACKING AND THE U.S. ENERGY BOOM
Fracking is the process of pumping fluids under high pressure into fossil-fuel deposits, creating numerous fractures that release the fuel from the surrounding rock and allow extraction. Combined with deep-well horizontal drilling techniques, this technology allows the development of previously uneconomic oil and gas reserves across the United States, including in Texas, North Dakota, and Pennsylvania.
Proponents of fracking in the United States argue that obtaining oil from domestic sources is better than importing it. Natural gas is the cleanest fossil fuel, thus substituting it for coal in electricity generation reduces carbon emissions and other air pollutants. Increased U.S. production of natural gas has resulted in falling prices—a decline of more than 50% between 2007 and 2012. The recent U.S. energy boom as a result of fracking has increased employment in previously impoverished areas.
Opponents of fracking point to the potential for water contamination. While the fuel deposits are normally much deeper underground than drinking water aquifers, drilling through these aquifers means that leaks in the concrete casings could threaten water supplies. Many of the chemicals used for fracking are highly toxic. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has already documented several cases of drinking water contamination as a result of fracking. Another concern is that the increased availability of domestic fossil fuels distracts us from the need to develop renewable substitutes.
In December 2012, the EPA noted that "responsible development of America's oil and gas resources offers important economic, energy security, and environmental benefits. However, as the use of hydraulic fracturing has increased, so have concerns about its potential human health and environmental impacts, especially for drinking water." The EPA is currently studying the health and environmental impacts of fracking, with a draft report due out in 2014. Meanwhile, in 2011 France became the first country to ban fracking, and several other countries have prohibited the process.
Sources: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, "Study of the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing on Drinking Water Resources: Progress Report," December 2012; Edwin Dobb, "America Strikes New Oil," National Geographic (March 2013): 28-59.

Discussion Questions

1. How do you obtain most of your food? Does it come from a supermarket, or do you get some from a farmers' market or grow your own? Are you surprised to learn that less than 12 cents of a dollar spent on food goes to the primary sector, where the food is actually produced?
2. Do you think that the heavy dependence of the United States on fossil fuels for energy is a problem? How likely is it that this might change in the future?

3. THE SECONDARY (INDUSTRIAL) SECTOR IN THE UNITED STATES

When asked what makes up an economy, many people think first of manufacturing. And although the share of GDP from manufacturing has been declining in the United States for several decades, the United States remains a major manufacturer. In fact, in 2010 the United States was the world's largest manufacturer by value added, just slightly ahead of China. The United States has about 335,000 manufacturing enterprises, which together employ about 13 million people.
The secondary sector includes construction and utilities as well as manufacturing. These industries comprise 17 percent of GDP in the United States (Table 7.1) and employ about 18 percent of the workforce, with about 10 percent in manufacturing and the rest in construction and utilities.






Sources: Various editions of the Statistical Abstract of the United States; U.S. Census Bureau, "New Residential Construction in January 2013," press release, February 20, 2013.
Figure 7.3 Annual Number of Private Housing Starts in the United States, 1965-2012
The number of private housing starts decline significantly during recessionary periods (indicated by the shaded areas) and recover once a recession is over.
3.1 CONSTRUCTION AND HOUSING

The construction industry is particularly affected by macroeconomic conditions, as has been evident in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. In 2006—the peak of the housing bubble, as discussed in Chapter 15—more than $900 billion was spent on new private construction in the United States. In 2010, the value of new private construction fell by 44 percent to only $500 billion. As of 2013, it had started to rise again, but at a modest pace. Figure 7.3 shows how the number of housing starts decline during recessionary periods but then recover after a recession is over. (The data follow housing starts because only the flow of newly constructed housing, not the level of pre-existing housing, count in measuring the production of the secondary sector.) Note that housing starts bottomed out in 2009 at the end of the recent recession and have slowly begun to recover. But the collapse from the mid-2000s peak was so severe that as recently as 2012 starts were only about 40 percent of what they were seven years earlier. The volatility of this industry is suggested by the fact that, in 2013, some people were again starting to talk about a shortage of new housing.

3.2 MANUFACTURING

Even in the U.S. economy, which is dominated by services, manufacturing still employs about 10 percent of the labor force. Table 7.2 presents a summary of the production and employment in major manufacturing industries in the country. No single manufacturing industry dominates, but the top industries include transportation equipment (mostly automobiles), computers and electronics, metal products, chemicals, and food processing. Here we discuss just two: textiles and automobiles.

Textiles

In the 1800s the textile and apparel industry arose as this country's first large-scale manufacturing industry, with the majority of the mills located in the Northeast. The mills, employing mostly women and girls, were the scene of some of the nation's early labor union battles, as the women fought to limit the work day to ten hours. The textile industry expanded rapidly, increasingly using immigrant labor and becoming the largest manufacturing employer in the country by the start of the twentieth century. In 1920 nearly two million workers were employed in the industry. Then, faced with foreign competition, particularly from Japan, the industry stopped expanding. Employment in the American textile industry remained around two million workers for the next fifty years or so.

Table 7.2 Manufacturing Industries in the United States, Production and Employment





Industry
2011 Value Added (billions of dollars)
2012 Employment (thousands)


Durable Goods Industries




    Computers and electronics
132
1,087


    Fabricated metals
122
1,424


    Furniture
  26
   351


    Machinery
132
1,101


    Transportation equipment
  77
1,477


    Other durable goods
421
2,054


    Durable Goods Total
910
8,675


Nondurable Goods Industries




    Chemical products
254
   787


    Food, beverages, and tobacco
215
1,466


    Paper products
  53
   377


    Petroleum and coal products
169
   115


    Textiles, apparel, and leather products
  30
   268


    Other nondurable goods
100
1,444


    Nondurable Goods Total
821
4,457


Sources: U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, Value Added by Industry database, November 13, 2012; U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, "Current Employment Statistics," table B-1a, March 8, 2013.

 
Since the 1970s, the textile and apparel industry in the United States has been decimated— employment in the industry has declined about 90 percent, and the decline appears likely to continue into the future. Imports from China have been at the center of the debate on manufacturing job losses in the United States. In 2002 import quota restrictions were removed from 29 categories of apparel. In just two years China more than doubled its exports of textiles and apparel to the United States. Chinese imports can be produced at lower cost than domestic goods primarily because of lower wages. China currently dominates global textile manufacturing, but this may be changing. In recent years, textile manufacturing has been leaving China for countries with even lower wages, including Bangladesh, Cambodia, and India.
Textiles and clothing are outstanding examples of a category of manufactured items that (1) are labor intensive (i.e., their production requires a large number of labor hours in proportion to the cost of other inputs) and (2) can be produced with large numbers of unskilled laborers. These characteristics create conditions in which countries with large populations of poor people can compete on the international market.

Automobiles

In contrast to textiles, the automobile industry in the United States benefited from a number of factors during the twentieth century. One was the "first-mover advantage" gained by the leadership of Henry Ford and others who innovated and created strong industries before most foreign competitors. Another was the fact that the United States has a huge domestic market. Not needing to rely on exports is an advantage in an industry in which the transaction cost involved in shipping automobiles over long distances creates a cost disadvantage for foreign producers. In addition, for a long time the technology of automobile production was such that the greater productivity of more skilled workers enabled them to compete successfully against lower-wage workers who had less education, training, and skill (summarized in many economic discussions as "human capital").
The first challenge to the preeminence of the U.S. auto companies in the enormous domestic market came with the oil crises of the 1970s. This motivated a surge in imports of high-quality, fuel-efficient vehicles from Japan. By 1980 the Japanese automobile industry, virtually nonexistent twenty years earlier, had captured over 20 percent of the U.S. market. The impact of this first wave of foreign competition on the domestic motor vehicle industry was severe. Between 1977 and 1982 employment in the industry in the United States declined 30 percent.
In the 1980s and 1990s, the domestic automobile industry recovered, for several reasons. First, U.S. automobile manufacturers improved the quality of their vehicles, often either emulating Japanese production methods or forming joint ventures with foreign producers. Another factor was the decline in gasoline prices in the 1980s, which shifted demand back toward larger domestic vehicles. Sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, initially produced almost exclusively by American companies, increased dramatically during this period.
The U.S. auto industry again fell on hard times in the 2000s, first from a significant decline in sales of fuel-inefficient vehicles due to higher gas prices and then from the global financial crisis. General Motors was hit particularly hard. Between just 2006 and 2009, annual vehicle production by U.S. automakers fell more than 50 percent. In 2008 and 2009, the federal government rescued General Motors and Chrysler through loans exceeding $60 billion, made through the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). The federal government also took an ownership share of each company. As the economy improved and manufacturers shifted toward more fuel-efficient vehicles, the two companies were able to repay their TARP loans. Employment in the automotive industry has begun to recover, but remains well below its peak.

3.3 WHERE HAVE ALL THE MANUFACTURING JOBS GONE?

According to some measures, the size of the secondary sector has stayed fairly constant over the past half-century. For example, the value added from manufacturing, when adjusted for inflation, is about the same magnitude now as it was in the 1960s. However, as we have seen, its share of GDP has declined because the size of the service sector has grown so much.
Yet even though the value of manufacturing output has held fairly constant, employment in manufacturing has declined. As shown in Figure 7.4, while there were some ups and downs, total employment in manufacturing generally increased from 1950 until 1979. Since then, two periods of decline have occurred in manufacturing employment, first in the early 1980s and more recently since the late 1990s. From a peak of more than 20 million workers in 1979, the number of manufacturing jobs has declined by 30 percent.
The decline in U.S. manufacturing industries does not indicate declining demand for manufactured goods. The United States imports significantly more manufactured goods than it sells abroad, resulting in a trade deficit in goods of $736 billion in 2012. When we combine data on both foreign and domestic goods, the U.S. demand for goods increased by 226 percent between 1980 and 2012, even after adjusting for inflation. So while the U.S. economy is becoming more service oriented, as a share of GDP, this does not signify an absolute decline in the demand for manufactured goods.
These figures suggest that American manufacturing jobs have essentially shifted overseas. In 1992, American manufacturers met 73 percent of the domestic demand for goods. In 2012 they met only 51 percent. The major sources of imports in goods are (in order of the 2012 value of imports): China, Canada, Mexico, Japan, and Germany. The U.S. trade deficit with all these countries has grown, especially with China. The value of imports from China (including both goods and services) increased 290 percent between 2001 and 2012 alone.
Although imports have clearly played a role, the decline in the absolute number of U.S. manufacturing jobs predates the dramatic increase in imports from China. In fact, the decline is not unique to the United States but is a worldwide phenomenon. The absolute number of manufacturing jobs peaked years ago in virtually all industrial countries. The same is true, or is rapidly becoming true, in emerging markets, where rapid productivity growth allows real wages and output to rise, while the number of manufacturing jobs declines and the service sector expands relative to manufacturing. China, the trading partner that has been perceived as the greatest threat to jobs in the United States, has also generally been losing manufacturing jobs. For example, between 1995 and 2002 China lost 14.9 million manufacturing jobs—more than the entire current U.S. manufacturing workforce. This job loss happened even though value-added manufacturing in China grew by 90 percent in real terms during this period.






Source: Various editions of the Statistical Abstract of the United States.
Figure 7.4 Total U.S. Manufacturing Employment and Manufacturing Employment as a Percentage of Total Employment, 1950-2010
The number of manufacturing jobs in the United States has declined since 1979 while the number of manufacturing jobs as a percentage of all jobs has generally declined since the mid-1950s.
 

What is the cause of this global phenomenon? It appears that in recent decades an acceleration has taken place in the process that began with the Industrial Revolution in the mid-to late eighteenth century, in which technological change makes it possible for industries to substitute manufactured capital (i.e., machinery and automation) for human labor. Manufacturing productivity is commonly measured as an index of the value of the goods produced per hour of labor. Manufacturing productivity in the United States over the past few decades has been growing faster than overall business productivity, and the progress has accelerated since 1990. During the 1980s, manufacturing productivity increased by an average of 2.6 percent per year, but the rate rose to 4 percent per year during the 1990s, falling slightly to about 3.2 percent per year since then.

manufacturing productivity: an index of the value of the goods produced per hour of labor in the manufacturing sector

The increase in productivity means that more goods can be produced using fewer human labor-hours. Although global demand for manufactured goods continues to grow, it has not grown as rapidly as productivity. More goods and services are produced and sold, but fewer people are required to produce them. Hence the worldwide availability of manufacturing jobs has been a "shrinking pie." Still, changes in labor prices and the availability of productive capital mean that manufacturing does often shift across national borders. Recent wage increases in China make it less attractive to manufacturers and may even signal an opportunity for an increase in U.S. manufacturing. For more on this issue, see Box 7.2.
What does this mean for human well-being? An economist looking forward to this situation one or two hundred years ago might have said that it is exactly what progress is supposed to be about—that people can get more of what they want with less work. However, people can only purchase the output of a market economy if they have income, and for most people income comes primarily through wages, which are attached to jobs. The accelerating shift of jobs from the secondary to the tertiary sector is a topic discussed in Chapter 8.


BOX 7.2 ARE MANUFACTURING JOBS COMING BACK TO THE UNITED STATES?
At least part of the decline in American manufacturing jobs is a result of cheap labor in countries such as China and India. In the early 2000s, Chinese manufacturing wages averaged only $0.50 per hour, only about 1/25 the wages of an American worker. Even accounting for transportation costs and the lower productivity of Chinese workers, it often made economic sense to shift production from the United States to China.
However, the advantage of Chinese manufacturing has eroded in recent years. Chinese wages are growing at nearly 20 percent per year and are now close to half of U.S. wages. American workers are about three times more productive than Chinese workers. Combine that with higher transportation costs as a result of higher oil prices, and some American companies are producing goods domestically solely on cost considerations.
As opposed to "offshoring," some economists refer to "re-shoring" as the movement of manufacturing jobs from countries such as China back to the United States. For example, General Electric reversed a 2009 decision to produce refrigerators in Asia, instead opting to refurbish a factory in Indiana. The company SolarWorld decided to manufacture solar panels at a plant in Oregon rather than in China, based on comparable overall costs and higher quality.
The scale of re-shoring is currently relatively low, and China still retains a cost advantage in most manufacturing industries. But a 2011 report by Boston Consulting Group, a management consulting company, concludes that "by sometime around 2015—for many goods destined for North American consumers—manufacturing in some parts of the United States will be just as economical as manufacturing in China." The report notes that some jobs in China will shift to countries with even lower labor costs, such as Vietnam and Indonesia, but these countries currently lack the infrastructure, worker skills, and quality assurance needed for high-end manufacturing.
The potential for re-shoring can be increased through policies such as low-cost loans and subsidies. President Barack Obama proposed tax breaks for companies keeping jobs in the United States in 2012, but as of 2013 no legislation had been passed on this issue.
Sources: Jason Margolis, "Why China May Lose Manufacturing Jobs to the U.S.," The World, Public Radio International, October 20, 2011; Robert Shoenberger, "Reshoring: Are Manufacturing Jobs Coming Back to the United States?" Plain Dealer (Cleveland), March 9, 2013; Harold Sirkin et al., "Made in America, Again," BCG Perspectives, August 25, 2011.

Discussion Questions

1. One of the main impacts of the Great Recession in the United States was a significant decline in housing prices in most areas of the country. However, at the same time, the number of homes sold also declined dramatically. Shouldn't the decline in housing prices have resulted in an increase in home sales, as suggested by a basic model of supply and demand?
2. Some people cite the return from the suburbs to urban areas and the lower percentage of young people getting driver's licenses as indications that "the age of the automobile is drawing to a close." Do you think that this is true? If automobile use were to fall in half over the next 15 years, what impact would this have on the economy?

4. THE TERTIARY (SERVICE) SECTOR

Early in this chapter, we gave an intuitive explanation for why, even though people are just as dependent as they have always been on the materials extracted from nature, the primary sector has shrunk in economic importance as societies have industrialized. It was not hard to explain how manufacturing came to claim a larger part of every household budget and therefore of the total economy; however, we are still left with questions about how "services" have more recently become so significant.
Even more than the other sectors, the tertiary sector cannot be defined as a homogeneous economic category. As we saw in Table 7.1, the service sector includes a wide variety of industries, including education, retail trade, financial services, insurance, waste management, and entertainment. The Appendix to this chapter provides one approach to putting these into categories, as a way of getting a handle on this seemingly immaterial, yet enormously important part of our economy. The remainder of this section, however, is devoted to providing some basic data on the sector, with specific attention paid to the areas of retail, financial and insurance services, and human services (including health and education).
Employment trends, wages, and other measures vary considerably across different service industries. For example, one common perception is that jobs in the service sector pay poorly. While this is true for such jobs as cashiers and child-care workers, it is clearly not true for such service jobs as doctors and lawyers. Overall, service jobs pay only slightly less on average than manufacturing jobs. In 2012 the average hourly wage in goods-producing industries was $24.91, while the average pay in the service industries was $23.46 per hour. At the same time, many jobs in finance have wages that far exceed most of those in manufacturing. From the 1940s to the early 1980s, average compensation in the financial sector stayed close to the average for all domestic private industries (including manufacturing and industries in all three sectors). Starting in the early 1980s, it began to rise rapidly. By 2012, average compensation in the financial sector was 25 percent higher than the nationwide average.
Traditionally, most international trade has involved the exchange of physical goods, but trade in services is now expanding rapidly. While it is easy to picture a physical good moving between countries, it might be harder to imagine how services could be internationally traded. A service is "exported" if agents in the United States provide a service used by an individual or organization based abroad. For example, if someone from Argentina stays in a U.S. hotel, this is considered an "export" of U.S.-produced accommodation services.
A service is "imported" if agents in the foreign sector provide a service used by individuals or organizations based in the United States. For example, if a U.S. manufacturer ships its goods using freighters registered in Liberia, it is said to "import" transportation services from Liberia. Between 1980 and 2011, global trade in services increased by a factor of 10.7, while trade in goods increased by a factor of 8.7. By 2011 almost 19 percent of all international trade was in services. Improvements in information technology have made services such as customer call centers, software development, and data processing more easily transferable across national boundaries in recent years. The United Nations notes that cost savings of 20-40 percent are commonly reported by companies that offshore their service needs to low-wage countries.
In 2011, the United States exported more in services than it imported, and this trade surplus has been expanding in the past several years. The principal services exported by the United States are travel, financial, and educational services, while the main service imports are travel, telecommunications, and freight services.

4.1 RETAIL SERVICES

Few manufacturers sell their products directly to consumers. Instead, manufacturers typically sell their output to retailers, perhaps also using wholesalers as intermediaries. Retailers are categorized in the service sector because they normally do not manufacture any of the goods that they sell. Prominent retailers such as Walmart, Home Depot, and Target purchase virtually all their products from suppliers, in the United States and in other countries.
Retail services as a whole are not becoming a larger share of the national economy, but there is a clear trend toward the dominance of a small number of very large retailers. We can use data on concentration ratios to illustrate the ascendancy of these firms. A "four-firm concentration ratio" is calculated by dividing the domestic revenues of the four largest firms in an industry by the total domestic revenues in the industry. Figure 7.5 shows the change in the four-firm concentration ratios for several types of retailers between 1992 and 2007.
Large retailers have come to dominate their industries by offering consumers a large number of choices and low prices. In the parlance of microeconomics, the retail industry is clearly oligopolistic, meaning that it is dominated by a small number of companies. However, the economic scale of the largest retailers has become so large that the behavior of individual firms has implications at the macroeconomic level. In 2012 Walmart was the world's largest retailer (and third-largest company) by revenue, with sales of $447 billion, and the world's largest nongovernment employer, with 2.1 million employees.






Source: Economic Census publications, United States Census Bureau.
Figure 7.5 Four-Firm Concentration Ratios in Retail Industries, 1992-2007
The four-firm concentration ratios in these retail industries have all increased since 1992.
 

Some researchers believe that a major reason that productivity increased so much in the United States in the late 1990s is a result of Walmart's pressure on suppliers to increase their efficiency. As another example of Walmart's pervasive reach, the decline of the American textiles industry can be attributed in part to Walmart's foreign sourcing of low-priced apparel. Consider that an estimated 10 percent of Chinese imports to the United States are for Walmart. Economy-wide impacts like these blur traditional distinctions between microeconomics and macroeconomics and demand new lines of research and analysis.

4.2 FINANCE AND FINANCIALIZATION

The financial, insurance, and real estate sectors are often lumped together. We give a brief overview of these sectors and then focus on the financial sector, which has had a huge impact on the U.S. economy in recent years.
The most common job categories in this group of industries are bank tellers, loan officers, real estate agents, and insurance agents. Combined, these sectors accounted for 20.3 percent of GDP in 2011 and collectively employed over seven million people (about 5 percent of the workforce). In 2009, 946 life insurance companies in the United States held almost $5 trillion in assets, but there has been a significant concentration of assets in recent years; in 1990, there were more than twice as many insurance companies as at present, but collectively they held only $1.4 trillion in assets.
From 1947 to the present, the percentage of U.S. value added from finance and insurance has more than tripled, from 2.4 percent to 7.7 percent (Figure 7.6). In contrast, the contribution of real estate has only grown from 8.1 to 12.6 percent. It is interesting to note, however, that both categories have more or less plateaued since around 2000, reflecting the two recessions that the country has experienced since then.
The area of most interest among such services today—because they are closely associated with the market dysfunctions implicated in the Great Recession—covers the financial institutions that manage financial assets. Households, nonfinancial businesses, and governments hold about half the country's financial assets. The rest are held by financial institutions, which include banks, credit unions, pension and retirement funds, mutual funds, securities brokers, and insurance companies. Financial institutions are divided into two types, according to the services that they provide (though many institutions now provide both types of services). Depository institutions, such as banks and credit unions, pay interest on deposits and then use the deposits to make loans. Nondepository institutions, such as insurance companies, pension funds, brokerage firms, and mutual fund companies, sell financial products such as insurance or money management. They then invest their profits in a variety of financial assets. Pension funds, in particular, hold extensive financial assets that they manage for the present and future benefit of retirees and workers; thus in many countries, they are the largest investors, employing the services of a variety of financial institutions.

financial institution: any institution that collects money and holds it as financial assets
financial assets: a variety of holdings in which wealth can be invested with an expectation of future return


 





Source: U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis online database, GDP-by-industry.
Figure 7.6 Value Added in Finance, Insurance and Real Estate, as a Percentage of GDP
The proportion of GDP that is attributed to finance, insurance, and real estate has grown markedly over the past half century, with the strongest growth in the relative value of finance and insurance.
 

Financial assets include stocks (shares in ownership of companies); bonds (certificates indicating that the holder has lent money to a government entity or a business, which will repay the loan over time, with interest); foreign currencies (held when the investor expects either that his own currency will depreciate or that a foreign currency will rise in relative value); certificates of deposit and money market accounts (specially designed savings accounts at banks, which pay higher interest than normal savings accounts, but generally place restrictions on withdrawals or set a minimum deposit level).
According to standard economic theory, the principal function of banks and other financial institutions is to intermediate the movement of funds throughout the economy. When we say that financial institutions are intermediaries, we mean that they move funds between savers and investors. For example, banks absorb savings (e.g., we deposit money in banks), and then they redirect these funds back into the economy in the form of loans that pay higher rates of interest, to cover the banks' costs of operation and give them a profit. When these loans are used to open new businesses or expand existing ones, resulting in increases in production and employment, intermediating institutions such as banks are helping the real economy to function. The "real economy" refers to the part of the economy that is concerned with actually producing goods and services, as opposed to the financial side of the economy (sometimes called "the paper economy"), whose activities focus on buying and selling on the financial markets.
Given that the primary role of the financial sector is to facilitate activities in the real economy, there is no inherent reason to expect the financial sector to grow significantly over time relative to the size of the overall economy. Yet, as we have seen, the relative size of the financial sector has increased considerably—and, indeed, is expected to continue to do so; a 2012 report by Bain and Company projected that by 2020 there will be a global total of $900 trillion in financial assets, while GDP in real economies will only total $90 trillion. How did this happen? The explanation is complex and multidimensional and is considered further in Chapter 11 and, especially, Chapter 15. At this point, consider an image that may help you to visualize the situation.
Imagine that the financial sector is a hot air balloon; the basket tethered beneath it the real economy (or at least that part of the real economy that is related to, and uses the services of, the financial sector). The relationship is essential for the financial sector: without such a relationship, it would just float up into the sky, without any substance. It also has value for the real economy: It gives the economy a "lift" by allocating savings to useful investments. However, since about 1982 a process of financialization has allowed the balloon to inflate more and more. Less and less of its connection to what is going on in the real economy has to do with the traditional circulation of financial capital: from production, through savings, then back to production of real-world goods and services. Instead, the connection is increasingly about the expansion of financial claims within the balloon, including "bubbles" of temporary inflation in the prices that people are willing to pay for financial assets, as well as the creation of large amounts of debt.

Financialization: a process in which the financial sector of the economy is increasingly able to generate and circulate profits that are not closely related to the real economy

This can generate huge incomes for a small group of people. Part of this income is spent in the real economy, paying for luxury cars, McMansions, and the services of personal trainers and celebrity chefs, but much of it feeds back into the expansion inside the balloon.
The simplest way of understanding the financialization that has affected the U.S. economy, as well as other advanced economies in recent decades is as a combination of two things: (1) huge increases in debt throughout the economy, along with (2) inflation in the price of assets, unconnected with any inflation in the price of real goods and services. This is what occurred in the period 1980-2007, when both asset prices and debt levels throughout the economy ballooned relative to incomes.
To give some examples on the debt side:
• In 1980 credit card debt stood at $55 billion, but by 2005 it had increased to $802 billion.
• The average American household in 2013 carries a credit card debt of about $8,500 and pays $1,000 per year in credit card interest.
• In 2009 the average college senior with a credit card had credit card debt of more than $4,000.
• Total college student loans in the United States recently passed $1 trillion for the first time.
Mortgage loans represent a large portion of consumer indebtedness; during the housing bubble that led up to the financial crisis, new mortgages were being issued at unprecedented rates. Total debt in all sectors of the economy, measured relative to GDP, increased to historic levels before the Great Recession, as shown in Figure 7.7. Particularly dramatic was the increase in debt among financial businesses, which increased from just a few percent of GDP in the 1950s to 120 percent of GDP in 2008.
Debt levels have moderated in recent years, since the financial crisis of 2008. Many households have substituted debt reduction for new spending. As discussed in Chapter 15, declining household income played an important role in the credit boom, as consumers compensated for limited incomes by relying on credit cards and other loans to extend their ability to continue spending.
The financial economy, as we will see in Chapter 15, found ways to use household debt, especially mortgages, as collateral to expand its own activity, while regulatory easing and the rise of new kinds of financial institutions made it possible for money to be lent out with very little collateral. ("Collateral" is a valuable asset used as a basis for a loan.) A wide variety of financial firms entered the game of taking in funds and then turning them around to invest in high-yield assets.






Source: Federal Reserve Flow of Funds, data download program.
Figure 7.7 U.S. Debt Ratios Relative to GDP, 1947-2012
The Great Recession began in 2007, as the ratio of debt-to-GDP for all sectors of the economy reached historic levels.
 

Financial firms may sell stock (shares in the company) to raise capital, but in recent years borrowing became a more popular way to increase the funds held by a financial firm. The higher the ratio of borrowed funds to funds contributed by stockholders, the greater a firm's financial leverage. Leverage essentially means using borrowed money to increase the investment power of one's own money, and it can be touted as high "return on investment" (ROI), because the return can be calculated without factoring in the borrowed funds that are involved. With a large cushion of borrowed funds, a financial institution could, for example, hold $1 million as collateral while lending out $25 million. These loans could go to other institutions, which, in turn, held back a few percent and lent out the rest. Such loans are described as "highly leveraged" ($1 million can leverage $25 million or more). This possibility made it appealing for banks and other financial institutions to keep borrowing more money in order to have a greater stake in other investments. However, it also created significant risks: If a firm is leveraged 25-fold, then a loss of just over 4 percent will be sufficient to bankrupt it.
Financialization really takes hold when the loans themselves are increasingly viewed as desirable investments. This leads to a situation in which much of the financial sector is leveraging itself to invest in financial assets that are themselves different types of loans, and increasingly these loans are bundled into other complex financial instruments. To repeat a saying that is popular in the sector, "Finance mostly finances finance."* The relative size of the financial economy increases as companies substitute this type of financial investing for "real" investment (i.e., purchasing of fixed assets like machines or computers).
As noted above, the two sources of hot air for the financialization balloon are debt and asset price inflation. In real markets, the price of a good or a service comes from an intersection of several considerations, including the cost of supplying it and how willing and able people are to pay for it. In financial markets, the cost of supply is often nothing more than the time and inventiveness of the manager who invents or promotes a financial asset that most people do not understand (and are most often not intended to understand). These assets can, at least for a while, be extremely profitable, hence the very large salaries received by the people who work on Wall Street or equivalent centers in London and other financial capitals. This is borne out by data on profits and compensation in the financial sector:
• Profits in the financial sector in the United States represented 14 percent of total corporate profits in 1981; thirty years later this figure was about 30 percent.
• From 1948 to 1982, average compensation in the financial sector ranged between 99 percent and 108 percent of the average for all domestic private industries. This figure began to rise starting in 1983, reaching 181 percent in 2007.
• In the economy as a whole, over a 25-year period the market value of financial assets, taken together, grew from about 4 times GDP to a little over 10 times GDP.
• In 1970 the value of financial assets in the United States barely exceeded the value of fixed assets. The value of financial assets was 68.7 percent greater than tangible fixed assets in 1983 and rose to more than triple that level by 2009.*
If the cost of production in the financial sector is different from the supply side in the real economy, the demand side of the financial economy is even more different. Financial markets do not operate like markets for real goods and services, in which an increase in the price of a good tends to depress demand. In financial markets, instead, an increase in the price of an asset can spur people to borrow more, which in turn causes prices to rise further. The value of an asset is what you think someone else is willing to pay for it. Whether the asset is a tulip bulb (as in the bizarre incident of tulip mania in the seventeenth century) or a piece of real estate, or some complex bundle of derivatives, as long as the balloon is inflating, the prospective buyer of an asset may pay a price that bears no relation to anything on the ground, as long as he or she believes that the price will keep going up, and the next buyer will be willing to pay still more.** When the speculative fever breaks, prices can decline even more rapidly—the financial "bubble" bursts, with bad consequences for the real economy.
The process of financialization has affected stock markets throughout the world. Average holding times for stocks has fallen as large financial institutions engage in rapid trading of stocks in search of short-term gains. Investors on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) held stocks for an average period of about five years in 1975, two years in 1991, but only five months in 2008.3 This is in contrast to an approach which focuses on the ability of a business to generate revenues and generally involves holding stocks for longer periods. Short-term investing makes markets more vulnerable to "bubbles," when investors looking for a quick profit drive stock prices to excessive heights, leading to a subsequent crash.
The stock market, however, plays a relatively small role in financing investment in the real world. The majority of transactions in the stock market consist of investors transacting with other investors, while a relatively small proportion of stock purchases actually finance new investments in productive activities. Genuinely new activities, such as start-up businesses, tend to be financed through "angel" investors who have personal knowledge of the business; in the case of many small business start-ups the initial funding very often comes from family and friends. Once a new business has begun to have a track record, the next stage of financing is likely to come from venture capitalists (also outside of the public stock markets), who spend their working lives scrutinizing new businesses and investing in a number of them, with the understanding that many will fail, but with the hope that a few will make it big. Finally, when a business is considered mature enough to go public, the venture capitalists and the CEO will agree on the best time to make an initial public offering (IPO). This is the main opportunity for funds invested through the stock market to make a real difference in business activity.
In contrast, established corporations do not depend on the stock market as much as is generally thought when they decide to invest in new or expanded activities. Most of the major corporations of today have accumulated large pools of retained earnings which they can invest in new activities. Indeed, since the 1980s, corporations have actually spent more on buying back their own stock than they have taken in by selling newly issued stock.

4.3 HUMAN SERVICES: HEALTH

We now return to the real-world portion of the tertiary sector within the macroeconomy, with a consideration of human services. Human services include education, health care, social work, and child care. These services can be provided by private businesses, nonprofit organizations, or governments. A major difference between the United States and other developed countries is that human services in the United States are less likely to be provided by the public sector. Perhaps the most vivid example of this difference is with respect to health care.
Health care is one of the fastest-growing industries in the United States. In 2013 about 13 percent of the country's workers were employed in the health-care sector. As shown in Figure 7.8, national health-care expenditures grew from about 5 percent of GDP in 1960 to 17 percent of GDP in 2011. Out-of-pocket costs (the amounts paid by individuals for health care, including payments by those without insurance and co-pays and other expenses by those with insurance) have remained relatively constant over the years, but both private insurance and public costs have risen considerably. In 2011 annual per capita spending on health care in the United States was about $8,700. Health-care costs are expected to increase further and become an even greater share of GDP, as the population ages and medical technology continues to become more sophisticated.
While the share of health expenditures by the public sector has increased in recent decades, public funding of health care in the United States is much smaller as a share of total healthcare costs than in any other developed country. In 2008, public funding paid for 46 percent of health-care costs in the United States, while in other industrialized countries it ranged from 66 to 87 percent.






Source: Various editions of the Statistical Abstract of the United States.
Figure 7.8 Health Care Expenditures in the United States as a Percentage of GDP, 1960-2011
Health care expenditures in the United States have risen from about 5 percent of GDP in 1960 to 17 percent of GDP in 2011.
 

The dominance of private markets for health care in the United States has not kept health-care spending or costs low. In fact, a higher share of GDP is spent on health care in the United States than in any other developed country. While in the United States health care accounts for about 17 percent of GDP, in France health care represents 11 percent, in Canada 10 percent, and in Sweden and the United Kingdom 9 percent. (See Chapter 0 for more comparisons.) Also, in the United States prices are rising much more rapidly in health care than overall: Between 2000 and 2010, the consumer price index for medical care rose 48 percent while the overall price index only rose 26 percent. The cost of health insurance premiums is rising at an even faster rate.
Given that these expenditures are so high in the United States, is the quality of health care higher than in other developed countries? Using several common measures of national health, as shown in Chapter 0, the United States actually ranks lower than most other developed countries. This country has a relatively low number of physicians per capita and a lower-than-average rate of childhood immunization. Average life spans are shorter than in most other developed countries, and infant mortality rates are slightly above the norm.
Unlike all other developed countries, the United States does not have publicly funded universal health-care coverage. For those with adequate coverage through private insurance, most often provided by employers, the United States offers some of the highest-quality medical care in the world. But about 16 percent of Americans lacked any health insurance in 2011, a proportion that has generally been increasing in recent years. In an attempt to expand health-care coverage, improve quality, and control costs, in 2010 Congress passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, which could possibly reverse this trend, although this depends on its effective implementation. See Box 7.3 for more on this law.


BOX 7.3 THE 2010 AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
The passage of "Obamacare" in 2010 marked the most significant change to the American health care system in decades. The law will be phased in over the period 2010-20. Some of its main provisions include:
• An "individual mandate" that requires individuals to obtain health insurance by 2014 or pay a penalty. Individuals and families below the federal poverty line currently can receive free health care through Medicaid, and thus will not need to purchase private insurance. Individuals between 100 percent and 400 percent of the poverty line will be able to obtain subsidized coverage, based on a sliding scale.
• The law sets maximum insurance premium rates for individuals and families making up to 400 percent of the poverty line. For example, an individual making 150 percent of the poverty line cannot pay more than 4 percent of his or her income in premiums.
• The law prohibits insurance companies from denying coverage to individuals with pre-existing conditions.
• As of 2013, the law institutes a new 0.9 percent tax on individuals making more than $200,000 per year (or couples making more than $250,000). The funds from the tax will be used to subsidize health care coverage for low-income individuals and pay for other costs of the law.
• Firms with more than 50 employees will need to provide health care coverage or pay a fee if the government has to subsidize their employees' health care. Smaller firms that offer health insurance may qualify for subsidies.
The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) conducted a comprehensive analysis of the law in 2011, predicting that about 34 million more Americans will have health care coverage in 2021 as a result of it. While the CBO estimates the gross costs of the law to be $1.4 trillion over the period 2012-21, these costs will be more than offset by additional revenues and Medicare and other savings. Thus the CBO estimates that the law will actually reduce the federal deficit by about $200 billion.
Sources: "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act," Wikipedia.com; U.S. Congressional Budget Office, "CBO's Analysis of the Major Health Care Legislation Enacted in March 2010," March 30, 2011.

4.4 HUMAN SERVICES: EDUCATION

The situation with respect to education in the United States in many ways mirrors that of health care. The quality of education in the United States can be excellent, which draws many foreigners to come there for higher education. About 20 percent of graduate students in the United States are foreign born. Spending per student in the United States on elementary and secondary education is significantly higher than the average among members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) (only Switzerland and Luxembourg spend more), and the United States spends more per student than any other country on postsecondary education. However, the performance of American students is only mediocre by international standards. In a standardized test given in 2009 to 15-year-old students in 74 countries with varying levels of economic development, U.S. students ranked thirty-first in math, seventeenth in reading, and twenty-third in science. (See Chapter 0 for additional comparisons.)
In section 6.2, we discussed the ballooning of debt in the U.S. economy. The cost of education has played a role in this. Between 2002 and 2012, the cost of attending a public four-year institution increased by 68 percent, much more rapidly than overall inflation, which rose 27 percent during the same period. Meanwhile, real median household income was falling.
While federal college education grants have increased, particularly since 2008, the majority of federal education assistance now comes in the form of loans. Although those who have trouble paying back federal student loans can apply for assistance programs, students who take out loans from private companies tend to face higher interest rates and less flexible conditions. According to the Pew Research Center, the debt on student loans eats up 24 percent of household incomes for the lowest-income families.
Both public and private institutions provide education in the United States. Education services employed slightly more than 2 percent of workers in 2010. About 75 million students are enrolled in American schools at all grade levels, and about 85 percent are in public schools. Among people 25 and older in the United States in 2010, 87 percent are high school graduates and 30 percent have college degrees. Educational attainment differs by race and gender. For example, while 30 percent of whites had a college degree in 2010, only 20 percent of blacks and 14 percent of those of Hispanic origin had completed college. Although males are more likely than females to have a college degree (30 percent vs. 29 percent), more females are enrolled in college than males. For the first time, in 2009 women earned more graduate degrees than men in the United States.

4.5 CONCLUDING THOUGHTS

This chapter has provided a bird's-eye view of the U.S. economy. We have looked at primary sector activities that provide the raw materials on which everything else depends, noting that the importance of these activities is belied by the small percentage of GDP devoted to them. We have looked at secondary-sector activities that process physical materials, turning them into goods for sale. And we have looked at the tertiary sector, which accounts for about three-quarters of the economic activity in the United States.
The "marketed" section of the economy, on which we have concentrated here, is not the whole picture. Seemingly inherent in our economic system is a drive to find ever more ways to replace what we do for ourselves with marketed services or products. The replacement of much home cooking with fast food, take-out, and rapid meal delivery is a prime example. Still, the services that people provide as friends, neighbors, family members, and citizens continue to be a large part of the economy, though unmeasured by flows of money and therefore missing from GDP. Recall from Chapter 6 that even the most conservative estimates of the total value of household production are 25-30 percent of standard GDP in the United States. In a more fully accounted economy, covering the core as well as the business and public-purpose spheres, the tertiary sector would still loom very large—much of the (non-monetized) economic activity in the core sphere is services—but its expansion would be largely in the areas of "private social services" and "entertainment."
As we continue our analysis of the macroeconomy, we will focus primarily on the portion of the economy that is measured by standard GDP. We will be concerned primarily with aggregate figures, concentrating for example on total consumption, total investment, and total government spending. The material covered in this chapter, as well as in the preceding two, may help us to bear in mind the realities that lie behind the abstractions that are necessary to develop macroeconomic theory. Before delving into that theory, we need to review one other important area of the real economy—employment and unemployment—the topic of the next chapter.

Discussion Questions

1. Economic theory suggests that goods and services provided in competitive markets by private enterprises will result in lower prices. But we have learned that health-care costs in the United States actually are the highest in the world, although Americans do not better have health outcomes than people in countries that provide public health care. How would you explain this result? Do you think that the Affordable Care Act will improve the situation? If not, what alternative solution would you suggest?
2. Try to estimate what share of your total expenditures is on products from the primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors. How do you think your expenditure patterns will change in the future? For example, assuming that your income rises after you graduate, do you think that your share of expenditures on services will increase or decrease?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. List and define the three major sectors of the U.S. economy, as discussed in this chapter.
  2. Approximately what percentage of the U.S. GDP is produced in each of the three sectors? How has this allocation changed over time?
  3. How do "technological optimists" view the debate about natural resource constraints?
  4. What are some of the potential future natural resource constraints on economic activity?
  5. Summarize how agriculture in the United States has changed over the past century. About how much of each dollar spent on food currently goes to farmers?
  6. Does the declining share of the primary sector imply that it is becoming less important?
  7. What is the largest source of energy in the United States?
  8. Why does the number of new housing starts in the United States show a cyclical pattern?
  9. Contrast the recent history of the American textile and automobile industries.
10. Are some politicians correct when they say that American manufacturing jobs have been shifted overseas?
11. Is the service sector synonymous with low-paying jobs?
12. What is meant by "financialization"? What data suggest the United States has become more financialized in recent years?
13. Summarize the state of health care in the United States.
14. What trend was emphasized in the chapter concerning retail services?

EXERCISES
  1. Match each statement in Column A with a percentage in Column B.






Column A
Column B


a.
The government percentage of U.S. GDP
1.
17 percent


b.
The tertiary sector's share of GDP
2.
37 percent


c.
The percentage of U.S. energy from petroleum
3.
13 percent


d.
The decline in new private construction as a result of the Great Recession
4.
  3 percent


e.
The percentage decline in U.S. manufacturing jobs since 1979
5.
64 percent


f.
The secondary sector's share of GDP
6.
44 percent


g.
The percentage of U.S. health-care costs paid for with public funding
7.
46 percent


h.
The primary sector's share of GDP
8.
30 percent


  2. Search the Internet or other news sources for a recent article discussing the loss of U.S. jobs to other countries. Based on what you have learned in this chapter, present an analysis of the article. Can you find any statements in the article that you think may be inaccurate?
  3. The Statistical Abstract of the United States, published annually, is the source of much of the data presented in this chapter. The Statistical Abstract is available online from the U.S. Census Bureau and ProQuest. It is likely that a more recent edition of the Statistical Abstract is now available. Go online and locate it. Then determine whether the percentage of U.S. GDP attributed to the primary, secondary, tertiary, and government sectors has increased or decreased compared to the data presented in this chapter.
  4. Match each statement in Column A with an answer in Column B:






Column A
Column B


a.
The largest of the three economic sectors by value added
1.
Cyclical


b.
The smallest of the three economic sectors by value added
2.
Ford Motor Company


c.
An example of a business in the primary sector
3.
Primary


d.
An example of a business in the secondary sector
4.
Walmart


e.
An example of a business in the tertiary sector
5.
Declining


f.
The current trend regarding the size of the secondary sector
6.
Tertiary


g.
The current trend regarding the size of the tertiary sector
7.
A local farmer's market


h.
The typical trend regarding the number of housing starts
8.
Increasing



NOTES

1. Data from the Statistical Abstract of the United States 2012, table 620.
2. Mark Z. Jacobson et al., "Examining the Feasibility of Converting New York State's All Purpose Energy Infrastructure to One Using Wind, Water, and Sunlight," Energy Policy (2013); quotation from Elisabeth Rosenthal, "Life After Oil and Gas," New York Times, March 23, 2013.
3. World Federation of Exchanges, "Average Holding Period for Stocks," h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­o­r­l­d­-­e­x­c­h­a­n­g­e­s­.o­r­g­/­; h­t­t­p­:­/­/­t­o­p­f­o­r­e­i­g­n­s­t­o­c­k­s­.c­o­m­/­w­p­-­c­o­n­t­e­n­t­/­u­p­l­o­a­d­s­/­2­0­1­2­/­1­1­/­S­t­o­c­k­-­H­o­l­d­i­n­g­-­P­e­r­i­o­d­s­-­1­9­9­1­-­2­0­1­0­.p­n­g­.


APPENDIX
A1. THE TERTIARY SECTOR IN THE OVERALL MACRO CONTEXT

Figure 7.9 is a depiction of the private (nongovernmental) U.S. economy that we have assembled to take a closer look at the tertiary sector. It starts from the value-added approach to national accounting that was used for Table 7.1. This approach, as you may remember from Chapter 5, includes intermediate inputs such as wholesale and retail trade, as well as management of companies and enterprises. The primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors of the economy are shown in Figure 7.9 at somewhat higher proportions than those given in Table 7.1 because of exclusion of the government sector.
Figure 7.9 then illustrates one potential way to further categorize the tertiary sector. These divisions are the authors' classification and do not represent any official government classification scheme. The four divisions presented in the figure are explained below.
We will identify the largest category of the tertiary activities in GDP as "Ownership Transactions," which includes 31.3 percent of private GDP. About thirteen percentage points of this category represents the imputed value, to each homeowner, of the ongoing value of being able to live in that house. The remainder—about 18 percent of private GDP—is essentially about buying and selling, covering activities that transfer ownership of goods and services from producers to buyers, or from previous owners to new owners. This includes transportation and warehousing, wholesale and retail trade, and real-estate rental and leasing (aside from the above-mentioned imputed value of homeownership).






Figure 7.9 Classification of Private GDP in the United States, 2011
The production of services, accounting for over three-quarters of private GDP in the United States, can be best understood if broken down into several additional categories.
 

Transportation and transportation-related activities that allow people in a modern society to acquire items that were not produced locally are an important part of "ownership transactions." They make it possible for you to enjoy fruits and vegetables when they are out of season where you live, goods that are not produced in your area, and goods that you can purchase more cheaply because they were produced in other parts of the country—or, more often, of the world—where the cost is lower (leaving aside, for the moment, feelings that you may have about the variety of reasons that production costs for certain goods are lower in some places than in others).
Another significant portion of the value added in this category may be traced to "the middleman"—the person or organization that facilitates the transaction between the final buyer and the original producer or between the previous owner and the next one (as is often the case with stocks and bonds, real estate, fine arts, and other things that tend to have a sequence of owners). It is sometimes said that a way to lower prices without hurting producers is to "get rid of the middleman," that is, to find a way to put the end user directly in contact with the producer. Perhaps more of this will happen over time, via the Internet. In the meantime, in an advanced economy in which there is a huge amount of choice, for buyers, among objects that can come from anywhere in the world, it is not surprising that a significant portion of GDP should be devoted to making these connections.
The next largest category, "Managing the System," covers the marketed services that keep the economic system going. These include information, finance and insurance, and professional, scientific, and technical services.* This category also includes the activities that the Census Bureau calls administrative and waste management and management of companies and enterprises.
This category is about the organization and management of a hugely complex system—or, more accurately, a set of systems. Our society has come a long way from the relatively simple economies that we described early in this chapter, when discussing how the secondary sector grew relative to the primary sector. Firms are more numerous; large (and enormous) firms are more numerous; and there is much organization and management to be done in negotiating the networks of relations inside these firms and among them. Governments do some of this organization and management, and they, in turn, along with the firms, need many kinds of support. Many individuals and families, too, have resources that they can use to purchase support for the complexities of operating in an industrialized world. The kinds of support that individuals and organizations want and can pay for include insurance and advice about insurance, as well as advice and assistance with the management and operation of technologies, from automobile repair to computer hardware and software.
"Private Social Services" (within the tertiary sector) covers only those portions of education, health care, and social assistance that are not covered by government; they do not cover the cost of materials (such as medical supplies) that would show up as products of the secondary sector.
The category "Entertainment" is partially about "what we do for fun"; it covers services sold in relation to arts, entertainment and recreation, and accommodation and food services. Thus, for example, it comprises wages for musicians but not the sale price of a new painting (accounted as a secondary-sector product); it covers payments for movie tickets and wages for hotel and restaurant personnel as well as the people working in retail and wholesale who sell DVDs or food but not the materials or manufacturing cost of DVDs or of food (whose value is divided between the primary and secondary sectors). A significant portion of this category is also work related, including business lunches and accommodations for business trips.

A2. HISTORICAL TRENDS AND GLOBAL COMPARISONS

The relative shares of the three output sectors in GDP have changed over time in the United States. Figure 7.10 (p. 178) shows the share of the U.S. private economy (excluding government) attributed to each of the three output sectors since 1800. Perhaps the most surprising conclusion from the graph is that the tertiary sector has always comprised the largest share of economic production in the United States, even in 1800. The tertiary share of GDP held steady at around 50 percent from 1800 until about 1950, then steadily climbed to its current share of about 75 percent. The secondary sector's share of GDP tended to increase from 1800 to about 1950 but has decreased since then. Finally, the primary sector's share of GDP was about 40 percent in 1800 but has since declined to its current share of about 3 percent of GDP.
The sectoral distribution of economic production in several other countries is given in Table 7.3 (p. 178). The classification of output sectors in the table, based on data from the World Bank, is slightly different from the definitions given above. The World Bank defines agriculture as its own output sector. The World Bank's "industrial" sector includes the secondary sector as defined above, but adds fishing, forestry, and mining output. The tertiary sector is unchanged, including all services.
As in the United States, the tertiary sector also comprises at least 70 percent of economic production in the United Kingdom, Sweden, Japan, and Germany. Norway is an example of a developed country with a relatively large share of GDP, over 40 percent, from the secondary sector. The secondary sector is the dominant share of GDP in several countries, including China, Saudi Arabia (because oil production is classified as "industrial"), Indonesia, and the Republic of the Congo (also heavily dependent on oil production). The agricultural sector is the largest sector only in a handful of lower-income countries, including Ethiopia. Even in most developing countries, the tertiary sector is the dominant output sector.
The sectoral data for different countries indicate that economic development is commonly associated with a declining share of GDP from agriculture. Economic growth in most countries is associated with a significant increase in the relative share of manufacturing, but this is not universally true. Some countries, such as Hong Kong, Bermuda, and Singapore, have achieved income growth by primarily expanding the service sector. We consider these and other issues of economic development in more detail in Chapter 17.






Sources: Historical Statistics of the United States, 1789-1945, U.S. Census Bureau, 1949 (1800-1938); Historical Statistics of the United States, Bicentennial Edition, Colonial Times to 1970, U.S. Census Bureau, 1975 (1947-1968); various annual editions of the Statistical Abstract of the United States, U.S. Census Bureau (1969-2011).
Figure 7.10 Relative Shares of United States Economic Production, by Output Sector, 1800-2011
Note that this graph shows relative, not absolute, magnitudes. While the value share of the primary sector in the U.S. economy has been declining steadily since 1800, the dramatic rise of the tertiary sector only began in about 1950, about the same time as the secondary sector began its relative decline.


Table 7.3 Division of GDP by Output Sector, Selected Countries






Country
Agricultural Sector (%)
Industrial Sector (%)
Tertiary Sector (%)


Congo, Rep.
  4
75
21


Indonesia
15
47
38


Saudi Arabia
  2
60
38


Ethiopia
47
10
43


China
10
47
43


Bangladesh
19
28
53


India
18
27
55


Norway
  2
40
58


Argentina
10
31
59


Russian Federation
  4
35
61


Mexico
  4
35
61


Brazil
  5
28
67


South Africa
  2
31
67


Germany
  1
28
71


Japan
  1
27
71


Sweden
  2
26
72


United Kingdom
  1
22
78


United States
  1
20
79


Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators database.


 

*The United States is the world's third-largest agricultural producer, based on agricultural value added, behind China and India.
*This phrase originated with Jan Toporowski, a professor at the University of London.
  *Data from Bureau of Economic Analysis, "Corporate Profits by Industry"; Statistical Abstract of the United States; Economic Policy Institute, Briefing Paper #331, 2011.
**Derivatives are financial instruments whose value is "derived" from the value of another, underlying asset. For example, an option to purchase a stock is a derivative whose value is based on potential changes in the value of the underlying stock.
*A major part of the finance industry is the buying and selling of paper or electronic claims to ownership of productive resources, such as stocks. The financial advisers, investment companies, and other money managers whose salaries, bonuses, and so on are represented as "finance" in "Managing the System" are sometimes selling the right to own a piece of a new company; more often, they are reselling previously owned stocks and bonds. If we could readily identify these activities, perhaps it would be appropriate to move them to the category "Ownership Transactions."













 
 
 




8
Employment, Unemployment and Wages




 
 

As discussed in Chapter 1, a primary goal of the macroeconomy is to support a good standard of living.* This normally involves making it possible for people to gain the income needed to purchase goods and services. Nonmarket factors such as household production, publicly produced goods and services, leisure time, and a healthy environment, play an important role in determining living standards, but for most people in developed economies income from work is the main factor needed to support individuals and families. In this chapter we focus on paid employment, and on levels of employment and unemployment in the economy as a whole.
The second macroeconomic goal that we cited was stability and security. Unemployment can be a major threat to people's stability and security. This chapter focuses specifically on understanding the phenomenon of unemployment. Later chapters consider the macroeconomic conditions that affect unemployment levels.
The third macroeconomic goal is to sustain and restore the various forms of capital that are essential for future as well as present well-being. This chapter discusses the ways in which the availability of natural and manufactured capital, in particular, is relevant for future employment and income.
What does all of this mean for your future? Do you, for example, feel that your future work experience will be similar to that of your parents? During some periods in history, expectations of work remained stable for decades. But expectations have changed—according to a 2012 survey in the United States, only 14 percent of respondents believe that today's children will be better off than their parents.1
There are many reasons for this sense of turbulence and change, including the globalization of markets, the increasing scale and concentration of many businesses, changing relations between states and corporations, the information revolution and other rapid changes in technology, and the impact of the Great Recession (the recession of 2007-9, so named because of its severity and lasting impact). This chapter and subsequent chapters will explore what macroeconomics can tell us about how these and other forces are affecting the nature of employment, the levels and impacts of unemployment, and the longer-term future of work and incomes.

1. EMPLOYMENT AND UNEMPLOYMENT

We have seen in previous chapters how official data are used to draw a macro portrait of the U.S. economy—and how these data may emphasize some aspects (especially the economic activities that involve markets) and ignore or downplay others. We start this chapter with a similar look at the official data on work issues. These data do not cover everything that we might want to know, but it is important to know how to read the official data and what they can tell us.

1.1 MEASURING EMPLOYMENT AND UNEMPLOYMENT

Every month, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) interviews about 60,000 households, asking whether individual household members have jobs or are looking for work. In addition to conducting this household survey, it collects data every month from nearly 400,000 employers. Based on these two surveys, the BLS publishes monthly data on work issues, including the official unemployment rate.

Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS): in the United States, the government agency that compiles and publishes employment and unemployment statistics

If you live in a U.S. household, someday you may get a telephone call from a BLS interviewer. After a few preliminaries he or she will ask you the questions shown in Box A of Figure 8.1. If you can answer "no" to all these questions, you are part of the civilian, noninstitutionalized, age sixteen and over population about which this survey gathers data, and the interviewer will ask you questions about employment. If you answer "yes" to any question in Box A, the interviewer will not ask you about employment. Official employment and unemployment statistics do not include you. Trends in employment statistics over time, then, need to be analyzed in the light of considerations such as changes in age demographics, military policy, and rates of disability and incarceration. (See Box 8.1, for more on incarceration in the United States.)
If you are part of the surveyed population, then you will be asked the questions in Box B of Figure 8.1, starting with: "Last week, did you do any work for pay or profit?" Anyone who answers "yes" will be classified as employed. If you did any paid work last week—even if you worked for only an hour or two at a casual job—the interviewer will code you as "employed." If you answer "no," then you will be asked more questions. For example, if you have a paid job but just did not happen to put in any hours last week because you were sick, on vacation, or on certain kinds of leave, you will be coded as working and "employed." Also, if you did unpaid work in a family-run business, such as a retail store or farm, you will be classified as "employed" as long as you worked for more than fifteen hours a week.

employed person (BLS household survey definition): a person who did any work for pay or profit during the week before he or she is surveyed by the BLS or who worked for fifteen hours or more in a family business








Source: BLS News Release, "The Employment Situation—February 2013," March 8, 2013; U.S. Census Bureau Current Population Clock.
Figure 8.1 Who Is In the Labor Force? (February 2013 data)
The BLS household survey asks people a series of questions to determine if they are employed, unemployed, or not in the labor force.

BOX 8.1 INCARCERATION IN THE UNITED STATES
Not only does the United States incarcerate more individuals than any other country in the world but it also has the world's highest incarceration rate. In 2011 the United States prison population was about 2.2 million people, or one in every 140 people in the country. This is about seven times the incarceration rate of most other developed countries.
The U.S. prison population has increased dramatically in the past few decades. In 1980 only about 500,000 people were incarcerated in the United States. Given that violent and property crimes actually decreased between 1980 and 2011, why has the prison population risen so much?
Much of the increase is a result of the "war on drugs," which mandated long prison sentences for drug offenses, including nonviolent crimes such as drug possession. A 2010 report looks at the cost of incarcerating so many people:

The financial costs of our corrections policies are staggering. In 2008, federal, state, and local governments spent about $75 billion on corrections... . Reducing the number of non-violent offenders in our prisons and jails by half would lower this bill by $16.9 billion per year, with the largest share of these savings accruing to financially squeezed state and local governments. Every indication is that these savings could be achieved without any appreciable deterioration in public safety. (Schmitt, 2010, p. 2)

The high U.S. prison population has implications for the unemployment rate. Many people currently in prison would otherwise be unemployed. According to one estimate, the U.S. unemployment rate would be about two percentage points higher if prisoners were counted.
Sources: International Centre for Prison Studies, World Prison Brief, ­w­w­w­.p­r­i­s­o­n­s­t­u­d­i­e­s­.o­r­g­/­i­n­f­o­/­w­o­r­l­d­b­r­i­e­f­/­o­n­l­i­n­e­; U.S. Census Bureau, Statistical Abstract of the United States—2012, Table 347, "Prisoners Under Jurisdiction of Federal or State Correctional Authorities"; Federal Bureau of Investigation, Crime in the United States—2012 (Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield Publishing); John Schmitt et al., "The High Budgetary Cost of Incarceration," Center for Economic and Policy Research, June 2010, ­w­w­w­.c­e­p­r­.n­e­t­; Justice Policy Institute, "The Punishing Decade: Prison and Jail Estimates at the Millennium," May 2000, ­w­w­w­.j­u­s­t­i­c­e­p­o­l­i­c­y­.o­r­g­.


Note that the "family business" situation is the only case in which unpaid work currently counts as being employed in the official statistics. If you work fewer than 15 hours in your family business, or are, for example, occupied with caring for your children or other family members or doing community volunteer work, you will not be considered "employed." Terms such as "labor," "work," and "employment" in official statistics generally refer only to paid work.
If your answers to the household survey do not result in your being classified as "employed," you will be asked the questions about job search and availability shown in Box C of Figure 8.1. Activities such as contacting employers and sending out résumés count as an "active" job search. Merely participating in a job-training program or reading employment ads do not. The question about whether you could start a job concerns whether, in fact, you are available for work. If, for example, you are a college student searching during spring break for a summer job, but you are not available to start the job until June, you would answer "no" to the availability question. If you can answer "yes" to both these questions you are classified as unemployed.

unemployed person (BLS definition): a person who is not employed but who is actively seeking a job and is immediately available for work

If you are either employed or unemployed, the BLS classifies you as part of the labor force. But what if you are neither "employed" nor "unemployed"—if you do not have a job but are not actively seeking one? Then you are classified as "not in the labor force." People in this category are often taking care of a home and family, in school, disabled, or retired.

labor force (BLS definition): people who are employed or unemployed
"not in the labor force" (BLS definition): the classification given to people who are neither "employed" nor "unemployed"

Notice, in Figure 8.1, that the vast majority of U.S. residents who are not "employed" either are "not in the labor force" (about 89.3 million) or are not part of the surveyed population (about 70.7 million). The latter group includes children under 16, and person who are institutionalized. In comparison, about 12.0 million people in February 2013 were formally counted as "unemployed." (Figures are updated monthly at ­w­w­w­.b­l­s­.g­o­v­.)

1.2 THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE

Every month, having made estimates, based on the survey responses, of the total number of employed and unemployed people in the country, the BLS calculates the official unemployment rate. This follows the formula:






unemployment rate: the percentage of the labor force made up of people who do not have paid jobs but are immediately available and actively looking for paid jobs

For example, in February 2013, looking at Figure 8.1 you can see that the BLS estimated that 143.5 million people were employed and 12.0 million people were unemployed. The unemployment rate was thus calculated as 7.7 percent:





The unemployment rate represents the fraction of the officially defined labor force that is made up of people who are not currently working at paid jobs but are currently looking for and available for paid work.
The unemployment rate reported in the media is often "seasonally adjusted." Over the course of a year, some swings in unemployment are fairly predictable. For example, agriculture and construction tend to employ fewer people in the cold winter months, and each year many students enter the labor force in May and June after graduation. The BLS releases "seasonally adjusted" figures that attempt to reflect only shifts in unemployment that are due to factors other than such seasonal patterns.
The BLS also estimates unemployment rates for various demographic groups, occupations, industries, and geographical areas. Historically, unemployment rates have generally been substantially higher for minority populations than for whites, for teenagers than for older people, and for less educated people than for the more educated. Unemployment rates often have differed somewhat by gender, though not with any consistent pattern. Some representative unemployment rates are given in Table 8.1.

Table 8.1 Unemployment Rates for Different Groups




Group
Unemployment rate


All Workers
7.7


Race and ethnicity*



    White
6.8


    Black/African American
13.8  


    Hispanic or Latino
9.6


Age



    Teenage (age 16-19)
25.1  


    Age 65 and older
5.7


Education



    Less than a high school diploma
11.2  


    Bachelor's degree and higher
3.8


Gender



    Adult male
7.8


    Adult female
7.7


Source: BLS News Release, "The Employment Situation—February 2013," March 8, 2013.
*People are allowed to indicate more than one racial group. However, data from people who indicated more than one race are not included in these statistics.


Discouraged Workers and Underemployment

The fact that some people "not in the labor force" might want jobs but have given up looking for them has long troubled employment analysts. To the extent that people give up looking, the official unemployment rate underestimates people's need and desire for paid jobs.
In recent years, the BLS has added questions to the survey to try to determine how many people in the "not in the labor force" population may want employment, even if they are not currently searching for work. If someone says that he or she is available for work, wants to work, and has looked for work in the past 12 months but not in the past 4 weeks, the BLS calls them "marginally attached workers." In February 2013 marginally attached workers numbered 2.6 million.

marginally attached workers: people who want employment and have looked for work in the past 12 months but not in the past 4 weeks

If these marginally attached workers also say that the reason they are no longer looking is that they believe there are no jobs out there for them, they are called discouraged workers. They may have become discouraged because their skills do not match available openings, because they have experienced discrimination, or because they have been turned away time after time. In February 2013 the number of discouraged workers in the United States was estimated at about 900,000. Marginally attached workers who are not discouraged workers typically have not looked for work recently because of school attendance or family responsibilities.

discouraged workers: people who want employment but have given up looking because they believe that there are no jobs available for them

Let's also take a closer look at the people classified as "employed." In the BLS statistics, people are counted as "employed" if they do any paid work at all during the reference week, even if only for an hour or two. Some people prefer part-time work, of course, because of the time it leaves them for other activities, such as schooling or family care. Some are limited to part-time work for health reasons. But others want and need full-time work and are only settling for part-time work until they can find something better. The household survey asks people who work part time about their reasons for doing so.
In February 2013, 18.9 million people reported working less than 35 hours per week for "noneconomic" reasons such as health or family responsibilities. In the same month, an additional 8.0 million people reported working part time for what the BLS calls "economic reasons"—that is, slack business conditions or because part-time work was all they could find (see Box 8.2).
What indicator, then, should we look at to see whether the national employment situation is "bad" or "good"? The BLS now publishes various measures of labor underutilization that allow you to see the situation from a variety of different perspectives. For example, if the marginally attached workers and people who work part time involuntarily are added to the number of unemployed, the rate of labor underutilization in February 2013 comes to 14.3 percent, compared to the official unemployment rate of 7.7 percent.


BOX 8.2 MANY PART-TIME WORKERS WANT FULL-TIME WORK
By March 2013, the U.S. economy had generated thirty straight months of job growth. "But for millions of people looking for more work and greater income, that improvement provided little solace. 7.6 million Americans were stuck in part-time jobs, about the same as a year earlier." These underemployed workers did not count towards the official jobless rate of 7.6 percent in March.
"There's nothing inherently wrong with people taking part-time jobs if they want them," said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial. "The problem is that people are accepting part-time pay because they have no other choice."
The rise in part-time work has been characteristic of the recession of 2007-9 and its aftermath. Part-timers usually earn less per hour than their full-time counterparts. It is often easier for companies to manage schedules with part-time workers, and they may not have to pay the same benefits as full-time workers typically get. Some of the strongest job growth has been in areas such as food services and retailing, industries that are particularly likely to use part-timers.
Source: Catherine Rampell, "Part-Time Workers in Full Time Wait for Better Job," New York Times, April 20, 2013.


The BLS also counts people as employed even if the kind of work that they did does not match their skills. Suppose that you paint your aunt's living room for cash while you are waiting to hear back on job applications for management or computer positions. The BLS counts you as already employed. People who are working at jobs that underutilize their abilities, as well as those who work fewer hours than they wish to, are said to be underemployed.

underemployment: working fewer hours than desired or at a job that does not match one's skills

If we are concerned about human well-being, underemployment as well as unemployment should be of concern. While underemployment due to an underutilization of skills is certainly of considerable concern for both efficiency and quality-of-life reasons, BLS official surveys do not currently attempt to measure this sort of underemployment.

Discussion Questions

1. How would the BLS classify you, personally, on the basis of your activities last week? Can you think of an example where someone you think of as working would not be considered by the BLS to be officially "employed"? Is it true that people who are not working are generally counted as "unemployed"?
2. Do you know anyone who is a "discouraged worker"? How about someone working part time "for economic reasons"?

1.3 LABOR FORCE PARTICIPATION

In the first half of the twentieth century, it was common in the United States for men to be the "breadwinners" of a family while most women stayed home to care for children and engage in other household production. Thus men were much more likely to be part of the labor force, using the definition presented in Figure 8.1. We can calculate the labor force participation (LFP) rate by dividing the number of people officially in the labor force by the number of people age 16 or over who are not institutionalized or in the military:






labor force participation (LFP) rate: the percentage of potential workers either with a job or actively seeking a job or the labor force as a percentage of the civilian noninstitutional population

The LFP rate indicates the fraction of potential paid workers who either are in paid jobs or are seeking and available for paid work. In 2013 the LFP rate in the United States was about 64 percent.
In the mid-twentieth century, the labor force participation rates for men and women were very different: In 1948 the LFP rate for men age 25 to 54 was 97 percent, while for women it was only 35 percent. Since then, men's LFP rate has declined slightly while the rate for women increased dramatically until about 2000, when it began to stabilize at around 75 percent (see Figure 8.2). The women's rights movement during the 1960s and 1970s contributed to this expansion in women's labor market activities. Other factors include the expansion of the service sector (discussed in Chapter 7) and reductions in the average number of children per family.
The decline in men's LFP rate is likely a result of men's staying in school longer and being more likely to assist with raising children and other household production. Young males (age 20-24) are much less likely to be in the labor force now compared to several decades ago, primarily due to staying in school longer. As a result of higher college attendance, the percentage of the labor force with a college degree has increased in recent decades—it is currently about 35 percent.
The labor force has changed in other ways as well, reflecting broader demographic changes. In 1975 the labor force was 89 percent Caucasian, but currently whites comprise 79 percent of the labor force. The number of Hispanics in the labor force increased from 4 percent in 1975 to 16 percent in 2013.







Source: Abraham Mosisa and Steven Hippie, "Trends in Labor Force Participation in the United States," BLS Monthly Labor Review, pp. 35-57, October 2006; BLS 2013 Employment and Earnings Online, Household Survey Data, Table 3; various editions of the Statistical Abstract of the United States.
Figure 8.2 Male and Female Labor Force Participation Rates, Aged 24 to 54, 1948-2012
While the labor force participation rate for men has declined slightly over the last several decades, significantly more women have entered the labor force.
Discussion Questions

1. What was the labor force experience of your grandparents (or others whom you know in that generation? Of your parents (or their generation)? What do you expect your own labor force participation to be like? Do the patterns in your family reflect the national pattern of changes discussed in the text?
2. What evidence have you seen—in your own family or in the media—of increasing "flexibility" in labor markets? Do you think that these changes have been beneficial, harmful, or both?

2. A CLOSER LOOK AT UNEMPLOYMENT

The unemployment rate is one of the most important indicators that economists use to judge the state of a country's economy. As we see below, a degree of unemployment is expected and even considered healthy in an economy. But being unemployed for a long time, against one's wishes, has a significant negative impact on people's well-being, including their mental and physical health.2
A recession has a major impact on increasing unemployment. Why do recessions occur? We briefly address this question, which is so central to our understanding of employment and unemployment, leaving a more detailed study of the phenomenon to Part III of this book.

2.1 TYPES OF UNEMPLOYMENT

Although BLS statisticians are concerned mainly with calculating the number of the unemployed, economists are more concerned with the causes of unemployment. Economists often apply a three-way categorization of types of unemployment, which—while not closely related to BLS categories—can be helpful in thinking about some of the major causes of unemployment.

Frictional Unemployment

Frictional (or search) unemployment merely reflects people's transitions between jobs. The fact that some people are unemployed does not necessarily mean that there are no jobs available. In January 2013, for example, while there were 12 million people unemployed, there were also about 3.7 million job vacancies—that is, jobs looking for people! Even in a well-functioning economy, it may take many weeks for people and suitable jobs to find each other. An unemployment rate of 0 percent could only happen if everyone who wants a job always takes one immediately, or at least within the BLS's monthly survey periods. Not only is this unlikely but it is also in some ways undesirable. Everyone benefits if people take the time to find good job matches—work that puts their skills and talents to good use. Because information about job openings takes time to find, and employers may want to spend time interviewing and testing applicants, making a good job match is not an instantaneous process.

frictional unemployment: unemployment that arises as people are in transition between jobs

For the most part, economists do not worry too much about frictional unemployment because some frictional unemployment—about 2 to 3 percent—is inevitable, and much of it tends to be short term. Things such as innovative Web technologies for matching job offers to job seekers may reduce frictional unemployment by reducing search time.
Many job seekers rely on state unemployment insurance programs to ease their income needs while they spend time searching for work. Unemployment compensation benefits are, in many states, set at half a worker's earnings or a state-set maximum (whichever is less). Until recently, people who qualified for unemployment programs usually received up to twenty-six weeks' worth of benefits. But in the wake of the Great Recession, unemployment benefits were extended, at one time to as long as 99 weeks. Part of the justification for these programs is to allow people the time to find job opportunities—more difficult in a time of high unemployment—and make good matches.

Structural Unemployment

Structural unemployment arises when a widespread mismatch occurs between, on the one hand, the kinds of jobs being offered by employers and, on the other, the skills, experience, education, or geographic location of potential employees. One important cause of structural unemployment is sectoral shifts, such as those described in Chapter 7, where employment has been falling (relative to total population size) in the primary and secondary sectors, with the largest number of new jobs opening up in the tertiary (service) sector. The U.S. economy may have a lot of new openings for financial analysts and nurses' aides in the Southwest, for example. But these will not do you much good if you live in the Northeast and your skills are in engine assembly or Web design.

structural unemployment: unemployment that arises because people's skills, experience, education, or location do not match what employers need

Major transitions in the kinds of work that are available—whether caused by new technologies or by sectoral shifts—are inevitably painful. Many manufacturing jobs have traditionally enjoyed institutional arrangements—including unionization and job characteristics negotiated with the help of unions—that increased the compensation and the quality of those jobs. People who had developed valuable skills in one job may find that their labor commands a lower price in other types of work. Many displaced workers, particularly older ones, may never find the kind of pay and satisfaction that they had at their earlier occupations. Older displaced workers are more likely than younger ones to stay unemployed for long periods or to exit the labor force.
Governments at all levels have tried various policies to prevent or alleviate structural unemployment. The governments of some countries, notably Germany and Japan in the 1980s and 1990s, have enacted industrial policies that directly encourage the development and retention of certain key industries through loans, subsidies, and tax credits. During negotiations on international trade (see Chapter 14), one sensitive issue is always the impact that increased trade might have on the employment levels in various industries in each country.
Government policies in the United States that target structural unemployment often focus on helping displaced workers find new employment. For example, the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002 provides benefits for certain workers displaced as a result of increased imports or the shifting of production to other countries. Workers who qualify for the program can receive retraining along with temporary income support payments and assistance with health insurance. The key feature of these programs is that they are targeted to particular workers in particular sectors of the economy. There has been some question, however, as to whether they have actually been successful in getting displaced workers into good new jobs. Business policies at the firm level are also relevant: Firms can help prevent structural unemployment if they make retaining or retraining their loyal employees a priority, even while responding to changes in technology and trade.

Cyclical Unemployment

Cyclical unemployment is unemployment due to macroeconomic fluctuations—specifically, unemployment that occurs due to a recession. During recessions, unemployment rises as demand for the products of business falls off. During recoveries, this kind of unemployment should decrease.

cyclical unemployment: unemployment caused by a drop in aggregate demand

Traditionally, a recession has been defined as a situation in which GDP falls for at least two consecutive calendar quarters. Most economists look to the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), a nonprofit and nongovernmental economic research organization, to "officially" mark the beginning and end of recessions. The NBER determinations are strongly based on GDP data, though they also consider other indicators, such as the levels of industrial production and wholesale-retail sales.

recession: traditionally defined as occurring when GDP falls for two consecutive calendar quarters, now "officially" determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research

Whereas frictional unemployment and a degree of structural unemployment are almost always present in an economy, cyclical unemployment is variable and is the kind of unemployment that can be most harmful both to the individuals and families that it affects and to the economy as a whole. This is why a great deal of macroeconomic theorizing has to do with the causes of cyclical unemployment and the appropriate policy responses. In severe recessions, such as what has come to be called the Great Recession of 2007-8, cyclical unemployment becomes unacceptably high and may remain high even after the economy is no longer formally in recession. This is what has been called a "jobless recovery": Even after GDP starts to recover, job growth is very slow.
As we see later in this chapter and in the following chapters, economists have different theories about what to do in response to high unemployment. As discussed in Chapter 1, these debates trace back to the Great Depression of the 1930s and the differences between classical economics and the theories of John Maynard Keynes. We pursue these issues in much greater detail starting in Chapter 9. First, we delve into patterns of unemployment and the workings of the labor market.

2.2 PATTERNS OF UNEMPLOYMENT

Figure 8.3 shows the monthly unemployment rate in the United States from January 1969 to February 2013. Unemployment was at a low of 3.4 percent in 1969 and at a high of 10.8 percent in 1982. Notice in the figure that, the U.S. economy experienced four recessions between 1969 and 1982 but only two relatively short recessions between 1983 and 2006.
During the Great Recession, the unemployment rate rose dramatically from less than 5 percent in late 2007 to its peak of 10.0 percent in October 2009. Although by July 2013 the unemployment rate was down to 7.4 percent, it remained high by historical standards. In addition to persistent high unemployment, a particular feature of the Great Recession was a dramatic increase in the average duration of unemployment, shown in Figure 8.4, which plots the average duration of unemployment in addition to the unemployment rate. The figure shows that when the unemployment rate goes up, the average duration of unemployment also rises. When job opportunities are scarcer, it takes longer for workers who lose their jobs to find new ones.







Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics online database.
Figure 8.3 The Monthly Unemployment Rate in the United States, 1969-2013 (Recessionary periods shaded)
Unemployment rises during recessions
(shown in grey), and decreases during economic recoveries.
 





Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics online database.
Figure 8.4 Average Duration of Unemployment and Unemployment Rate, 1969-2013
The average duration of unemployment rises along with the unemployment rate. The average duration of unemployment has been particularly long as a result of the Great Recession.

We see in Figure 8.4 that even when the unemployment rate exceeded 10 percent in the early 1980s, the average duration of unemployment reached only about 20 weeks. As a result of the recession in the early 2000s, the unemployment rate peaked at around 6 percent and the average duration of unemployment again hit 20 weeks. But as the unemployment rate rose during the Great Recession, the average duration of unemployment shot up dramatically. Even as the unemployment rate began to fall in 2010, the average duration of unemployment continued to rise, eventually reaching a peak of about 41 weeks in late 2011. As mentioned above, the duration of unemployment benefits was temporarily extended to up to 99 weeks in the wake of the Great Recession. (For more on the issue of unemployment duration and benefits, see Box 8.3.)


BOX 8.3 UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS AND THE GREAT RECESSION
Before the Great Recession, unemployed workers were eligible to receive up to 26 weeks' worth of unemployment benefits through state-funded programs. An individual's benefits are calculated using state-specific formulas based on his or her earnings while in employment, subject to maximum amounts that also vary by state. The weekly maximum benefit ranges from as much as about $900 in Massachusetts to as little as $250 in Mississippi, Arizona, and Louisiana.
As the economy headed into recession in 2008, Congress passed legislation that provided federal unemployment benefits after state benefits expired. Initially, the federal extension was 13 weeks, but several acts of Congress eventually increased this to as much as 73 weeks. Thus some workers became eligible for unemployment benefits for a total of 99 weeks. The previous record for total unemployment benefits was 65 weeks' worth during a recession in the mid-1970s.
More recently, the federal extension of unemployment benefits has been scaled back—a result of both an improving economy and federal budget cuts. As of August 2013 the availability of federal unemployment benefits varied by state from 14 to 47 weeks, depending on the unemployment rate in each state. Workers in states with the highest unemployment rates are eligible to receive federal benefits for the longest duration.
However, the availability of unemployment benefits in each state is not always directly related to the economic conditions in that state, due to variations in state policies and other complexities. For example, while Alaska has a relative low unemployment rate (6.8 percent in March 2013), it offers benefits for one of the longest periods. Meanwhile, South Carolina has an above-average unemployment rate but provides benefits for a relatively short maximum of 48 weeks.

The disparity is partly the result of the nation's complex unemployment-insurance system, a web of state and federal programs that wasn't designed for such a long period of high unemployment... . The most dramatic recent cuts have been in North Carolina, which recently overhauled its unemployment-insurance system, reducing both the duration and the dollar amount of benefits starting in July... . Doug Damato will likely be one of those getting cut off. The 40-year-old Asheville resident was laid off from his job at a local utility in February 2012, and he enrolled in a program to earn an associate's degree in mechanical engineering while receiving jobless benefits. But Mr. Damato is now slated to lose his benefits before he finishes his degree. "I don't know what I'm going to do," Mr. Damato said. "I'd like to be able to finish what I started." (Casselman, 2013)


Sources: Ben Casselman, "Jobless Aid Shrinks Unevenly," Wall Street Journal, August 5, 2013; Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, "Policy Basics: How Many Weeks of Unemployment Compensation Are Available?" ­w­w­w­.c­b­p­p­.o­r­g­; Tami Luhby, "How Long Should We Help the Unemployed?" CNN Money, December 13, 2011, ­h­t­t­p­:­/­/­m­o­n­e­y­.c­n­n­.c­o­m­/­2­0­1­1­/­1­2­/­1­3­/­n­e­w­s­/­e­c­o­n­o­m­y­/­u­n­e­m­p­l­o­y­m­e­n­t­_­b­e­n­e­f­i­t­s­_­e­x­t­e­n­s­i­o­n­/­i­n­d­e­x­.h­t­m­


While structural unemployment affects only some sectors of the economy and some amount of frictional unemployment seems inevitable, cyclical unemployment is spread broadly through the economy and can cause considerable economic hardship. In the wake of the Great Recession, cyclical unemployment persisted at high levels for many years (see Box 8.4). For this reason, it seems that avoiding or minimizing cyclical unemployment should be an important goal of economic policy. Explanations of why macroeconomic fluctuations occur and what kind of policies might be used to dampen them (and thus reduce cyclical unemployment) are discussed in Part III of this book.

Discussion Questions

1. Reflecting on your experience or that of someone you know, how long might it normally take for someone to find a job in your area? Comparing your answers in a group, do you find different opinions? What might be some of the factors that make frictional unemployment last a longer or shorter period of time?
2. Do you know of places in your city or region (or country) that have been hit particularly hard by unemployment and underemployment, recently or in past decades? Do you know why this hardship occurred? Would you characterize this unemployment as frictional, structural, or cyclical?


BOX 8.4 HIGH UNEMPLOYMENT PROVES PERSISTENT
Employers in the United States added 162,00 jobs in July 2013, fewer than expected, with the previous two months' estimates of job growth revised downward as well. The unemployment rate ticked down from 7.6 to 7.4 percent as people got jobs or dropped out of the labor force.
According to a report by the Economic Policy Institute,

The labor market began the second half of 2013 with a fizzle. The jobs report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows the addition of 162,000 jobs in July and a 26,000 downward revision to earlier months' data, bringing the average monthly growth rate of the last three months to 175,000 jobs. At this rate, it would take six years to fill the gap of 8.3 million jobs needed to return to a healthy job market.
The unemployment rate dropped from 7.6 to 7.4 percent, but this was largely due to workers dropping out of, or not entering, the labor force because of weak job opportunities. The labor force participation rate dropped to 63.4 percent, near its low of the downturn. The share of the working-age (16+) population with a job did not budge, holding steady at 58.7 percent.

The Economic Policy Institute report noted that unemployment was elevated across all categories of education, age, gender, race/ethnicity, and occupation—a pattern characteristic of cyclical unemployment. The number of people working part-time who wanted full-time jobs increased by 19,000, to 8.2 million, indicating an underemployment rate at a level about double that prior to the downturn. Long-term unemployment was also elevated, with 36.7 percent of unemployed workers having been unemployed for more than six months.
Sources: Catherine Rampell, "U.S. Adds 162,000 Jobs as Growth Remains Sluggish," New York Times, August 2, 2013; Heidi Sherholz, "Six Trends in the Jobs Numbers that are Due to Weak Hiring," Economic Policy Institute report, August 2, 2013, ­w­w­w­.e­p­i­/­o­r­g­.

3. THEORIES OF EMPLOYMENT, UNEMPLOYMENT, AND WAGES

Employment and wages are fundamental components of macroeconomic analysis. As of 2012 income from wages and salaries accounted for 69 percent of national income in the United States. Labor income is what makes it possible for most households to purchase many of the things that they need and want. (The other sources of income mostly derive from various kinds and degrees of ownership of productive assets—such as buildings, land, or other resources or stocks, which are ownership "shares" in companies.) We now take a look at the different explanations for how wages are set and how overall employment and unemployment levels are determined.

3.1 THE CLASSICAL THEORY

You will recall from Chapter 1 that "classical" approaches to economics favor the workings of free markets, without government intervention. The classical approach to understanding wages and employment assumes that markets behave as described by the idealized supply-and-demand model presented in Chapter 4, characterized by perfect competition.
This model, as applied to the labor market, is shown as Figure 8.5a. "Quantity," on the horizontal axis, can be understood to mean either quantity of labor services or the amount of labor hours supplied and demanded. We can think of this quantity as being measured, for example, by the number of full-time equivalent days worked over a given time period. The "price" of labor is the wage, in this case, per day (we assume that this is a "real" wage, i.e., adjusted for inflation.) Workers supply labor, while employers demand it. This very simple model assumes that every unit of labor services is the same and every worker in this market will receive exactly the same wage. The equilibrium wage in this example is WE and the equilibrium quantity of labor supplied is at LE.
Because the market pictured in Figure 8.5a is free to adjust, there is no involuntary unemployment. Everyone who wants a job at the going wage gets one. There may be many people who would offer their services on this market if the wage were higher—as the portion of the supply curve to the right of LE demonstrates. But, given the currently offered wage rate, these people have made a rational choice not to participate in this labor market.







Figure 8.5a The Classical Labor Market Model
 





Figure 8.5b Unemployment in the Classical Labor Market Model

Within this model, the only way that involuntary unemployment can exist is if something gets in the way of market forces. The presence of a legal minimum wage is commonly pointed to as one such factor. As illustrated in Figure 8.5b, if employers are required to pay a minimum wage of W* ("W-star"), which is above the equilibrium wage, this model predicts that they will hire fewer workers. At an artificially high wage W*, employers want to hire only LD workers. But at that wage more people (LS) want jobs. There is a situation of surplus, as we discussed in Chapter 4. In this case, the market is prevented from adjusting to equilibrium by legal restrictions on employers. Now there are people who want a job at the going wage, but cannot find one—that is, they are unemployed.
In the real world, where issues of motivation, labor relations, and power are also important, the classical idea that minimum wages cause substantial unemployment can be called into question. In a well-known study, economists David Card and Alan Krueger found that a moderate increase in the minimum wage in New Jersey did not cause low-wage employment to decline and may have even increased it.3 The study came under fire from economists who believed (given the analysis shown in Figure 8.5a) that such a result simply could not be true. But the classical world assumes perfect competition, whereas real-world employers may have enough power in the labor market to be able to pay workers less than they are worth. Labor markets seem to be more complicated than a simple supply-and-demand model suggests.
In any case, the minimum wage affects only a portion of the workforce—people who are relatively unskilled, including many teenagers—but unemployment tends to affect people at all wage levels. Classical economists suggest other "market interference" reasons for unemployment, as well. The economy might provide less than the optimal number of jobs, they believe, because:
• Regulations on businesses reduce their growth, restricting growth in the demand for labor
• Labor union activities and labor-related regulations (such as safety regulations, mandated benefits, or restrictions on layoffs and dismissals) increase the cost of labor to businesses, causing them to turn toward labor-saving technologies and thus reducing job growth
• Public "safety net" policies, such as disability insurance and unemployment insurance, reduces employment by causing people to become less willing to seek work.
Labor-market recommendations derived from a classical point of view tend to focus on getting rid of regulations and social programs that are seen as obstructing proper market behavior. Like other classical proposals, such labor market proposals assume that the economy works best under the principle of laissez-faire ("leave it alone"). But alternative explanations of the workings of labor markets suggest a different perspective. In considering some of these alternative explanations, we will step away from the assumptions of a single, homogeneous market in which all jobs and all workers are alike and the labor market is characterized by perfect competition. Labor markets are also influenced by many other factors, including history, psychology, power, resources, productivity, and technology.

3.2 ALTERNATIVE PERSPECTIVES ON LABOR MARKETS

In Chapter 1, we identified the Keynesian (pronounced "Canesian") perspective as a major alternative to the classical view. Keynes, among many other economists, pointed out aspects of real-world human psychology, history, and institutions that make it unlikely (as well as often undesirable) that wages will fall quickly in response to a labor surplus. Wages may eventually adjust in the way shown in the classical model but too slowly to keep the labor market in equilibrium. And even if wages do fall, this will not necessarily result in full employment, for reasons we will discuss.
The incidence of unemployment, as well as the different rates of pay going to different groups, has much to do with people's memory of recent history. When one category of work is paid more highly than another, people who were receiving those higher wages are often able to hold out for a long time against other forces (including supply and demand) that would tend to reverse the relationship. Employers may be slow to reduce wages because they fear that workers will strongly resist such a move—perhaps with strikes or other labor actions. The observed failure of wages to adjust as quickly or completely as predicted has inspired a number of theoretical explanations. Some of these fall into the category of "sticky wage" theories. In addition to psychological resistance to wage cuts, a minimum wage might also make wages "sticky," or wages may also become set at particular levels by long-term contracts, such as many large employers negotiate with labor unions.

"sticky wage" theories: theories about why wages stay at above-equilibrium levels, despite the existence of a labor surplus

A fairly recent attempt to explain wages that differ from the equilibrium point is efficiency wage theory, which points out that managers must attract, train, and motivate workers if their enterprise is to be productive. Employers may therefore find it to their advantage to pay employees more than would be strictly necessary to get them to work. This theory can be illustrated by looking back at Figure 8.5a, where W* could be read as the efficiency wage.

efficiency wage theory: the theory that an employer can motivate workers to put forth more effort by paying them somewhat more than they could get elsewhere

Efficiency wage theory is a good fit with many observations. When workers are better paid they may be healthier and better nourished and therefore more able to do quality work. (This is especially true when talking about wage rates at the low end of the scale.) Also, workers may be more highly motivated and may have a lower propensity to quit if they know they are getting "a really good deal" from their employer than they would be if they are getting barely enough to motivate them to take the job or just the same as they could get anywhere else. Workers with a lower likelihood of quitting are more valuable to an employer because the employer saves on the costs of training new workers. Workers may also work more efficiently if they believe that they could lose their "really good deal" if they are caught shirking. If a pool of unemployed people results from the higher-than-necessary efficiency wages, those who are employed might have greater incentives to work hard out of fear of losing their good jobs.
Legally or contractually set wages, fear of worker unrest, and efficiency wages are all possible explanations for "sticky wages." What sort of policies result from such theories? More government activity to relieve unemployment-related hardship may be proposed, such as the policies we discuss in Part III of this book, or programs of unemployment benefits or job creation.
Some economists also argue that a moderate level of economy-wide price inflation tends to relieve some "sticky wage" unemployment. How could this be so? Suppose that you are working for $12 per hour now, and your employer wants to cut your wage to $10 per hour. You would probably resist if asked to accept this wage cut—especially if you see that other people are not suffering such wage cuts. But suppose, instead, that your wage stays at $12 per hour, and, over time, inflation reduces the purchasing power of your wage to $10 per hour (in terms of prices of the base year). Your nominal wage has stayed the same, but your real wage (and thus your real cost to your employer) has fallen. Because this has happened more subtly—and is felt more economy-wide—than a cut in your personal nominal wage, you may not feel as compelled to resist. According to some theories, such a drop in the wage (in real terms) should cause employment to increase.
While some Keynesian theorists emphasize sticky wages, Keynes's critique of classical views actually went much further. In more general terms, the Keynesian perspective challenges the entire classical assertion that unemployment results mainly from wage levels that are too high. Rather than blaming unemployment on "the wage being too high," Keynes and his followers focus on the issue of insufficient demand for labor—which they perceive as the direct result of insufficient demand for goods and services. (It is often said that "the demand for labor is a derived demand"—meaning that it is derived from the demand for the output produced by labor.)
Thus, to Keynes and his followers, fixing the problem of unemployment in a recession or depression is not just a matter of making labor markets work more smoothly. Rather, total demand—what economists refer to as aggregate demand—for goods and services in the economy has to increase in order to stimulate hiring. In this analysis, falling wages would not improve labor market conditions but would make things worse, because workers would have less money to buy goods and services, leading to lower levels of business sales and further layoffs. Unlike the classical economists, Keynes believed that government policies could be effective in response to an economic downturn. We consider these theories and policies in Part III of this book.

aggregate demand: the total demand for all goods and services in a national economy


3.3 LONGER TERM ISSUES: PRODUCTIVITY, RESOURCES, AND TECHNOLOGY

An important macroeconomic issue is the share of total income received by labor. Data that track the share of national income received as wages indicate that this share has declined in recent years. In the nonfarm business sector (which accounts for roughly 74 percent of the output produced in the U.S. economy), labor's share of total income tended, before 1980, to fluctuate around a long-run value of approximately 65 percent. By 2012 it had decreased to 57.6 percent.
One explanation for this could be that workers have become less productive—but statistics on average output per hour worked indicate that wages have in fact not been keeping up with growing labor productivity. The formal definition of labor productivity is the market value of the output of a given amount of labor, normally one hour. Productivity growth in the nonfarm business sector averaged 2.7 percent annually before 1973, then 1.4 percent during a slowdown in productivity growth over 1974-1995, and 2.3 percent from 1996 to 2012.

labor productivity: the market value of the output that results from a given amount of labor

As labor becomes more productive, one would expect that wages would rise accordingly. As shown in Figure 8.6, which presents the growth of nonfarm labor productivity and nonfarm real median hourly wages since 1947, this was approximately true from 1947 up to until about 1970. Over this period, wages and productivity both increased by a real factor of about two. But since then, a gap between productivity growth and real wage growth became evident. This wage-productivity gap has increased over time.

wage-productivity gap: the gap between the growth of labor productivity and the growth of hourly labor compensation

As suggested in Chapter 3, the decline in the bargaining power of unions in the United States is one obvious explanation for the widening wage-productivity gap. Workers have not had the power to insist that their wages keep up with the increasing value of their output. At the same time, when we consider the share of income going to labor, we also must realize that the productivity of labor depends in part on other aspects of production.







Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Labor Productivity and Costs online database.
Figure 8.6 Real Nonfarm Median Wages and Labor Productivity, 1947-2012
Median wages increased along with labor productivity from 1947 up to about 1970. Since then, wage growth has not kept pace with productivity gains.

There are a number of important determinants of labor productivity, including health and education (as aspects of human capital), work organization, and levels of cooperation in the workplace (which are aspects of social capital). This section focuses on two other determinants of labor productivity: technology, which can expand the stocks of manufactured, human, and social capital; and natural resources.

Technology and Wages

Obviously, a main reason for the upward trend in labor productivity shown in Figure 8.6 is an improvement in technology. But can technology also be part of the reason that median wages have not kept pace with productivity gains?
Ever since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, technology has been recognized by workers as a double-edged sword. On the one hand, it has created circumstances wherein each worker has more natural and manufactured capital to work with, raising workers' productivity and hence their earnings. On the other hand, technology can effectively replace workers, leading to technological unemployment; ever fewer workers are needed to produce a given quantity of output.

technological unemployment: unemployment caused by reduced demand for workers because technology has increased the productivity of those who have jobs, effectively reducing the demand for workers

Fears of technological unemployment have been raised repeatedly during the last two and a half centuries. While these fears have been valid in specific areas—for example, computers have made many secretarial jobs obsolete—the total quantity of jobs has not declined as a proportion of the population. Indeed, in the twentieth century, the number of jobs in the United States increased significantly, as women successfully entered the labor force and increased the LFP rate, as mentioned above. Technological unemployment, to those who experience it, is as painful as any other type of unemployment; however, it does not become a society-wide issue if the total number of jobs keeps pace with the size of the population, and education or retraining provides workers who can adapt to the new circumstances.
Technology can also affect wages and the distribution of wages across different types of workers. One theory, referred to as skill-biased technical change, proposes that workers who possess the education and skills needed to use modern technologies will see relative increases in employment and wages. For example, workers who are able to use computers and other digital technologies may gain an advantage over workers who lack such skills. If these skilled workers are a minority of the work force, they could obtain wage gains while most workers' wages stagnate. Note that average wages may increase while the median wage stays relatively constant if all the gains accrue to those at the top.* Skill-biased technical change has been hypothesized to be one of the reasons for an overall increase in inequality in the United States.

skill-biased technical change: the theory that relative wage gains will be the greatest for those workers who possess the education and skills to use modern technologies

Evidence suggests that skill-biased technical change may be part of the explanation for rising wage inequality, but it may be a less important factor particularly in recent years. A 2012 paper notes:

It is hard, however, to find the winners from technical change in the last ten years, as the wages of the bottom 70 per cent of college graduates have been flat or in decline. That would leave just 30 per cent of college graduates (6.6 per cent of the workforce) and the 11 per cent of workers with advanced degrees as the winners of technical change. It also seems unlikely that technical change has generated the upward trajectory of the top 1 per cent of wage earners.4



Natural Resources and Wages

The availability and prices of natural resources can also affect wages. Labor and natural resources represent two inputs in production processes, along with other types of capital, so productivity depends on a combination of inputs.
First, consider the possibility that natural resources are becoming scarcer and/or more expensive to extract, as discussed in Chapter 1. If natural resources, as one input into production processes, become more expensive, producers will seek to substitute other inputs that have become relatively less expensive. Thus the demand for labor would be expected to increase, and wages should rise. But we also have to consider the macroeconomic impact of a rise in natural resource prices. In recent years, higher prices for oil and other natural resources have had a negative impact on economic activity, contributing to higher unemployment.
As mentioned above, technology also represents an input into production processes. If natural resources become more expensive, that creates an incentive for research into ways to use these resources more efficiently, or to seek substitutes. Technological improvements or resource substitution could offset the negative impacts of natural resource scarcity on wages and the overall economy.
Productivity gains could also be the basis for reducing work hours. Figure 8.6 shows that labor productivity doubled between the mid-1970s and 2012. One interpretation of this result is that the United States can now produce twice the quantity of goods and services with the same amount of labor used in the 1970s. But an alternative possibility is that we can now produce the same quantity of goods and services produced in the 1970s, but with half the amount of labor.
Consider this statement in light of the notion of labor flexibility. Suppose that workers had the choice between taking productivity gains as either wage increases or labor time decreases. Theoretically, American workers could be living at the same material living standards of the 1970s, but working only six months of every year! Of course, some workers may always choose more pay over shorter hours, but allowing for more work choice accords with standard economic theory, stated as follows:

According to economic theory, we should let each worker choose how many hours to work. If workers choose shorter hours, it is because they get greater satisfaction from more free time than they would get from more income. According to the basic principle of market economics, interfering with individuals' choices between more free time and more income reduces total well being, just as interfering with individuals' choices between two products would reduce total well being by forcing some people to buy the product that gives them less.5

Assuming that many workers are willing to work shorter hours for an equivalent reduction in pay, as mentioned in Section 2.2, this would reduce their overall consumption and thus rates of natural resource degradation and extraction.
Currently in the United States, part-time jobs are much less attractive than full-time jobs because hourly wages are often low and few benefits are provided. Some countries have enacted policies to promote higher-quality part-time jobs. One example is the Netherlands where discrimination against part-time workers is illegal and employers must offer the option of shorter work hours unless they can prove that it would impose an economic hardship on their business.


BOX 8.5 WHAT IS THE FUTURE OF WORK?
Discussions about the future of work tempt us to try to imagine what a better world would be like and to ask ourselves whether the economy of the future is trending in such a direction. Questions along these lines were posed to Andres McAfee, an MIT business school researcher who coauthored the book Race Against the Machine. Asked for an optimistic view of the future, McAfee described a "digital Athens" in which a highly automated and productive economy would greatly reduce the need for human labor—"So the optimistic version is that we finally have more hours in our week freed up from toil and drudgery." When asked if he saw a digital Athens on the horizon, he responded that, instead, "the people at the top of the skill, wage, and income distribution are working more hours," while added leisure is going to those who don't want it—the unemployed.
McAfee was also asked: "What is your advice to the individual, or to the parent educating a child?" His response: "To the parent, make sure your kid's education is geared toward things at which machines appear not to be very good. Computers are still lousy at programming computers. Computers are still bad at figuring out what questions need to be asked. I would encourage every kid these days to buckle down and do a double major, one in the liberal arts and one in the college of sciences."
Source: "When Machines Do Your Job," interview with Andres McAfee, Technology Review (September/October 2012): 71.


Some analysts have proposed that giving people more flexibility to set their work hours is an important way to achieve a more sustainable society (see Box 8.5). We will discuss the issue of policies needed for sustainability in more detail in Chapter 18.

Discussion Questions

1. Which arguments seem most convincing to you, those of classical labor market theorists, "sticky wage" theorists, or economists concerned with aggregate demand? What are some strengths and weaknesses of each argument?
2. Can you think of other impacts, positive and negative, of allowing workers more flexibility in setting their work hours? Would you support any specific policies to promote more choice of work hours?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. What population is included in the official household survey that measures employment and unemployment?
  2. What questions are asked to determine whether someone is "employed"?
  3. What makes a person count as "unemployed"?
  4. How is the unemployment rate calculated?
  5. What are marginally attached workers? Discouraged workers?
  6. What does employment flexibility mean from the perspective of workers? From the perspective of employers?
  7. What is the labor force participation rate and how is it calculated? How has it changed in recent decades for men and women in the United States?
  8. How can high levels of unemployment be explained in the Keynesian model?
  9. List and describe the three types of unemployment.
10. What policies may be used to combat frictional and structural unemployment?
11. What is the relationship between the average duration of unemployment and the unemployment rate?
12. Describe the classical theory of unemployment.
13. What are some of the reasons that an economy might offer less than the optimal number of jobs, according to classical theory?
14. Describe how "sticky wages" could lead to unemployment.
15. What are some reasons that wages might be "sticky"?
16. What are "efficiency wages," and why might payment of them lead to unemployment?
17. What has been the relationship between labor productivity and median wages in the United States since World War II?
18. How can changes in technology affect prevailing wage rates?
19. What is skill-biased technical change?
20. How can the price and availability of natural resources affect prevailing wage rates?

EXERCISES
  1. The small country of Nederland counts its unemployed using the same methods as the United States. Of the population of 350 people, 70 are under age 16, 190 are employed in paid work, and 80 are adults who are not doing paid work or looking for work because they are doing full-time family care, are retired or disabled, or are in school. The rest are unemployed. (No one is institutionalized, and the country has no military.) Calculate the following:
a. The number of unemployed
b. The size of the labor force
c. The unemployment rate
d. The labor force participation rate (overall, for both sexes)
  2. The population of Tatoonia is very small. Luis works full-time for pay. Robin works one shift a week as counter help at a fast-food restaurant. Sheila is retired. Shawna does not work for pay, but is thinking about getting a job and has been looking through employment postings to see what is available. Bob has given up looking for work, after months of not finding anything. Ana, the only child in the country, is 12 years old.
a. How would a household survey, following U.S. methods, classify each person?
b. What is the labor force participation rate in Tatoonia?
c. What is the unemployment rate in Tatoonia?
  3. Suppose an economy is suffering unemployment due to wages that are "too high," as theorized by classical economists.
a. Draw and label a graph illustrating this case, in which the going wage is $20, the equilibrium wage is $15, 50 million people want to work, but only 30 million are employed.
b. Describe some of the assumptions about labor markets that underlie this graph.
  4. A computer software company advertises for employees, saying "We offer the best-paid jobs in the industry!" But why would any company want to pay more than it absolutely has to in order to attract workers? Can this phenomenon help to explain the existence of unemployment? Explain in a paragraph.
  5. Locate the most recent news release on employment and unemployment statistics at the Bureau of Labor Statistics Web site (­w­w­w­.b­l­s­.g­o­v­). In a paragraph, describe how the labor force, overall unemployment rate, and unemployment rates by race and ethnicity, age, and education differ from the numbers (for February 2013) given in the text.
  6. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B.








Column A

Column B


a.
"Not in the labor force"
  1.
The theory that unemployment is caused by insufficient aggregate demand


b.
Classical labor market theory
  2.
Occurs during a recession


c.
Marginally attached workers
  3.
An example of an employment flexibility policy


d.
Frictional unemployment
  4.
Occurs when the skills, experience, and education of workers do not match job openings


e.
Employed
  5.
Wages and employment levels are determined by supply and demand, with no involuntary unemployment


f.
Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act
  6.
Immediately available for and currently looking for paid work


g.
Unemployed
  7.
Military personnel


h.
"Sticky wages"
  8.
A policy response to structural unemployment


i.
Structural unemployment
  9.
Worked 15 hours or more in a family business


j.
Keynesian theory
10.
Occurs as people move between jobs


k.
Cyclical unemployment
11.
Want to work and have looked in the past year but not the past month


l.
Not included in the household survey covering employment
12.
Unemployment may occur because wages are slow to fall


m.
Technological unemployment
13.
Occurs when technology reduces the overall need for workers


n.
Paid parental leave
14.
A retired person




NOTES

1. Rasmussen Reports, "New Low: Just 14% Think Today's Children Will Be Better Off Than Their Parents," July 29, 2012. ­h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­w­w­.r­a­s­m­u­s­s­e­n­r­e­p­o­r­t­s­.c­o­m­/­.
2. Rainer Winkelmann, "Unemployment, Social Capital, and Subjective Well-Being," IZA Discussion Paper No. 2346, Bonn, Germany, September 2006.
3. David Card and Alan B. Krueger, "Minimum Wages and Employment: A Case Study of the Fast-Food Industry in New Jersey and Pennsylvania," American Economic Review, 84(4) (1994): 774-775.
4. Lawrence Mishel and Kar-Fai Gee, "Why Aren't Workers Benefiting from Labour Productivity Growth in the United States?" International Productivity Monitor, 23 (2012): 31-43.
5. Charles Siegel, The End of Economic Growth (Berkeley, CA: Preservation Institute, Berkeley, CA 2006), p. 29.


*The terms "standard of living" and "well-being" are often used interchangeably, but there is a distinction. "Standard of living" refers to the tangible aspects of one's life, while "well-being" refers to the overall state of one's life, including social and psychological aspects as well as tangible aspects.
*The median wage is the wage received by workers at the exact middle of the wage distribution. Thus the median wage can remain constant or decline while wages in the top half of the distribution increase.













 
 
 





P A R T

Macroeconomic Theory and Policy


III



















 
 
 




9
Aggregate Demand and Economic Fluctuations




 
 

What makes an economy experience GDP expansion or contraction, high or low employment, and good or bad business conditions? These questions have been very much in the forefront of discussion in the United States and many other countries since the financial crisis of 2007-8, the ensuing recession, widely known as the Great Recession, and the slow recovery that followed. In a sophisticated contemporary economy such as that in the United States, a decline in demand for goods and services by consumers and businesses generally leads to recessionary conditions and higher unemployment. In Chapter 15 we discuss the events of the financial crisis and its aftermath in more detail. But before getting into these specifics, we need to develop a general theory of how the demand for goods and services varies over time and how this affects economic conditions.

1. THE BUSINESS CYCLE

Part III of this textbook focuses in particular on the goal of economic stabilization—that is, keeping unemployment and inflation at acceptable levels over the business cycle. For the moment, we set aside consideration of our two other goals—the goal of improvement in true living standards and the goal of maintaining the ecological, social, and financial sustainability of a national economy—to focus on stabilization. As we see, one crucial key to understanding macroeconomics is how the amount that individuals and businesses want to spend overall (or "aggregate demand," as we called it in Chapter 1) influences, and is influenced by, other macroeconomic variables. One of the key debates in macroeconomic policy is between Keynesians, who believe that aggregate demand needs active guidance if the economy is to be stable, and more classically-oriented economists, who believe that aggregate demand can take care of itself.
In Chapter 1 we introduced the notion of the "business cycle," while in Chapter 8 we considered in detail how employment and unemployment vary over the cycle. Now we look in more detail at business cycles, or recurrent fluctuations in the level of national production, with alternating periods of recession and boom.

1.1 WHAT HAPPENS DURING THE BUSINESS CYCLE

Figure 9.1 shows the pattern of real GDP growth over the period 1985-2012. In most years, as you can see, GDP grew. But during three periods—1990-91, and 2001, and 2007-9—GDP shrank. The level of real GDP actually went down from one calendar quarter to the next. As noted in Chapter 7, the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) declares a "recession" when economic activity declines for two consecutive quarters, relying on GDP statistics to make this judgment.
In other periods, you can see that GDP grew quite steadily. The positive GDP growth beginning in 2002 shown in Figure 9.1 continued well into 2007, but in 2007-8 the financial crisis hit, and the economy plunged into a severe recession, lasting from December 2007 to June 2009. After the recession technically ended, it took several years for GDP to recover to its previous level, and as discussed in the last chapter, high unemployment lingered much longer. The goal of macroeconomic stabilization policy is to smooth out such variations.







Source: BEA quarterly data 1985-2012, and NBER.
Figure 9.1 U.S. Real GDP and Recessions
During 1985-2012, the United States experienced three recessions, as defined by the National Bureau of Economics Research. During these periods, real GDP fell.

As we discuss the ins and outs of stabilization policy, you need to keep in mind two "stylized facts." Economists call these "stylized facts" because, while they form a very important base for the way we think about the economy, they are not always literally true. Just as we use simplifying assumptions in microeconomics to draw supply and demand curves, we start from a simplified version of reality in constructing our macroeconomic theory.
Stylized Fact #1: During an economic downturn or contraction, unemployment rises, while in a recovery or expansion, unemployment falls. This is fairly easy to understand, since, when production in an economy is falling, it would seem natural to assume that producers need fewer workers—because they are producing fewer goods. Similarly, in an expansion, unemployment falls.* This relationship is sometimes expressed by an equation called Okun's law. In the early 1960s, economist Arthur M. Okun estimated that a one-percentage point drop in the unemployment rate was associated with an approximately 3-percentage point boost to real GDP. The equation for Okun's "law" has been estimated many times since then, and in many different variations, and is best regarded as a rule of thumb rather than a "law."

Okun's "law.": an empirical inverse relationship between the unemployment rate and real GDP growth

We can see some strong evidence of this inverse relationship between output growth and employment by comparing Figure 9.1 with Figure 9.2, which shows the unemployment rate from 1985 to 2012, including the three recessions that occurred during this period, as identified by the NBER. As output turns downward in Figure 9.1, unemployment shoots dramatically upward in Figure 9.2. The inverse relation, however, is not perfect. In all three recessions, the unemployment rate continued to increase even after GDP started to rise again. But with the exception of the periods immediately following a recession, rising GDP is generally associated with increased employment.
Stylized Fact #2: An economic recovery or expansion, if it is very strong, tends to lead to an increase in the inflation rate. During a downturn or contraction, pressure on inflation eases off (and inflation may fall or even become negative). The reasoning behind this result is that, as an economy "heats up," producers increasingly compete with one another over a limited supply of raw materials, labor, and so on. Prices and wages tend to be bid up, and inflation results or intensifies. In a slump, this upward pressure on prices slackens, or even reverses, so inflation may be lower or even, in some cases, negative (deflation). Figure 9.3 shows the inflation rate over the period 1985-2012, including the same three recessions highlighted in Figures 9.1 and 9.2.







Source: BLS monthly data 1985-2012, and NBER.
Figure 9.2 U.S. Unemployment Rate and Recessions
During the 1990-1991, 2001, and 2007-9 recessions, unemployment shot up sharply and continued to increase after the recession formally ended, reaching a peak of 10 percent in 2010.






Source: "Economic Report of the President" 1985-2005; rate is calculated as a three-month moving average of the CPI; NBER.
Figure 9.3 U.S. Inflation Rate and Recessions
During the 1990-91, 2001, and 2007-9 recessions, inflation fell sharply. Inflation generally reflects the business cycle, along with other factors.

As you can see, the "stylized fact" that inflation tends to fall during a recession seems to be borne out by the actual data for this period. The three recessions shown in Figure 9.3 were accompanied by distinct downturns in the inflation rate. But wide fluctuations in the inflation rate also occurred during other periods, with both increases and downturns occurring during economic upswings. Business cycle-led variations in the degree of competition for workers and resources are only one cause—and, in recent decades, not always the most important cause—of variations in inflation. We look at this issue more closely in Chapters 12 and 13. But for the discussion of business cycles in this and the following two chapters, we assume that booms lead to at least a threat of rising inflation.

1.2 A STYLIZED BUSINESS CYCLE

When analyzing business cycles, it is often convenient to separate the issue of economic fluctuations from the issue of economic growth. In Figure 9.1 the most striking pattern is the overall growth trend in GDP. For the analysis in Part III of this book, it will be more helpful to mentally remove the upward trend and to think of business cycles in terms of the stylized picture shown in Figure 9.4. (We return to the subjects of growth and development in Part IV.)







Figure 9.4 A Stylized Business Cycle
In this hypothetical economy, GDP contracts from peaks to troughs, and expands from troughs to peaks. A range of output indicating "full employment" is indicated by Y*.

During a contraction, GDP falls until the economy hits the trough, or lowest point. During an expansion, GDP rises from a trough until it reaches a peak. In Figure 9.4, the idea that there is a range of output levels that represent "full employment" is represented by the gray area labeled with the value Y*. Given the different kinds of unemployment discussed in Chapter 8, there is some controversy about exactly what "full employment" means over the business cycle, so we have used a range rather than a specific level of GDP here to indicate "full-employment output" for modeling purposes. (Sometimes you may also see this referred to as "potential output.")

"full-employment output" (Y*): for modeling purposes, a level of output that is assumed to correspond to a case of no excessive or burdensome unemployment, but the likely existence of at least some transitory unemployment

At full-employment output, the economy is, presumably, not suffering from an unemployment problem. But neither is the unemployment rate actually zero (as measured by the Bureau of Labor Statistics), due to the existence of at least some short-term, transitory or "frictional," unemployment.
What economists generally do agree on is that there have been—historically, at least—episodes when economies have "overheated" and output has gone above this range—giving rise (by Stylized Fact #2) to inflationary pressures. Thus Figure 9.4 shows employment at the peak levels at the top of, or possibly slightly exceeding, the "full employment" band. And there have also been times when economies have fallen into troughs, with (due to Stylized Fact #1) unacceptable levels of unemployment. In terms of the business cycle model shown in Figure 9.4, the goal of stabilization policy is to keep an economy in the gray area, avoiding the threats of inflation and unemployment.

1.3 THE DOWNTURN SIDE OF THE STORY

It will take this entire chapter and the next four to build up a workable theory of the business cycle! Because this is a large and complex topic, we need to take things one step at a time. We start by looking at the case of economic downturns.
The biggest downturn in U.S. history was, of course, the Great Depression. Production dropped dramatically from 1929 to 1930 and officially measured national unemployment soared, topping out at 25 percent. Some regions were especially hard-hit, with unemployment rates above the national average, and severe underemployment as well. Not only were times bad—they stayed bad. Unemployment stayed in the double digits all through the 1930s.
Nor was the Great Depression just a U.S. phenomenon. Most of this country's major trading partners were also hard-hit. Table 9.1 presents some additional descriptive data about the falloff in economic activity in the United States, and resulting hardships, during the Great Depression.


Table 9.1 The Early Years of the Great Depression in the United States






1929
1933


a. Real Standard and Poor's Stock Index
100.0
45.7


b. Unemployment rate (official)
3.2%
24.9%


c. Price level (CPI)
100.0
75.4


d. Real gross domestic product
$865.2 billion
$635.5 billion


e. Real personal consumption expenditures
$661.4 billion
$541.0 billion


f. Real gross private domestic investment
$91.3 billion
$17 billion


g. Real private debt
$88.9 billion
$102.0 billion


h. Bankruptcy cases
56,867
67,031


i. Nonfarm real estate foreclosures
134,900
252,400


j. Food energy per capita per day (calories)
3,460
3,280


Sources: a. Historical Statistics of the United States, p. 1004, series 495; b-c. Rudiger Dornbusch, Stanley Fischer, and Richard Startz, Macroeconomics. New York: McGraw Hill, 2011; d-f. h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­w­w­.b­e­a­.d­o­c­.g­o­v­/­b­e­a­/­d­n­/­n­i­p­a­w­e­b­/­T­a­b­l­e­V­i­e­w­.a­s­p­#­M­i­d­/­; g. Historical Statistics of the United States, p. 989, series X399; h. Bradley Hansen and Mary Eschenbach Hansen, The Transformation of Bankruptcy in the United States (­h­t­t­p­:­/­/­a­c­a­d­e­m­i­c­2­.a­m­e­r­i­c­a­n­.e­d­u­/­~­m­h­a­n­s­e­n­/­t­r­a­n­s­f­o­r­m­.p­d­f­); i. Historical Statistics of the United States, p. 651, series N301; j. ibid., p. 328, series 851; d and e are inflation-corrected using b.


Another severe economic downturn hit the United States beginning in 2007. While not as serious as the Great Depression, this "Great Recession" resembled it in that, unlike most recessions of the past, it persisted for more than a few quarters. Even after the economy formally left recession and entered recovery, employment growth was very slow. This severe recession was caused in large part by the financial crisis of 2007 and illustrates the vulnerability of the U.S. economy to excess "financialization," a topic that we discussed in Chapter 7, and to which we return in Chapter 15.
Notice that in our stylized business cycle in Figure 9.4 there is no scale on the "year" axis. The timing of the cycle is not regular or predictable, so economists in the early years of the Great Depression differed on how to interpret it. Most economists in the 1930s, trained in the classical school, reassured public leaders that this sort of cycle was merely to be expected. They believed that the economy was in the "trough" stage but that it would soon start to expand again. In the long run, they assured officials, the economy would recover by itself, as it had recovered from other downturns in the past.
In response, British economist John Maynard Keynes quipped that "in the long run, we are all dead." He meant that simply waiting for the economy to recover would lead to an unacceptably long period of severe economic damage—which indeed is what happened during the Great Depression. In 1936 Keynes presented a theory on how economies can fall into recessions and stay there for a long time—and some ideas about how public policy might help economies get out of the trough more quickly. We start our detailed study of business cycle theory with models that illustrate classical and Keynesian theories concerning recession and depressions.

Discussion Questions

1. What impressions do you have of the Great Recession that began in 2007? What were its impacts on people whom you know or have heard about? How do you think it compares to the Great Depression of the 1930s?
2. Do you know in what phase of the business cycle we are at present? Is the U.S. economy currently in a recession or an expansion? What does this mean for employment, inflation, and GDP growth?

2. MACROECONOMIC MODELING AND AGGREGATE DEMAND

For economists, explanations often take the form of theoretical mathematical models. A theoretical model (as we saw in Chapter 2) is a "thought experiment" to help us see the world, which necessarily highlights some aspects of a situation. At the same time, due to simplifying assumptions, it neglects others. A mathematical model expresses the theory in terms of equations, graphs, or schedules. Models contain variables. These are abstract (simplified) representations of important macroeconomic measures—usually related to ones that we can observe empirically, such as GDP or the unemployment rate. Macroeconomists make simplifying assumptions about variables, for example, assuming that all the various interest rates that might coexist in the economy can be summarized as if they were a single one, referred to as "the interest rate." Mathematical models relate these variables together using algebraic formulas, graphs, or tables in such a way as to make clear how these variables affect one another, according to the theorist's understanding.

2.1 SIMPLIFYING ASSUMPTIONS

In Chapter 5, we saw that the economy could be described in terms of four sectors: household, business, government, and foreign. Household expenditures on consumption, business expenditures on investment, government spending, and exchange with the foreign sector expressed as net exports were summed up to obtain total GDP.
This approach simplifies the economy—for example, by assuming that only businesses carry out investment—and the models of aggregate demand we now develop simplify even further:*
• For the models in Part III of this book, we assume that the full-employment output level does not grow. In designing models, it is often useful to separate out different issues into different models. Chapter 17 of this text examines economic growth and ignores business cycles. In Part III, we take an opposite but complementary approach, concentrating on cycles and abstracting from growth.
• For the initial analysis in this chapter, we assume that the only actors in the economy are households and businesses. We also assume that all income in the economy goes to households, in return for the labor or capital services that they provide. (In the real world, businesses often hold onto some of their profits as "retained earnings," rather than paying them all out to households, but we ignore that here.) We reintroduce the government in Chapter 10 and discuss the foreign sector in Chapter 14.
• For the remainder of the present chapter, we concentrate on the difference between the classical and Keynesian theories about the behavior of economies that face a threat of recession and rising unemployment due to (potentially) insufficient aggregate demand. Booms and inflationary pressures are discussed in later chapters.
These simplifications allow us to make some important points while still keeping the stories, with their accompanying math and graphs, reasonably simple.

2.2 OUTPUT, INCOME, AND AGGREGATE DEMAND

Recall from Chapter 5 that whether GDP is measured by the product approach, the spending approach, or the income approach, the number will be the same (in theory). For the macro-economic models that we now develop, we will assume that a single variable, which we will denote as "Y," represents GDP expressed as "output," "product," or "income" interchangeably. The top arrow in Figure 9.5 illustrates that, in our simplified macroeconomy, production by firms generates labor and capital incomes to households.
But things get more interesting when we examine the flows from income into spending and from spending (aggregate demand) to supporting a given level of output in the economy. A macroeconomy is in an equilibrium situation when output, income, and spending are all in balance—when they are linked in an unbroken chain, each supported by the other at the equilibrium level, as illustrated in Figure 9.5.







Figure 9.5 The Output-Income-Spending Flow of an Economy in Equilibrium
A macroeconomy is said to be in equilibrium when the incomes that arise from production give rise to a level of spending that, in turn, stimulates producers to produce the original level of output.

The Keynesian model is based on the idea that spending or aggregate demand, which we denote as AD, may (at least temporarily) fall out of balance with the other flows. Aggregate demand in the economy depends on the spending behavior of the economic actors in the economy. Households make consumption spending decisions, and together the household sector generates an aggregate level of consumption, C. We assume that households always consume at the level that they plan to, given their incomes—that what they end up spending is always exactly equal to what they intended to spend.

aggregate demand (AD) (in a simple model without government or foreign trade): what house-holds and firms intend to spend on consumption and investment: AD = C + I1

But for firms, the situation can be more complicated, as we will see as this chapter progresses. Purchases of final goods by business firms are considered investment, as discussed in Chapter 5. We will denote total investment for a given year as I. But, as we will see, total actual investment is not always the same as what business firms plan to invest. We call the amount they plan to invest over the course of a year intended investment, II.
Because the only actors we are looking at right now are households and businesses, we begin our modeling of aggregate demand with the equation:
Aggregate Demand = Consumption + Intended Investment AD = C + II
AD is the level of spending that results if people are able to follow their plans.
Remembering that if "output," "income," and "spending" are all just different ways of looking at GDP, it must also be true in this simple economy that GDP is equal to consumption plus total (actual) investment:
Y = C + I
Y = C + I is an accounting identity. At the end of any year, when actual flows of output, income, and spending are tallied up in the national accounts, the spending by households and businesses must (in an economy with no government or foreign sector) be equal to GDP. This equation is true in the same way that, in business accounting, net worth is defined as equal to assets minus liabilities.
The equation AD = C + II, in contrast, represents something different. It is what is called a behavioral equation, used by economists for modeling purposes—we do not have a national agency that looks into business leaders' minds and measures their intentions! We work with both of these equations later in this chapter. The accounting identity involves the actual level of investment, while the behavioral equation involves the level of planned, desired, or intended investment. While in this simple world households always actually spend what they have intended to spend (so we do not need a separate symbol for "intended consumption"), Y and AD will only be the same if actual investment (I) is equal to intended investment (II). As we will see, this will not always be the case.

behavioral equation: in contrast to an accounting identity, a behavioral equation reflects a theory about the behavior of one or more economic agents or sectors. The variables in the equation may or may not be observable

The link from income (Y) to spending (AD) is the potential weak link in the chain illustrated in Figure 9.5. This is because the people who get the income do not just automatically go out and spend it all. This creates the problem of leakages.

2.3 THE PROBLEM OF LEAKAGES

The household sector, we have assumed, receives all the income in the economy. Households spend some of this income on consumption goods and save the rest, according to the equation:
S = Y − C
where S is the aggregate level of saving. Saving is considered a "leakage" from the output-income-spending cycle, because it represents income that is not spent on currently produced goods and services. This is illustrated in Figure 9.6, which shows that some funds are diverted from the income-spending part of the cycle into savings.
The other side of the coin, however, is that businesses need funds if they are going to be able to buy investment goods. (Remember, we have assumed that they do not hold onto any of the income they receive, but pass it all along to households as wages, profits, interest, or rents.) In our simple model we assume that firms must borrow from the savings put away by households in order to be able to finance investment projects.
You can think of households depositing their savings in banks, with firms taking out loans from the banks to buy structures or equipment. In this way, firms can reinject funds to the spending stream in the form of investment. This "injection" of spending through investment is also illustrated in Figure 9.6.
If the amount that households want to save is equal to the amount that firms want to invest, then these two flows will balance each other out:







Figure 9.6 The Output-Income-Spending Flow with Leakages and Injections
When households save rather than spend part of their incomes, funds are diverted from the incomespending flow. When firms spend on investment goods, this creates a flow into the spending stream.

In equilibrium: leakages = injections S = II
If the flows are in balance, then Figure 9.6 is just a more complicated version of the equilibrium situation portrayed in Figure 9.5. The income-spending flow is more complex, but all income still ends up feeding into AD, thus supporting the initial level of output (you can mentally fill in the missing part of the circle). This is the kind of equilibrium you might encounter while pumping air into an inner tube that has a leak: The inner tube stays the same size because you put in more air just as quickly as it is leaking out.
This can be seen mathematically as well. If we add C to each side of the equilibrium condition above, we get C + S = C + II. But from the equation that defines saving (S) above, we know that the left side equals Y, while from the definition of aggregate demand above we know that the right side equals AD. Therefore, when leakages equal injections:
In equilibrium: Y = AD
This equation says that spending is exactly sufficient to buy the output produced—the economy is in a macroeconomic equilibrium. But households and firms are two different sectors—what happens if their plans do not mesh?
Suppose that businesses suddenly lose confidence about the future and cut back on their plans for expansion (that is, they reduce II) Or suppose that intended investment is unchanged, but households suddenly decide to consume less and save more, so that the flow into savings is larger than what firms want to use for investment. In either case, leakages will exceed injections. If the savings leakage in Figure 9.6 is larger than the investment injection, the result is that AD will be smaller than income and output:
In the case of insufficient aggregate demand:
leakages > injections
S > II
Y > AD
The question mark in Figure 9.6 indicates that planned spending may or may not be sufficient to support the existing level of output. If the economy is not in macroeconomic equilibrium, something will have to adjust.
Here we reach the dividing point between classical and Keynesian economists. These two theories tell very different stories about how this adjustment comes about. We start with the classical story.

2.4 THE CLASSICAL SOLUTION TO LEAKAGES

In the classical model, we are essentially in a perfectly balanced world, where output is always at its full-employment level. We saw in Chapter 8, looking at business cycles from an employment perspective, that classical economists believed that falling wages in flexible labor markets would bring the economy back to full employment.
For the moment, we put this labor market story into the background and ask our business cycle question in another way: How does an economy (which we assume to be running at a full-employment level of production) keep leakages into saving exactly equal to injections coming from investment spending? Or, to express this another way, how can the economy respond to a sudden shift in saving or intended investment that might cause insufficient (or excessive) aggregate demand? The classical argument is again, not surprisingly, that flexible markets will keep the economy at a full-employment level of spending and output.
In this case, the relevant market is what economists call the market for loanable funds. In our very simple model, households save out of income from current production. Because they can earn interest on any savings they deposit in a bank rather than stuff under a mattress, they will prefer the bank. In this market, households are the suppliers of loanable funds and firms are the demanders of loanable funds. The classical theory about the market for loanable funds is illustrated in Figure 9.7. The vertical axis is the interest rate paid from firms to households, which acts as the "price" of loanable funds.
Classical economists assume that households make their decisions about how much to save by looking at the going rate of interest in this market. The higher the interest rate, the more worthwhile it is to save, because their savings earn more. The lower the interest rate, the less appealing it is to save. So the supply of loanable funds (saving) curve in Figure 9.7 slopes upward.
To firms, however, the payment of interest is a cost. So when interest rates are low, this model assumes, firms will want to borrow more for investment projects because borrowing is inexpensive. High interest rates, in contrast, will discourage firms from borrowing. The demand curve in Figure 9.7 thus slopes downward. Where the curves cross determines the equilibrium "price" of funds—here, the interest rate of 5 percent—and the equilibrium quantity of funds borrowed and lent.
In Figure 9.7, the amount saved by households and lent out is 140—which is also the amount borrowed and invested by firms.* (All numbers in our simple models are made up and set to be easy numbers to handle. You could think of the unit for our numbers for Y, AD, C, I, and S as billions of real dollars in a fictional economy.)
In Figure 9.8 we illustrate what happens in the classical model if, after starting from a position at point E0 (which we assume corresponds to a full-employment balance of S and I), firms suddenly change their plans, deciding to spend less on investment. The demand for loanable funds curve shifts leftward. If the interest rate remained at 5 percent, we would see a big drop in investment. But because the interest rate falls to 3 percent, part of the drop in investment will be reversed as firms take advantage of the cheaper loans. And because the interest rate is now lower, some households will choose to save less and consume more (indicated by the movement downward along the supply curve).
In the end, saving and (both intended and actual) investment will still be equal, though at a lower level—in Figure 9.8, the level drops to 60. Aggregate demand will still be equal to the full-employment level—though now it is made up of somewhat less investment, and somewhat more consumption, than before the shift in investment plans. In short, the fall in intended investment was balanced by an increase in consumer spending (a decrease in saving).







Figure 9.7 The Classical Model of the Market for Loanable Funds
In the classical version of the macroeconomic model, household saving creates the supply of loanable funds and firms' borrowing for investment creates the demand for loanable funds. At the equilibrium interest rate, the amount households save and the amount businesses invest are equated.
 





Figure 9.8 Adjustment to a Reduction in Intended Investment in the Classical Model
In the classical model, smooth adjustments in the market for loanable funds keep saving equal to investment, even if firms or households change their behavior.
 





Figure 9.9 Macroeconomic Equilibrium at Full Employment in the Classical Model
Leakages always equal injections in the classical model, because of smooth adjustments in the market for loanable funds. The economy is always in equilibrium at a full employment level of output (Y*).

In the classical model, both households' saving activity and firms' investment spending are assumed to be quite sensitive to changes in the interest rate, which serves as the "price of loanable funds." An adjustment in the interest rate, according to this theory, will quickly correct any threat of imbalances between the leakage of savings and the injection of investment. The interest rate is assumed to adjust smoothly in a free-market economy.
With saving and intended investment always in balance, there is no reason to think that the economy would ever diverge from full employment. The economy is thus self-sustaining at full employment due to the smooth working of the market for loanable funds (see Figure 9.9). We assume (for now) that the level of output that corresponds to full employment is clearly known. As we did in Figure 9.4, we use the symbol Y* to denote this full-employment level (or range) of output and income.
In the real world, things do not always work out so smoothly (see Box 9.1). This became evident in the Great Depression, when the economy clearly did fall into a situation of severe and prolonged unemployment. People came to be dissatisfied with the classical theory. Could there be something wrong with this story? Could another theory do a better job of explaining the depression—and even better, point toward how the economy might get out of it? This issue has particular relevance today, because we have recently been through a similar experience—stubbornly high unemployment that does not automatically readjust to full employment.


BOX 9.1 SMALL BUSINESS LOANS IN THE WAKE OF THE GREAT RECESSION
In the market for loanable funds, banks act as intermediaries between the savings of households and the borrowing of businesses. Banks have to determine the creditworthiness of businesses seeking loans, based on expectations about the overall economy and the profit potential of each business applicant.
As you might expect, business lending decreased during the global financial crisis in 2007-9. In part, this was a response to poor macroeconomic conditions and a decline in the demand for loans, but another factor was that banks increased the stringency of their loan requirements. Thus in the aftermath of the crisis, banks are generally less willing to provide loans to businesses perceived to be credit risks.
Business lending has rebounded more recently as macroeconomic conditions improve, but a lingering effect of the crisis is that banks remain particularly reluctant to lend to small businesses. Kenneth Walsleben, who teaches at the Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University notes: "The days of yesteryear when you could go to your corner bank are over. Small, emerging, growing businesses have few traditional sources to turn to."
This has produced essentially two separate markets for loanable funds. Bill Dunkelberg of the National Federation of Independent Business refers to it as a "bifurcated economy." Larger businesses are able to obtain traditional loans from banks at favorable interest rates, generally around 5-7 percent. Small businesses are frequently forced to seek funds from nontraditional sources, which tend to impose higher interest rates. For example, business "cash advance" loans commonly provided to restaurants and other retailers allow the lender to receive a percentage of each credit card transaction directly. The interest rates on nontraditional loans tend to be at least 15 percent, and rates of 30 percent or more are not uncommon.
Sources: Ian Mount, "When Banks Won't Lend, There Are Alternatives, Though Often Expensive," New York Times, August 1, 2012; Heesun Wee, "Small Business Owners to Banks: Can I Get a Loan, Please?" CNBC.com, April 24, 2013.

Discussion Questions

1. Who are the actors in this simple macroeconomic model? What is the role of each in determining the flow of currently produced goods and services? What is the role of each in the classical market for loanable funds?
2. Explain verbally why, in the classical model, the demand for loanable funds curve slopes downward. Explain verbally why the supply of loanable funds curve slopes upward.

3. THE KEYNESIAN MODEL

Keynes' major contribution was to develop a theory to explain why aggregate demand could stay persistently low. He called it The General Theory, because he believed that the case of full employment (Y*) represents only a special case, one that may not often be achieved. In this section we present the basics of his theory using (for the moment) the very simple closed-economy, no-government, no-growth model introduced above.

3.1 CONSUMPTION

Many things may affect the level of aggregate consumption in an economy, but one thing that very clearly affects it is the level of current aggregate income. Households are able to spend more on consumption goods and services when the economy is generating a lot of income than they can when it is not (see Box 9.2). So Keynes used in his model a very simple consumption function that expresses aggregate consumption as the sum of two components: an "autonomous" part and a part that depends on the level of aggregate income. In algebraic form, the Keynesian consumption function is expressed as:

where  is "autonomous" consumption and mpc is called the "marginal propensity to consume" (explained below). We first discuss the economic significance of these two parts of the function and then put the function to work.
Autonomous consumption is the part of consumption that is not related to income. It can be thought of as a minimum level of income that people feel required to spend for basic needs. It can also be seen as reflecting the amount of consumption spending that people will undertake no matter what their current incomes are, reflecting their long-term plans, their commitments and habits, and their place in the community.
But, of course, much of consumption does reflect current income and its changes. The term "marginal propensity to consume" (mpc) reflects the number of additional dollars of consumption spending that occur for every additional dollar of aggregate income. Using the notation Δ (the Greek letter delta) to mean "change in," mpc can be expressed as:
mpc = ΔC /ΔY = (the change of C resulting from a change in Y) ÷ (the change in Y).

marginal propensity to consume: the number of additional dollars of consumption for every additional dollar of income (typically a fraction between zero and one)

In the following example, we use an mpc of 8/10 or 0.8. This means that for every additional $10 in aggregate income, households will spend an additional $8 on consumption. Logically, the mpc should be no greater than 1. An mpc greater than 1 would mean that people increase their consumption by more than the addition to their income. An mpc of about 0.8 has been the standard, historically, in Keynesian modeling exercises—though such a value may not correspond well to actual data on consumption in every time period.
Recall that any income not spent by the household sector is saved. Based on the consumption function, a savings function can be derived using the equation for savings and substituting in the equation for consumption:

The term (1 − mpc) is called the "marginal propensity to save":


marginal propensity to save: the number of additional dollars saved for each additional dollar of income (typically a fraction between zero and one)



BOX 9.2 CONSUMER SPENDING RISES WITH INCREASED INCOME
In June 2013, the Associated Press reported that:

Americans spent more in May as their income rose, encouraging signs after a slow start to the year. The Commerce department said on Thursday that consumer spending rose 0.3 percent last month, nearly erasing a decline of similar size in April. Income rose 0.5 percent. Consumers, benefiting from low inflation, spent more at retail businesses in May, notably for cars, home improvements and sporting goods. The number of people who signed contracts to buy homes in the United States jumped in May to the highest level in more than six years, a sign home sales will probably rise in the months ahead.

Economists pay careful attention to trends in consumer spending, which represents about 70% of aggregate demand in the economy. When income rises, consumers tend to spend more. In turn, higher consumer spending tends to stimulate further growth in the economy. Thus this news in mid-2013 indicated a continuing, though slow, economic recovery following the recession of 2007-9.
Source: "Consumer Spending Rises, and Home Sales Are Up," Associated Press, June 17, 2013.


For example, if households spend 80 percent of additional income, or $8 out of an additional $10 in income, then they must save 20 percent (= 100 percent −80 percent), or $2 out of $10. So if the mpc is 0.8, the mps must be 0.2.
If we assign number values to the parameters  and mpc, we can express the relation between income and consumption stated in the consumption function by a schedule, as in Table 9.2. Various income levels are shown in Column (1). For now, we set autonomous consumption at 20 (as shown in Column [2]). With an mpc set equal to 0.8, Column (3) shows how to calculate the second component of the consumption function. Adding together the autonomous and income-related components yields total consumption, shown in Column (4). We also show in Column (5), for later reference, the implied level of saving. For example, the shaded row indicates that when income is 400, C = 20 + 0.8 (400) = 20 + 320 = 340. Saving is calculated as 400 − = 340 = 60. Consumption and saving both rise steadily as income rises.


Table 9.2 The Consumption Schedule (and Saving)







(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)


Income (Y)
Autonomous Consumption 
The part of consumption that depends on income, with mpc = 0.8
Consumption C = 20 + 0.8 Y
Saving S = Y − C




= 0.8 × column(1)
= column(2) + column (3)
= column(1) − column(4)


    0
20
    0
  20
−20


100
20
  80
100
    0


200
20
160
180
  20


300
20
240
260
  40


400
20
320
340
  60


500
20
400
420
  80


600
20
480
500
100


700
20
560
580
120


800
20
640
660
140




We can also see the relationships among consumption, income, and saving in this model in the graph in Figure 9.10. (For a review of graphing techniques, see Box 9.3.) The horizontal axis measures income (Y) while the vertical axis measures consumption (C). The consumption function crosses the vertical axis at the level of autonomous consumption () of 20. The line has a slope equal to the mpc of 0.8. Figure 9.10 also includes a 45° line, which tells us what consumption would be if people consumed all their income instead of saving part of it. So the vertical distance between the 45° "consumption = income" line and the consumption function tells us how much people save. We can see, for example, that at an income of 100, households, in this model, consume all their income. At levels of income lower than 100, consumption is higher than income, and they "dissave."* At an income of 400, how much do people save? Check for yourself that the information given in Table 9.2 and Figure 9.10 for income levels of 0, 100, and 400 are in agreement.
A number of factors can cause the consumption schedule for a macroeconomy to change. Among the significant ones are:







Figure 9.10 The Keynesian Consumption Function
In the Keynesian model, consumption rises with income according to the equation C =  + mpc Y.

• Wealth. When many people in a country feel wealthier—perhaps because the stock market or housing prices are high—the household sector as a whole may tend to spend more, even if households' actual annual incomes do not change.
• Consumer confidence. When people feel less confident about the future—perhaps due to political turmoil or the fear of a coming recession—they may tend to hunker down and spend less on consumption goods.
• Attitudes toward spending and saving. If many people decided to consume less for reasons of health, cultural shifts, or the environment, consumption would also be depressed.
• Consumption-related government policies. High levels of saving can be a source of capital for economic growth. Sometimes, a country's leaders will urge people to lower their consumption levels and raise their saving levels, in order to provide funds for investing in the future. (An exercise at the end of this chapter asks you to look at some implications of such a policy.) At other times, leaders urge people (especially in the United States) to consume, in order to boost the economy. Tax systems may be designed to encourage saving, or to encourage certain types of consumption.
• The distribution of income. Poorer people tend to spend more of their income than richer people, because just covering necessities can take most or all of their income (or more, forcing them into debt). So a redistribution of income from richer people to poorer people tends to raise consumption and depress saving.
Some of these factors may be best thought of as changing  in the Keynesian consumption function, causing the consumption schedule to shift up or down, while others may change the mpc, causing the schedule to become steeper or flatter.


BOX 9.3 GRAPHING WITH A SLOPE-INTERCEPT EQUATION
Linear equations are of the form Y = a + b X. On a graph the variable Y is measured on the vertical axis and the variable X is measured on the horizontal axis. X and Y are called "variables" and a and b are called "parameters." The parameter a is called "the intercept" and shows where the line representing the linear relationship between X and Y crosses the vertical axis. The parameter b is "the slope," and determines the steepness of the line. It reflects "rise over run": that is, starting from any point on the line and moving to any other point off to the right on the same line, the slope is the ratio of the number of units the line moves upwards (rises) to the number of units the line moves sideways (runs).
The consumption function, C =  + mpc Y, is of this same form, only with different variable and parameter names. The consumption function relates the variable C to the variable Y. It has an intercept of  and a slope of mpc.


Note that the classical model assumes that people make their decisions about how much income to consume and how much to save based largely on the interest rate, but the Keynesian model does not mention the interest rate because the effects of interest rates on saving are, in fact, ambiguous. If you saw that a very high interest rate is prevailing in the loanable funds market, you might want to take advantage of it and increase your rate of saving, at least for a while. In this case, you would be acting as classical economists assume: A higher interest rate causes you to save more and consume less.
But what if you are saving primarily to finance your college education or your retirement, so you have a certain target level of accumulated wealth in mind? A higher interest rate also means that you can reach this target faster (and so revert to higher consumption sooner) or that you can reach the target in the same amount of time while saving less. Common sense suggests that the amount that people save depends mainly on their ability to save, based on their income as well as their needs and plans, rather than primarily on the current interest rate.
In fact, a more significant impact of changes in interest rates on household behavior comes from their effect on what households may pay in interest, rather than on what households earn. While the simple classical model assumes that households are only on the saving and lending side of the market, in reality households frequently borrow to spend on capital goods for household production. When interest rates are high, households may postpone buying houses, cars, major appliances, and other consumer durables.

3.2 INVESTMENT

In any case, the simple Keynesian function that we are working with leaves out the interest rate entirely. The most important thing to remember about the Keynesian consumption function is that some income generally "leaks" into saving (and so does not create aggregate demand) and that, unlike in the classical model, the interest rate is not considered an important factor in determining the size of this leakage.
In the real world, firms may take into account a number of things when thinking about how much to invest. The cost of borrowing (the interest rate) is certainly one factor, as are other things, such as the prices of investment goods, their own accumulated assets and debt, and the willingness of people to lend to them. (Not everyone can qualify for a loan.) Keynes thought that, in general, interest rates were somewhat important in explaining the level of investment. But he argued that, in the case of a severe slowdown of economic activity such as the Great Depression, a low interest rate would not be enough to motivate business firms to invest in building up new capacity.
The most important factor in explaining aggregate investment spending, Keynes thought, is the general level of optimism or pessimism that investors feel about the future, or what he called "animal spirits." If firms' managers believe that they will be able to sell more of the goods or services that they produce in the future, and at a good price, they will want to invest in equipment and structures to maintain and expand their capacity. If they do not see such a rosy future ahead, then why would even a very low interest rate persuade them to invest? The borrowed funds will have to be repaid; the major question for the borrower is "are my prospects for success good enough to allow me to repay this loan?" The interest rate will marginally change the amount to be repaid but is not the major determinant of the answer to this question.
Because Keynes saw investment as future directed, rather than related to any current, observable economic variables, the "function" for intended investment in the simple Keynesian model just says that investors intend to invest whatever investors intend to invest. All of intended investment is considered "autonomous" in this model. We can denote this as:





where ĪI is "autonomous intended investment." Don't worry too much about whether to put a bar over the symbol—we have introduced it here just to show you that it is similar in concept to the  in the consumption function. Just as  can go up or down depending on consumer confidence, ĪI can go up or down depending on investor confidence.







Figure 9.11 The Keynesian Investment Function
In the simplest Keynesian model, intended investment is a constant, no matter what the level of national income, being determined instead by long-term profit expectations.

Figure 9.11 graphs investment against income, for the case where ĪI = 60. Because investment does not depend on income, the graph is horizontal. The lack of attention to interest rates is a limitation of the simple Keynesian model. In later chapters, we depart from this simplification and consider the effects of interest rates on investment.

3.3 THE AGGREGATE DEMAND SCHEDULE

Earlier we defined AD as the sum of consumption and intended investment. We can now add intended investment to the consumption schedule and curve to get a schedule and graph for aggregate demand. In Table 9.3, Columns (1) and (2) just repeat Table 9.2. In Column (3) we have set intended investment at 60, for any level of income, in line with the notion that it is all "autonomous." Column (4) calculates the level of aggregate intended spending in the economy. We can see that when, for example, Y = 400, households and businesses together plan to spend 400 on consumption and investment.
Figure 9.12 shows the relationship between income and aggregate demand. The AD line lies exactly 60 units vertically above the C line, at every level of income. Its intercept is the sum of autonomous consumption and intended investment. Its slope is the same as that of the consumption function. We can see that when, for example, Y = 400, then C = 340 and AD = 400.
The AD curve shifts up or down as autonomous consumption or autonomous investment changes. Suppose that intended investment is 140, instead of 60. Table 9.4 calculates AD for selected levels of income like those that we used before, but at this higher level of II. Because neither  nor the mpc has changed, Column (2) is the same as in earlier tables.


Table 9.3 Deriving Aggregate Demand from the Consumption Function and Investment






(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)


Income (Y)
Consumption (C)
Intended Investment (II)
Aggregate Demand AD = C + II = column (2) + column (3)


    0
  20
60
  80


300
260
60
320


400
340
60
400


500
420
60
480


600
500
60
560


700
580
60
640


800
660
60
720




Table 9.4 Aggregate Demand with Higher Intended Investment






(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)


Income (Y)
Consumption (C)
Intended Investment (II)
Aggregate Demand (AD)


    0
  20
140
160


300
260
140
400


400
340
140
480


500
420
140
560


600
500
140
640


700
580
140
720


800
660
140
800




This aggregate demand schedule is graphed in Figure 9.13. The intercept is now 160, which is equal to  of 20 plus ĪI of 140, while the slope is still equal to the mpc. Notice that now, at an income level of 400, aggregate demand is 480 instead of 400. With investment increased by 80, aggregate demand at any income level increases by 80 as well.
Figure 9.13 could also be used to illustrate an increase in  from 20 to 100 (an increase of 80) while intended investment remains at 60. Any combination of  and ĪI that sums to 160 would yield this graph. In economic terms, any increase in autonomous consumer and investor desired spending increases aggregate demand.

 





Figure 9.12 Aggregate Demand
The AD curve is derived by adding the autonomous intended investment to consumption, at each income level. So at each level of Y, AD is the vertical sum of C and II.
 





Figure 9.13 Aggregate Demand with Higher Intended Investment
If intended investment increases (or autonomous consumption increases), the aggregate demand curve shifts upward.


3.4 THE POSSIBILITY OF UNINTENDED INVESTMENT

The key to the Keynesian model is understanding why and how unintended investment can occur and how firms respond when they see it happening. Unintended investment occurs when aggregate demand is insufficient, because firms will not be able to sell all the goods that they produce.
Recall (from Chapter 5) that a country's manufactured capital stock includes structures, equipment, and inventories. Many firms normally plan to keep as inventory a level of supplies that they expect to use soon and products that they have not yet shipped. Unintended inventory investment occurs when these inventories build up unexpectedly. A manufacturing firm, for example, experiences excess inventory accumulation when it cannot sell its goods as quickly as expected and the goods pile up in warehouses. Conversely, a firm that sells its goods faster than expected experiences excess inventory depletion, as the goods "fly off the shelves" and the warehouse empties out.
Actual investment (I, as measured in the national accounts) is the sum of what businesses plan to invest, plus what they inadvertently end up investing if AD and Y do not match up exactly:
I = intended investment (II) + excess inventory accumulation or depletion
In Table 9.5, Columns (1) and (2) repeat information from Table 9.3, for intended investment of 60 and selected levels of income. Column (3) calculates levels of unintended investment. If, for example, income and output are 600, but aggregate demand is only 560, excess inventory accumulation of 40 will occur. Or, if income and output are 300, but firms and households want to buy 320, inventories will be depleted by 20 to meet the demand. Only at an income level of 400 is there a balance between income and spending.
Columns (4) to (6) are included in Table 9.5 to show that both the equation AD = C + II and the identity Y = C + I hold at all times in this model. Column (5) of Table 9.5 calculates actual investment (I) as the sum of intended and unintended investment. Notice that the figures in Column (6) match those in Column (1)—when we include unintended, excess inventory accumulation or depletion, the basic macroeconomic identity Y = C + I is still true.
Figure 9.14—often called the "Keynesian cross" diagram—illustrates this case for two income levels. The AD curve, as we know, represents the sum of consumption and investment at any income level. The dashed line is a 45° line that (as in our earlier diagram about consumption, income, and saving) illustrates equality between the values on the two axes. With income on the horizontal axis and output on the vertical axis, all points on this 45° line represent situations where output equals income. At an income level of 800, the AD curve indicates that aggregate demand is 720. But the "output = income" line indicates that output is 800 and so exceeds spending. There is unintended inventory build-up of 80, as indicated by the vertical distance between the AD curve and the 45° line, at this income level. (Check to see that this is consistent with Table 9.5.)


Table 9.5 The Possibility of Excess Inventory Accumulation or Depletion





 





Figure 9.14 Unintended Investment in the Keynesian Model
If income and output in an economy are above the level of aggregate demand, excessive inventories accumulate. This is illustrated for the income level of 800.

At an income level of 400, where the AD line crosses the 45° line, there is full macroeconomic equilibrium, because output, income, and spending are all at the same level. Unintended investment is 0.
At levels of income and output above 400 in Table 9.5 and Figure 9.14, business firms' managers are unhappy because more and more of their goods are gathering dust. For levels of income and output below 400, their inventories are being depleted below intended levels. These are not equilibrium levels of income, and the economy will not stay at any of those income levels—things will change.

3.5 MOVEMENT TO EQUILIBRIUM IN THE KEYNESIAN MODEL

If firms are unhappy about unsold goods, they will do something to correct the situation. If inventories are building up more than intended, they will cut back on production. Their cutbacks in production will continue until they are no longer seeing inventories build up excessively—that is, until the level of what is actually produced matches what they can sell. Reductions in Y will continue until Y = AD. This is a little more complicated than it may at first seem, though, since any reduction in output leads to reduced income, which leads to reduced consumption, so that AD is a moving target. We look at this complication below in Section 3.7, but for now we continue with the main story.
In Figure 9.14, above, suppose that the economy were (for reasons explored later) initially at an income and output level of 800. From the figure and Table 9.5, we can see that this is not an equilibrium—producers are seeing excess inventory accumulation of 80 because AD is only 720. Producers will cut back on production. The equilibrium point E is obtained when aggregate output has fallen to 400 and AD has also fallen to 400.
So, what has happened here? If you look back at Table 9.2, you can see that at the initial income level of 800, there was a "leakage" into saving of 140. But firms, we have assumed, only want to spend 60 on investment. Leakages exceeded injections by 80, aggregate demand was insufficient, and inventories of 80 built up. Firms cut back on production. They continued to cut back until inventories were back where they wanted them.
Yet when the economy arrives at an equilibrium, the balance between saving and investing has been restored! Why is this so? Intended investment has not changed—it has been at 60 all along. But now that income has dropped, households have less income to use for consumption and saving, and so saving has dropped from its initial level of 140 to only 60. (See Table 9.2 to check that this is the level of saving at an income level of 400.) It is changes in aggregate income, and the resulting changes in consumption and saving, that have caused leakages and injections to become equal again.
We can also see in the schedules and graphs what would happen if AD were for some reason to be above the current level of output. If output were to start out at 300, for example, desired spending of 320 (see Table 9.5) would cause produced goods to "fly off the shelves" and deplete inventories. According to this model, this situation would motivate firms to increase production. As production rises, income, consumption, and saving would also all rise. Again, equilibrium would be reached when Y and AD both equal 400, and S and I both equal 60.

3.6 THE PROBLEM OF PERSISTENT UNEMPLOYMENT

Now that the pieces of the model have been explained, the model can be put together to illustrate what Keynes taught about the Great Depression. Assume that 800 represents the full-employment level of output for this economy, as illustrated by the vertical "full-employment range" Y* in Figure 9.15. If intended investment is 140 (the higher AD line in Figure 9.15), the economy is at an initial full-employment equilibrium at E0. (Refer back to Table 9.4 and Figure 9.13 to confirm that at this level of income Y = AD.)







Figure 9.15 Full Employment Equilibrium with High Intended Investment
Supposing that Y = 800 represents full employment, an intended investment level of 140 generates spending sufficient to maintain this as an equilibrium.
 





Figure 9.16 A Keynesian Unemployment Equilibrium
A fall in investor confidence causes the equilibrium level of output to fall. The initial excess of leakages over injections caused by low investment spending is corrected by a contraction in output, income, and saving. At E1, leakages and injections are again
equal.

But at the start of the Great Depression, the 1929 stock market crash and other events caused business and investor confidence to plummet. (Consumer confidence and financial wealth also plummeted, but we are simplifying the story by concentrating on firms.) Producers became very uncertain about whether they would be able to sell what they produced, so they cut back radically on their investment spending. This is modeled in Figure 9.16 as a drop in aggregate demand caused by a drop in intended investment from 140 to 60. (Note that 60 is the number used in Table 9.3, so that AD1 in Figure 9.16 is identical to the AD curve in Figure 9.12.) With the drop in AD, income of 800 is no longer an equilibrium. Consistent with the adjustments toward equilibrium that we just discussed, output, income, and spending contract until a new equilibrium (E1) is reached at a level of 400.







Figure 9.17 Movement to an Unemployment Equilibrium
An excess of leakages over injections causes aggregate demand to be insufficient for a full employment level of output. Output and income fall until equilibrium is restored.

An income and output level of 400, however, is far below the level of production required to provide full employment for workers. Massive unemployment results. And in the Keynesian model, there is no automatic mechanism (as there was in the classical model) that rescues the economy from this situation. The economy experiences a contraction, settling at a new, persistent, self-reinforcing, low-income, and high-unemployment equilibrium, as shown in Figure 9.17.
To say that a macroeconomy is "in equilibrium" just means that output, income, and spending are in balance. The basic idea about an equilibrium is that there tend to be forces (such as, in this model, firms' desire to avoid unintended inventories) that are likely to push an economy toward equilibrium and tend to keep it there after it is achieved. But achievement of an equilibrium is not the same thing as full employment—the equilibrium level at which output, income, and spending balance may or may not be at full employment.
In Keynes's view, there was nothing that would "naturally" or "automatically" happen to pull an economy out of such a low-employment situation. A full-employment equilibrium such as E0 in Figure 9.15 is possible, but it is merely one of a large number of possible equilibria (seen in the model as different points along the 45° line). Equally possible is a persistent unemployment equilibrium such as E1 in Figure 9.16. Because Keynes, unlike classical economists, did not equate equilibrium with full employment, he believed that there is often a need for action to stimulate aggregate demand. Such policies are the topics of Chapters 10 and 12.

3.7 THE MULTIPLIER

In the example above, intended investment dropped from 140 to 60 because of a fall in investor confidence—a decline of 80 units. But output dropped from 800 to 400—a decline of 400 units. Why is the decline in output so much bigger than the decline in investment spending that caused it?
The intuition behind this result is that, while the drop in investment spending leads to a drop in aggregate demand, which leads directly to a contraction in output, there are also feedback effects through consumption. Because consumption depends on income, and income depends on AD, which depends on consumption, additional effects "echo" back and forth. For example, reducing production in a factory does not merely involve laying off assembly-line workers. The laid-off factory workers now have less income to spend at stores. This means that the stores will also need to lay off some of their employees, who then also have less income. And so on. This process is illustrated in more detail in Table 9.6.
In the first row of Table 9.6, for example, the drop in intended investment (step 1) leads to an immediate drop in AD of 80 (step 2). Firms see inventories piling up and cut back production by 80. But this decreases the income going to households, because firms are now paying less in wages, interest, dividends, and rents. Consumers react (in step 3) to a change in income according to the relationship ΔC = mpc ΔY. With 80 less in income, they reduce their spending by 64. How do they manage to keep their budget in line, when they have only reduced their spending by 64 but their income went down by 80? See if you can think of the answer before you check the footnote.*


Table 9.6 The Multiplier at Work






The second and later rows show how decreases in consumption decrease aggregate demand, output, and income, and thus depress consumption even further. Note that in each round, the decrease in Y gets a little smaller. Fortunately, a convenient result from mathematics means that we do not need to calculate the sum of all these changes in Y by continuing to extend the table, row after row (in theory, forever—although the numbers get very tiny after a while).** A result from the mathematics of infinite series implies that, in the end, the total change in Y is related in the following way to the original change in II:

which means, in this case,

The expression 1/(1 − mpc) is called "the income/spending multiplier"—or, for short, the multiplier—and is abbreviated mult:

In this case, with mpc = 0.8, the multiplier is 5. The initial decrease in intended investment causes, in the end, a decrease in income that is five times its size. We can express this mathematically as ΔY = mult ΔI−
The value of the multiplier would be the same if it had been a decrease in consumer confidence, acting through a change in  that started this cascade in incomes, instead of a decrease in investor confidence. Mathematically, this means  as well. In Chapter 10, we add consideration of other factors that change aggregate demand, other than investor and consumer confidence.

Discussion Questions

1. If you received a raise of $100 per month, how would you increase your spending per month? How much would you change your saving? What is your mpc? What is your mps?
2. Describe verbally how, in the Keynesian model, an economy can end up in an equilibrium of persistent unemployment.

4. CONCLUDING THOUGHTS

In classical economic theory, an economy should never go into a slump—or at least it should not stay in one very long. Any deficiency in aggregate demand would be quickly counteracted by smooth adjustments in the market for loanable funds. Keynes, by contrast, theorized that deficiencies in aggregate demand, due to drops in investor (or consumer) confidence, could explain the deep, long-term slumps that many countries experienced during the Great Depression (as well as some of the other economic depressions that various economies have experienced throughout history). Modern Keynesians argue that this theory also explains the Great Recession that began in 2007.
Any excess of "leakages" over "injections" into the aggregate demand stream would, Keynes theorized, lead to progressive rounds of declines in consumption and income, until savings are so low that a new, lower-output-level equilibrium is established. He believed that some kind of government action was required to get the economy out of its slump and to achieve a higher equilibrium level. In Chapter 10, we explore how the U.S. economy did, in fact, get out of the Great Depression, as well as some of the policies that were instituted in response to the Great Recession.
It is also worth taking a moment to consider the implications of this model as it relates to contemporary controversies over consumerism and the environment. In the Keynesian model, it does, indeed, appear that keeping consumption and spending at high levels is necessary to keep the economy humming. The idea that cutting back on consumption spending would be "bad for the economy" is based on the Keynesian notion that reductions in aggregate spending lead to recessions or depressions and that these could potentially be deep and persistent. Would our cutting back on the kinds of consumption that are environmentally damaging lead to recession and job losses? Or could we perhaps substitute other kinds of economic activity and job creation? We revisit this assumption in later chapters to see whether it really is the case that what is good for the environment (and for future generations) has to be "bad for the economy."

Discussion Questions

1. Which theory—classical or Keynesian—seems more realistic in describing today's economy? Explain why.
2. Have you ever read articles or editorials that claim that high consumption is essential for a healthy economy? Does the Keynesian model seem to confirm or challenge this idea? What are some arguments for the opposite point of view?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. During a business-cycle recession, which of the following typically rises: the level of output, the unemployment rate, or the inflation rate?
  2. During the 1930s, how did economists' opinions about the Great Depression differ?
  3. In the model laid out in this chapter, who receives income? Who spends? Who saves?
  4. What is the definition of aggregate demand? How does it differ from measured GDP?
  5. What conditions comprise equilibrium in a macroeconomy?
  6. Saving is described as a "leakage" from the circular flow. How is it a leakage?
  7. How can an increase in saving (if not balanced by an increase in intended investment) cause a shrinkage of the output-income-spending flow?
  8. Describe the classical market for loanable funds. Who are the actors, and what do they each do?
  9. Describe how the problem of leakages is solved in the classical model.
10. How did Keynes model consumption behavior? Draw and label a graph.
11. List five factors, aside from the level of income, that can affect the level of consumption in a macroeconomy.
12. Why isn't the interest rate included in the Keynesian consumption function?
13. What did Keynes think was the most important factor in determining investment behavior?
14. What determines aggregate demand in the Keynesian model? Draw and label a graph.
15. Do firms always end up investing the amount that they intend? Why or why not?
16. Draw a "Keynesian cross" diagram, carefully labeling the curves and the equilibrium point.
17. Describe how adjustment to equilibrium occurs in the Keynesian model.
18. Does a macroeconomy's being "in equilibrium" always mean it is in a good state? Why or why not?
19. What is "the income/spending multiplier"? Explain why a drop in autonomous intended investment, or in autonomous consumption, leads to a much larger drop in equilibrium income.

EXERCISES
  1. Carefully draw and label a supply-and-demand diagram for the classical loanable funds market. Assuming that the market starts and ends in equilibrium, indicate what happens if there is a sudden drop in households' desire to consume.
a. Which curve shifts and in what direction?
b. What happens to the equilibrium amount of loanable funds borrowed and lent? (You do not need to put numbers on the graph—just indicate the direction of the change.)
c. What happens to the equilibrium interest rate?
d. What happens to the equilibrium amount of investment?
  2. Suppose that you see a toy store increasing its inventories in early December, right before the Christmas/Chanukah/Kwanzaa season. Is this a case of excess inventory accumulation? Why or why not?
  3. Suppose that the relation between consumption and income is C = 90 + 0.75 Y.
a. For each additional dollar that households receive, how much do they save? How much do they spend?
b. What is the level of consumption when income is equal to 0? 360? 500? 600? (You may want to make a table similar to Table 9.2 in the text.)
c. What is the level of saving when income is equal to 0? 360? 500? 600?
d. As income rises from 500 to 600, by how much does consumption rise? What formula would you use to derive the mpc from your answer to this question, if you did not know the mpc already?
e. Graph this consumption function, along with a 45° "consumption = income" line. Label the slope and intercept, and show how the level of savings when income is equal to 600 can be found on this graph.
  4. Draw a Keynesian cross graph and assume that the macroeconomy starts and ends in equilibrium. Label the initial aggregate demand line AD0. Then show what happens in the diagram when a rise in consumer wealth raises  (autonomous consumption) in your diagram. (This event might happen if the stock market or the housing market enjoys large price increases. You do not need to put numbers on the graph—just indicate the direction of the change.)
a. How does the AD line shift? Label the new line AD1.
b. What is the initial effect of this change on inventories? How will firms change production in response to this change in inventories?
c. What happens to the equilibrium level of production, income, and spending? Does each rise, fall, or stay the same?
  5. What happens in the Keynesian model if households decide to be "thriftier"—that is, spend less and save more? Do the following multistep exercise to find out.
a. Suppose that the economy starts out in a situation we already developed in the text:  = 20 + .8Y and II = 60 (see Table 9.3). Carefully graph the resulting AD curve, labeling the levels of aggregate demand that result when income is equal to 0, 300, 400, and 500. Label the curve AD0, add the 45° line, and label the equilibrium point E0.
b. What is the equilibrium level of income in this initial case? What is the equilibrium level of saving?
c. Now suppose that people decide they want to save more of their income and spend less of it. In fact, their new level of autonomous consumption is 0, so the new consumption function is just C = .8Y. Calculate the levels of consumption and aggregate demand that would result from incomes of 0, 300, 400, and 500. (You might want to set up a table similar to Table 9.3, but using this new equation for consumption. Intended investment is still 60.)
d. If income stayed at the equilibrium level determined in step (b) of this question, would people now be saving more? How much more? Show your work.
e. Add the AD curve that arises from your calculations in step (c) on the graph that you drew earlier. Label this curve AD1 and the new equilibrium point E1.
f. What is the new equilibrium level of income? What is the new equilibrium level of saving? Compare your answers to your answers in step (b).
g. Explain why this phenomenon arising from the Keynesian model is called "the paradox of thrift." Can you explain why this "paradox" arises?
  6. Suppose that the behavior of households and firms in an economy is determined by the following equations:

a. Show in a table what the levels of C and AD would be at income levels of 0, 500, and 600.
b. If, for some reason, income equaled 600, would there be unintended inventory investment? If so, would inventories be excessive or depleted, and by how much?
c. If, for some reason, income equaled 500, would there be unintended inventory investment? If so, would inventories be excessive or depleted, and by how much?
d. What is the equilibrium level of income and output?
e. What is the income/spending multiplier equal to, in this model?
f. If intended investment were to rise by 25, by how much would equilibrium income increase? Use the income/spending multiplier.
  7. (Appendix) Suppose that the behavior of households and firms in an economy is determined by the following equations:

Answer the following questions, using algebraic manipulations only.
a. What is the equation for the AD curve?
b. What is the level of equilibrium income?
c. If intended investment increases by 10 units to 60 units, by how much will equilibrium income rise?
  8. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B.








Column A

Column B


a.
mult ĪI
  1.
Peak


b.
An injection
  2.
An inverse relationship between unemployment and rapid GDP growth


c.
An assumption evident in the equation AD = C + II
  3.
Households save more when income rises


d.
Okun's "law"
  4.
I − II


e.
Classical assumption about saving
  5.
The proportion of an additional dollar that households spend on consumption


f.
Unintended inve stment
  6.



g.
The turning point from a business cycle expansion to contraction
  7.
The amount that equilibrium GDP rises when autonomous investment rises


h.
mpc
  8.
Households save more when the interest rate rises


i.
The intercept of the AD curve
  9.
No government sector


j.
A Keynesian assumption about saving
10.
Intended investment




APPENDIX: AN ALGEBRAIC APPROACH TO THE MULUPUER

The formula for the multiplier in the simplest Keynesian model can also be derived using tools of basic algebra, starting with rearranging the equation for AD:

We can substitute in the Keynesian equation for consumption,  and use the fact that in this model all investment is autonomous, to get

The last rearrangement shows that the AD curve has an intercept equal to the sum of the autonomous terms and a slope equal to the mpc. Changes in either of the variable in parentheses, by changing the intercept, shift the curve upward or downward in a parallel manner.
By substituting this into the equation for the equilibrium condition, Y = AD, we can derive an expression for equilibrium income in terms of all the other variables in the model:

If autonomous consumption or intended investment increases, these each increase equilibrium income by mult = 1/(1 − mpc) times the change in autonomous consumption or investment.
To see this explicitly, consider the changes that would come about in Y if there is a change in ĪI from ĪI0 to a new level, ĪI1, while autonomous consumption (and the mpc) stays the same. We can solve for the change in Y by subtracting the old equation from the new one:

But  (and the mpc) is unchanged, so the first subtraction in parentheses comes out to be 0. We are left with:

or

where mult = 1/(1 − mpc). Similar analysis of Δ (holding intended investment constant) would show that the multiplier for that change is also mult.



*In a "jobless recovery," real GDP growth is slow (below average), so it does not create jobs fast enough to counteract the normal increase in the labor force due to population growth and decrease in labor demand due to increased output per worker.
*As noted in Chapter 5, household investment in consumer durables and government investment in fixed assets are not specifically accounted for in national income calculations.
*In the real world, households and institutions, firms, governments, and the foreign sector all borrow and lend for various reasons, and much of the supply and demand for loanable funds reflects transactions in existing assets that have little to do with current flows of production and income. This model abstracts from these complications to focus on flows of savings and investment.
*When the household sector "dissaves," it depletes assets (or increases debts) in order to pay for consumption. In this case, consumption exceeds income, and savings are negative. This has happened, at a national level, in only two periods in U.S. history: first during the Great Depression, and then again in 2005, when people were feeling wealthy because of large increases in the value of their homes. In 1984, U.S. households saved 10.8 percent of their after-tax income; in 2005 the figure was −0.5 percent; in 2007 the figure was positive but less than 1 percent. After 2008, households started to save more in an effort to reduce debt.
  *They economize by reducing both consumption and saving. They reduce their saving by 16 (which corresponds to the remaining 20 percent of the income change).
**Column 2 of the table can be summarized as:

But the infinite series (1 + x + x2 + x3 + x4 + ... + x∞) where x < 1 can be simplified to 1/(1 − x)













 
 
 




10
Fiscal Policy




 
 

The recession that began in the United States in 2007 was the most severe and long-lasting since the Great Depression of the 1930s. Even after the economy started to recover, growth was slow and job creation weak, with unemployment remaining over 7 percent through 2013. This led to a wide-ranging, and continuing, debate over the best way for government to respond to the recession and its aftermath. An immediate response put in place by the Obama administration in 2009 was a policy of economic stimulus through expanded government spending and tax cuts. The "stimulus package" involved more than $800 billion in new government spending and reduced taxes. This was followed by further tax cuts over the next two years, including a temporary two-percentage-point payroll tax holiday in 2011 and 2012.
The commonsense idea behind these policies is that more spending, either by government or by individuals and families who receive tax cuts, will create demand for goods and thereby expand employment and output. In terms of the macroeconomic theory sketched out in Chapter 9, these policies are intended to increase aggregate demand, generating positive multiplier effects.
The stimulus policy drew immediate criticism, especially from conservative economists and politicians, who argued that these policies would increase the deficit and national debt and would not be effective in helping the economy to recover. Proponents of the stimulus responded that it was essential to prevent an already very weak economy from slipping into Great Depression-like conditions. As you can see, in terms of economic theory, this argument reflects the difference between classical and Keynesian views of how economies operate. A similar debate raged in Europe between advocates of "austerity" policies aimed at balancing budgets and reducing debt and those who argued that in a time of high unemployment the main priority should be expanding economic activity.
We return to the specifics of these debates—and an evaluation of the results of economic stimulus and of austerity policies—in future chapters. Our goal in this chapter is to develop a basic theory of government spending and taxes and their effects on the economy, using the principles of aggregate demand and the multiplier developed in Chapter 9.

1. THE ROLE OF GOVERNMENT SPENDING AND TAXES

Economists often disagree about which tax and spending policies are best in different economic situations. These debates are over fiscal policy—what government spends, how it gets the money that it spends, and the effects of these activities on GDP levels. To understand these issues, we need to extend the simple macroeconomic model of Chapter 9 to include the role of government.

fiscal policy: government spending and tax policy

If the role of the government is added, the equation for aggregate demand used in previous chapters becomes:
AD = C + II + G
Government spending on goods and services, including spending by federal, state, and local governments (G) is added to aggregate demand (AD). Taxes do not appear directly in this equation, but, as we will see, they have an impact through their effect on consumption spending.

government spending (G): the component of GDP that represents spending on goods and services by federal, state and local governments

We examine the effects of these changes to our model one at a time, starting with the impact of a change in government spending.

1.1 A CHANGE IN GOVERNMENT SPENDING

Government spending has a direct impact on the level of GDP. Government purchases of goods and services increase aggregate demand, boosting equilibrium output. In Chapter 9, we showed how a decline in intended investment (II) lowered the AD line, leading to equilibrium at a lower level of income. This suggests that government spending might be used as an antidote to low investment spending.
Suppose that we start with the macroeconomic equilibrium presented in Table 9.5 and Figure 9.16 in Chapter 9. Remember that this was an unemployment equilibrium. If we start at an unemployment equilibrium, additional aggregate demand will be needed to return to full employment. Our first model assumed no government role; hence initial government spending equals 0. Thus a simple policy would be to increase government spending on goods and services from 0 to 80. As you can see in Table 10.1 and Figure 10.1, the addition of 80 units of government spending causes the equilibrium to shift up by 400, to the full employment Y* of 800. Why does this happen?


Table 10.1 An Increase in Government Spending











Figure 10.1 Increased Government Spending
An increase in government spending has a similar effect to an increase in private fixed investment. It shifts the AD line upward, as government spending rises. This increases the equilibrium levels of income and output. The increase in Y is larger than that of G because of the multiplier effect, which occurs due to the induced consumption that occurs as the economy expands along the AD line.

Let's look at a simple example—a new building construction program. Government money is spent on goods such as concrete and steel as well as paying workers. This directly creates new aggregate demand. In addition, there are multiplier effects—construction workers will use their incomes to buy all kinds of consumer goods and services. The multiplier effects add to the original economic stimulus resulting from the government spending.
The effect is exactly the same as the multiplier for intended investment that we discussed in Chapter 9. The initial change in government spending (ΔG) becomes income to individuals (ΔY), which leads to a round of consumer spending (ΔC) equal to (mpc*ΔY), which in turn becomes income to other individuals, leading to another round of consumer spending, and so forth. The whole process can be summarized using the same formula as in Chapter 9, but now applied to government spending rather than intended investment:



or:
ΔY = mult ΔG
Using the same mpc and multiplier as before (we had chosen the example where mpc = 0.8, resulting in mult = 5) allows us to predict the impact of government spending on economic equilibrium. The multiplier applies to government spending in exactly the same way that it does to changes in intended investment. Therefore an increase in government spending of 80 leads to an equilibrium shift of 80 × 5 = 400. Looking at it the other way, if we start with the goal of an increase of 400 in Y, we can divide 400 by 5 to find the needed quantity of ΔG: 400/5 = 80.
Note that at the original AD level, there is an equilibrium at 400, where AD = Y, and there is significant unemployment. After the addition of 80 in government spending (G), the new equilibrium is at the full-employment level of 800, where AD1 = Y. (You can check other levels in the table to make sure that it is the only level at which AD1 = Y.) Figure 10.1 shows the same thing graphically. The aggregate demand schedule moves up by 80 at each level of income, so that the horizontal intercept of the AD line moves up from 80 to 160. The slope of the AD line remains the same, since there has been no change in the mpc. The change in equilibrium income is equal to the change in government spending times the multiplier.
Using the multiplier, we can easily calculate the effect of further changes in government spending. For example, suppose that government spending were reduced from 80 to 60. This negative change of 20 in G would lead to a change of (5 × −20 = −100) in equilibrium Y. Income would fall from 800 to 700.
So we can see that an increase in government spending will raise the level of economic equilibrium, while a decrease in government spending will lower it. The multiplier effect, which is the same size in both directions, gives the policy extra "bang for the buck"—in this case, a change in government spending leads to five times as great a change in national income.
While we have used a multiplier of 5 to illustrate our hypothetical example, in real life the multiplier is rarely this large (as we will see later in the chapter and also in the algebraic presentation in Appendix A2), but there will usually be some multiplier effects from a change in government spending. Econometric studies of the U.S. economy generally indicate a multiplier effect of 2.0 or less.

1.2 TAXES AND TRANSFER PAYMENTS

To complete the picture of fiscal policy, we need to include the role of taxes and transfer payments. If voters and government officials do not want to raise government spending on goods and services, they have another option. To raise GDP, the government could cut taxes or increase transfer payments. Transfer payments are government grants, subsidies, or gifts to individuals or firms. Examples of transfer payments include unemployment insurance and Social Security payments, payments of interest to holders of government bonds, and subsidies to, for example, energy or agricultural corporations.

transfer payments: payments by government to individuals or firms, including Social Security payments, unemployment compensation, interest payments, and subsidies

In recent decades, the fiscal tool most often chosen by policymakers has been tax reductions. (Tax reductions, of course, tend to be politically popular in addition to providing economic stimulus.) Increases in transfer payments would have the same general positive effect on aggregate demand. The opposite policies—increasing taxes or decreasing transfer payments—would have a negative effect on economic equilibrium, similar to a reduction in government spending.
Changes in taxes and transfer payments, however, do not have exactly the same effect as changes in government spending on goods and services. The mechanism by which tax and transfer changes affect output differs from the process discussed above for government spending. While government purchases directly affect aggregate demand and GDP, the effect of taxes and transfer payments is indirect, based on their effect on consumption or investment. There are many kinds of taxes and transfers, including corporate taxes, tariffs, and inheritance taxes, but we focus here on the effects of changes in personal income taxes and transfers to individuals.
For example, let's say consumers receive a tax cut of 50. If they spent it all, that would add 50 to aggregate demand. But according to the "marginal propensity to consume" (mpc) principle, consumers are likely to use a portion of the tax cut to increase saving or reduce debt. With the mpc of 0.8 that we used for our basic model in Chapter 9, the portion saved will be 0.2 × 50 = 10, leaving 40 for increased consumption. Thus the effect on aggregate demand would be only 40, not 50 (since saving is not part of aggregate demand).
The same logic would hold if consumers received extra transfer income of 50. They would spend only 40, and save 10. The reverse would be true for a tax increase or a cut in transfer payments. With a tax increase or benefit cut of 50, individuals and families would have less to spend and would reduce their consumption by 40.
Economists define disposable income (Yd) as the income available to consumers after paying taxes and receiving transfers:
Yd = Y − T + TR
where T is the total of taxes paid in the economy and TR is the total of transfer payments from governments to individuals.

disposable income: income remaining for consumption or saving after subtracting taxes and adding transfer payments

Changes in taxes or transfer payments directly affect disposable income but only indirectly affect consumption and aggregate demand. Hence their impact on economic equilibrium is less than that of government spending, which affects aggregate demand directly.
For this reason, the multiplier effects of changes in taxes and transfer payments are smaller than the multiplier impacts of government spending. If taxes are "lump sum"—that is, set at a fixed level that does not change with income, then we can write T = . The tax multiplier for a lump sum tax works in two stages. In the first stage, consumption is reduced by mpc (Δ), which can be expressed as:
ΔC = − (mpc) Δ

tax multiplier: the impact of a change in a lump sum tax on economic equilibrium, expressed mathematically as ΔY/Δ(mult)(mpc)

In the second stage, this reduction in consumption has the regular multiplier effect on equilibrium income. The combined effect can be expressed as:
ΔY = (mult) ΔC = − (mult) (mpc) Δ
The tax multiplier is equal to ΔY/Δ = −(mult)(mpc). Mathematically, (mult)(mpc) always works out to exactly 1.0 less than the regular multiplier. (You can use the multiplier formula from Chapter 9 to work out why this is true.) Using the figures from our previous example, where mpc = 0.8 and mult = 5, the tax multiplier would be −(0.8) × 5 = −4. (For a more detailed algebraic account of the tax multiplier for a lump sum tax, see Appendix A1.)
Just as a tax increase has a contractionary effect, a tax cut will have an expansionary effect. Historically, tax cuts played an important role in U.S. economic policy in the 1960s, 1980s, and 2000s, as well as in the response to the recession of 2007-9. In all cases, the effect on GDP was expansionary, although there is debate about the exact mechanism through which this occurred—not all economists accept the simple tax multiplier process that we have discussed.
Transfer payments, which as we noted are a kind of "negative tax," affect the level of output through a similar logic. An increase in transfer payments, like a tax cut, will give people more money that they can spend. But the expansionary effect occurs only when they actually do spend—so, according to the mpc logic, the impact of an increase in transfer payments is reduced by whatever portion of the extra income people decide to save. The multiplier impact of a change in transfer payments is therefore the same as that of a change in taxes, except in the opposite direction. A cut in transfer payments, like an increase in taxes, will be contractionary, tending to lower economic equilibrium.
In the real economy, income taxes are generally proportional or progressive—that is, they increase with income levels (as discussed in Chapter 3).* In our model, the effect of a proportional tax would be to flatten the aggregate demand curve, since it has a larger effect at higher income levels. (See Appendix A2 for a more detailed treatment of the impact of a proportional tax—we omit analysis of progressive taxes, which is a bit more complex.) This in turn will affect the multiplier, reducing it somewhat.
How can we explain the effect of a proportional tax on the multiplier? Taxes that rise with income will tend to lower the proportion consumed out of each dollar increase in income. For example, with a 15 percent tax each extra dollar of income will be reduced to 85 cents of disposable income. Applying our original mpc of 0.80 to the remaining 85 cents, we get 0.8 × 0.85 = 0.68, indicating that 68 cents will be devoted to consumption (and 17 cents to saving). The result is similar to having a lower mpc, which also means a lower multiplier. This will dampen the effect of income changes on aggregate demand and economic equilibrium.
You might wonder what would be the effect of an increase in government spending that is exactly balanced by an increase in taxes? Since we have shown that the multiplier effect of taxes goes in the opposite direction from that of government spending, it might appear that the effects would cancel each other out. But this is not the case. Because the tax multiplier is smaller than the government spending multiplier, there is a net positive effect on aggregate demand and equilibrium. The difference between the two multipliers equals 1, so the net multiplier effect will also equal 1. In the example we have used, the government policy multiplier is 5, and the tax multiplier is 4, so the balanced budget multiplier = +5 − 4 = 1. Thus the impact on economic equilibrium is exactly equal to the original change in government spending (and taxes). So we can say that ΔY = ΔG.**

balanced budget multiplier: the impact on equilibrium output of simultaneous increases of equal size in government spending and taxes

For example, an increase of $50 billion in government spending, balanced by an equal increase of $50 billion in taxes, would be expected to lead to a net increase in equilibrium output of $50 billion. One way of thinking about this is to consider that the original government spending boosts GDP, but the negative multiplier effects generated by the tax increase cancel out the positive multiplier effects of the government spending. This results in a weaker net effect than government spending of $50 billion alone, which would lead to ΔY = (mult)ΔG = 5ΔG, or $250 billion in this example.

1.3 THE CIRCULAR FLOW WITH GOVERNMENT SPENDING AND TAXES

We can modify the simple circular flow model introduced in Chapter 9 (Figures 9.5 and 9.6) to add government spending and taxes. A circular flow including government spending and taxes is shown in Figure 10.2. As noted above, transfer payments are considered negative taxes, so we do not include a separate arrow for transfers. Instead, we show net taxes—taxes minus transfer payments—as a leakage from the circular flow and government spending as a reinjection to the circular flow.

net taxes: taxes minus transfer payments

This model thus has two leakages—savings and net taxes; and two injections—intended investment and government spending. As discussed in the previous chapter, savings and investment flow through the financial system, and may or may not balance. Similarly, taxes and government spending may or may not balance, depending on whether the government has a deficit, a surplus, or a balanced budget.
This model represents a useful, simplified way of thinking about the complex macroeconomic system. If the overall leakages and injections balance, the system should be at a full employment equilibrium. From a Keynesian perspective, the object of government policy is to achieve such a balance, by varying government spending and net taxes to offset any imbalances in savings and investment. Classical economists are more skeptical about the ability of government to achieve this and more concerned that government action will unbalance, rather than balance, the circular flow. We discuss some of these policy implications in much more detail in later chapters.
In Chapter 14 we introduce one more modification of the circular flow diagram to take into account the foreign sector, showing the effect of imports and exports. But first, we examine some of the implications of government policies aimed at balancing out the circular flow.







Figure 10.2 A Macroeconomic Model with Government Spending and Taxes
The model shows two sets of leakages and injections into the circular flow: savings (leakage) and intended investment (injection), and net taxes (leakage) and government spending (injection). These may or may not balance out at a full employment level of output.
1.4 EXPANSIONARY AND CONTRACTIONARY FISCAL POLICY

The three fiscal policy tools discussed above—changes in government spending, changes in tax levels, and changes in transfer payments—affect income and employment levels, as well as inflation rates (discussed further below and in Chapter 13). They also, of course, affect the government's budgetary position. The budget could be balanced, in surplus, or in deficit, depending on the combination of spending and tax policy that is employed.
Increasing government spending is an example of what economists refer to as expansionary fiscal policy. Other expansionary fiscal policies are increasing transfer payments or lowering taxes. Whether through a direct impact on aggregate demand or through giving consumers more money to spend, these policies should increase aggregate demand and equilibrium.

expansionary fiscal policy: the use of government spending, transfer payments, or tax cuts to stimulate a higher level of economic activity

If that were the whole story, macroeconomic policy would be simple—just use sufficient government spending or tax cuts to maintain the economy at full employment. But there are complications. One problem is that in order to spend more, the government has to raise taxes, borrow, or "print money." (Issues of how government finances its expenditures are discussed later in this chapter and in subsequent ones.) Raising taxes tends to counteract the expansionary effects of increased spending. Borrowing money creates deficits and raises long-term government debt that, as we will see, may or may not be a problem (these issues are discussed in depth in Chapter 16).
Another problem is that too much government spending may lead to inflation. The goal of expansionary fiscal policy is to expand the economic activity to its full-employment level. But what if fiscal policy overshoots this level? It is easy to see how this might occur. For politicians, government spending on popular programs is easy but raising taxes to pay for them is hard. This can lead to budget deficits (discussed in Section 2), but it can also cause excessive aggregate demand in the economy. Excessive demand could also, in theory, arise from high consumer or business spending, but usually government spending, alone or in combination with high consumer and business expenditures, is partly to blame when the economy "overheats." The result is likely to be inflation.
According to our basic analysis, the cure for inflation should be fairly straightforward. If the problem is too much aggregate demand, the solution is to reduce aggregate demand. We could do this by reversing the process discussed in the previous section and lowering government spending on goods and services. A similar effect can be obtained by reducing transfer payments or by increasing taxes. With lower transfer payments or higher taxes, businesses and consumers will have less spending power. Lower spending by government, businesses, and consumers will result in a lower equilibrium output level, and there will no longer be excess demand pressures to create inflation.
Thus we have identified another important economic policy tool—contractionary fiscal policy. This is a weapon that can be used against inflation, though it would generally be unwise to use it at times of high unemployment. (The problem of what to do if unemployment and inflation occur at the same time—something that is not shown in our simple model—is discussed in Chapter 13) Of course, too large a spending reduction could overshoot in a downward direction, leading to excessive unemployment and, possibly, a recession.

contractionary fiscal policy: reductions in government spending or transfer payments or increases in taxes, leading to a lower level of economic activity

Although the effects of contractionary fiscal policy can be painful, it would be wrong to assume that expansionary fiscal policy is always beneficial and contractionary policy always harmful. Contractionary policy can be useful when previous policies have "overshot" the goal or when the economy is suffering from excessive inflation. We discuss this issue of policy choice extensively in this and the following chapters.

Discussion Questions

1. What recent changes in government spending or tax policy have been in the news? How would you expect these to affect GDP and employment levels?
2. In general, tax increases are politically unpopular. Would you ever be likely to favor a tax increase? Under what circumstances, if any, might a tax increase be beneficial to the economy?

2. THE FEDERAL BUDGET

The federal government's budget includes spending on goods and services, transfer payments, and taxes. (This is also true of state and local government budgets, but our focus for purposes of fiscal policy analysis is mainly the federal budget.) Thus we can divide total government expenditures, or government outlays, into two categories. Total government outlays include not only government spending on goods and services (G) but also government transfer payments:
Government Outlays = G + TR

government outlays: total government expenditures, including spending on goods and services and transfer payments

Recalling the earlier discussion, only government spending directly affects aggregate demand. Transfer payments do so only indirectly through their effect on consumption. As we see below, however, both types of outlay affect the federal budget, since both represent funds that the government must pay out.
On the revenue side, government income comes from taxes (T). When revenues are not sufficient to cover outlays, the government borrows to cover the difference. The actual financing of a deficit is accomplished through the sale of government bonds by the U.S. Treasury. Government bonds are interest-bearing securities that can be bought by firms, individuals, or foreign governments. In effect, a government bond is a promise to pay back, with interest, the amount borrowed at a specific time in the future.

government bond: an interest-bearing security constituting a promise to pay at a specified future time

Federal sources of revenue and outlays are shown in Figure 10.3 for fiscal year (FY) 2011.* The major sources of federal revenue are personal income and Social Security taxes. In FY 2011, the federal government also borrowed an amount equal to 36 percent of the total budget. Government borrowing varies from year to year, but deficits are more common than surpluses. The major categories of government spending are Social Security, defense spending, and social programs.
Social Security and Medicare taxes are a special case, in that they are collected for a specific purpose—the provision of Social Security and Medicare benefits. Funds raised through such taxes are exclusively for retirement purposes and cannot be used to finance any other government programs, for example, national defense or social programs (except, as we will see, when the federal government borrows from such accounts). For this reason, they are considered to be "off budget." All other tax and spending categories shown are free of such restrictions and are classified as "on budget." Each of the on-budget spending items is subject to congressional approval, or appropriation, each year.

off-budget expenditures: government-funded programs that are exempted from the normal budgeting process because the taxes that fund them cannot be used for budgetary items that are subject to congressional appropriations
on-budget expenditures: all federal expenditures that rely on general tax revenue subject to congressional approval each year
appropriation (of federal funds): Congressional approval of funds for a particular purpose

Interest payments on the existing government debt are another special case. They are "on budget," yet they are not subject to approval by Congress. To fulfill the promise made by the government when issuing bonds, interest on the debt must always be paid. Such payments amounted to 6 percent of federal spending in FY 2011.
Clearly, government borrowing and interest payments on the debt have economic impacts. What is the nature of these impacts? To answer this question, we need to look more carefully at the nature of government deficits.







Source: Economic Report of the President, 2013, Table B-81.
Figure 10.3 United States Government Source of Funds and Outlays, Fiscal 2011
The largest sources of federal revenues are personal income and Social Security taxes. Part of the budget—36 percent in 2011—is covered by borrowing (issuing government bonds).
Social Security and Medicare made up 33 percent of federal outlays in 2011, and national defense 24 percent. Interest on the federal debt represented 6 percent of federal outlays.
2.1 DEFICITS AND SURPLUSES

First, we need to define what we mean by the government budget surplus or deficit. This can be calculated by subtracting total government outlays from total government tax revenues. A positive result indicates a surplus; a negative one, a deficit.
Budget Surplus (+) or Deficit (−) = T − Government Outlays

= T − (G + TR)


budget surplus: an excess of total government tax revenues over total government outlays
budget deficit: an excess of total government outlays over total government tax revenues

Showing the government's budget deficit as a percentage of nominal GDP is a simple way to correct for the effects of both inflation and the ability of the economy to handle the deficit. The larger the economy—as measured by GDP—the easier it is to manage a given deficit, since both the fiscal and budgetary impacts of the deficit will be relatively smaller compared to the size of the economy. A bigger economy means that people will have higher incomes and a larger flow of savings is likely to be available to purchase more government bonds, making it easier for the government to borrow.
State and local governments are generally required to separate their current spending and capital budgets. Current spending must be paid for out of current taxes, but money can be borrowed for investment ("capital") projects such as new schools, bridges, and transit systems. The federal budget, however, makes no such distinction between current and capital spending. In fact, the federal government has considerably more flexibility than state and local governments in the conduct of budget operations. A decisive factor in the difference is that the federal government is uniquely empowered to conduct deficit spending and to finance spending through expansion of the money supply (as we will see in Chapter 12), while the states and municipalities have no such power. We return to this point in later chapters.

deficit spending: government spending in excess of tax revenues collected

Economists sometimes use the term "countercyclical" to describe a federal government policy of increasing spending and cutting taxes in lean times and doing the reverse when the economy strengthens. State and local governments, in contrast, tend to follow a more procyclical policy, in which both recessions and booms are reinforced rather than counterbalanced. This is not the intended result but simply a result of the fact that voters are more inclined to support local spending on schools, for example, when times are good. So in certain respects federal fiscal policy works against not only business-cycle fluctuations but also the unintentional reinforcement of such fluctuations by state and local governments (see Box 10.1).

countercyclical policy: fiscal policy in which taxes are lowered and expenditure is raised when the economy is weak, and the opposite occurs when the economy is strong
procyclical policy: fiscal policy in which taxes are lowered and expenditure is raised when the economy is strong, and the opposite is done when the economy is weak

Over the years, the U.S. Federal budget position has varied from deficit to surplus and back again. The U.S. federal government budget went from a large deficit in 1992 to a surplus in 2001 (Figure 10.4). Then in 2002 the government budget moved back into deficit. After moderating for a few years, deficits increased sharply following the Great Recession of 2007-9, at one point even exceeding 10 percent of GDP—a level not seen since the 1940s. This has led to an extensive debate about the impact of deficits on the economy. We focus on these issues in greater depth in Chapter 16. As we see, there is much continuing controversy, among economists and the general public, about the significance of budgetary policy and deficits and many different ideas about the best way to handle issues of government spending, taxes, and transfer payments.

2.2 AUTOMATIC STABILIZERS

Deficits and surpluses are not just a result of active fiscal policy. A significant portion of the variations in government spending and tax revenues occurs "automatically," due to mechanisms built into the economic system to help stabilize it.


Box 10.1 THE EFFECT OF STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT SPENDING ON GDP
While much of the debate about government spending in the United States focuses on the federal level, changes in government spending at state and local levels can also have a significant impact on the macroeconomy. The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) has developed economic models that attempt to isolate the impact of state and local government spending on GDP
The BEA estimated, for example, that in 2009 state and local government spending provided a boost to the national economy—increasing the GDP growth rate by 0.28 percentage points. In other words, nominal GDP growth in 2009 was 0.9 percent, but would have been about 0.6 percent without the positive impact of state and local government spending. Some of this spending was money that state and local governments received from the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the Obama stimulus).
But when state and local governments cut spending, their impact on GDP levels can turn negative. This was the case in 2010 and 2011, as federal stimulus money dried up and states mostly looked to balance their budgets by cutting spending. The BEA estimated that state and local budget cutbacks reduced GDP growth by 0.23 percentage points in 2010 and 0.43 percentage points in 2011. Preliminary results indicate that the impact of state and local government spending on GDP in 2012 was also negative.
Source: Norton Francis, "State and Local Budget Cuts Hurt the Recovery," Christian Science Monitor, Tax VOX, July 30, 2012.







Source: Economic Report of the President, 2013, Table B-79.
Figure 10.4 Federal Surplus or Deficit as a Percent of GDP
The federal deficit—as measured by government borrowing—reached 6 percent of GDP in 1983, a year of deep recession. The deficit was reduced as a percent of GDP from the early 1990s until 1998, when the budget went into surplus. From 1998 to 2001, the government had a net surplus, meaning that some debt was being retired. After 2000, a recession combined with the Bush administration tax cuts put the budget back into deficit. The recession of 2007-9 led to even larger deficits, reaching 10% of GDP before starting to decline as the economy started a slow recovery.

Since the 1950s, government spending has been a major part of the U.S. economy. As we have seen, this was partly a result of the Keynesian idea that government spending was needed to prevent recession. In recent decades, the use of expansionary fiscal policy has been controversial, partly as a result of issues such as deficits and inflation. During this period, however, total government outlays (including transfers and spending on goods and services) have not declined, either in money terms or as a percentage of GDP.
As Figure 10.5 shows, government receipts and outlays tend to fluctuate over time. For example, beginning in 2007, when the economy stagnated as a consequence of the financial crisis, government receipts declined while outlays increased. Economists refer to the change as the automatic stabilization effect of government spending and taxes. It refers to the way in which the government budget moderates fluctuations of aggregate demand even without any active decision-making or legislating by the government.

automatic stabilizers: tax and spending institutions that tend to increase government revenues and lower government spending during economic expansions but lower revenues and raise government spending during economic recessions

Even if no specific budgetary action is taken, the government's budget will vary over the business cycle. Suppose that the economy is entering a recession. As aggregate demand falls, the government deficit generally rises. Tax revenues decline as people have less income on which to pay taxes due to the slowing economy. In addition, as more people receive unemployment insurance, transfer payments related to programs such as food stamps increase. This cushions the fall in personal disposable income—and thus the fall in consumer spending.







Source: Economic Report of the President, 2013, Table B-79.
Figure 10.5 Federal Outlays, Receipts, and Surplus/Deficit, as a Percent of GDP, 1980-2011
The United States federal government has operated at a deficit for most of the last few decades, with particularly high deficits in recent years.

If the federal government does not actively move to balance its budget, these automatic changes in spending and taxes tend to moderate the recession. In effect, the recession creates an automatic response of expansionary fiscal impacts—increased spending and lower tax revenues. It will also, of course, tend to increase the government deficit (or reduce any surplus).
Similarly, if aggregate demand is rising during an economic expansion, tax revenues rise. Fewer people receive unemployment or other transfer payments. This means that personal disposable income does not rise as quickly as national income. This, in turn, puts a damper on increases in consumer spending—and limits the inflationary overheating that can arise from increased aggregate demand.
Automatic stabilizers are, therefore, inseparable from cyclical budget imbalances. Economists often say that the portion of the deficit (surplus) that is the result of automatic stabilizers is the cyclical deficit (or surplus). It is, in effect, the part of the budget balance that is sensitive to fluctuations in the macroeconomy.

cyclical deficit (surplus): the portion of the deficit (or surplus) that is caused by fluctuations in the business cycle

This phenomenon helps explain why, for example, the U.S. government was able to enjoy budgetary surpluses in the late 1990s. It is true that the policies of the Clinton administration, which included raising tax rates to try to balance the budget, contributed. But as business revenues and personal incomes soared, the resulting increase in tax revenues allowed the government's coffers to fill.
In addition to the automatic stabilizers, the federal budget has another aspect that levels the fluctuations of output. This is the steadiness of government spending. Unlike investment, consumer spending, net exports, and to some extent state and local government spending, most areas of federal spending do not change drastically from year to year. This adds an element of stability to the economy's aggregate demand.

2.3 DISCRETIONARY POLICY

Sometimes, the automatic stabilization effect of government spending and taxes cannot smooth economic ups and downs as much as is needed. Relatively severe problems of recession or inflation often give rise to proposals to use an active, or discretionary fiscal policy to remedy the situation. This issue is controversial among economists. Some economists, as we will see, believe that the government should never use an activist fiscal policy, believing that it is likely to do more harm than good. Other economists argue that activist fiscal policy is essential, especially to respond to severe economic problems such as deep recession. Regardless of economists' advice, the fact is that governments are making fiscal policy all the time, whether in a planned or unplanned manner. Every year, the government revises its budget, including levels of spending and taxation. These spending and tax levels have effects on the economy, and it is important to try to understand them.

discretionary fiscal policy: changes in government spending and taxation resulting from deliberate policy decisions

Historically, the first major experience with expansionary fiscal policy was during World War II. Before the war, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal had initiated some government spending programs intended to put the unemployed to work during the Great Depression. But these programs were dwarfed by the magnitude of war spending in the 1940s. As a result, unemployment, which had been as high as 25 percent in 1933 and 19 percent in 1938, fell to about 2 percent in 1943. The fall in unemployment was a beneficial side effect of the onset of World War II and the war-induced spending.*
After the conclusion of World War II, government spending never returned to prewar levels, and the beneficial effects of the expanded government role—steady economic growth with relatively low unemployment levels—seemed to justify this. In the 1960s, economists became even more optimistic about the benefits of fiscal policy. At that time, it was suggested that it would be possible for the government to "fine-tune" the economic system using fiscal policy, to ratchet aggregate demand up or down in response to changes in the business climate.
"Fine-tuning" was largely discredited in the 1970s and 1980s, as the economy struggled with inflationary problems that were partly a result of sharp increases in oil prices, but were also seen as having been worsened by excessive government spending (we look at this in more detail in Chapter 13). In addition, many economists argued that problems of time lags made fiscal policy unwieldy and often counterproductive.

time lags: the time that elapses between the formulation of an economic policy and its actual effects on the economy

To understand the problems with fine-tuning and time lags, we can use a commonsense example. Imagine that when you wake up it is too cold in your apartment, so you turn up the temperature on the thermostat. It might take so much time for the apartment to warm up that you do not get the benefits before you leave for work. You might become impatient, raising the temperature again. As a result, the apartment gets too hot during the day, so when you get home you have to turn the thermostat down again. Thus delayed responses make your management of the apartment's temperature less effective. The best strategy is to set the thermostat at a single temperature (or, with a programmable thermostat, a specific daily pattern) and then to resist fiddling with it.
Similarly, time lags can make active fiscal policy less effective as a way to stabilize the economy. There are two types of lags: inside and outside lags. Inside lags refer to delays that occur within the government, while outside lags refer to the delayed effects of government policies. There are four major types of inside lags:
1. A data lag: It may take some time for the government to collect information about economic problems such as unemployment.
2. A recognition lag: Government decision-makers may not see an event as a problem right away.
3. A legislative lag: Discretionary fiscal policy must be instituted in the form of legal changes in the government's budget. The government's economists may want to increase spending or decrease tax rates, but they have to convince both the president and Congress to act to solve the problem.
4. A transmission lag: These legal changes take time to show up in actual tax forms and government budgets. One solution is that changes can be made retroactive to speed up their implementation—for instance, a tax cut legislated now may apply to income received during the previous year. However, this is not always done.
In addition, even if all these lags have been overcome, it takes time for the new policies actually to affect the economy (the "outside lag"). Suppose, for example, that the government responds to a rise in unemployment with increased government spending or a tax cut. By the time these policies are in place and create an economic stimulus, the economy may have recovered on its own. In that case, the additional aggregate demand will not be needed and is likely to create inflationary pressures.
Despite these problems with discretionary fiscal policy, governments have continued to use it, with mixed results. Government fiscal stimulus, with or without a formal economic justification, was applied during the periods 1964-68, 1975-77, 1980-87, in the early 2000s, and again in 2008-12, after the financial crisis and recession. An especially popular form of expansionary policy has been tax cuts, implemented under Presidents Kennedy, Reagan, George W. Bush, as well as by the Obama administration as part of a stimulus policy in response to recession (see Box 10.2).
Discretionary expenditures constitute a separate portion of the federal budget. While automatic stabilizers contribute to the cyclical deficit or surplus, we say that discretionary fiscal policy produces a structural deficit (or surplus). We can (loosely) think of the structural deficit as the deficit that would occur if the economy were at full employment. Structural deficits represent the portion of the overall deficit that is dictated by the president and Congress, even though a significant portion of discretionary expenditures often result from decisions made years earlier. Only changes in the structural budget balance truly reflect the direction of fiscal policy—that is, whether it is stimulative or contractionary—since other changes are related to the automatic stabilizers.

structural deficit (surplus): the portion of the deficit (or surplus) that results from tax and spending policy dictated by the president and Congress at their discretion



Box 10.2 THE OBAMA STIMULUS PROGRAM
In February 2009, in response to a severe recession that had pushed the unemployment rate over 8 percent, the Obama administration proposed a $787 billion stimulus package, including $288 billion in tax cuts, $224 billion in extended unemployment benefits, education, and health care, and $275 billion for job creation through federal contracts, grants, and loans. The stimulus, formally known as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), was enacted by Congress, providing for increased spending and tax reductions over a period of ten years. For the first three fiscal years, $720 billion, or 91.5 percent, was budgeted to maximize the impact in fighting the recession. Later estimates by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) indicate that the total impact of the stimulus package over the period 2009-19 will be about $830 billion.
From the point of view of economic analysis, the stimulus amounted to a major expansionary fiscal policy, including all three fiscal policy tools: changes in government spending, changes in tax levels, and changes in transfer payments. According to the economic theories discussed in this chapter, the effects of such a program should be to expand economic activity, boost GDP, and lower unemployment (although classical economists are skeptical, especially about the effectiveness of government spending).
Was the stimulus successful? The answer was not immediately obvious, because the recession was severe (unemployment rates peaked in late 2009 at 10 percent) and the subsequent recovery slow, giving many people the impression that the stimulus failed. But there is now sufficient evidence to indicate that in fact it was very effective.
According to the CBO, the ARRA "added as many as 3.3 million jobs to the economy in the second quarter of 2010, and may have prevented the nation from lapsing back into recession." An analysis by economists Alan Blinder and Mark Zandi in 2010 found that the stimulus "probably averted what could have been called Great Depression 2.0. ... [W]ithout the government's response, GDP in 2010 would be about 11.5 percent lower [and] payroll employment would be less by some 8 1/2 million jobs." Blinder and Zandi's analysis takes into account negative multiplier effects. The decline in economic activity in 2009 was so steep that, without an increase in aggregate demand, a negative spiral of lower demand, lower incomes, and even lower demand would have taken place, as it did in the Great Depression in the 1930s.
The CBO report indicates that "the effects of ARRA on output peaked in the first half of 2010 and have since diminished." Even so, the stimulus continued to exert a positive impact on GDP in 2012: "ARRA raised real GDP in 2012 by between 0.1 percent and 0.8 percent, and increased the number of people employed in 2012 by between 0.2 million and 1.1 million." The CBO also estimated output multipliers for stimulus spending between 0.5 and 2.5, for middle-income tax cuts between 0.3 and 1.5, and for transfer payments between 0.4 and 2.1.
What about longer-term effects of the stimulus? The CBO estimates that ARRA will increase budget deficits by about $830 billion over the 2009-19 period; 90 percent of this impact occurred during the first three years of the program. As noted, without the stimulus the economy would have been likely to go into a much more severe decline, which would have lowered tax revenues and raised transfer payments, so it is possible that without the stimulus the deficit would have increased even more. In a survey conducted by the University of Chicago Booth School of Business in 2012, 80 percent of economists agreed that the stimulus had reduced the unemployment rate. On long-term effects, economists were more divided: 46 percent believed that "the benefits of the stimulus will end up exceeding its cost," while 27 percent were not certain, and 12 percent thought that long-term costs would outweigh benefits.
Sources: Congressional Budget Office, Estimated Impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act on Employment and Output from October 2012 through December 2012 (2012); "Congressional Budget Office Defends Stimulus," Washington Post, June 6, 2012; Alan S. Blinder, and Mark Zandi, "How the Great Recession Was Brought to an End," 2010, w­w­w­.e­c­o­n­o­m­y­.c­o­m­/­m­a­r­k­-­z­a­n­d­i­/­d­o­c­u­m­e­n­t­s­/­E­n­d­-­o­f­-­G­r­e­a­t­-­R­e­c­e­s­s­i­o­n­.p­d­f­.


Changes in tax policy—tax cuts, for example—also are classified as discretionary (in contrast to changes in tax revenues resulting from business-cycle fluctuations). Proponents of tax cuts sometimes appeal to supply-side economics (first introduced during the Reagan administration) to support their policies. The supply-side argument for tax cuts is essentially that lower tax rates encourage more work, saving, and investment, thereby creating a more dynamic economy. According to the most enthusiastic advocates of supply-side economics, output will grow so rapidly in response to a cut in tax rates that total tax revenues will actually increase, not decrease (more on this in Chapter 16). This is different from the logic of increased aggregate demand that we have discussed, which implies that tax cuts will create an economic stimulus, but are likely to raise the government deficit.

supply-side economics: an economic theory that emphasizes policies to stimulate production, such as lower taxes. The theory predicts that such incentives stimulate greater economic effort, saving, and investment, thereby increasing overall economic output and tax revenues.

The economic record seems to show that tax cuts do indeed create an economic stimulus— but debate continues among economists as to whether this effect is demand-led (as implied by our fiscal policy model) or based on supply-side effects. And in general, tax cuts have usually led to lower revenues and higher deficits (this was true both of the Reagan tax cuts in the 1980s and the Bush tax cuts in the 2000s).

Discussion Questions

1. Do you think that the president is mostly responsible for the persistent budget deficits? Is Congress responsible? Are budget deficits necessarily bad?
2. Why doesn't the government run surpluses every year instead of deficits? Wouldn't doing so be better for the economy?

3. POLICY ISSUES
3.1 CROWDING OUT AND CROWDING IN

A common concern of fiscal policy critics is that federal government spending gets in the way of consumption and private investment. We have already seen that while government expenditures boost aggregate demand, the tax revenues required to finance such expenditures have the opposite effect. But the expenditure effect is stronger, dollar for dollar, than the tax effect, which is why the effects do not exactly cancel each other out and why the balanced budget multiplier equals 1 instead of 0.
That would be the end of the story if raising taxes were the only means of financing government expenditures. Yet we know that the government frequently runs deficits and, when it does so, it must borrow money. It borrows from the capital markets (i.e., the loanable funds market as discussed in Chapter 9), in theory leaving less money available for private investment. The reduced availability of loanable funds can have the effect of raising interest rates, which, by making borrowing more expensive, makes investment less likely, ceteris paribus. Economists therefore say that borrowing to help cover budget deficits may have the effect of "crowding out" private investment. Economists who favor the classical approach often claim that replacing dynamic private investment with "clumsy" government spending is wasteful and inefficient.

crowding out: reduction in the availability of private capital resulting from federal government borrowing to finance budget deficits

Figure 10.6 uses the classical model of the loanable funds market, introduced in Chapter 9 (Figure 9.7) to illustrate how government demand for loanable funds could crowd out private borrowing. The supply curve (S) represents savings or, more concretely, the supply of loanable funds. For a given supply, the interest rate will be pushed up from i1 to i2 when the government borrows money to pay for a budget deficit, represented by a shift in the demand curve from D1 to D2. The result is that private investment is now more expensive and saving becomes more attractive.
The difference between Q2 and Q3 represents the amount of funds borrowed by the government. Because this additional demand raises the interest rate, private investment becomes less attractive, and some is "crowded out." Q3 now represents the quantity of loanable funds available for private investment. The amount of "crowding out" is shown on the graph as the difference between Q1 and Q3. The implication of this analysis is that government deficit spending is counterproductive to the aim of promoting private investment.







Figure 10.6 Crowding Out in the Loanable Funds Market

John Maynard Keynes acknowledged the potential for crowding out. He did not, however, believe that deficit spending would crowd out private spending to a significant degree if, as during the Great Depression, there was considerable slack in the economy. In other words, if owners of capital are reluctant to invest anyway, there is no reason for government borrowing to drive up interest rates. Remember that in the Keynesian view, recessionary conditions are characterized by an excess of savings over investment. If there is a large excess of savings, there is no reason to worry that government borrowing will absorb too much of the available loanable funds.
Keynes also minimized the importance of crowding out for other reasons. First, recall from Chapter 9 that, according to Keynes, investment decisions are not dependent only on the rate of interest. He believed that investment decisions also are a function of expectations of future profit, what he called "animal spirits." In good economic times, investors purchase more capital goods because their growing profits reinforce an optimistic outlook about the future. And they are likely to do so despite the historical tendency for interest rates to rise in good economic times. The opposite might well be true in recession. Despite low interest rates, business spending will be lower due to growing pessimism. For the reasons noted above, government borrowing to finance deficits may not raise interest rates during a recession, and even if it does, this might not have any significant effect on investment, since investors will not want to invest anyway—at least until the economy starts to recover.
Second, there is significant scope for complementarity between public and private investment. According to this argument, certain government expenditures on, say, transportation, energy, or communications networks enhance the potential profits of private investment by providing critical infrastructure. Rather than being a substitute for private investment, government spending supports the productivity of private investment, and is therefore likely to encourage more of it. When such government spending generates more investment, it is called crowding in.

crowding in: the process in which government spending leads to more favorable expectations for the economy, thereby inducing investment

During the Great Depression, Keynes argued that the economy could be stuck in a potentially permanent low-level equilibrium (i.e., the unemployment equilibrium we saw in Chapter 9) and that the government needed to run deficits to finance the spending necessary to stimulate aggregate demand and thus attract renewed investment spending on capital goods. This argument was been reflected recently in the Obama administration's position that infrastructure spending is important to get a sluggish economy moving again.

3.2 DIFFERENT MULTIPLIER EFFECTS

Another issue of considerable policy controversy is which items in the budget deserve priority. A principal goal of government spending—especially discretionary spending—is to stimulate the economy. The multiplier ensures that every additional dollar of government spending increases aggregate demand by more than one dollar. But we have also seen that much of the effect can be offset by taxes. In addition, it is unrealistic to assume that the multiplier effect is the same regardless of the type of government expenditure.
As seen earlier, the larger the mpc, the greater the multiplier. Until now, we have assumed that the mpc is uniform—that is, that it represents the marginal propensity to consume of all individuals and groups in society. But there may be significant variations in the mpc depending on which income groups are involved.
The typical wealthy individual is capable of saving a significant percentage of his income, a much greater percentage than that of most poor people. Of course, what is saved is not consumed; the average poor person spends a higher percentage of each additional dollar received than would a rich person. In other words, a poor person's mpc tends to be higher. Because a higher mpc translates to a larger multiplier, Keynes argued that in general the multiplier is largest when government spending is directed toward those who have the highest mpc. Spending that benefits the poor or unemployed is thus likely to have larger multiplier effects.
Table 10.2 presents estimates for the multiplier effects of different fiscal policy initiatives. (The multipliers listed here are smaller than those seen in earlier examples because of offsetting effects and leakages such as those discussed in Appendix A2.) Note that unemployment benefits, food stamps, aid to state governments (which help prevent layoffs), and infrastructure spending all have relatively large multiplier effects. The smallest multiplier effects tend to be associated with tax cuts, whether for wealthy individuals or corporations. As anticipated by Keynes, cuts in this case get less "bang for the buck" due to the generally smaller mpc exhibited by the beneficiaries of such policies.

Table 10.2 Different Multiplier Effects




Tax Cuts
Multiplier


Nonrefundable lump-sum tax rebate
1.02


Refundable lump-sum tax rebate
1.26


Temporary Tax Cuts



    Payroll tax holiday
1.29


    Across the board tax cut
1.03


    Accelerated depreciation
0.27


Permanent Tax Cuts



    Extend alternative minimum tax patch
0.48


    Make Bush income tax cuts permanent
0.29


    Make dividend and capital gains tax cuts permanent
0.37


    Cut corporate tax rate
0.30


Spending Increases



    Extend unemployment insurance benefits
1.64


    Temporarily increase food stamps
1.73


    Issue general aid to state governments
1.36


    Increase infrastructure spending
1.59


Source: M. Zandi, "The Economic Impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act," Moody's Economy.com, 2009.


3.3 APPLYING FISCAL POLICY

We have now identified a number of different fiscal policy approaches that can be used by the government to respond to various economic conditions. We have also noted some of the differences in opinion among economists as to the effectiveness and appropriate use of fiscal policy. In future chapters, we examine the application of fiscal policies to specific problems, including the financial crisis and recession that began in 2007.
Before doing this, we need to add another very important aspect of the economy to our analysis: the money supply and monetary policy. The supply of money in the economy is a very important factor affecting, among other things, interest rates and inflation. We need to understand how the money supply is created and regulated and how this relates to other macroeconomic factors. This is the topic of Chapters 11 and 12.
After we have added an analysis of money and monetary policy, we will return to a consideration of the issues of unemployment and inflation and appropriate policies to respond to them, in Chapter 13. We will then introduce the international economy in Chapter 14. In Chapter 15 we discuss the economic crisis of 2007-8 and its aftermath, in Chapter 16 we focus on issues of debt and deficits.


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. What is the impact of a change in government spending on aggregate demand and economic equilibrium?
  2. What is the impact of a lump-sum change in taxes on aggregate demand and economic equilibrium? How does it differ from a change in government spending?
  3. Give some examples of expansionary and contractionary fiscal policy.
  4. How is the federal budget surplus or deficit defined? How has the federal budget position varied in recent years?
  5. What is meant by an automatic stabilizer? Give some examples of economic institutions that function as automatic stabilizers.
  6. What are some of the advantages and disadvantages of discretionary fiscal policy? Give some examples of the use of discretionary fiscal policy.
  7. What is a cyclical deficit? What is a structural deficit? How are they different?
  8. What is crowding out? How specifically does crowding out happen? Explain. What is crowding in?

EXERCISES
  1. Using the data in Table 10.1, determine the economic equilibrium for a government spending level of 60.
  2. Using Table 10.1 and the formulas and numbers given in the text for the multiplier and tax multiplier, calculate the effect on equilibrium GDP of a government spending level of 100 combined with a tax level of 100. What does this imply about the impact of a balanced government budget on GDP, compared to government spending alone?
  3. Go to the Economic Report of the President at w­w­w­.g­p­o­a­c­c­e­s­s­.g­o­v­/­e­o­p­/­. Consult the most recent Report's table on "Gross Domestic Product." For the last year, with final rather than preliminary figures, find the values of gross domestic product personal consumption expenditures, and gross private domestic investment. Now find the value for fixed investment. If we assume that all inventory changes are unintended, fixed investment is the same thing as what we call intended investment. You will note that the column on the right titled "Change in Private Inventories" is equal to the difference between total and fixed investment (just as we have noted that total investment equals intended investment plus change in inventories). Calculate personal consumption expenditures (C) and intended investment (I) as percentages of gross domestic product (Y). Calculate a simple measure of aggregate demand (C + II) without government spending.
  4. Which of the following are examples of automatic stabilizers, and which are examples of discretionary policy? Could some be both? Explain.
a. Tax revenues rise during an economic expansion
b. Personal tax rates are reduced
c. Government spending on highways is increased
d. Farm support payments increase
e. Unemployment payments rise during a recession
  5. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B.



Column A

Column B


a. Tax multiplier
  1. Reduction in income tax rates


b. Disposable income
  2. Unemployment compensation


c. Expansionary fiscal policy
  3. Y − T + TR


d. Contractionary fiscal policy
  4. G + TR


e. Government outlays
  5. Reduction in government spending


f. Automatic stabilizer
  6. Intended investment


g. Injection into the circular flow
  7. −(mult) (mpc)



APPENDIX: MORE ALGEBRAIC APPROACHES TO THE MULTIPLIER
A1. AN ALGEBRAIC APPROACH TO THE MULTIPLIER, WITH A LUMP-SUM TAX

A lump-sum tax is a tax that is simply levied on an economy as a flat amount. This amount does not change with the level of income. Suppose that a lump-sum tax is levied in an economy with a government (but no foreign sector). Because consumption in this economy is C =  + mpc Yd while disposable income is Yd = Y −  + TR, we can write the consumption function as:
C =  + mpc (Y −  + TR)
Thus aggregate demand in this economy can be expressed as:



The last rearrangement shows that the AD curve has an intercept equal to the term in parentheses and a slope equal to the marginal propensity to consume. Changes in any of the variable in parentheses, by changing the intercept, shift the curve upward or downward in a parallel manner.
By substituting this into the equation for the equilibrium condition, Y = AD, we can derive an expression for equilibrium income in terms of all the other variables in the model:

If autonomous consumption, intended investment, or government spending change, these each increase equilibrium income by mult = 1/(1 − mpc) times the amount of the original change. If the level of lump-sum taxes or transfers changes, these change Y by either negative or positive (mult)(mpc) times the amount of the original change.
To see this explicitly, consider the changes that would come about in Y if there were a change in the level of the lump sum tax from T0 to a new level, T1, if everything else stays the same. We can solve for the change in Y by subtracting the old equation from the new one:

But , II, G, TR (and the mpc) are all unchanged, so most of the subtractions in parentheses come out to be 0. We are left with (taking the negative sign out in front):


or

ΔY = − (mult)(mpc)Δ 
As explained in the text, the multiplier for a change in taxes is smaller than the multiplier for a change in government spending, because taxation affects aggregate demand only to the extent that people spend their tax cut or pay their increased taxes by reducing consumption. Because people may also save part of their tax cut or pay part of their increased taxes out of their savings, not all the changes in taxes will carry over to changes in aggregate demand. The tax multiplier has a negative sign, since a decrease in taxes increases consumption, aggregate demand, and income, while a tax increase decreases them.

A2. AN ALGEBRAIC APPROACH TO THE MULTIPLIER, WITH A PROPORTIONAL TAX

With a proportional tax, total tax revenues are not set at a fixed level of revenues, as was the case with a lump sum tax but, rather, are a fixed proportion of total income. That is, T = tY where t is the tax rate. The equation for AD becomes

With the addition of proportional taxes, the AD curve now has a new slope:mpc(1 − t). Because t is a fraction greater than 0 but less than 1, this slope is generally flatter than the slope we have worked with before. A cut in the tax rate rotates the curve upward, as shown in Figure 10.7.
Substituting in the equilibrium condition, Y = AD, and solving yields:








Figure 10.7 A Reduction in the Proportional Tax Rate
In the case of a proportional tax, a tax cut reduces the tax rate t, which increases the slope of the AD curve and raises equilibrium income from Y0 to Y1.

 The term in brackets is a new multiplier, for the case of a proportional tax. It is smaller than the basic (no proportional taxation) multiplier, reflecting the fact that now any change in spending has smaller feedback effects through consumption. (Some of the change in income "leaks" into taxes.) For example, if mpc = 0.8 and t = 0.2, then the new multiplier is 1/(1 − 0.64), or approximately 2.8, compared to the simple model multiplier 1/(1 − 0.8), which is 5. Changes in autonomous consumption or investment (or government spending or transfers) now have less of an effect on equilibrium income—the "automatic stabilizer" effect mentioned in the text.
Is there a multiplier for the tax rate, t? That is, could we derive from the model a formula for how much equilibrium income should change with a change in the rate (rather than level) of taxes? For example, if the tax rate were to decrease from 0.2 to 0.15, could we calculate the size of the change from Y0 to Y1 illustrated in Figure 10.7? Yes, but deriving a general formula for a multiplier relating the change in Y to the change in the tax rate requires the use of calculus, which we will not pursue here. (If you are familiar with calculus, you can use the last formula above to calculate the change in Y resulting from a change in t).



  *Not counting "loopholes" that sometimes allow the very wealthy to characterize some of their income in ways that allow them to pay lower effective tax rates than do other groups.
**Technically, simultaneous changes in government spending and taxes of equal size do not imply that the overall budget is balanced. What is required for this is that total spending and total taxes be equal.
  *The Federal Fiscal Year runs from October 1 of the prior year through September 30 of the year being described. For example, FY 2011 runs from October 1 2010 through September 30, 2011.
  *Employment figures for that era covered a labor force in which a much lower proportion of women were seeking jobs than is the case today. During World War II, an unusually large number of women were employed, filling jobs left vacant by men who were serving in the armed forces.













 
 
 




11
Money, Banking, and Finance




 
 

Everyone would like to have more money, right? Well, maybe not. In 2004 it was very easy to be a millionaire in Turkey—many times over. A million Turkish lira were worth about $0.75 in U.S. dollars. A 20 million-lira bill was worth about US$15. People routinely just put their thumb over the last six digits when looking at a value expressed in liras. Guinness World Records named the Turkish lira the world's least valuable currency. But you could have lots of it!

1. WHY MONEY?

So far, this book has said very little about money, finance, or interest rates. Economics is fundamentally about how our scarce resources—including labor—are employed in the production of goods and services that contribute to economic well-being. Money is a mere facilitator in the process. But money is essential to the functioning of modern economies, which is why money, finance, and interest rates are important macroeconomic issues.
What is the relation of money and finance to economic behavior? Before we get into the details of how money and credit work in a sophisticated contemporary economy, let's picture a few simpler—and dramatically different—scenarios, drawn from real-world situations and events, that inform how economists have come to think about money and the macroeconomy.

1.1 MONEY AND AGGREGATE DEMAND

Let's start with a case of an economy in which inflation is low to moderate. Suppose further that this economy has a banking system that is sophisticated and in reasonably good shape. You are a businessperson who has a great idea about how to expand your business. Or, in your role as a household member, you are interested in buying a home for your family. But you do not have the cash. You go to a bank and ask for a loan. The bank will evaluate your creditworthiness, see how much it currently has available to lend, and then either deny you a loan or offer you a loan on particular terms. If you receive a loan offer and accept the terms, monetary policy: you will take out the loan and go out and spend. If you are denied the loan, or if you think the terms are too unfavorable, you will forgo expanding your business or buying the house.

monetary policy: the use of tools controlled by the govemment, such as banking regulations and the issuance of currency, to affect the levels of money supply, interest rates, and credit

To the extent the government of a country can affect the volume and terms of loans made by banks, it can thus affect the level of spending in the economy. We have seen in Chapters 9 and 10 how the level of spending (or aggregate demand) in an economy is related to levels of employment and output. Monetary policy that affects the behavior of banks, then, may also be a significant factor in achieving the goals of macroeconomic stabilization and low unemployment.
But not all economies enjoy low inflation rates and stable banking systems. Our next two cases illustrate these cases.

1.2 "RUNNING THE PRINTING PRESS"

Consider a country with a very simple government and banking system. The country's government is housed in a single building and pays its employees and its bills in cash. In the basement of the building is a printing press that prints paper money. The government finds it very difficult to collect enough taxes to pay its operating expenses, so it just runs the printing press every time an employee needs to be paid or a bill comes due.
How would this affect the economy? If the national economy is very large and growing, relative to the size of government expenditures, the fresh bills may just be absorbed into circulation without much impact. But if the economy was stagnant and expenditures were large, there would soon be a classic situation of inflation caused by "too much money chasing too few goods." As more and more money is put into circulation, prices will rise at an increasingly rapid rate.
If this goes on for long, a situation of hyperinflation (often defined as any annual inflation rate higher than 100 percent) can result. Germany after World War I, Hungary after World War II, Bolivia in the mid-1980s, Argentina during various periods, Ukraine in the early 1990s, and Zimbabwe in 2008-9 all experienced famous hyperinflations.
In Germany in the 1920s, for example, the economy was in tatters after the war and the government found it impossible to collect taxes in sufficient amounts to support its operations, let alone pay the reparations demanded by the victors. So it resorted to running the printing presses. Inflation reached a high of 41 percent—per day! In 1920 a German postage stamp cost 4 marks; in 1923 the same stamp cost 50 billion marks.


Box 11.1 EXPERIENCES OF HYPERINFLATION
During the period of German hyperinflation in the 1920s, a story was told of someone taking stacks of deutsche marks, the German currency, to town in a wheelbarrow in order to make a modest purchase, and—after leaving it for a moment—returning to find the wheelbarrow stolen and the bills stacked on the ground. Other stories told of people in a bar ordering their beers two at a time, because the time it took for the price of beer to rise was less than it would take for the beer to get warm.
After the fall of the Soviet Union, in the 1990s, Russia suffered from severe inflation. Many people who had saved money in cash found that it had become nearly valueless. A Russian colleague told one of the authors of this text how his mother had thought, at the beginning of the 1990s, that she had enough money saved to take care of her in old age. She watched the value of her stash of bills go down and down until finally, in desperation, rather than watch it disappear, she took it to the store and bought a bag of sugar.



barter: exchange of goods, services, or assets directly for other goods, services, or assets, without the use of money

In such a situation, it obviously becomes very difficult to keep a sophisticated economy going. People tend to resort to barter—exchanging goods, services, or assets directly for other goods, services, or assets—to try to avoid having to deal with a rapidly inflating currency. It becomes impossible to think about making a deposit at a bank or to work out reasonable terms for a loan, and so normal patterns of saving and lending are disrupted. If they can, people may try to acquire—or at least keep their accounts in—a "hard," noninflating currency issued by a foreign country. Hyperinflation is obviously not a good situation; production tends to be lowered and unemployment is raised by the chaos that hyperinflation causes in an economy.
Hyperinflation usually ends when the nearly valueless currency is abandoned, and people exchange very large denominations of the old currency for small denominations of a new currency. If the new currency is accompanied by a credible government promise to stop "running the printing press," the episode of hyperinflation draws to a close. This is what happened after the hyperinflation of the early 2000s in Turkey; the old lira was abandoned in favor of a new currency that removed six zeros. By 2013, the new Turkish lira had a fairly stable value of about US$0.50.
Even if inflation does not reach hyperinflation levels, high inflation can be disruptive to an economy. Over time high inflation can wipe out the value of people's savings, and it hurts people who are on fixed incomes (such as nonindexed pensions). It redistributes wealth from creditors to debtors, since people now repay debts in money that is worth less than the money that they originally borrowed. It creates "menu costs"—literally, the cost of time and effort made to update printed menus and other sorts of price lists. Rising or variable inflation rates create a great deal of uncertainty, which can make it very difficult for households and businesses to make sensible plans regarding savings, retirement, investment, and so on. For these reasons, stabilization of a country's price level is among the important goals of macroeconomic policy.

1.3 DEFLATION AND FINANCIAL CRISES



deflation: when the aggregate price level falls

Now consider an economy in the opposite situation, in which there is too little money in circulation. In this case, prices must be bid down. A situation of generally falling prices is called deflation. Why would deflation be a problem? While deflation makes people's savings more valuable and helps people who are on fixed incomes, it is still disruptive. In this case, wealth is redistributed from debtors to creditors. You borrow "cheap" money, but later have to pay back with money that is "expensive" It creates menu costs. It creates uncertainty. When people come to expect deflation, it may also cause them to cut back on spending. Why buy a big item such as a car or computer now, if you believe you will be able to buy the same item for less next year?
Deflation is often touched off by a financial crisis in which many people lose access to the opportunity to obtain loans and perhaps access to their own deposits at banks as well. If you cannot withdraw money from your account at a bank, and you cannot get a loan, then you cannot pay for things. If many people are in this situation, the economy grinds to a halt—or at least slows down considerably. Because less money is spent, prices fall.
The Great Depression was accompanied in the United States by just such a collapse in the banking system. The "bank runs" or "banking panics" of 1930-33, in which people rushed to try to withdraw their deposits all at once, caused many banks to fail. Because deposit insurance did not yet exist, people's accounts at those banks were wiped out. The price level dropped 25 percent in just a few years. Falling prices bankrupted business and farmers, and thus made conditions even worse.
But deflation is not merely "ancient history." Japan also experienced deflation touched off by a financial crisis in late 1989 after a speculative bubble in real estate and stocks came to a sudden end. Japanese banks had, it turned out, racked up huge amounts of bad loans—loans on which they would never be able to collect. Some banks were ordered to shut down, while others teetered. People became justifiably leery of depositing funds—or of spending, with the future so uncertain. Because deposits were shrinking, banks were unable to lend as much, and because spending was shrinking, the Japanese economy slid into recession. Over the next decade and a half, prices steadily fell at a rate of about 1 percent per year (see Box 11.2).
Many experts feared a similar deflation in the United States after the 2007-8 financial crisis. People were losing their homes and jobs all over the country. Measures aimed at bailing out failing financial institutions and providing cheaper credit pumped more money into the system, with the result that a severe collapse in economic activity was averted. While inflation remained low, the feared deflation did not materialize.
Deflation can be very damaging when looked at from the perspective of the real potential productivity of an economy. People may want to work and spend, and businesses might have great ideas for expansion, but they are constrained by the lack of spendable assets to grease the wheels of the economy. For this reason, as well as the problems discussed above with rapid inflation, stability of the monetary system is an important policy goal for governments and is closely related to both the goal of price stability and the goal of raising living standards.


Box 11.2 DEFLATION IN JAPAN
Following a banking crisis in 1989, the Japanese economy slid into a situation of recession and deflation, which it has not been able to shake for over two decades. A very slow growth rate has been accompanied by generally falling prices, which have made it very difficult to keep the economy on track.
"As deflation became entrenched, consumers adjusted accordingly. Instead of splurging on a bottle of Chanel fragrance, they started to buy perfume by the ounce from peddlers online. Companies adjusted, and designer denims gave way to no-frill jeans that went for $10 instead of $100 ... Consumers grew accustomed to expecting that the longer they waited, the cheaper goods would become. And they held back on spending. That led to even less demand and more years of deflation."
In 2013, the new Japanese government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (pronounced ah-bey) tried to revive Japan's deflated economy with economic stimulus and monetary expansion. But "for companies to feel confident enough to start raising prices, Japan's consumers have to start spending again, and data confirming that trend is mixed."
In July 2013, "prices rose in Japan last month at their fastest pace for almost five years, offering some hope for ending years of debilitating deflation that has stymied growth. The consumer price index was up 0.7 percent from a year earlier, the biggest rise since a 1.0 percent increase in November 2008. Hideo Kumano, chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute, commented: 'today's CPI data shows signs of exit from deflation, but we still need to see improvement in the job market and redistribution of wealth ... to declare deflation is over.
"The definition of exit from deflation can be political, but the key is 'sustainable' rises in prices, which is difficult to achieve without improvement in the job market and salaries,' Kumano said."
Sources: Hiroko Tabuchi, "Getting Japan to Spend," New York Times, June 29, 2013; Miwa Suzuki, "Japan Price Rise Offers Hope for Deflation End," Yahoo News, August 30, 2013.

Discussion Questions

1. Which of the three conditions just described—low inflation, high inflation, or deflation—best characterizes the U.S. economy right now? Do you know of any country currently in one of the other conditions?
2. Unemployment and inflation are usually considered the "bads" that can come with business cycles. Compare the costs to society of unemployment to the costs to society of inflation.

2. WHAT IS MONEY?

You have no doubt that the bills and coins you have in your wallet are "money." Economists would agree with you on that. But in other ways, the manner in which economists use the term is very different from the way it is used in popular speech. Money, to an economist, is something that plays three specific roles in an economy, and the cash in your pocket is only one form of money.

2.1 THE ROLES OF MONEY

Money is a special kind of financial asset (a form of financial capital) that has three important functions.
First, it is a medium of exchange. When you sell something, you accept money in return. When you buy something, you hand over money to obtain the good or service that you want. Without a functional medium of exchange, an economy would have to operate as a barter system, as mentioned in the earlier example of German hyperinflation. You would have to trade tangible objects or services directly in order to get other goods or services in exchange. This could be quite inconvenient—there would have to be what is called a "double coincidence of wants." For example, if you want pizza and can offer Web design services, you would need to hunt around for pizza makers in need of Web design. Such merchants may or may not exist, but even if they did, you would certainly have to spend some considerable time finding them. With money, on the other hand, you can sell your services to anyone who wants them and use the money you receive to buy pizza from anyone who supplies it.

liquidity: the ease of use of an asset as a medium of exchange

Second, money is also a store of value. That means that, even if you hold onto it for a while, it will still be good for transactions when you are ready to use it. This is obviously a necessary property, since the pizza makers are unlikely to accept your money in exchange unless they know that, a month from now, their landlord will also accept the same money when they pay their rent. In serving as a store of value, money serves as a way of holding wealth—like any other form of financial or real capital that is held because it is worth something. The thing that makes money distinct from other assets is its liquidity, that is, the ease with which it can be used in exchange. Money is highly liquid—you can take it to the store and use it immediately. If you own a car, shares in a business, or a valuable piece of jewelry, these are also ways of storing your wealth, but they are not liquid. You must convert the value stored in them to money before you can buy something else.
The third role of money is that it is a unit of account. Things are often assigned money values even if they are not actually being bought and sold. When a firm estimates the value of unsold inventories in its warehouses in order to calculate its profits or losses, for example, or a town assesses the dollar value of a house even though there are no plans for it to be sold, they are using money as a unit of account.
Some ways in which we commonly use the term "money" differ from how economists use it. For example, we might say that someone "makes a lot of money" because he has a high annual income. Income, however, is a flow variable, measured (as described in Chapter 3) over a period of time. Money is a stock variable—a particular kind of asset. A person who makes a lot of income over a year may acquire a large stock of money—or he may not. If the income is quickly spent on goods and services, the person may have high income (over the year) but accumulate little money (measured at a point in time).
We may also say that someone "has a lot of money" if she has accumulated a lot of wealth. But this is also not technically correct. A wealthy person may hold a lot of her assets in the form of corporate shares, real estate, or Renaissance paintings, rather than as spendable, liquid money. Middle-class families are sometimes described as "house rich, but cash poor" exactly for this reason. If they attempt to hold a high proportion of their assets as home equity, they may end up with very little in the way of funds that they can actually spend—that is, money. Liquidity issues aside, holding money (a particular financial asset) is not the same as holding a tangible asset with useful physical properties. Money is thus not the same things as wealth or income. This is an important distinction, on which we will elaborate in later chapters.

2.2 TYPES OF MONEY



commodity money: a good used as money that is also valuable in itself
intrinsic value: value related to the tangible or physical properties of the object

Throughout much of history, commodity money was the most common type of money. Commodity money is, or is made up of, something that contains intrinsic value and is also used in exchange. Coins made of gold or silver are probably the most familiar example. Decorative beads, shells, fishhooks, and cattle have served the purpose in some cultures. In prisons and prisoner of war camps, cigarettes sometimes developed into a medium of exchange. "Prices" for chocolate or other goods and services were quoted in terms of numbers of cigarettes required in exchange. (Cigarettes thus had exchange value in this system even to nonsmokers, for whom they had no intrinsic value.)
To be used as money, a commodity must be generally acceptable, standardized, durable, portable, scarce, and, preferably, easily divisible. Standardization is important, so that disputes do not arise about the quality and value of the money. Coins stamped by the government are a popular kind of money because the stamp is a sign that they are of equal weight and purity of mineral content. Gold and silver have historically been popular because coins made from them are durable. The scarcity of gold and silver was also an important factor. Coins made of, say, wood, in an area with many forests would rapidly lose value as everyone could just make their own. Divisibility is also important. Heavy gold ingots might be useful for buying expensive real estate, but are not very useful for buying pasta for dinner. Smaller coins, and coins made of less valuable minerals, were historically minted to provide a medium of exchange for smaller purchases.
Gold and silver coins, while fairly portable, can still be inconvenient to carry around in large quantities. Individual banks, state governments, and national governments have at various times issued paper monies that represent claims on actual commodities, usually gold or silver. For many years, starting in the late 1880s, government-issued silver certificates were the main form of domestic paper money in the United States. International transactions were, for many years, based on gold reserves. When people carried such a piece of paper, they could think of it as a certificate showing that they owned a bit of an ingot in Fort Knox.
In the 1960s, however, due to an increase in the price of silver, the government eliminated silver certificates and replaced them with what you probably have in your pocket today. What is commonly called a "dollar bill" is, if you look at it, officially called a Federal Reserve note. At about the same time, the U.S. government also removed silver coins from circulation, replacing them with look-alike coins made from cheaper nickel-clad copper. In 1971, President Richard Nixon took the U.S. economy off the international gold standard.

fiat money: a medium of exchange that is used as money because a government says it has value, and that is accepted by the people using it
exchange value: value that corresponds to the value of goods or services for which the item can be exchanged

So what is the basis of value of the coins and dollar bills we use today? The basis of value is—precisely and no more than—the expectation that the dollar bill will be acceptable in exchange. The currency and coins we use now are what are called fiat money. "Fiat" in Latin means "let it be done," and a legal authority does something "by fiat" when it just declares something to be so. A dollar bill is money because the government declares it to be money. In other words, its intrinsic value is no more than the value of the piece of paper of which it is made; but fiat money possesses exchange value, which is the value of the goods or services that such money can pay for in the market.
Fiat money is what some people call a "social construction"—something that works in society because of how people think and act toward it, not because of something it intrinsically "is." Fiat money works well as long as people are generally in agreement that it has value. Later, we examine some cases in which people have stopped agreeing—when people have lost confidence in the value of their money.
As economies become more and more sophisticated, however, even carrying around paper money is inconvenient for many purposes. Nowadays, you are likely to make many of your transactions by other means, such as making electronic funds transfers from your bank. Understanding what types of transactions are said to involve "money" requires understanding how various assets differ in their liquidity as well as the distinction between money and credit.

2.3 MEASURES OF MONEY

Because different assets have different degrees of liquidity, it is difficult to draw distinct lines between which assets are "money," which are "near-money," and which are "not money." As a result, economists have devised various ways of defining and measuring the volume of money that is circulating in a given economy.
Coins and bills are obviously "money." In the United States today, coins are manufactured by the U.S. Mint in Philadelphia, Denver, San Francisco, and West Point, NY, while bills are created by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Washington, DC, and Fort Worth, Texas. When economists measure a country's "money supply," only currency that is in circulation is included—that is, not currency sitting in a vault at the Mint or at a bank. In October 2012, currency in circulation in the United States totaled $1.073 trillion.
But checking accounts are also extremely liquid. People can pay for many things using paper checks and, increasingly, debit cards and electronic transfers of funds from their checking accounts. The most commonly used measure of the amount of money in an economy at a given point in time, then, includes not only currency in circulation but also the value of checkable deposits as well as the value of travelers checks, called M1 or, less formally, "pure money." In October 2012, checkable deposits totaled $1.332 trillion, and travelers checks were $3.9 billion, so M1 totaled $2.409 trillion.

M1: a measure of the money supply that includes currency, checkable deposits, and travelers checks

Many people can now move funds from their savings accounts to their checking accounts with the click of a mouse or make electronic payments directly from their savings accounts. So shouldn't savings accounts also be considered "money"? A measure called M2 includes everything in M1, plus savings deposits and other funds such as small certificates of deposit and retail money market funds (those owned by individuals and businesses). One can often write checks against money market accounts, so from a liquidity perspective they are in some ways almost indistinguishable from M1. M2, which totaled $10.21 trillion as of October 2012, is now more than four times the size of M1. When economists talk about "the money supply" they usually mean either M1 or M2.

M2: a measure of the money supply that includes all of M1 plus savings deposits, small certificates of deposit, and retail money market funds

While not quite as liquid as M1, M2 types of money are liquid enough to be labeled "near-money." If we include large certificates of deposit and money market funds owned or managed by large financial institutions, we arrive at M3. Specialists even use other broader categories of money. The principal reason for the different classifications is to allow for different points on the liquidity continuum that distinguish money from other kinds of assets (see Figure 11.1). While it is clear that currency is money and that real estate is not, the line separating money from nonmoney assets is not clearly defined.
What about using a credit card to make a purchase? From the user's point of view, using a credit card often seems to be like using a debit card or cash from one's pocket. In economists' terms, however, one does not use "money" when paying with a credit card. When paying on credit, you are, technically speaking, taking out a temporary loan from the credit card company. Only one day a month, when you send a check or electronic transfer to your credit card company from your checking account, do you make a "money" transaction.





Figure 11.1 The Liquidity Continuum
Items more to the left are more liquid or, in other words, more easily used to purchase something of value. The farther to the right on this continuum, the less liquid the item is. Currency is as liquid as it gets, and real estate is usually about the most difficult asset to convert to money (seldom taking less than a few months).

Discussion Questions

1. Suppose that you asked someone who has not taken an economics class why a dollar bill has value. What do you think he or she would say? Would he or she be correct?
2. What do you commonly use to make payments? Cash? Credit cards? Online payments? In which of these cases are you using "money"?

3. THE BANKING SYSTEM

It is easy to understand how the U.S. Mint and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing create currency, and how they could create more or less of it. But how does currency make its way into people's wallets? How are bank deposits such as checking accounts created? How can the volume of currency and deposits be increased or decreased over time, as a matter of macroeconomic policy? To understand the answer to these questions, we need to know more about how a contemporary banking system works.
The central bank of the United States, most commonly known as the Federal Reserve (or "Fed," for short) determines how much currency should be produced and puts it into circulation. In addition, the actions of the Fed together with actions of private banks create the economy's volume of checkable deposits. For much of Europe, now that many countries have joined together in using the euro as a common currency, the equivalent institution to the Fed is the European Central Bank (ECB). Most countries have combined systems of private and central banking, which work at least roughly like the system described in this chapter. The workings of this combined system are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 12. Here we start by looking at private banks.

3.1 PRIVATE BANKS

In the discussion of the market for loanable funds in Chapter 9, we assumed that some agents lend and others borrow, but we paid no attention to how borrowers and lenders would find each other. An individual might go to a relative or friend for a loan. But when the borrower is operating in a more impersonal way—perhaps because the borrower is a business, not an individual, or does not have personal contacts with individuals who can make the needed loan—an intermediary is needed to put together would-be lenders with would-be borrowers.

financial intermediary: an institution such as a bank, savings and loan association, or life insurance company that accepts funds from savers and makes loans to borrowers

A private bank is a type of institution called a financial intermediary. Individuals and organizations deposit funds with financial intermediaries, for safekeeping, to provide the convenience of writing checks, or to earn interest. The financial intermediaries use the funds deposited with them to make loans to individuals and organizations that seek to borrow funds.
A private bank is a for-profit business, meaning that it seeks to make earnings on its activities. It does this by charging interest (and perhaps other fees) on the loans it makes. One of its functions is to screen the parties seeking loans, in order to determine their creditworthiness. Lending is a risky business—not all loans made will be paid back in full. Demanding physical assets as collateral can alleviate some of the risk.
For example, mortgages and home-equity loans are collateralized by the value of a house; if the owner defaults on the loan the bank may take possession of the house. Many educational loans are backed up by government guarantees. Other loans are made on the basis of an evaluation of, say, the strength of a business plan and a business's record in paying back past loans. Banks may charge different interest rates depending on the riskiness of a loan or deny a loan request outright.

economic liability: anything that one economic actor owes to another

To understand what happens in a banking system, we start with a private bank's simplified balance sheet, shown in Table 11.1. A balance sheet is a standard double-entry accounting representation of a private bank's assets and liabilities. It must "balance" in that assets and liabilities must add up the same amount. The right-hand side of a balance sheet, as shown in Table 11.1, lists an organization's liabilities. An economic liability is anything that one economic actor owes to another. The funds that you deposit in a bank are listed among the bank's liabilities, because it has an obligation to repay these funds to you.
Except in the case of banking panics, depositors are not likely all to show up at the same time, demanding their funds in cash. Although the bank must keep some funds on hand to meet depositors' withdrawal needs, normally it can use most of the deposits that it holds to obtain earnings.

Table 11.1 A Simplified Balance Sheet of a Private Bank






Assets
Liabilities


Loans
$70 million
Deposits
$100 million


Government bonds
$20 million




Reserves
$10 million




 

bank reserves: funds not lent out or invested by a private bank but kept as vault cash or on deposit at the Federal Reserve

Assets of an organization are listed on the left-hand side of a balance sheet, as shown in Table 11.1. Bank reserves, shown as an asset, include vault cash that the bank keeps on hand to meet likely short-term calls, such as depositors' withdrawals. Reserves also include deposits that the private bank has made in an account at the Federal Reserve (discussed in Chapter 12). The bank owns these Federal Reserve deposits in the same way that bank customers "own" the deposits on their liability side. Banks are required to maintain a certain portion of their assets with the Federal Reserve, and these deposits do not earn interest.
One safe way for the bank to earn some interest is to lend money to the federal government (i.e., to the U.S. Treasury). Recall from Chapter 10 that the U.S. Treasury borrows from the public when it needs to finance a government deficit or refinance part of the debt. It does this by issuing government bonds, which give the buyer the right to specific payments in the future. Depending on the duration of the loan, these securities may be called "bills" (sometimes called "T-bills," i.e., Treasury bills), "bonds," or "notes." We will use the term "government bonds" to represent any type of federal government security.
Very active markets exist for trading federal bonds, and a particular bond may change hands many times before it is paid off. Banks tend to keep some of their assets—about one-quarter, on average—in government bonds, because bonds earn interest but are also relatively liquid. If it looks as if depositors will want more cash back than a bank has in its vault, the private bank can quickly sell some of its government bonds on the open bond market.
The major asset of a private bank—and the major way that it makes its earnings—is its portfolio of loans other than government bonds: funds that are owed to the bank by businesses, households, nonprofits, or nonfederal levels of government. Unlike T-bills, which can be liquidated quickly if necessary, some of these may be business loans, home mortgages, or consumer loans that will not be repaid for years.
Such assets are generally far less liquid than vault cash or T-bills. This can potentially be problematic in difficult times. The health of a private banking system depends on having depositors who are confident about the safety of the funds that they have entrusted to the banking system and are not trying to withdraw their funds more rapidly than such loans are repaid. If confidence in the banks diminished, and many customers wanted to withdraw their money, some banks might find themselves with insufficient liquidity (i.e., too many of their assets in long-term loans) to service all requests, further undermining confidence in the system.

3.2 BANK TYPES

The banks with which most people are familiar are known as retail banks, which perform the functions that we have already described: keeping money in secure deposits, providing check writing services and clearing checks, and extending loans (Table 11.2). Commercial banks are similar to—and indeed often overlap with—retail banks, the main difference being that commercial banks tend to hold more assets because their clients include businesses. Savings and loan banks are also similar to retail banks but specialize in the provision of home loans to their customers. Credit unions are also similar to retail banks, except that instead of being privately owned they are collectively owned by their customers.

Table 11.2 Bank Types





Chief Functions


Retail
Safekeeping of money, checking accounts, loans


Commercial
Similar to retail bank but more diverse clients, including businesses


Savings and loan
Similar to retail bank but specializing in loans, particularly mortgages


Credit union
Same as a retail bank, but cooperatively owned by customers


Private
Caters almost exclusively to high net worth individuals; functions extend beyond traditional banking into variety of financial services


Investment
No traditional banking functions; involved in underwriting and issuing securities, assistance with company mergers and acquisitions, market making, and general advice to corporations


Central
Overseeing the monetary and interest rate stability of the national economy by directly influencing the money supply


Private banks are exclusive, catering to high net worth individuals and companies. Their functions range widely from traditional banking to many forms of investment, some of which is moderate to high risk. Investment banks mostly deal with companies instead of individuals and do not offer any traditional banking services. In other words, their principal function is to make asset values grow.
Central banks are an entirely different institution. They exist to regulate the banking system and ensure monetary and interest rate stability in the economy. Chapter 12 deals specifically with the U.S. central bank, the Federal Reserve.
The functions of banks are subject to government regulation. The Banking Act of 1933 (called the Glass-Steagall Act) required that traditional banking functions be strictly separated from the financial and investment activities of private banks and investment banks. While the most common way in which a bank was able to make money was simply to charge higher interest rates to lenders than to depositors, private banks and investment banks could engage in riskier types of investments and often enjoy much higher returns on their money. The purpose of the Glass-Steagall Act was to protect bank customers from excessively risky investment activities by their banks that might jeopardize the value of their savings accounts.
In the late 1980s, many savings and loan banks (S&Ls) went bankrupt because they had invested too many of their assets in unduly risky real estate ventures. Savings and loans had been suffering for many years because higher interest rates in the late 1970s made many customers averse to taking out loans, and the growth of money market accounts gave depositors an attractive alternative to the S&Ls. In response, the government relaxed regulations on their activity, allowing them to invest in "higher return" areas but without adequately overseeing where the money was going.
During this time and in the aftermath of the S&L crisis—for which the U.S. government had to provide sizable bailouts at taxpayer expense—many were saying that the Glass-Steagall Act survived in name only. In 1999, Congress passed the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which formally overturned certain provisions in Glass-Steagall, eliminating the separation between traditional and investment banking. At the time, many hailed this as a necessary modernization of the financial system, but as we will see in later chapters, others argue that looser regulation contributed to the financial crisis of 2007-8 (see Box 11.3).

3.3 HOW BANKS CREATE MONEY

As we saw earlier, the U.S. Mint and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing are responsible for producing the country's supply of currency. But there is another way in which money is created, and private banks play a critical role in the process.
If you have ever taken out a loan from a bank, you know that the money that you borrow is not generally delivered to you as a bundle of cash. Rather, the bank credits your bank account—if you have one—for the amount of the loan, or it creates a new transactions account in your name. Consequently, when banks make loans they increase the money supply, because transactions accounts make up part of M1 and the broader money supply.


Box 11.3 SHOULD WE REINSTATE THE GLASS-STEAGALL ACT?
In response to the global financial crisis of 2007-8, various politicians and pundits have argued for the reinstatement of the Banking Act of 1933 (called the Glass-Steagall Act) provision that separated traditional banking from investment activities. Those voicing support for reinstating the Act represent a range of political views, from Representative Paul Ryan, a Republican from Wisconsin, to Elizabeth Warren, Democratic senator from Massachusetts. In 2011, Representative Marcy Kaptur, a Democrat from Ohio, introduced the Return to Prudent Banking Act, which would effectively reinstate the Glass Steagall "firewall" between ordinary banking and investment banking. Although the Act has been cosponsored by 84 other members of Congress, and supported by resolutions passed in 17 states, it has not been voted on.
Would the financial crisis have been avoided if that provision of Glass-Steagall had not been repealed in 1999? As is usually the case in economic debates, opinions differ. According to a hedge fund manager, James Rickards, who supports reinstatement:
In 1999, Democrats led by President Bill Clinton and Republicans led by Sen. Phil Gramm joined forces to repeal Glass-Steagall at the behest of the big banks. What happened over the next eight years was an almost exact replay of the Roaring Twenties. Once again, banks originated fraudulent loans and once again they sold them to their customers in the form of securities. The bubble peaked in 2007 and collapsed in 2008. The hard-earned knowledge of 1933 had been lost in the arrogance of 1999.
But Andrew Sorkin, financial columnist for The New York Times, argues that while reinstatement may represent a step in the right direction, it would not have prevented the crisis. He notes that some of the most troubled banks during the crisis, including Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, and Merrill Lynch, were all solely investment banks and thus would not have been limited by the provisions of Glass-Steagall. Those banks that did perform both traditional banking and investment activities generally would have still encountered problems with Glass-Steagall provisions in place. For example, Bank of America's difficulties were attributed to its acquisition of Countrywide Financial, which had made many bad subprime loans that would not have been covered under Glass-Steagall. Sorkin suggests that the main cause of the crisis was simply that too many banks provided loans to businesses and individuals who could not pay them back. We discuss the causes of the financial crisis in more detail in Chapter 15.
Sources: Marcy Kaptur, "Rep. Marcy Kaptur: Reinstate the Glass-Steagall Act," U.S. News and World Report, September 17, 2012; James Rickards, "Repeal of Glass-Steagall Caused the Financial Crisis," U.S. News and World Report, August 27, 2012; Andrew Ross Sorkin, "Reinstating an Old Rule Is Not a Cure for Crisis," New York Times, Dealbook Column, May 21, 2012.


You might think that depositing money in the bank would similarly increase the money supply, because doing so also leads to an increase in deposits at the bank. But merely making a deposit does not, in fact, increase the money supply. While your act does increase total deposits, it also takes the same amount of currency out of circulation (i.e., into the bank's vault), thereby reducing the money supply. In this instance, the composition of the money supply is altered—less currency, more transactions deposits—but its total remains unchanged.
Yet your deposit does enable a bank to increase the money supply because the bank can now make new loans—hence, create new money—based on your deposit. To see how this works, it is important to keep in mind that banks are not required to hold in their vaults or on reserve all the money that they receive for a deposit. Far from it. As noted earlier, banks can use most of their assets to obtain earnings.

fractional reserve system: a banking system in which banks are required to keep only a fraction of the total value of their deposits on reserve
required reserves: the portion of bank reserves that banks must keep on reserve
excess reserves: the portion of bank reserves that banks are permitted to lend to their customers

The banking system is a fractional reserve system in which only a small percentage of the total value of deposits, usually around 10 percent, must be kept on reserve. The portion of bank reserves that are kept to satisfy the minimum requirement is known as required reserves. If banks must hold 10 percent of every new deposit on reserve, it means that banks can lend out the other 90 percent. So when you make a deposit at your local bank, at least 90 percent of its value is classified as excess reserves, which a bank is free to lend to other customers.*
So even though your deposit does not directly increase the money supply, it does help increase it to the extent that banks are willing to lend out their excess reserves. Banks are usually eager to lend out excess reserves, because this is how they can make money on them. But sometimes, in periods of financial crisis, banks prefer to hold onto excess reserves. In Chapter 12, we explore in greater detail how the Federal Reserve influences the banking system's process of money creation.

Discussion Questions

1. How do banks lend money that they do not physically possess to their customers? Are they really creating money in the process?
2. Does it bother you that banks hold only a small fraction of the value of their deposits on reserve? Why or why not?

4 MONEY AND FINANCE

In the past, the average person with a little extra money had few options for what to do with it other than putting it in the bank. Today, however, people have numerous financial investment alternatives available. Many people, including those classified as "small investors," find themselves with funds that they do not need at the moment and would like to accumulate a nest egg. But how can they choose among the many different options, including mutual funds, individual stocks, bonds, or other assets? This book does not attempt to offer specific advice on this question. However, a better understanding of the economy as a whole, and of finance in particular, will help you to make informed economic decisions. In this section, we begin to look at the relationship between investment decisions that are good for the investor and those that make the economy as a whole more productive—and how these may sometimes diverge.

4.1 FUNCTIONS OF FINANCE

The primary and most long-standing function of our financial system is the provision of money to support direct investment. Such "direct" investment is the same as the "intended investment" that we saw in Chapter 9, which is an important reinjection into the circular flow that comes from the market for loanable funds (i.e., the financial system). The banking system is involved in this key function, but here we are interested in the broader financial system, of which banks form only a part.

portfolio investment: the purchase of financial assets such as stocks and bonds

In recent years, finance for other purposes has grown in importance. Portfolio investment, once available only to rich individuals, is much more widespread today. This refers mostly to investing funds in securities such as stocks or bonds. To an economist, portfolio investment is merely another form of saving, a means of postponing consumption while hoping to earn a greater return than in a traditional bank. It is not "true" investment in that when one buys a stock or a bond, ownership of an existing security is transferred from one person to another—there is no addition to the economy's stock of capital.
A century ago, only the wealthy partook of this form of financial planning. Indeed, only a minority of the population earned enough to save significantly. As this changed, most people saved money in traditional banks instead of securities. Only more recently, over the past three or four decades, have stocks and bonds been "democratized" in the sense that a sizable percentage of the population now owns such assets. The change is largely due to the introduction of collective (also called "pooled" or "commingled") investment vehicles, such as mutual funds, and their association with defined contribution pension plans.
Finance now provides not only a variety of ways to invest but also more choices for long-term saving. It also supports speculation, that is, buying securities in the hopes of short-term gain. Individuals who speculate are not truly saving—they hope to exploit changes in prices to achieve short-term profit. The financial system offers them a vast, and growing, array of possible securities, each with its own market. The opportunities for speculation are therefore substantial. Speculators, unlike "true" investors, entrepreneurs, or businesspeople, do not directly contribute to economic well-being. As we will see, however, at a large enough scale, speculative activity has the potential to influence the economy through its impact on income, wealth, and spending.

leverage: the use of debt to increase the potential rate of return of one's investment (at greater risk)

As long as speculators are risking their own funds, the economic impact of their activity is limited. Most potential problems emerge when they borrow funds for the purpose. Speculators may borrow money in order to exploit what they see as market opportunities based on short-term price movements. This can create problems when speculators use excessive leverage— investments based on borrowed funds. As we see in greater detail in Chapter 15, borrowing excessively to finance risky speculative ventures carries the potential to destabilize the entire financial system and, with it, the economy. Another possible problem, not unrelated, is when lenders extend large lines of credit to borrowers who would not ordinarily satisfy minimum loan criteria. Both were recurrent problems during the most recent financial crisis.
Finally, public finance relates to how governments finance their activities. We say relatively little about this in the present chapter. Chapter 10 has already covered government finance with particular attention to taxes and spending, and Chapter 16 elaborates on the subject of government deficits and debt.

4.2 NONBANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS



nonbank financial institution: a financial institution that performs a number of services similar to those offered by banks but that is not a licensed bank and is not subject to banking regulations

There was a time when banks were responsible for most, if not all, economic matters relating to money. Today, many other types of financial intermediaries exist; indeed, over the past few decades, banks have been declining in importance relative to these nonbank financial institutions. Most savings today go through such institutions, which invest in stocks, bonds, and other assets.

collective investment vehicle or pooled fund: an investment vehicle that pools investments from many different sources, making investment decisions for them all as a group

For instance, many people have their money in what are known as collective investment vehicles (CIVs), which basically offer people alternatives to saving money in a bank. Many types of CIVs fall into the category of pooled funds, which accept investments from many different investors and reduce the cost of making decisions about investing by managing them all together.
The best-known example of a CIV is a mutual fund*. Many individuals place their savings in such funds, which offer customers a variety of "baskets" or "pools" of investments. They purchase "shares" of a given fund, instead of individual stock shares or bonds. Some funds are invested in high-growth stocks with moderate to high risk, for example, while others are mostly in government bonds. The number of possibilities is large, as thousands of pooled funds exist, invested not only in different classes of stocks and bonds but in commodities and other assets (as well as a combinations of two or more of these forms of asset).
Pooled funds have lower fees than funds managed by a broker, because they do not have a paid manager looking after an individual investor's money. At the same time, many believe that they offer better returns than bank savings accounts. The returns, however, may vary greatly, depending in large part on the riskiness of the investments that compose the fund.

hedge fund: a type of pooled fund that often engages in highly speculative investments and to which access is generally restricted to wealthy clients

Hedge funds are a special category of CIV that often engages in highly speculative investments, promising greater earnings potential than most other funds, along with higher risk. Because they carry greater risk, hedge funds are only permitted to do business with particular (high net worth) individuals and institutions. Hedge funds are not necessarily commingled; though it is unusual, a hedge fund can be created by a single very large investor.

pension fund: a fund with the exclusive purpose of paying retirement benefits to employees

Pension funds are another type of CIV that accumulate savings from workers, sometimes including a matching contribution from employers, usually over a long period, to be disbursed as benefits in retirement. Access to the funds before retirement is highly restricted, with significant penalties for early withdrawals. To encourage workers to participate (thereby voluntarily deferring a percentage of their pay that they could otherwise use for current consumption), such funds are granted generous tax breaks, both through reducing taxable income by the amount of the employee's contribution, and by deferring taxes on earnings. Nearly 100 percent of retirement fund dollars are invested in some form of pooled fund. The availability of and extent of choice among funds offered to workers depend on the terms of the specific company or government pension plan.
Some of the largest investors in the world are pension funds that pool the retirement and health savings accounts of workers in the public sector. For example, the California Public Employees Retirement System (CalPERS) had about $248.8 billion in investments as of December 2012. CalPERS' income comes from returns on its investments and from the health-care and pension plans of more than a million workers and their employers, who are government agencies at the state or local level, as well as public schools. CalPERS provides health-care benefits to about 1.6 million beneficiaries and their families, and retirement benefits to about 553,000 individuals.
Another example of a nonbank financial institution is an insurance company. You might not think of insurance companies as similar to banks, but over time they have come to resemble them in some ways. The principal difference is that instead of making a deposit with an insurance company, you pay it a premium (monthly, quarterly, or annually) that is meant to protect you against a particular risk. The company, however, must have sufficient funds available to pay to beneficiaries that have the bad fortune (fire, flood, theft, accident, ill health, etc.) against which they had been insured. It must therefore earn a return sufficient to cover the cost of these payouts. In this way, an insurance company resembles a bank: It holds a pool of money that it lends to governments and companies and sometimes even invests in stocks or other riskier investments. The huge insurance company American International Group (AIG), for example, put billions into risky investments and had to seek a government bailout during the financial crisis of 2007-8 (discussed further in Chapter 15).

insurance company: a company that pays to cover all or part of the cost of specific risks against which individuals and companies chose to insure themselves

Brokerage services also fall into the category of nonbank financial institutions. Securities brokers, for example, keep an inventory of different financial assets—mostly stocks and bonds—that result from playing the role of middleman in transactions between buyers and sellers. They earn a commission, a percentage of the transaction, for the service of linking the buyer and the seller. Their service provides another option for customers who might otherwise put all their savings in a bank account. From the customer's point of view, funds invested with a broker are very liquid—in other words, a broker can easily convert a stock or bond into cash for a client. But since the broker is earning his own fees based on what products the client buys, questions have recently been raised about whom the broker is most likely to be serving: the buyer or the seller? The sellers are apt to be large organizations with close, sometimes financially rewarding, relationships to the broker. In some instances, brokers have encouraged the purchase of stocks or other assets that they knew were unlikely to offer the advertised return because they stood to gain from the transaction.

securities broker: an agent responsible for finding a buyer for sellers of different securities, thereby offering enhanced liquidity to the seller

Mortgage brokers perform a similar function, except that their role is specific to real estate purchases. Most homebuyers lack sufficient funds to buy a property outright, so they must borrow a portion of the sale price. The mortgage broker earns a fee for helping the homebuyer and a lender find each other. Traditionally, banks held home mortgages for their duration, satisfied with the interest income that they provided. More recently, many banks more often than not will "flip" the mortgage—that is, sell it to another financial interest. Why banks have been doing this, and what the buyer of the mortgage does with it, are subjects for Chapter 15.

mortgage broker: an agent who assists in identifying a lender for prospective homeowners looking to borrow money for their purchase

These different examples of institutions engaged in nonbanking finance represent an industry that has been growing in size and importance relative to banking. Their activities do not directly affect the money supply unless it is very broadly defined, because loans from these entities, unlike transactions using bank accounts, are not liquid (and are therefore usually classified as "nonmoney assets"). Nevertheless, as we will see in chapters to follow, they play a critical role in the national economy, as well as in the conduct of monetary policy (discussed in Chapter 12).
All nonbank financial institutions offer customers alternatives, often much more attractive than traditional bank savings. And they exemplify the manner in which the role of money has, over time, shifted from being a mere facilitator of real economic activity to playing an active and essential part in the real economy, with profound economic implications and consequences. We explore the phenomenon in much greater detail in the coming chapters.

4.3 FINANCIALIZATION AND FINANCIAL BUBBLES

By almost any measure, the U.S economy is more dependent than ever on finance. Total financial assets were less than four times GDP in 1970; today they are more than ten times GDP. In 2009, the total value of financial transactions was 73 times GDP, primarily a result of rapid growth in high-frequency trading, which permits speculators to buy and then quickly sell large quantities of assets. That the economy depends so much on finance does not necessarily pose a problem in itself. Only when financial investment behavior ceases to be prudent do we run into complications. When economies grow on the basis of mass investment in assets with questionable foundations, yet rise in price, the growth is unstable and destined to be of short duration. Such irrational speculative price rises are called bubbles.
Possibly the most famous historical example of a speculative bubble is the Dutch tulip frenzy (called a tulipomania) in the early 1600s. Different tulip types had different values, and since no one knew which type would bloom from a given tulip bulb, mass speculation ensued. Initially only the wealthy Dutch were buying them, but eventually the rest of the population caught the fever. Because everyone was buying tulips, their price rose rapidly, until the peak in March 1637, some select bulbs sold for several times the yearly income of a skilled craftsman. Shortly thereafter, however, confidence in their value vanished. Almost overnight, the tulip market crashed, and many speculators were ruined.
Almost three centuries later, the U.S. stock market also experienced a speculative bubble. Many at the time believed that the rapid increase in stock prices during the 1920s was entirely justified, attributing it to a "new reality" evidenced in the establishment of the Federal Reserve in 1913 along with government policies to extend free trade, fight inflation, and relax of antitrust laws. But what was really driving the bubble was the same factor underlying the Dutch tulip craze—the "herd instinct" that causes people to follow what everyone else is doing and to believe what everyone else believes. In the 1920s it seemed as if everyone was buying stocks. This drove up share prices, in turn making stocks much more attractive. The period was also characterized by heavy borrowing, especially by the U.S. middle class. Toward the end of the 1920s, a substantial share of consumer debt was taken on in order to buy stock shares (instead of consumer goods). In October 1929 the stock market crashed, and the Great Depression followed.
In recent years, many other bubbles have developed, such as in East Asia in 1997, in Russia in 1998, in Argentina in 1999, and in Iceland in 2008 as well as the recent "dot-com" and housing bubbles in the United States. At the root of all of them is a widespread belief in the value of an asset or assets that is reinforced by speculative borrowing. Bubbles are characterized by a rapid increase in prices that are not generally accompanied by an equally rapid improvement in economic conditions. In other words, a defining feature of such bubbles is that there is seldom any economic basis for them. The buying begets more buying, and the appreciation in the asset values is fleeting. Despite having so much experience with bubbles, why do we fail to learn from past mistakes?
Speculative bubbles form for two reasons: one psychological and one economic. The psychological explanation has to do with the faith or "blind optimism" that people exhibit, even when confronted with evidence to the contrary. As discussed in Chapter 4, and contrary to traditional economic theory, people are not always rational. One of the mistakes commonly made is extrapolating values over time. In other words, if home prices in New York City have risen 30 percent in the past year, some might rush to buy property in New York, believing that the trend will continue. Another common mistake, as we have noted, is the tendency to follow the herd. Even someone who doubts that prices could continue to increase might find it difficult to resist buying an asset when everyone he knows has already done so (and has already made money!). The same phenomenon is at play among money managers. Those who take a conservative or contrarian position during a bubble risk performing worse than nearly everyone else. This accounts for the tendency of fund managers to "follow the herd" in the investment advice given to clients.
The main economic element relating to bubbles is the presence of excess liquidity. As we will see in Chapter 12, when interest rates in general are low, borrowing becomes more attractive. If interest rates are low, there is less incentive to save money in a bank. In such instances, investors tend, instead, to borrow from banks and invest the leveraged capital in financial assets such as stocks or real estate, in the hope of reaping returns that are higher than they could obtain from bank savings. As we have seen, such behavior multiplied throughout the macro-economy drives up asset prices on the strength of greater demand for them, leading to the inflation of a financial bubble. Excessive liquidity was a major factor in the housing bubble of the 2000s (discussed in detail in Chapter 15).

4.4 THE INTERNATIONAL SECTOR

The monetary systems of other countries both resemble and differ from that of the United States. Like the United States, countries such as Japan and a number of members of the European Union possess currencies (the yen and the euro) that are "internationally tradable." What this means is that other countries regard these currencies as inherently valuable, and so they are willing to accept them as payment for traded goods and cross-border investments. Most countries, however, operate with a currency that is suitable as a medium of exchange for domestic purposes but is not desired as a store of value for people in other countries. Indeed, many of the wealthy in such countries prefer to hold their wealth in assets denominated in dollars, euros, or yen.
International links between countries also provide another asset class (in addition to stocks, bonds, and the like), namely, foreign currency. Today, investors in some countries hold a share of their assets in foreign currency (mostly the strong currencies listed above) as a store of value, because foreign currency cannot be used as a medium of exchange in their own country. Some are motivated by the security offered by a stable currency like the yen or the dollar, while others like to speculate on changes in the value of a currency, not unlike what many players do in the stock market.
Indeed, the financial system itself has become globalized. Although international trade has increased in the past four decades, the rapid expansion in cross-border financial flows is even more impressive. As we will see in Chapter 14, financial flows and trade are closely related. To put it as simply as possible, countries with a trade deficit must borrow from countries with trade surpluses. And some countries that persistently run a deficit get to the point where they must borrow from other countries not only to continue to purchase imports but also to service (i.e., pay interest on) their debt.
When you hear economists or reporters speak about "global imbalances," they are referring to a world that is increasingly polarized; deficit countries come to depend on borrowing from surplus countries in order to support their appetite for imports, and surplus countries rely upon the deficit countries to continue purchasing their exports in order to boost their domestic economies and employment. There is little doubt, for example, that other countries' demand over the years for South Korean exports has lifted that country into the group of the world's prosperous countries; other Asian countries—most notably China—have been trying to emulate that success. But basic arithmetic prohibits every country from exporting its way to growth (since everyone's exports must be someone else's imports), and the debt that finances the purchases made by the deficit countries only mounts as global imbalances become greater.
These imbalances play an important part in the growing "financialization" of the global economy. The implications for growth, employment, inflation, and sustainability are potentially huge. We look into this in much greater detail in the chapters that follow.

Discussion Questions

1. What is the difference between the real, monetary, and financial economies? In what way are they related to each other? Should growth in one imply growth in the others?
2. Do you think that it is a good idea to allow commercial banks to invest in stocks? In real estate? In junk bonds? Explain.


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. Describe three scenarios that could describe economies in very different situations, with regard to their banking systems and price (in)stability.
  2. Describe the three roles played by money.
  3. Describe at least three different types of money.
  4. Describe at least two measures of money.
  5. Draw up and explain the components of a balance sheet for a private bank.
  6. What characteristics are needed to make commodity money effective?
  7. What is meant by leverage? What are its advantages, and its dangers?
  8. What are "pooled funds"? Describe two different kinds of pooled funds. What is the primary advantage of the pooling process?
  9. What is a financial bubble? Give some examples, and explain some of th causes of financial bubbles.
10. What does it mean to say that foreign currency can be a store of value but not a medium of exchange?

EXERCISES
1. Search for the "World Economic Outlook Database" on the internet and locate the most recent version. Use this database to select inflation data (units of percentage change) for Germany, Japan, and the United States for the period 1990 to 2010. Construct a table of annual inflation rates for these countries. Now construct a graph using annual inflation rates on the vertical axis and the year on the horizontal axis. Plot the annual inflation rates from your table in three separate lines on the same graph. How would you compare the experiences of these three countries based on your graph?
2. Use FRED (h­t­t­p­:­/­/­r­e­s­e­a­r­c­h­.s­t­l­o­u­i­s­f­e­d­.o­r­g­/­f­r­e­d­2­/­c­a­t­e­g­o­r­i­e­s­), which stands for Federal Reserve Economic Database, "Money, Banking, and Finance," to locate monetary data for M1 money and M2 money (monthly data of each stock, seasonally adjusted). How do the two series relate in size? How do the changes in the two series compare to one another? Does your understanding of the definitions of M1 and M2 help you make sense of what you observe?
3. Determine whether each of the following belongs on the asset side or the liability side of the balance sheet identified in parentheses.
a. $20,000 loan for a new automobile (balance sheet for an individual)
b. 10-year government bonds (balance sheet for a bank)
c. $1,000 checking account (balance sheet for a bank)
d. $500 in Federal Reserve notes—also known as cash! (balance sheet for an individual)
e. $10,000 student loan (balance sheet for a bank)
4. Assume a required reserve of 0.10 to complete the following:







  Assets

  Liabilities


Reserves
 $800,000
Deposits
 $2,000,000


Loans
$1,000,000




Bonds
 $400,000




Total
$2,000,000
Total
$2,000,000


a Calculate the required reserves for this bank.
b Calculate the initial excess reserves for this bank. What can the bank do with these excess reserves?
5. Assume a required reserve of 0.20 to complete the following:







  Assets

 Liabilities


Reserves
 $3,000,000
Deposits
$11,500,000


Loans
 $6,000,000




Bonds
 $2,500,000




Total
$11,500,000
Total
$11,500,000


a. Calculate the required reserves for this bank.
b. Calculate the initial excess reserves for this bank.
6. State whether the following statements are true or false. If false, also write a corrected statement.
a. Inflation erodes the value of savings.
b. Inflation creates "menu costs."
c. Inflation reduces uncertainty.
d. Inflation hurts people on fixed incomes.
e. Inflation redistributes wealth from debtors to creditors.
7. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B.




   Column A
    Column B


a. Excess reserves
 1. The ease of use of an asset as a medium of exchange


b. Barter
 2. A measure of the money supply that includes currency, checkable deposits, and traveler's checks


c. Deflation
 3. An institution such as a bank, savings and loan association, or life insurance company that accepts funds from savers and makes loans to borrowers


d. Required reserves
 4. A good used as money that is also valuable in itself


e. Liquidity
 5. When the aggregate price level falls


f. Commodity money
 6. A medium of exchange that is accepted as money accepted because the government says it has value


g. Fiat money
 7. A measure of the money supply that includes all of M1 plus savings deposits, small certificates of deposit, and retail money market funds


h. M1 money
 8. Exchange of goods, services, or assets directly for other goods, services, or assets, without the use of money


i. M2 money
 9. The portion of bank reserves that banks must keep on reserve


j. Financial intermediary
10. The portion of bank reserves that banks are permitted to lend to their customers



* We say "at least" because if the bank held some excess reserves before the new deposit, then more than 90 percent of the new deposit would be available to be lent.
* The term "mutual fund" is most appropriately applied to CIVs that are regulated under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and are open to the general public. This act was updated by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, discussed in Chapter 15.













 
 
 




12
The Federal Reserve and Monetary Policy




 
 

In the wake of the financial crisis of 2007-8, a lot of attention focused on monetary policies, including actions by the Federal Reserve (the Fed) in the United States and the European Central Bank (ECB). The Fed took extraordinary measures to keep U.S. interest rates very low, in an effort to stimulate the economy. The ECB struggled with debt crises in which some of its member states, such as Spain, Portugal, Italy, and especially Greece, needed central bank support to keep up with payments to their creditors.
Regulating the monetary system of a national economy by influencing the actions of banks and other financial institutions seems to be a daunting task for one country, never mind all the countries participating in the eurozone. The United States has the good fortune to have a central bank—the Federal Reserve—that needs to tend to the monetary needs of only one economy. As this chapter shows, however, managing monetary policy in even one country is not without its challenges and controversies. In this chapter, we examine the history, structure, and policy-making of the Federal Reserve System, which also gives us a basis for understanding the operation of other central banks.

1. THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

In 1907, the U.S. economy experienced a bank panic, in which depositors lost trust in banks, tried to withdraw their deposits all at once, and as a result caused many banks to fail. In response, Congress enacted legislation creating the Federal Reserve System in 1913. The Fed is a rather odd organization in that it is not exactly part of the government, yet not entirely separate from it either. It is overseen by a board of governors whose seven members are nominated by the president and approved by the Senate and who serve nonrenewable fourteen-year terms. One member of the board is chosen by the president to serve as chair for a four-year term (though he or she may serve consecutive terms within the 14-year period on the Board if renominated by the president). The long terms of service are intended to help insulate the Fed from short-term political pressures.
The Fed performs a number of important functions. As noted in Chapter 11, it serves as a "banker's bank" by holding deposits made by private banks. One of the Fed's important day-to-day functions involves using these deposits to clear checks that draw funds from one bank and deposit them in another. For example, if you give a check to a friend, who then deposits it in her bank, the check goes to a Fed clearinghouse. Your bank's account at the Fed is debited by the amount of the check, while your friend's bank's account at the Fed is credited with the funds.
If a bank is in need of cash to hold in its vault, it can buy currency from the Fed, using the funds in its Fed account as payment. As we have seen, the Fed orders banks to keep a certain percentage of their deposits as required reserves, in the form of either vault cash or in such deposits at the Fed. Currently, banks are required to keep an amount equal to 10 percent of their checkable deposits as reserves. If it wishes, a bank may keep reserves in excess of the required amount, although if it does it may forgo profitable earnings opportunities.
Another of the Fed's important tasks is to attempt to stabilize the rate of exchange between domestic and foreign currencies. It does this by buying or selling dollars in exchange for foreign currencies, a process that is detailed in Chapter 14. In addition, the Fed, along with other organizations such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), regulates banks, attempting to ensure that they operate as much as possible without error or fraud. Because the FDIC guarantees the value of many accounts, and the Fed is willing to make emergency loans to banks that find themselves short of liquidity, the sorts of crises in depositor confidence that led to bank runs in the past are now far less likely. (Recall from Chapter 11 that "liquidity" refers to availability of cash.)
In terms of structure, the Federal Reserve System consists of the board of governors based in Washington, DC, and twelve regional Federal Reserve Banks based in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, Kansas City (MO), Minneapolis, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond (VA), St. Louis, and San Francisco. The regional Fed banks also have their own branches in many other cities, such as Baltimore, Los Angeles, Miami, and Pittsburgh.
The structure of the European Central Bank (ECB) is somewhat similar to that of the Fed in the United States, the main difference being that it operates across countries. While the ECB has headquarters in Frankfurt, Germany, each of the seventeen member countries also retains its own national central bank.*
The Fed keeps close track of the economy and tries to sense whether some adjustment in the money supply or in interest rates might be necessary to support aggregate demand or to counteract undesirable changes in the inflation rate. The Fed has the ability to choose "targets" for the rate of growth of the money supply or for the level of interest rates. As we will see, the two are related, although in recent years focus has generally been on the interest rate. We examine the macroeconomic consequences of Fed actions later in this chapter, but for right now we concentrate on the mechanics of how the Fed influences the money supply and interest rates.

Discussion Questions

1What is the Federal Reserve System? What event or events caused it to be created? Where are its banks found?
2Is the Federal Reserve truly an independent bank or is it part of the government? What are its principal functions?

2. MONETARY POLICY
2.1 HOW THE FED CREATES MONEY AND CREDIT

As we saw in Chapter 11, increasing the amount of reserves that a bank holds indirectly increases the money supply by permitting banks to lend more money. The additional loans increase the number of transaction accounts, adding to the overall supply of money. Each of the means that the Fed has at its disposal targets the level of bank reserves. The most commonly used tool is open market operations. In open market operations, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York changes the level of bank reserves by buying or selling government bonds. Such operations are directed by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), which is composed of the Board of Governors of the Fed and 5 of the 12 regional Fed bank presidents.* Let's see what happens when the FOMC undertakes a purchase of government bonds on the open market.

open market operations: sales or purchases of government bonds by the Fed
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC): the committee that oversees open market operations. It is composed of the Fed Board of Governors and 5 of the 12 regional Fed presidents

A simplified balance sheet for the Fed is shown in Table 12.1. Because currency is issued by the Fed, currency in circulation is the Fed's major liability. You will recall from Chapter 11 that a liability refers to anything that someone owes to anyone else. Currency is technically a liability to the Fed because it is legally redeemable for equivalent value. Formerly, this meant that the U.S dollar was backed by its value in gold or silver. Today, the best that one could do is get new currency for old currency.

Table 12.1 A Simplified Balance Sheet of the Federal Reserve







Assets
Liabilities


Government bonds
$1200 billion
Currency in circulation
$1100 billion




Bank reserves
$100 billion



The Fed's other major liability is the reserves held by private banks. Recall that these consist of vault cash plus deposits that the banks have at the Fed. Just as deposits made by individuals at banks are the liabilities of the banks, deposits made by banks at the Fed are liabilities of the Fed. The Fed holds various assets, but the most important one for our story is its stock of government bonds.
When the Fed makes an open market purchase of bonds, its holdings of bonds increase. It generally makes such purchases from a commercial bank, so it pays for the purchase by crediting the bank's account with the Fed by the amount of the purchase.
What does it pay with? Unlike any other actor in the economy, the Fed can create funds with the proverbial "stroke of a pen" or, these days, adjusting an entry in a computer database at the New York office. It simply declares that the bank's reserves are now higher by the amount of the bond purchase. Just as the Fed can authorize production of new currency by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, it is also empowered to create new bank reserves, which in turn expand the money supply by permitting banks to make more loans. These new loans will end up as deposits elsewhere in the banking system—i.e., new money.
When the Fed makes an open market purchase, it increases something called the monetary base (or high-powered money). This is defined as the sum of total currency in circulation plus bank reserves. We noted in Chapter 11 that dollar bills in circulation are "fiat" money, whose value depends on a government declaration that they are money. The monetary base, similarly, is a form of fiat money that the Fed directly controls.

monetary base (or high-powered money): the sum of total currency plus bank reserves

Suppose that the Fed buys $10 million worth of government bonds from ABC Bank. The changes in the Fed's balance sheet and the balance sheet of ABC Bank are shown in Table 12.2. The Fed increases both its holdings of assets and liabilities by $10 million—the bonds being the asset, and bank reserves the liability. ABC Bank changes only the mix of assets it holds, now holding less in bonds and more in reserves. Note that both the Fed and ABC Bank balance sheets still balance. If total assets equaled total liabilities before the change, they will still be equal after the open market purchase.
So far in our story, reserves have risen by $10 million, but the supply of money in circulation (as measured by M1 or other measures) has not changed. But if ABC Bank sees opportunities to make profitable loans, it will not let its new $10 million in reserves just sit at the Fed. If it just met its reserve requirement before the bond purchase, then all of this new $10 million is excess reserves. It can use this $10 million to make $10 million in new loans. This movement of $10 million from reserves to new loans is shown in Table 12.3(a).

Table 12.2 An Open Market Purchase of Government Bonds by the Fed








(a) Change in the Fed Balance Sheet



Assets
Liabilities



Government bonds:
+$10 million
Bank reserves
+$10 million


(b) Change in ABC Bank's Balance Sheet



Assets
Liabilities



Government bonds
−$10 million





Reserves
+$10 million





 

Table 12.3 A Loan by ABC Bank Becomes a Deposit in XYZ Bank








(a) Next Change in the ABC Bank's Balance Sheet



Assets
Liabilities



Loans:
+$10 million





Reserves:
−$10 million




(b) Change in XYZ Bank's Balance Sheet





Assets
Liabilities



Reserves:
+$10 million
Deposits:
+$10 million



Suppose that ABC Bank makes a $10 million loan to Jane's Construction, and then, after obtaining the loan in the form of a check, Jane's Construction deposits the entire amount of the funds at XYZ Bank. (We assume a different bank, since in general recipients of loans do not have to deposit them in the originating bank. This also allows us to keep track of changes in balance sheets more easily.) The changes in the balance sheets of XYZ Bank are shown in Table 12.3(b). Because the way that the Fed clears checks is by increasing or decreasing the deposits that it holds for banks, the initial impact on XYZ Bank of the deposit of the check by Jane's Construction is a $10 million increase in both its checkable deposits and its reserves at the Fed.
Note, first, that the money supply has now increased. Checkable deposits are part of M1, and there are now $10 million more in total deposits in the economy than there were before. Through an open market purchase of bonds paid for by a "stroke of the pen," the Fed has brought new money into being.
Second, note that XYZ Bank now has excess reserves. If required reserves are 10 percent of deposits, it can lend out much of the $10 million in new funds that it has received—$9 million—while keeping only 10 percent ($1 million) as reserves. (Note that ABC Bank was able to lend out the entire $10 million that it received from the Fed. It did not have to keep 10 percent as reserve, because there was no corresponding increase in deposits at ABC—they obtained the $10 million by selling bonds.)
These new loans will, in turn, become new deposits in the banking system (they could return to ABC or XYZ bank, but more likely will end up in other banks). Then M1 will have increased by the initial 10 million, plus the second-round $9 million—already an increase totaling $19 million, which is quite a bit larger than the initial $10 million increase.
Now, of course, the banks that receive the $9 million in deposits resulting from XYZ Bank's loans will find that they have excess reserves and will also be able to make new loans, and the process will continue. Where will it all end? If each bank that receives new funds lends out as much as it can (given the 10 percent reserve requirement), the total amount of new money will eventually be $100 million.* The logic is similar to the government spending multiplier in fiscal policy. Just as respending by consumers multiplies the original amount of government spending, so the creation of new loans by banks multiplies the original creation of new reserves.

money multiplier: as the ratio of the money supply to the monetary base, it tells by how much the money supply will change for a given change in high-powered money

The story is actually somewhat more complicated than this because sometimes banks hold excess reserves, and often people who take out loans want to hold some of the funds in cash or in types of deposits that are not part of M1. So not all high-powered money creation will translate directly into new deposits and loans, and monetary expansion will not be quite as dramatic as in the example above. Economists define the money multiplier as the ratio of the money supply to the monetary base,





Using M1 as the measure of money, empirical studies have shown the money multiplier in the United States is currently very close to 2. That is, if the Fed acts to increase reserves and currency by $10 million, the total increase in the money supply would be expected to be around double that:
Δ money = money multiplier × Δ monetary base$20 million = 2 × 10 million
With the "stroke of a pen," the Fed open market purchase of government bonds increases the money supply by about twice the value of the initial bond purchase.
Note that, looking at the same story in a slightly different way, the action of the Fed can also be seen as increasing the amount of credit extended to private actors in the economy. The Fed, in making an open market purchase of government bonds, in essence takes over a portion of the public debt that was previously held by private institutions. (Recall from Chapter 10 that government bonds are issued by the Treasury to finance federal budget deficits.) The new bank reserves created by the purchase of government bonds allow banks to extend more credit—new loans—to private actors in the economy.
Traditionally, macroeconomists have tended to look at the asset side of the banks' balance sheets and perceive the story outlined above as a matter of increasing deposits and hence increasing the money supply. More recently, some macroeconomists have focused more on the liabilities side of the banks' balance sheets and see this as a story of an expansion of credit. While, in some sense, the two views are just "two sides of the same coin," looking at the money face of monetary policy tends to draw more attention to people's need for liquidity, while looking at the credit face draws more attention to issues of how financial capital is created and distributed within the economy. It is no coincidence that we have these two interpretations; as we explore further in Chapter 15—and have alluded to at the end of Chapter 11—money is itself a form of debt.

2.2 OTHER MONETARY POLICY TOOLS

As we have seen, if the Fed wants to increase the volume of money and private credit circulating in an economy, it can use open market operations. Open market purchases of government bonds increase reserves. Banks will generally then increase their loans, which increases deposits and hence the money supply.
While this is, in fact, what the Fed usually does when it wants to expand the money supply, it also has other tools at its disposal. Another policy that it can implement is to lower the required reserve ratio. This would have the effect of expanding the money supply by allowing banks to make more loans on a smaller base of reserves.
In truth, there is no "single" reserve requirement ratio, as it varies considerably depending on type of deposit and size of bank (based on total deposits). For example, the U.S. reserve requirement is 0 percent for banks with total transactions accounts less than $12.4 million, 3 percent for those between $12.4 million and $79.5 million, and 10 percent for those holding deposits exceeding $79.5 million. The Fed seldom uses the reserve requirement ratio as a monetary tool, however; it last changed the ratio in 1982.
If a bank falls short of having the required amount of reserves on hand, it can borrow funds from the Fed at what is called the "discount window" at a rate of interest traditionally called the discount rate. In theory, a reduction in the discount rate should increase the money supply, because this would lower the cost to a bank of being found to be below its required level of reserves. A bank could then be somewhat more aggressive about making loans. In fact, however, since the Fed frowns on (and penalizes) banks that are found to be low on reserves too often, banks tend to prefer to borrow from one another if they need money in the short term (this process is discussed in the following section). In extraordinary circumstances, such as during the financial crisis in 2008, the Fed has taken the opposite approach, of encouraging use of the discount window to promote greater liquidity.

discount rate: the interest rate at which banks can borrow reserves at the Fed discount window

The Fed can cause the money supply (and credit) to contract, as well. If instead of making an open market purchase of government bonds, it makes an open market sale, everything in the story we have just told happens in reverse. When the Fed sells bonds, the buyer (usually a commercial bank) must pay the Fed. That means the bank has that much less in its reserve account. Overall, private banks will now hold more in government bonds and less in reserves. (Of course, banks are not forced to buy bonds. However, the Fed can "flood the market" with bond offerings sufficient to lower the price to a level so attractive that banks would be foolish not to buy.)
If banks hold less in reserves, then they have to tighten up on loans. If they tighten up on loans, then there will be fewer deposits. The money multiplier also works in reverse, so that the original bond sale has a magnified effect in reducing the total money supply.
The Fed can thus increase the money supply by making an open market purchase of bonds, lowering the required reserve ratio, or lowering the discount rate. It can decrease the money supply by making an open market sale of bonds, raising the required reserve ratio, or raising the discount rate. Of these policy tools, however, open market operations are much the most frequently used and most significant in affecting the money supply.
In a growing economy, a central bank would rarely want to shrink the money supply in absolute terms. A growing economy, as measured by GDP, means ever more transactions need to be facilitated by readily available liquid assets and generally growing demand by private economic actors for loans. "Loose" monetary policy, in the case of a real-world growing economy, then, usually means making the money supply grow faster than the economy has been growing. "Tight" policy does not mean actually making M1 fall; rather it just means making the money supply grow slower than the growth rate of the economy.
In this section, we have discussed the technical question of how the Fed or another economy's central bank can change the volume of money and credit in an economy. Now we can move on to the more interesting questions of why it may—or may not—want to do so. We introduce these issues by examining two different situations.
• The first case is where inflation can be assumed to be fairly stable, and the main things that policymakers are worried about are output and employment. This case is addressed in the next two sections.
•The second case is where policymakers are primarily worried about inflation. This is addressed in Section 5.
These important base cases are useful for analyzing the situation of certain economies at particular times. The last section of the chapter looks at the more complicated issues of balancing goals related to employment, output, and inflation, and delves into controversies about monetary policies.

Discussion Questions

1. From the description of the Fed and the earlier discussion of money, can you name some things that private banks had to do for themselves before the Federal Reserve System was created? What were some of the problems that resulted?
2. Describe in words how a Fed open market operation can increase the volume of money in the economy.

3. THE THEORY OF MONEY, INTEREST RATES, AND AGGREGATE DEMAND

Our discussion up to this point has focused on the volume of money and credit in the economy. In an economy that is experiencing fairly low inflation and that has a healthy banking system, most of the concern with the money supply is really a concern about interest rates, the availability of credit, and their consequences for aggregate demand. In contemporary discussions of the Fed's monetary policy, the focus is almost always on interest rates. How does the Fed affect interest rates, and how do changing interest rates affect the economy?

3.1 THE FEDERAL FUNDS RATE AND OTHER INTEREST RATES

In recent years, when changes in monetary policy have been announced by leaders of the Fed or discussed in the financial pages of the newspaper, attention usually focuses on what is called the federal funds rate. This is the going rate of interest determined on a private market of interbank loans. If a bank finds that it has more reserves than it needs to meet its reserve requirements, it offers funds on the "federal funds" market, usually just overnight. If another bank is short on reserves, it borrows on that market and pays back the next day.

federal funds rate: the interest rate determined in the private market for overnight loans of reserves among banks

Although a quick reading of reports in the media often make it sound as though the Fed directly controls the federal funds rate (for example, headlines may read "Fed Announces Cut in Federal Funds Rate of 0.25 Percent"), this in not, in fact, the case. The Fed announces desired target or benchmark levels for the federal funds rate and then acts on bank reserves to try to achieve that target. Because the Fed is generally quite effective at this, the difference between the (official) target federal funds rate and the (market-determined) actual federal funds rate is usually small.
A simplified model of the federal funds market is portrayed in Figure 12.1(a). The quantity of funds is on the horizontal axis, and the federal funds rate—the price of borrowing on this market—is on the vertical axis. (Note that this is just a specific variant of the sort of "market for loanable funds" discussed in Chapter 9.) The actors on both sides of this market are banks.
The supply curve for federal funds slopes upward, because higher returns on this market mean that banks with excess reserves will be more likely to lend them here, rather than finding other ways to lend them out. The demand curve for federal funds slopes downward, because the lower the interest rate, the more willing banks are to borrow. Figure 12.1(a) portrays a situation in which the federal funds rate at which the market clears is 6 percent. (Interest rates are generally stated in annualized terms—what borrowers would pay if they held the loan for a year—no matter how long the loan is actually held.)
The Fed undertakes open market operations with the goal of pushing the going rate for loans in that market to the level of its choosing. Recall that when the Fed makes an open market purchase, it increases the quantity of reserves that banks hold. All else being equal, this increases the amount of reserves available for private lending in the federal funds market. In Figure 12.1(b), this is shown as the supply curve for federal funds shifting to the right. In this example the federal funds rate falls to 5 percent.






Figure 12.1a The Market for Federal Funds
The supply and demand for available funds determine the Federal Funds Rate.





Figure 12.1b An Open Market Purchase Lowers the Federal Funds Rate
When the Federal reserve makes an open market purchase of government bonds, it increases the supply of reserves that can be lent on the federal funds market, lowering the federal funds rate.

Since 1995, the Fed has explicitly announced its targets for the federal funds rate and then has taken the necessary steps to keep the actual rate as close as possible to the target rate. Figure 12.2 shows how the Fed reacts to a shift in the demand for federal funds. A rise in demand for federal funds is shown by shift A. If the Fed took no action in response to this shift, the increase in demand would cause the interest rate to rise. The Fed counteracts this upward pressure by putting more reserves into the system via open market purchases, shifting the supply curve outward (shift B). The effect is to virtually fix this important interest rate. Conversely, the Fed would meet a decrease in the demand for federal funds with open market sales.
Because financial markets in a sophisticated economy tend to be closely interlinked, a drop in the interest rate in one major market tends to carry over into other markets. When banks have to pay more to borrow reserves, they tend to charge more to their own customers. Figure 12.3 (p. 276) shows how the prime rate—the rate that banks charge their most creditworthy commercial customers—closely follows the federal funds rate. Banks have generally kept their prime rate at the federal funds rate plus three percentage points.

prime rate: the interest rate that banks charge their most creditworthy commercial borrowers







Figure 12.2 Maintaining the Federal Funds Target Rate
If the Federal Reserve sees the demand for reserves rising (shift A), it supplies more reserves to banks and thus to the federal funds market (shift B). It does the opposite if it sees demand falling. The result is a rate that is virtually fixed at the level targeted by the Federal Reserve.





Figure 12.3 The Federal Fund and Prime Rates
A number of other interest rates in the economy, including the prime rate charged by banks to commercial borrowers, tend to follow the Federal Funds Rate.

The rate that you, as an individual, will be charged by a bank on a loan will generally be higher than the prime rate, and the interest rate that you receive on your deposits will always be lower than the prime rate (so that the bank can make a profit). Nevertheless, consumer rates also tend to rise or fall with changes in the federal funds rate.
As a general rule, an expansionary monetary policy expands credit and lowers interest rates throughout the economy. Conversely, contractionary monetary policy tends to shrink the volume of credit and raise interest rates throughout the economy.* Thus central bank monetary policy affects businesses and individuals throughout the economy.

3.2 INTEREST RATES AND INVESTMENT

Economists are particularly interested in interest rates because of their effect on investment. To the extent that individuals or businesses make investments using borrowed funds, higher interest rates make investing more expensive, and, hence, less attractive. Residential investment, in particular, has historically been especially sensitive to variations in interest rates. Traditionally, investment in homes has been financed by fifteen- or thirty-year mortgages. A small change in the interest rate can add up, over time, to a very big difference in the total cost of buying a house.
The case for interest rate effects on intended business investment in structures, equipment, and inventories (sometimes referred to as "nonresidential investment") is a bit more mixed. We saw in Chapter 9 that Keynes did not think that changes in the interest rate would be sufficient to get the economy out of the Great Depression. Investor pessimism during that period was very deep. Trying to encourage businesses to invest when they see no prospect of selling more of their goods has been referred to as attempting to "push on a string."
The idea that business fixed investment primarily responds to changes in sales much more than to changes in interest rates has been called the accelerator principle. If businesses see their sales rising, they may need to expand their capacity—that is, invest in new equipment and structures—in order to keep up with demand for their product. Since the best overall indicator of expanded sales is a rising GDP, this principle says that the best predictor of investment growth is GDP growth. Conversely, a small decline—or even just slowing down—of demand may lead to a disproportionate drying up of intended investment, as firms come to fear being caught with excess capacity. To the extent the accelerator principle is in force, changes in the interest rate may have only a relatively minor effect on levels of investment.

accelerator principle: the idea that high GDP growth leads to increasing investment, and low or negative GDP growth leads to declining investment

Given a particular level of optimism or pessimism, however, firms can be expected to pay at least some attention to interest rates in deciding how much to invest. Higher interest rates tend to limit the amount of investment by firms that may need to borrow money to invest. Using the string analogy, it is easier to pull on a string than to push it—tighter monetary policy is likely to restrain overall investment. Combining this logical assumption with the empirically observed sensitivity of residential investment to interest rates, our simple model of macroeconomic stabilization says that, all else being equal, lower interest rates will lead to higher intended investment spending (and vice versa for higher interest rates). Intended investment is inversely related to the interest rate, r, as shown in Figure 12.4.
Changes in investor confidence, related to actual spending (via the accelerator principle) or to expected levels of spending, can be portrayed as shifting this intended investment curve. An increase in investor confidence, for example, shifts the curve to the right (from I1 to I1) as shown in Figure 12.5. At any given interest rate, firms now want to invest more (I** rather than I*). A decrease in investor confidence shifts the curve to the left.






Figure 12.4 The Intended Investment Schedule
All else equal, if the interest rate falls (from r0 to r1), intended investment should rise (from I0 to I1).





Figure 12.5 An Increase in Investor Confidence
If firms become more confident about future sales, and want to increase their capacity, the intended investment schedule shifts to the right.
3.3 MONETARY POLICY AND AGGREGATE DEMAND

Our basic model of aggregate demand, developed in Chapters 9 and 10, can now be expanded to include the effect of monetary policy. In an economy with low inflation and a stable banking system, expansionary monetary policy should tend to lower interest rates (Figures 12.1(b) and 12.3) and raise intended investment (Figure 12.4). Because intended investment spending, is part of aggregate demand:
AD = C + II + G + NX
this increase in investment should shift the AD schedule upward and raise the equilibrium levels of aggregate demand, income, and output, as shown in Figure 12.6 (p. 278). The chain of causation can be summarized as:











Figure 12.6 Expansionary Monetary Policy and the AD Curve
In this model, expansionary monetary policy lowers interest rates, raises investment spending, and raises aggregate demand, income, and output.

If the economy is headed toward a recession, then monetary policy that is relatively loose, increasing the money supply in order to help maintain output, can have a desirable stabilizing effect. Sometimes such an expansionary monetary policy is called an accommodating monetary policy, especially (though not exclusively) when the Fed is reacting to a specific economic event that might otherwise tend to send the economy into recession.

expansionary monetary policy: the use of monetary policy tools to increase the money supply, lower interest rates, and stimulate a higher level of economic activity

Contractionary monetary policy, however, would be prescribed if the economy seems to be heading towards inflation. In that case, the Fed seeks to slow growth and "cool down" the economy. In the aggregate demand model, a decrease in the money supply will raise interest rates, lower intended investment, shift the AD schedule downward, and lower the equilibrium levels of aggregate demand, income, and output.*

Discussion Questions

1. What sorts of interest rates are relevant to your own economic activities?? Do you think that Fed policies affect their levels?
2. Is it always true that an increase in the money supply leads to an increase in investment and aggregate demand? Why or why not?

4. MONETARY POLICIES IN PRACTICE
4.1 THE FED AND INVESTMENT, 2000-2012

The effect of Fed policy on investment can be illustrated with several recent historical examples. In late 2000, the federal funds rate stood at 6.5 percent. But there were signs that the economy might be heading into recession: The "dot-com" stock market bubble had burst, and policymakers were worried that the pattern of enthusiastic investment and consumer spending that had fueled GDP growth in the 1990s might be coming to an end. Orders for goods had slowed down. Inventories had built up. In January 2001 the Fed, publicly expressing concern about the weakness of the economy, took action to lower the federal funds rate by half a percentage point. Then, the next month, it lowered it again. Throughout the period 2001-3, it steadily pushed interest rates down, as shown in Figure 12.7. The federal funds rate reached a low of 1 percent in early 2004.

accommodating monetary policy: loose or expansionary monetary policy intended to counteract recessionary tendencies in the economy
contractionary monetary policy: the use of monetary policy tools to limit the money supply, raise interest rates, and encourage a leveling off or reduction in economic activity

What was the consequence for investment and aggregate demand? The bottom half of Figure 12.7 shows the data for residential and nonresidential private fixed (i.e., noninventory) investment. Nonresidential fixed investment—business investment in equipment and structures—might seem to move in the direction opposite of that predicted by the theory of investment presented earlier (Figure 12.4). As interest rates steadily fell through 2001 and most of 2002, this kind of investment fell.






Source: Federal Reserve and Bureau of Economic Analysis, 2013.
Figure 12.7 Monetary Policy and Investment, 2000-2012
In 2001-3 and from 2007 on, interest rate cuts helped spur residential and nonresidential investment, although the response after the Great Recession was slow.

But recall that the theory said that "all else being equal" a lower interest rate should lead to higher intended investment—and all else was not equal during this period. Businesses had too much capacity and inventory and were pessimistic about sales. In terms of the model, Figure 12.8 (p. 280) shows this pessimism shifting the intended investment schedule to the left, from II to II'. The lower interest rates due to Fed action may have kept investors from cutting back even more, but the lower rates were not enough to prevent the downturn in nonresidential (and overall) investment, shown on the graph as a shift from I* to I**.
Residential investment, however, shows what many consider a success story for monetary policy during this period. While fixed business investment fell markedly, investment in housing did not fall, but in fact increased steadily (as shown in Figure 12.7). Even though the economy in general was in recession for much of 2001, and investment overall was in a slump, housing investment grew over this period. By November 2002, nonresidential investment had also started growing again.
By May 2004, the Fed believed that the recovery was well under way and would continue. It returned to focusing on its other main macroeconomic goal: controlling inflation. For the next three years, the Fed steadily increased the federal funds rate in an attempt to keep the economy from "overheating." But in late 2007, the Fed again switched to an expansionary stance, largely due to problems that had developed in the housing market.






Figure 12.8 Expansionary Monetary Policy in an Environment of Pessimism
If investors become pessimistic (shift A), the level of intended investment can still fall, even though Fed actions lower the interest rate (shift B). The net effect is that intended investment falls from II* to II**

As you can see in Figure 12.7b, residential investment went into a slump in 2006, due to overbuilding in the earlier period. Problems in the financing of home mortgages also created a crisis in the credit markets. As we discuss in Chapter 15, during the 2004-7 period banks had aggressively moved into the marketing of "subprime" mortgages (loans given to people whose incomes or credit histories ordinarily would not be good enough to qualify them for mortgages). When borrowers found it impossible to pay back these loans, the value of mortages held by banks and other investors fell drastically, creating a financial crisis and pushing the economy towards recession. Fearing a domino effect that would lead to a severe recession, the Fed took steps to make more money available—an expansionary monetary policy.
As a clear indicator of the Fed's aggressive attempt to forestall recession, it allowed the federal funds rate to sink to historic lows, and far more quickly than during the previous rate reduction. The rate sank from 5.26 percent in mid-2007 to scarcely above 0 (0.16 percent) by the end of 2008. For the next five years, the fed funds rate remained at extraordinarily low levels—in late 2013 it stood at 0.09 percent. Unfortunately, in spite of all the Fed's efforts, the economy fell into recession, and economic recovery was very slow. As of 2013, the Fed's policy remained to keep rates at rock-bottom levels.
Since even a near-zero federal funds rate was insufficient to promote the lending required to kick start the economy, the Fed resorted to an unusual approach known as quantitative easing (QE). Instead of following its regular open market program of government bond purchases, under QE the Fed buys other diverse financial assets (mostly bonds, but many with terms longer than usual) from banks and nonbank institutions alike. The main objective here is not an interest rate target but, rather, to flood the economy with more money, in hopes of provoking the necessary spending to create an economic stimulus (see Box 12.1).

quantitative easing (QE): the purchase of financial assets including long-term bonds by the Fed, creating more monetary reserves and expanding the money supply

As of 2013, three rounds of quantitative easing, referred to as QE1, QE2, and QE3, had taken place. Analyses of the effectiveness of the Fed's policy are varied. On the one hand, there is wide agreement that Fed support was needed to respond to the worst recession since the Great Depression of the 1930s. Although it took time, the economy did start to recover, and it appears that low interest rates and quantitative easing played an important role in this, especially in promoting a housing market recovery through low interest rates for mortgages. But some critics warned that such a massive program of monetary expansion could have undesired effects, such as fueling further financial bubbles or causing inflation to rise. To evaluate these concerns, we need to look a little further into monetary theory.


BOX 12.1 FED CHAIRMAN DEFENDS STIMULUS PROGRAM
In testimony to Congress in February 2013, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke, played down concerns about the Fed's economic stimulus campaign, describing it as necessary and effective.
In response to the economic crisis, the Fed has acquired nearly $3 trillion in Treasury and mortgage-backed securities, and under the QE3 program of "quantitative easing" it plans to expand its holding by $85 billion a month until economic growth picks up and the labor market improves. The Fed also intends to hold short-term interest rates near zero at least until the unemployment rate falls below 6.5 percent.
Mr. Bernanke tried to soothe concerns that the Fed's policies might encourage excessive risk-taking by investors, or lead to renewed inflation. Mr. Bernanke indicated that the Fed took these concerns very seriously, and had expanded its efforts to monitor financial markets. But he also pointed out that inflation under his chairmanship had been the lowest in the period since World War II.
"We do not see the potential costs of increased risk-taking in some financial markets as outweighing the benefits of promoting a stronger economic recovery and more rapid job creation," said Mr. Bernanke.
In July 2013, Mr. Bernanke reiterated that "with unemployment still high and declining only gradually, and with inflation running below the Committee's longer-run objective, a highly accommodative monetary policy will remain appropriate for the foreseeable future."
As of late 2013, predictions by critics that the Fed's policies would lead to runaway inflation had not come to pass. Inflation remained at historically low levels, and inflationary expectations were only a little over 1 percent. At the same time, there was a steady, but slow, decline in unemployment, and a modest revival in consumer confidence.
Sources: Binyamin Appelbaum, "Fed Defends Stimulus in Testimony to Senate," New York Times, February 26, 2013; Testimony, Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress, July 13, 2013; Floyd Norris, "Predictions on Fed Strategy that did not Come to Pass," New York Times, June 29, 2013.

4.2 THE LIQUIDITY TRAP AND CREDIT RATIONING

As noted above, the federal funds rate hovered just over 0 percent from 2008 through 2013.* This represented perhaps the most expansionary monetary policy in U.S. history. Insofar as recovery was very slow, there was a strong case for continued loosening. But remember our earlier analogy of pushing on a string. As the Fed continues to add to the monetary base and expand the money supply, there is a possibility that it will just create more "slack in the string"—the money will not find its way into useful investment and job creation.
In the 1930s, Keynes introduced the term liquidity trap for a situation in which it is impossible for a central bank to drive interest rates down any lower. In the past few years, the United States appears to have hit this monetary policy wall.

liquidity trap: a situation in which interest rates are so low that the central bank finds it impossible to reduce them further

The way a liquidity trap works is that as the Fed creates money, banks, individuals, and business firms simply hold onto the money, rather than using it in ways that increase aggregate demand. Recall that, for expansionary monetary policy to work in the predicted way, banks have to respond to increases in their reserves by making new loans. But what if banks do not find many of their customers creditworthy or their usual customers are not very interested in taking out new loans? Low interest rates may not translate into new credit and new investment, if bankers are not willing to make new loans. Instead, the banks may hold the money as excess reserves to protect themselves against problems with bad loans or other financial demands. This problem repeatedly frustrated the Fed's attempts to spark a recovery from the 2007 crisis.
Instead of using extra funds to make more loans, banks may tend to engage in credit rationing in order to ensure their own profitability. This means that they will lend to the customers whom they deem most creditworthy, using restrictive standards to decide who merits getting a loan. If this happens, some firms and individuals will get the funds that they need, while others—and particularly smaller firms and lower-income individuals—may be frozen out. In this case, monetary policy may have significant distributional effects: in the simplest terms, making the rich richer, and the poor poorer.

credit rationing: when banks deny loans to some potential borrowers, in the interest of maintaining their own profitability

The possibility of a liquidity trap or of reluctance among bankers and investors to lend and borrow means that the Fed faces limitations in its ability to stimulate a sluggish economy (see Box 12.1). This does not necessarily mean that the Fed's efforts are fruitless. As of late 2013, evidence indicated that the Fed's purchases of existing mortgages from banks had freed up banks to create new mortgages, improving the situation in the housing market. But at the same time the creation of so much new money raises concerns that some of the money might go to the wrong places, creating inflation in asset and goods prices. As of late 2013, this had not occurred. But concern about future inflation suggests that we should take a further look at monetary policy responses to inflation.

Discussion Questions

1. What is quantitative easing? How is it different from open market operations? Has the Fed had favorable results with it since the 2007 financial crisis?
2.Explain the liquidity trap. Do you think that the theory accurately describes the events after the Great Recession?

5. THE THEORY OF MONEY, PRICES, AND INFLATION

Section 4 laid out a description of the Fed's roles and activities that derives from an assumption of an economy in which inflation is low and steady, so that the main thing the Fed has to worry about is helping to stabilize the levels of investment, aggregate demand, and output. Now let's switch to the opposite extreme. Suppose that the central bank's main worry is controlling inflation. Some different analyses will be helpful in understanding this case.

5.1 THE QUANTITY EQUATION

One way of thinking about the relationship between the real economy, money, and prices is based on what economists call the quantity equation:
M × V = P × Y

quantity equation: M × V = P × Y where M is the money supply, V is the velocity of money, P is the price level, and Y is real output.

In this equation, Y is, as usual, real output or GDP. P indicates the price level as measured by a price index, for example the GDP deflator discussed in chapter 5. The multiplication of these two variables means that the right-hand side of the equation represents nominal output (if necessary, review Chapter 5 for an explanation of the difference between nominal and real output).
On the left-hand side, M measures the level of money balances, such as the M1 measure discussed above. V, the only really new variable here, represents the velocity of money. The velocity of money is the number of times that a dollar changes hands in a year, in order to support the level of output and exchange represented by nominal GDP. In other words, since the money in circulation is insufficient to "purchase" everything entailed by GDP, velocity represents how often, on average, each dollar changes hands in order for there to be sufficient funds to purchase all the goods and services produced in the economy. (Remember that we are talking both about cash and bank deposits—so "changing hands" could be literal, as when you pay for a pizza with cash, or virtual, as when a bank clears a check on one account, making the funds available to another account holder.)

velocity of money: the number of times that a dollar would have to change hands during a year to support nominal GDP, calculated as V = (P × Y)/M

Since nominal GDP and M1 are observable, velocity can be calculated as the ratio of the two,





For the quantity equation to become the basis for a theory, rather than merely represent definitions of variables, an assumption needs to be made about velocity. Supporters of different economic theories all have subscribed to the irrefutable arithmetic of the quantity equation. Where they have differed is over assumptions regarding the behavior of one or more of the variables.
Two theories we discuss below—classical and monetarist—assume that velocity is constant—changing very little, if at all, with changing conditions in the economy. If this is true, then the level of the money supply and the level of nominal GDP should be tightly related. We denote this assumption that velocity is constant by putting a bar over V. The quantity theory of money, then, is characterized by the relation





where  is read "V-bar." More Keynesian-oriented theories, however, while they may make use of the quantity equation, do not assume that velocity is constant. Their analyses are not based on the quantity theory.

quantity theory of money: the theory that money supply is directly related to nominal GDP, according to the equation 


5.2 COMPETING THEORIES

Classical monetary theory is based on the quantity theory of money, plus the assumption that output is always constant at its full-employment level.* That is,
M × V = P × Y*
where Y*, as usual, denotes full-employment output. In this case—in contrast to the aggregate demand model described in Section 4—changes in the money supply can have no effect on the level of output. The inability of changes in the money supply to affect real output is called monetary neutrality. The only variable on the left-hand side that is not constant is the money supply, while the only variable on the right-hand side that is not constant is the price level. Thus, all that a change in the money supply can do is change prices. Rather than an increase in the money supply increasing output, in this model an increase in the money supply has no effect other than to cause inflation.

monetary neutrality: the idea that changes in the money supply may affect only prices, while leaving output unchanged

Classical economists, then, tend to see no need for discretionary monetary policy. On the contrary, they consider it counterproductive. In the case of an economy that is not growing, classical theory would prescribe a stable money supply level to avoid unnecessary changes in prices. In a growing economy, classical theory says that the money supply should grow at the same rate as real GDP in order to keep prices stable. If we assume that the rate of real GDP growth is fairly constant, then the money supply should just grow at a fixed rate, say 3 percent per year. A central bank that enforces this is said to be following a money supply rule.

money supply rule: committing to letting the money supply grow at a fixed rate per year

Another famous theory based on the quantity equation is monetarism, propounded by Milton Friedman and Anna Jacobson Schwartz in their book A Monetary History of the United States, 1867-1960, published in 1963. While Keynes had argued that insufficient investment and aggregate demand caused the Great Depression, Friedman and Schwartz argued that it was caused by a severe contraction in the money supply.

monetarismml: a theory associated with Milton Friedman, which claims that macroeconomic objectives are best met by having the money supply grow at a steady rate

Friedman had earlier propounded the quantity theory of money and has become known for his saying that "inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon." But unlike the pure classical theorists, he thought that bad monetary policy could have, at least temporarily, bad effects on the real economy. During the early years of the Great Depression, he and Schwartz pointed out, both the money supply and the level of nominal GDP fell sharply. This empirical observation can be seen as consistent with the quantity theory of money:





They argued that the contraction in the money supply caused the reductions in both the price level and real GDP—an assertion that remains controversial. Because of his belief in the potential for bad monetary policy to cause harm, Friedman was one of the most vocal proponents of the idea that central banks should simply follow a fixed rule of having the money supply grow at a steady rate. In this regard, he and most classical theorists would have been in agreement.
The quantity equation can also be used to shed light on the problem of very high inflation, described early in Chapter 11. Suppose that the level of output in an economy is stagnant or growing only very slowly. But at the same time suppose that the central bank is causing the money supply to grow very quickly. If people come to expect high inflation, money may become a "hot potato"—people want to hold it for as short a time as possible because it loses value so quickly. They will try to turn money into non-inflating assets—real estate, hard currency, jewelry, or barterable goods—as quickly as they can. This means that the velocity of money also increases. A situation of hyperinflation in a stagnant economy can be illustrated as:





where the bar over Y indicates that output is stuck at a level below full employment. With output stagnant, and both money supply and velocity increasing, inflation must result.
While we imagined a printing press in the government's basement in our earlier story about hyperinflation in Chapter 11, a sophisticated economy can also essentially "run the printing presses" if the agency that issues government debt and the central bank work together. For example, suppose that the U.S. Treasury issues new debt, and the Fed immediately buys the same amount of new debt and injects new money into the economy. The effect is the same as if the Fed had just printed new currency, except that the increase in bank reserves is in the form of "a stroke of the pen" instead of freshly printed paper. This is called monetizing the deficit. In the United States, however, the Fed does not automatically buy new government debt. It may, as an accommodating move, monetize some deficit spending by the government in order to help the economy out of a recession, but it is not obliged to do so.

monetizing the deficit: when a central bank buys government debt as it is issued (equivalent to "running the printing presses")

Even in less extreme cases, a "loose money" policy can lead to inflation. For example, suppose that the economy is functioning relatively normally, but output has reached its full-employment level (Y*). If monetary policy continues to be expansionary, inflation is likely to result. (This is discussed more in Chapter 13.)

Discussion Questions

1.What is the difference between the quantity theory of money and the quantity equation?
2.Has inflation been reported to be a problem in any recent news reports? Check recent inflation data at www.usinflationcalculator.com. How do you think this is related to recent Fed monetary policy?

6. COMPLICATIONS AND POLICY CONTROVERSIES

In the real world, central banks generally have to be concerned about output and inflation, as well as banking regulation and stability, all at the same time. When the goals include both stabilization of prices and of output, how does this complicate the analysis, and what does this mean for policy?

6.1 THE FED'S DILEMMA

As we saw in Section 3, the Fed tries to get the economy out of a recession through expansionary monetary policy—policies that increase the money supply, lower interest rates, stimulate investment, and thus increase aggregate demand. But if it goes about increasing the money supply too vigorously or at the wrong time (such as when the economy is already nearing full employment), then it can cause inflation to rise (as we saw in Section 4). If inflation is "heating up," then the Fed should use contractionary monetary policy—reining in the money supply, raising interest rates, and discouraging investment in the interest of "cooling off" aggregate demand and economic activity.
This may seem very straightforward, but policy-making can have many complications. For one thing, there is the controversial question of what exactly the "full-employment" level of employment is at any given time. Suppose, for example, that the Fed starts to get nervous about inflation too early in an economic upswing. Perhaps the unemployment rate could have fallen to, say, 4 percent, with little increase in inflation, if the recovery had been allowed to continue, but the Fed switches into inflation-fighting mode at an unemployment rate of, say, 6 percent. By halting the recovery too early, the Fed may end up being blamed for causing unnecessary suffering. But if conditions in the economy are such that letting unemployment fall to 4 percent would cause a large rise in inflation, then if the Fed lets the recovery continue, it will instead end up being blamed for inflation.
There is also considerable controversy over what rates of inflation can be considered acceptable. Some economists find only inflation rates from 0 percent to 2 percent acceptable; others do not see an urgent need for monetary control unless inflation is 5 percent or higher. There is a continuing debate among economists and policymakers over the proper weight to give to GDP growth goals versus price stabilization goals (see Box 12.2).
Another practical problem is that monetary authorities have to pay attention to issues of timing. In Chapter 10 we discussed the "inside lags" of decision making and implementation as well as the "outside lag" of an enacted policy having an effect on aggregate demand. In the case of fiscal policy, the "inside lags" tend to be rather long, as Congress and the President try to agree on a budget, but the "outside lag" is relatively short. For monetary policy, the case tends to be reversed. The Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to meet eight times a year and may schedule extra meetings. A monetary policy decision only requires discussion and agreement among the FOMC's twelve members, unlike the much more extensive discussions required to get a tax or spending change through Congress. Hence decisions about monetary policy can generally be made more quickly than decisions about fiscal policy. But monetary policy only has an effect on aggregate demand as people change their plans—often their very long-term plans—about investment and spending. So the "outside lag" is generally thought to be longer. There is a danger that the effects of a policy intended to counteract a recession may not be felt until the next boom, or the effects of policies intended to counteract a boom might not be felt until the next recession, exacerbating the business cycle instead of flattening it out.


BOX 12.2 RAISING INFLATION TARGETS IN JAPAN
"Japan's new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe declared a 'monetary regime change' as the central bank bowed to government pressure, setting a 2 percent inflation target aimed at helping the country emerge from its prolonged bout of deflation ... Some economists believe a moderate amount of inflation is grease that can make the wheels of the economy spin faster" (Associated Press, January 22, 2013). Japan has been stuck in a deflationary pattern for decades, as the central bank has had trouble even achieving its 1 percent inflation target.
In August 2013, Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda pledged to continue easing until the 2 percent inflation target is reached. The Bank will conduct open market operations to increase the monetary base from 60 to 70 trillion yen, boosting its purchases of Japanese government bonds to total 50 trillion yen per year to lower interest rates and promote lending.
In a speech to the Kyoto Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Deputy Bank Governor Kikuo Iwata said that it will take time to see the effects of monetary easing in the real economy. He predicted that prices and wages would rise, together with an increase in household income and capital expenditure. The Bank was widely expected to take additional financial easing measures in 2014, reflecting concern that it was not doing enough to achieve its goal in two years.
Sources: "Bank of Japan Sets 2% Inflation Target," Associated Press, January 22, 2013; "Japanese Central Bank in Fresh Bid to Spur Inflation," Associated Press, April 4, 2013; "BoJ will Continue Easing Until Inflation Reaches 2%," RTT News www.rttnews.com August 28, 2013; "BoJ Beat: Watchers Expect Fresh Easing Next Year," Wall Street Journal, September 3, 2013.


Lastly, it is not always the case that an economy suffers from either recession or high inflation. Sometimes, it suffers from both at the same time. Because one problem seems to require expansionary policies while the other calls for contractionary ones, in this case the dilemma facing the Fed is especially acute. We take up this topic in Chapter 13.

6.2 RULES VERSUS ACTIVISM

Given all these caveats about monetary policy, you might think that the Fed would do better just to follow a money supply growth rule as suggested by the quantity theory of money. Indeed, a number of classical macroeconomists make just this argument.
But the quantity theory has its problems. For one thing, the velocity of money is not as constant as the theory assumes. Because financial markets have many linkages, people's desire to hold some of their assets as money, as opposed to another asset, can cause wide swings in velocity. For example, when interest-bearing checking accounts became very popular in the 1980s, M1 grew quickly as people shifted assets from other forms to this new, highly liquid, and interest-bearing form. Because V is the ratio of nominal GDP to money balances, the sudden rise in the denominator of this ratio caused the velocity of M1 to fall sharply. Likewise, when the stock market takes a dive, it is common for many people to seek the relative security of money and near-money assets, driving M1 up and velocity down.
Other changes in velocity are harder to explain. Partly this is because people need liquidity not only to facilitate transactions related to GDP—that is, domestic newly produced goods and services—but also to facilitate transactions related to used goods, purchases and sales of assets, and foreign dealings. Financial market innovations, shocks to asset markets, and many other developments in the economy can affect velocity. The more unpredictable velocity is, the harder it is to make policy based on the assumption of a stable relationship between money supply and nominal GDP.
Nor is it true that output is always at its full-employment level, as we saw when looking at unemployment rates in Chapter 8 and at business cycles in Chapter 9. In addition, changes in prices can have causes other than monetary policy, such as when oil prices rise due to shortages or military conflict, and drive up other prices throughout the economy.
As a result, many macroeconomists argue for a more flexible and activist monetary policy stance. Rather than having the Fed locked onto a particular rule, they suggest that the Fed keep an eye on inflation but also remain flexible, so that it can respond to new developments, including financial market changes, price shocks, and threats of recession.
In Chapter 13, we bring together monetary policy, fiscal policy, and the twin goals of output and price stabilization. We also take into account some of the effects that world events, and policy responses to them, have had on the U.S. economy over the past several decades.

Discussion Questions

1.What are some arguments in favor of having the Fed follow a money supply rule? What are some arguments against it?
2.How does the issue of time lags affect fiscal and monetary policy?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1.Draw up and explain the components of the balance sheet of the Federal Reserve.
  2.Show what happens to the Fed's balance sheet and the balance sheet of a bank, when the bank sells bonds to the Fed.
  3.Describe how a Fed open market purchase leads to a sequence of loans and deposits and thus a multiplier effect.
  4.Describe two tools the Fed can use to affect the money supply, other than open market operations.
  5.Describe how a Fed open market purchase changes the federal funds rate.
  6.How is investment related to the interest rate? What other factors affect investment? Use a graphical analysis to show these relationships.
  7.Show the effects of an expansionary monetary policy in a Keynesian cross diagram.
  8.Describe how Fed policy operated during the 2000-2012 period.
  9.What is the quantity equation? What is the quantity theory of money?
10.What is monetarism?
11.Discuss how monetary expansion can lead to high inflation, using the quantity equation.
12.What are some of the problems with using a monetary rule?

EXERCISES
  1. Suppose that the Fed makes an open market purchase of $200,000 in bonds from QRS Bank.
a. Show how this affects the Fed balance sheet.
b. Show how this affects the balance sheet of QRS Bank.
c. Assume that QRS Bank lends out as much as it can, based on this changed situation. What does its balance sheet look like after it makes the loans?
d. Assume that all the proceeds from those loans are deposited in TUV Bank. What is the effect on TUV Bank's balance sheet?
e. Assume that the required reserve ratio is 10 percent. What new opportunity does TUV Bank now face? What is it likely to do?
  2. Suppose that the Fed makes an open market sale of $15 million in bonds to HIJ Bank.
a. What is the effect on the Fed's balance sheet?
b. What is the initial effect on HIJ Bank's balance sheet?
c. Show in a graph the effect on the market for federal funds. (No numbers are necessary, for this or later sections of this exercise.)
d. Assuming that the level of business confidence remains unchanged, show on a graph how this open market sale will change the level of intended investment.
e. What is the effect on aggregate demand and output? Show on a carefully labeled graph.
f. What is the effect on equilibrium consumption and saving? (You may need to refer back to Chapter 9 to answer this.)
  3. Suppose that investor confidence falls, and the Fed is aware of this fact. Using the model presented in this chapter, show (a)-(c) below graphically:
a. How a fall in investor confidence affects the schedule for intended investment.
b. What the Fed could do, influencing the federal funds market, to try to counteract this fall in investor confidence.
c. The effect on AD and output if the Fed is able to perfectly counteract the fall in business confidence.
d. Is the Fed likely to be as accurate as assumed in part (c)? Why, or why not?
  4. Suppose that the level of nominal GDP in Estilvania is $30 billion and the level of the money supply is $10 billion.
a. What is the velocity of money in Estilvania?
b. Suppose that the money supply increases to $15 billion and nominal GDP rises to $45 billion. What has happened to velocity?
c. Suppose that the money supply increases to $15 billion and nominal GDP rises to $40 billion. What has happened to velocity?
d. Suppose that the money supply decreases to $8 billion and, as a result, both the price level and real GDP fall, leading to a decrease in nominal GDP to $26 billion. What has happened to velocity?
  5 Match each concept in Column A with the best definition or example in Column B.







Column A

Column B


a.
Expansionary monetary policy
  1.
The idea that changes in the money supply affect only prices, not output


b.
Fiat money
  2.
Residential investment


c.
Accelerator principle
  3.
Standardization


d.
Monetary neutrality
  4.
A dollar coin made of minerals worth $.10


e.
Velocity
  5.
The ease with which an asset can be used in trade


f.
Liquidity
  6.
Federal Reserve open market sale of bonds


g.
Commodity money
  7.
A silver coin


h.
A good property for money to have
  8.
A silver certificate


i.
A piece of paper representing a claim on something of value
  9.
Vault cash and bank deposits at the Federal Reserve


j.
Bank reserves
10.
Currency in circulation, checkable deposits, and travelers checks


k.
M1
11.
The number of times that a unit of money changes hands in a year


l.
Very sensitive to interest rates
12.
Relates investment to GDP growth


m.
Contractionary monetary policy
13.
The Federal Reserve lowers the discount rate


  6 The chair of the Federal Reserve semiannually gives testimony before Congress about the state of monetary policy. Find the most recent such testimony at www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents.htm. What does the Fed chair identify as the most significant issues facing the economy? How is the Fed proposing to deal with them?
  7 (Appendix A1) Suppose that you have a bond with a face value of $200 and coupon amount of $10 that matures one year from now.
a. If the going interest rate is 3 percent, how much can you sell it for today?
b. If the going interest rate is 8 percent, how much can you sell it for today?
c. What does this illustrate about bond prices and interest rates?
  8 (Appendix A2) Suppose that the nominal prime interest rate for a one-year loan is currently 6 percent.
a. If inflation is 1 percent per year, what is the current real interest rate?
b. Suppose that many people believe that the inflation rate is going to rise in the future— probably up to 2 percent to 3 percent or more within a few years. You want to borrow a sum of money for ten years and are faced with deciding between

1) a series of short-term, one-year loans. The interest rate on this year's loan would be 6 percent, while future nominal interest rates are unknown.
2) A ten-year fixed-rate loan on which you would pay a constant 6.25 percent per year.


If you agree with most people and expect inflation to rise, which borrowing strategy do you expect might give you the better deal? Why? Explain your reasoning.


APPENDIX
A1. BOND PRICES AND INTEREST RATES

The process by which monetary policy influences interest rates can be explained by examining the market for federal funds, as was seen in the body of this chapter. Alternatively, it can also be explained by looking at the market for government bonds.

bond: a financial instrument that pays a fixed amount each year (the coupon amount) as well as repaying the amount of principal (the face value) on a particular date (the maturity date).

A bond represents debt, but, as a particular kind of financial instrument, bonds have some characteristics worth mentioning. When the government (or a business) borrows by selling a bond it makes promises. It promises to pay the bondholder a fixed amount of money each year for a period of time and then, at the end of this time, to repay the principal of the loan. The fixed amount paid per year is called the coupon amount. The date that the principal will be repaid is called the maturity date. The amount of principal that will be repaid is called the face value of the bond.
So far, it seems simple enough—a $100 bond at 5 percent, for example, specifies that its issuer will pay you $5 a year for ten years and then pay you $100 at the end of ten years. What makes bond markets more complicated, though, is that bonds are often sold and resold, changing hands many times before they mature. During the period to maturity, many factors affecting the value of the bond may change, and so the bond price—the price at which bondholders are willing to buy and sell existing bonds—may change.
For example, suppose that you bought the bond just described at its face value of $100. The bond yield to maturity, or annual rate of return if you hold a bond until it matures, would obviously be 5 percent ($5 annually is 5 percent of the $100 bond price). Suppose that after a couple of years you want to sell your bond (perhaps you need the cash), but meanwhile the rate of return on alternative (and equally safe) investments has risen to 10 percent. People will not be interested in buying your bond at a price of $100, because they would get only a 5 percent return on it, whereas they could get a 10 percent return by investing their $100 elsewhere. To sell your bond you will need to drop the price that you demand until your bond looks as attractive as other investments—that is, until the $5 per year represents a 10 percent yield to maturity.
Conversely, if the return on alternative investments has fallen, say to 2 percent, the $5 per year on your bond looks pretty good, and you will be able to sell it for more than $100. Bond prices and bond yields are thus inversely related.*
The U.S. Treasury issues a variety of different kinds of bonds. Treasury bills have a zero coupon amount and mature in one year or less. Because the holder receives no coupons, they are sold at a discount from their face value. Other Treasury bonds pay a coupon amount every six months and have maturities that range from two to thirty years. In the real economy, then, there are many different "government bond" prices—and interest rates. It is only for the sake of simplicity of modeling that we assume only one type of bond and one interest rate.
Although many people and organizations buy and sell government bonds on what is called the "secondary market" (the "primary market" being the Treasury's initial offering of the bonds), the Fed is a major player. Its actions in the market for government bonds are large enough to have discernible effects on the whole market. Expansionary policies tend to raise bond prices and lower bond yields and interest rates; contractionary policies do the opposite.
A simplified (secondary) bond market is shown in Figure 12.9(a). The price of bonds (and the corresponding nominal interest rate) is on the vertical axis and the quantity on the horizontal. The supply curve, in this case, is determined by the willingness of people to sell bonds—that is, to exchange their government debt for cash, which means, in effect, to stop lending to the government. The demand curve is determined by people's willingness to buy bonds—that is, to lend to the government. The effect of a Fed open market purchase of bonds is illustrated in Figure 12.9(b). A sizable Fed purchase shifts the demand curve for government bonds to the right. As a result, the price of bonds rises. Because bond prices and interest rates are inversely related, the rise in the price of bonds means that the going interest rate on them falls.**






Figure 12.9 The Market for Government Bonds
When the Federal Reserve undertakes an open market purchase, it shifts out the demand curve for government bonds. This raises the price of bonds, lowering their interest rate.





Figure 12.10   The Federal Funds and Three-Month Treasury Bill Rates, 2000-2012
The market for federal funds and the market for short-term Treasury bills are closely related.

Although this explanation focuses on the market for government bonds, it is actually parallel to the earlier discussion of the Fed and the market for federal funds. The interest rate for three-month Treasury bills and the federal funds rate are graphed together in Figure 12.10 and they track each other closely. The bottom line of this story is the same as that given by the model of federal funds used in this chapter: A Fed open market purchase drives down interest rates.

A2 SHORT VERSUS LONG-RUN AND REAL VERSUS NOMINAL INTEREST RATES

In the model of interest rates and aggregate demand discussed in Section 3 of the text, we assumed that the Fed, through open market operations, could change the interest rate that influences investment spending. In Figure 12.8 we used the symbol r to denote a generalized interest rate. In real life, however, many different interest rates have to be taken into account.
Here we present some basic facts about short-run vs. long-run and real vs. nominal interest rates. We also note the difference between the Fed's focus on the short-term, nominal interest rate and the interest rate that investors often consider the most relevant: that is, the long-term, real interest rate.
In Section 4.1 we discussed the federal funds rate as the principal interest rate targeted by the Fed. This is a short-term, nominal interest rate. It is short term, because while this rate is quoted in annualized terms (that is, what borrowers would pay if they kept the loan for a year), the loans are actually made on one day and paid back the next. The Fed uses a portfolio of government securities with various maturity dates in its open market operations, but many of them have maturity dates of three years or less. The federal funds rate—like any interest rate that you normally see quoted—is a nominal interest rate, not adjusted for inflation. The interest rates determined in markets for loanable funds are always nominal rates.
But if you are considering undertaking a substantial business investment project or buying a house, the interest rate that you should be taking into account, if you are a rational decision maker, is the real interest rate over the life of the business loan or mortgage. The real interest rate is:
r = i − π
where r is the real interest rate, i is the nominal interest rate, and n is the rate of inflation.

real interest rate: nominal interest rate minus inflation, r = i − π

For example, suppose that you borrow $100 for one year at a nominal rate of 6 percent. You will pay back $106 at the end of the year. If the inflation rate is 0, then the purchasing power of the amount that you pay back at the end of the year is actually $6 more than the amount you borrowed. However, if inflation is 4 percent during the year, the $106 that you pay back is in "cheaper" dollars (dollars that can buy less) than the dollars that you borrowed. The real interest rate on your borrowing will be only 2 percent. The higher the inflation rate, the better the deal is for a borrower at any given nominal rate (and the worse it is for the lender).
If inflation is fairly low and steady—as we assumed in the aggregate demand model—then this difference between real and nominal interest rates is not of crucial importance. If inflation is steady at, say, 2 percent, then both lenders and borrowers mentally subtract 2 percent to calculate the real rate that corresponds to any nominal rate. If the Fed lowers the prime rate from 8 percent to 5 percent, for example, then it correspondingly lowers the real rate from 6 percent to 3 percent.
In recent decades, inflation has been fairly low, usually between 1 and 3 percent. But inflation is not always so predictable. When inflation is high or variable, it is very important to realize that investors' decisions are in reality influenced by the expected real interest rate, re:
re = i − πe
where i is the nominal rate the borrower agrees to pay and πe is the expected inflation rate.

expected real interest rate: the nominal interest rate minus expected inflation, re = i − πe

The actual real interest rate (r) can be known only with hindsight. That is, only after information on inflation has come for last month or last year, can you calculate what the real interest rate was in that period. But you never know with certainty what the real interest rate is right now or what it will be next year. The more changeable inflation is, the harder it is to form reliable expectations about real interest rates.
Since investors are usually interested in long-run, real interest rates, while the Fed controls primarily short-run, nominal interest rates, the impacts of various Fed policies on the economy may not be as straightforward as our basic models imply.


  * The European Central Bank operates in the 17 member countries of the European Union (as of 2013) that have adopted the euro as their currency. The remaining EU countries either have chosen not to join the euro or do not meet the criteria for joining.
  * The president of the Federal Reserve of New York is a permanent member of the FOMC. Presidents from the other 11 regional Fed banks rotate in and out of the other four positions.
  * This can be calculated by using the formula for an infinite series where x is less than one: (1 + x + x2 + x3 + ... + xn) = 1/(1-x), just as we did in calculating the income/spending multiplier in Chapter 9. In this case x = 0.9.
  * Things get more complicated when we consider the duration of loans and the difference between short and long term interest rates. We address this issue in the Appendix.
  * In Chapter 14, we look at how monetary policy can also change AD by affecting international capital flows, the relative values of national currencies, and net exports.
  * As this text went to press in 2013, the Fed projected continuing to hold rates low through at least the end of 2014.
  * We simplify here, but to be precise, the classical view is that the economy will always tend toward full employment equilibrium in the long run. Please review Chapter 9 for a comparison between the classical and Keynesian views on this point.
  * If the bond has one year left to maturity, for example, its value one year from now is $105. We can use the formula [Value next year] / (1 + interest rate) = [Value now] to find out what you could get by selling the bond today. If the interest rate on alternative investments is 10 percent, then $105/(1 + .10) ≈ $95.45. The lower the bond price, the higher the bond yield, and vice versa. Conversely, if the return on alternative investments has fallen, say to 2 percent, the $5 per year on your bond looks pretty good, and you will be able to sell it for more than $100. If the interest rate is 2 percent, then $105/(1 + .02) ≈ $102.94.
** The exact relationship depends on the time to maturity of the bond. The longer this time, the greater the impact of an interest rate change on the bond price.













 
 
 




13
Aggregate Supply, Aggregate Demand, and Inflation: Putting It All Together




 
 

If you read the financial pages in any newspaper (or sometimes the front pages if economic issues are pressing), you will see discussion about government budgets and deficits, interest rate changes, and how these affect unemployment and inflation. You may also see news about changes in the availability of certain crucial resources—particularly energy resources—and about how the impact of such changes in resource supplies spread throughout the country's economy. How does economic theory help to make sense of it all?
In Chapter 9, we started to build a model of business cycles, focusing at first on the downturn side of the cycle and the problem of unemployment. In Chapters 10, 11, and 12, we explained economic theories concerning fiscal and monetary policy. So far, our models have focused on the "demand side," illustrated by shifts of the aggregate demand (AD) curve. In this chapter, we complete the demand-side story so that it includes explicit attention to the potential problem of inflation. Then we move on to the issue of the actual productive capacity of the economy, or "supply-side" issues. Finally, we will arrive at a model that we can use to "put it all together."

1. AGGREGATE DEMAND AND INFLATION

The AD curve in the Keynesian model used in the previous three chapters was graphed with income on the horizontal axis and output on the vertical axis. We mentioned that if output is above its full-employment level, there may be a threat of rising inflation, but nothing in the figures incorporated this idea. The graphs that we used all measured income, output, and aggregate demand without considering changes in price levels. It is time now to remedy that omission.

1.1 A NEW VIEW OF THE AGGREGATE DEMAND (AD) CURVE

We can develop a different approach to aggregate demand by viewing it in a graphical format that compares output to inflation. In this approach, the AD curve shows the effect of inflation on the macroeconomic equilibrium level. To show this graphically, we put inflation on the vertical axis, and output (Y) on the horizontal axis.* This is shown in Figure 13.1. The AD curve shown here differs from the Keynesian AD curve, since it takes into account price changes, but the points on this new curve all correspond to points where the Keynesian AD curve crosses the 45° line.
This view of aggregate demand assumes that higher inflation rates will tend to reduce total demand, for several reasons:
•When inflation rises, it reduces the value of money assets. Even if this does not reach the level of hyperinflation discussed in Chapter 11, it hurts savers and people who have money balances. This real wealth effect tends to reduce their consumption, lowering total demand.
•Inflation also lowers the real money supply, defined as M/P, where M is the nominal money supply and P is the general price level. This has an effect similar to contractionary monetary policy, raising interest rates and discouraging investment.
•Inflation hurts net exports by making domestically produced goods more expensive for foreigners and imports more attractive for domestic consumers. This decreases aggregate demand by decreasing net exports.*
•The Federal Reserve generally responds to higher inflation by raising interest rates, as discussed in Chapter 12. This also tends to lower investment and total demand.







Figure 13.1 The Aggregate Demand curve
This analysis shows the impact of different inflation levels on Aggregate Demand.


real wealth effect: the tendency of consumers to increase or decrease their consumption based on their perceived level of wealth
real money supply: the nominal money supply divided by the general price level (as measured by a price index), expressed as M/P


1.2 SHIFTS OF THE AD CURVE: SPENDING AND TAXATION

The downward slope of the AD curve shown in Figure 13.1 is based on the impacts of inflation on aggregate demand. What determines the position of the curve? As discussed in our original Keynesian AD analysis, the position of the AD depends on specific levels of government spending, taxation, autonomous consumption, autonomous investment, and net exports.** Changes in these variables will cause the curve to shift.
For example, if the government were to undertake expansionary fiscal policy, this would shift the AD curve to the right, as illustrated in Figure 13.2. At any level of inflation, there would now be aggregate demand sufficient to support a higher level of output. Alternatively, if output remained constant, there would be higher levels of inflation.
An increase in autonomous consumption or investment would have a similar effect, as would an increase in net exports. Recall that autonomous consumption is the part of household spending that does not depend on income, and autonomous investment is the part of business spending that does not depend on the interest rate. These are often used to represent consumer and business "confidence." Thus an increase in consumer or investor confidence could also cause the rightward shift in Figure 13.2. Conversely, of course, contractionary fiscal policy, reductions in consumer or investment confidence, or reduction in net exports would shift the AD curve to the left.






Figure 13.2 The Effect of Expansionary Fiscal Policy or Increased Confidence on the AD curve
If government spending increases, taxes decrease, consumers or investors become more confident, or net exports increase, demand for goods in the economy rises.
1.3 SHIFTS OF THE AD CURVE: MONETARY POLICY

As we have noted, the Federal Reserve usually responds to higher inflation by increasing interest rates, and this is reflected in the slope of the AD curve. This kind of policy response, which aims to keep inflation near a target level, is a rather passive sort of monetary policy. A more active form of Fed intervention occurs when the Fed's leaders decide to change policy more fundamentally—either by changing their inflation target or by shifting their focus to fighting unemployment.
For example, in a severe recession the Fed might decide that the economy requires additional stimulus. If the Fed instituted significant expansionary monetary policies, driving interest rates down (as it did, for example, starting in 2007), this would, in theory, have the effect of boosting investment and shifting the AD curve to the right. Alternatively, if the Fed decided that its policies on inflation have been too lax, it could tighten monetary policy sharply (this happened, for example, in 1982 in response to severe continuing inflation). This would have the effect of shifting the AD curve to the left.
To summarize:
•The AD curve indicates levels of equilibrium GDP at different possible rates of inflation.
•The AD curve can be shifted by changes in levels of autonomous consumer spending, autonomous investment, fiscal policy, net exports, or by major changes in monetary policy.

Discussion Questions

1."The negative slope of the AD curve means that higher levels of output will lead to lower levels of inflation." Is this statement correct or not? Discuss.
2.Does the Fed always want the inflation rate to be as low as possible? Why or why not?

2. CAPACITY AND THE AGGREGATE SUPPLY CURVE

As we have noted in earlier chapters, increases in AD can push output up toward the full-employment level. But what happens when output reaches—or maybe even exceeds—the full-employment level? In a graph such as Figure 13.2, for example, there is nothing in the model that seems to prevent expansionary policies from just shifting the AD curve, and output, up and up and up.
Obviously, this cannot be true in the real world. At any given time, there are only certain quantities of labor, capital, energy, and other material resources available for use. The U.S. labor force, for example, comprises just over 150 million people. The United States simply cannot, then, produce an output level that would require the work of 200 million people. This is a hard capacity constraint: What happens as an economy approaches maximum capacity can be modeled using the aggregate supply (AS) curve. The AS curve shows combinations of output and inflation that can, in fact, occur within an economy, given the reality of capacity constraints.

2.1 THE AGGREGATE SUPPLY (AS) CURVE

Figure 13.3 shows how aggregate supply is related to the rate of inflation. Starting from the right, at high output levels, we can identify four important, distinct regions of the diagram.
First, the vertical maximum capacity output line indicates the hard limit on a macroeconomy's output. Even if every last resource in the economy were put into use, with everybody working flat out to produce the most they could, the economy could not produce to the right of the maximum capacity line.

maximum capacity output: the level of output an economy would produce if every resource in the economy were fully utilized

Just below the maximum capacity level of output, the AS curve has a very steep, positive slope. This indicates that, as an economy closely approaches its maximum capacity, it is likely to experience a substantial increase in inflation. If many employers are all trying to hire many workers and buy a lot of machinery, energy, and materials all at once, workers' wages and resource prices will tend to be bid upward. But then, to cover their labor and other costs, producers will need to raise the prices that they charge for their own goods. Then, in turn, if workers find that the purchasing power of their wages is being eroded by rising inflation, they will demand higher wages ... which leads to higher prices, and so on. The result is a phenomenon called a wage-price spiral, in which pressure to produce very high levels of output leads to a steep rise in self-reinforcing inflation.

wage-price spiral: when high demand for labor and other resources creates upward pressure on wages, which in turn leads to upward pressure on prices and, as a result, further upward pressure on wages

In the real world, such steep increases in inflation are usually the result of dramatic pressures on producers, such as often occur during a national mobilization for war. During World War II, for example, the U.S. government pushed the economy very close to its maximum capacity—placing big orders for munitions and other supplies for the front, mobilizing the necessary resources by encouraging women to enter the paid labor force, encouraging the recycling of materials on an unprecedented scale, encouraging the planting of backyard gardens to increase food production, and in general pushing people's productive efforts far beyond their usual peacetime levels. As a result, unemployment plummeted. The government, knowing that such pressures could lead to sharply rising inflation (as shown in the wage-price spiral region of Figure 13.3), kept inflation from getting out of hand by instituting wage and price controls—direct regulations telling firms what they could and could not do in the way of price or wage increases.

wage and price controls: government regulations setting limits on wages and prices or on the rates at which they are permitted to increase

The shaded area to the left of the wage-price spiral region in Figure 13.3 indicates, as it did in the national income equilibrium graphs in Chapters 9 and 10, a range of full-employment levels of output. While it is controversial to say exactly where that level may be, it can be thought of as an output level high enough that unemployment is not considered a national problem. And because it must be low enough to allow for at least a small measurable level of transitory unemployment, the full-employment level of output is slightly lower than the maximum capacity level of output.






Figure 13.3 The Aggregate Supply curve
As the economy approaches its maximum capacity, inflation levels tend to rise as excessive demand for workers, goods and services, and production inputs pushes up wages and prices.

Within the full-employment range, Figure 13.3 shows a gently rising AS relationship. This is because, even well before an economy approaches the absolute maximum capacity given all its resources, producers may tend to run into "bottlenecks" in the supply of some resources. Agricultural workers may be plentiful, for example, but professional and technical workers may be in short supply. Or fuel oil may be plentiful, but there may be a shortage of natural gas. Shortages in the markets for particular kinds of labor and other inputs may lead to an acceleration of inflation in some sectors of the economy. Because the measured inflation rate represents an average for the economy as a whole, some aggregate increase in inflation may be observed.
This sort of increase in inflation that comes with high (but not extremely high) production is what economists expect to happen when the economy nears a business cycle "peak." Note, however, that the AS curve has been drawn as nearly flat in part of the Y range, indicating that combinations of full employment and stable inflation may also be possible.
When the economy is in recession or recovering slowly from a recession, output is below its full-employment level. The flat AS line shown in Figure 13.3 for this region indicates that, under these conditions, there is assumed to be no tendency for inflation to rise. Because a considerable amount of labor and other resources are unemployed, there is no pressure for higher wages or prices. It is also likely that because wages and prices tend to be slow in adjusting downward, inflation will not fall either—at least not right away.

2.2 SHIFTS OF THE AS CURVE: INFLATIONARY EXPECTATIONS

When people have experienced inflation, they come to expect it. They then tend to build the level of inflation that they expect into the various contracts into which they enter. If a business expects 5 percent inflation over the coming year, for example, it will add 5 percent to the selling price that it quotes for a product to be delivered a year into the future, just to stay even. If workers also expect 5 percent inflation, they will try to get a 5 percent cost of living allowance (COLA), just to stay even. A depositor who expects 5 percent inflation and wants a 4 percent real rate of return will be satisfied only with a 9 percent nominal rate of return.
In this way, an expected rate of inflation can start to become institutionally "built in" to an economy. As a first approximation, it is reasonable to assume that people expect something like the level of inflation that they have recently experienced (an assumption that economists call "adaptive expectations"). Thus inflation can be, to some degree, self-fulfilling.
Because different contracts come up for renegotiation at different times of the year, the process of building in particular inflationary expectations will take place only over time. Because of the time that it takes for prices and wages to adjust, we need to make a distinction between short-run and medium-run aggregate supply responses.
The AS curve in Figure 13.3 was drawn for a particular level of expected inflation in the short run. Before people have caught on to the fact that the inflation rate might be changing, their expectations of inflation will continue to reflect their recent experience. The rate of inflation at which the AS curve becomes horizontal is the expected inflation rate. In this model, an economy in recession, or on the horizontal part of the AS curve, will tend in the short run to roll along at pretty much the same inflation rate as it has experienced in the past. Only tight labor and resource markets caused by a boom will tend to increase inflation, which will come as a surprise to people and will not immediately translate into a change in expectations. For the purposes of this model, you might think of the short run as a period of some weeks or months.
Over an unspecified longer period of time—the medium run—however, a rise in inflation due to tight markets tends to increase people's expectation of inflation.* If they expect 3 percent inflation but experience 5 percent inflation, the next time that they renegotiate contracts they may build in a 5 percent rate. Figure 13.4 shows how the AS curve shifts upward as people's expectation of inflation rises. Note that the maximum capacity of the economy has not changed—nothing has happened that would affect the physical capacity of the economy to produce. All that has happened is that now, at any output level, people's expectation of inflation is higher.






Figure 13.4 The Effect of an Increase in Inflationary Expectations on the Aggregate Supply curve

If people come to expect higher inflation, these expectations get built in to wage and price contracts, leading to a generally higher level of inflation throughout the economy.

Similarly, if people experience very loose markets for their labor or products, over the medium run the expected inflation rate may start to come down. Employers may find that they can still get workers if they offer lower COLAs in the new contracts or even force workers to take pay cuts. Producers may raise their prices less this year than last year or cut prices, because they are having trouble selling in a slow market. When people start to observe wage and price inflation tapering off in some sectors of the economy, they may change their expectations about inflation. As people react to the sluggish aggregate demand that occurs during a recession, they will tend, over time, to lessen their expectations about wage and price increases. The graph for this would be similar to Figure 13.4, but would show the AS curve shifting downward instead of upward.

2.3 SHIFTS OF THE AS CURVE: SUPPLY SHOCKS

The AS curve also shifts when the capacity of the economy changes. A supply shock is something that changes the ability of an economy to produce goods and services. Supply shocks can be beneficial, as when there is a bumper crop in agriculture or a new invention allows more goods or services to be made using a smaller quantity of resources. Increases in labor productivity also allow an economy to produce more goods and services.

supply shock: a change in the productive capacity of an economy

In such cases, the real capacity of the economy expands, as shown in Figure 13.5. The line indicating maximum capacity shifts to the right, showing that the economy can produce more than before. We model the beneficial supply shock as moving the AS curve both to the right and downward. It moves to the right because capacity has increased. It moves downward because beneficial supply shocks are often accompanied by decreases in prices. As computer technology has improved, for example, the price of any given amount of computing power has dropped rapidly. To the extent that computers play a significant role in the economy, this tends to undermine inflation.






Figure 13.5 A Beneficial Supply Shock: Expansion of Output Capacity
An expansion of output capacity could be a result of new technology or improved labor productivity

Supply shocks can also be adverse. In fact, economists were first forced to start theorizing about supply shocks when the oil embargo during the 1970s resulted in steeply rising oil prices. Natural occurrences, such as hurricanes or droughts, and human-caused situations, such as wars, that destroy capital goods and lives are other examples of adverse supply shocks. They reduce the economy's capacity to produce and, by concentrating demand on the limited supplies of resources that remain, tend to lead to higher inflation. Adverse supply shocks would be illustrated in a graph such as Figure 13.5, but with the direction of all the movements reversed.

Discussion Questions

1.Describe in words how the AS curve differs from the AD curve. What does each represent? What explains their slopes?
2.Do you get "cost of living" raises at your job or know people who do? Why does this practice have important macroeconomic consequences?

3. PUTTING THE AS/AD MODEL TO WORK

Economists invented the AS/AD model to illustrate three points about the macroeconomy:
1.Fiscal and monetary policies affect output and inflation:
•Expansionary fiscal and monetary policies tend to push the economy toward higher output. If the economy is approaching its maximum capacity, they will also cause inflation to rise.
•Contractionary fiscal and monetary policies tend to push the economy toward lower output. Inflation is unlikely to fall quickly, but a persistent recession will tend to lower inflation over the long term.
2.Supply shocks may also have significant effects:
•Adverse supply shocks lower output and raise inflation.
•Beneficial supply shocks raise output and lower inflation.
3.Investor and consumer confidence and expectations also have important effects on output and inflation.
Bearing these principles in mind, we will see how this model helps to explain some major macroeconomic events.

3.1 AN ECONOMY IN RECESSION

In Figure 13.6, we bring together the AS and AD curves for the first time. The (short-run) equilibrium of the economy is shown as point E0, at the intersection of the two curves. Depending on how we place the curves in the figure, we could illustrate an economy that is in a recession, at full employment, or in a wage-price spiral. (We temporarily omit the maximum capacity line, but we reintroduce it when we discuss inflation.)
In this specific case, the fact that E0 is to the left of the full-employment range of output indicates that the economy is in a recession. Private spending, as determined in part by investor and consumer confidence, along with government and foreign sector spending, are not enough to keep the economy at full employment. The fact that the curves intersect on the flat part of the AS curve indicates that inflation (in the short run) is stable. So in this situation unemployment is the major problem. What can be done?
Figure 13.6 models the real-world situation of the U.S. economy in 2007-9 recession. Unemployment rose to 10 percent in 2009, but inflation was very low. In this situation, the administration of President Barack Obama called for a major fiscal stimulus program, which was approved by Congress in early 2009. The goal of the stimulus program, which included $800 billion in increased government spending and tax cuts, was to promote employment both through its direct impact and multiplier effects expanding private spending and employment. This effect is shown in Figure 13.7 as a rightward shift of the AD curve.






Figure 13.6 Aggregate Demand and Supply Equilibrium in Recession
The position of the AD curve indicates a low level of aggregate demand, leading to an economy with unemployment at equilibrium E0. At this point on the AS curve, inflationary pressures are low.





Figure 13.7 Expansionary Fiscal Policy in Response to a Recession
An expansion of government spending, as well as a program of tax cuts, shifts the AD curve to the right. This reduces unemployment, but since the economy is in the flat portion of the AS curve at equilibrium E1, it has little effect on inflation.

As noted in Chapter 10 (Box 10.1), the stimulus plan was responsible for adding millions of jobs to the economy. While economists are not in agreement about how large the multiplier effects of the program were, many argue that without the program, the economy would have continued to plunge deeper into recession.1 The effects, however, were not large enough to bring the economy back to full employment. This is reflected in Figure 13.7 as an AD shift that moves output toward, but not into, the full-employment zone.
How about the effect of this expansionary program on inflation? As the AS/AD model would lead us to expect, inflation did not rise because the economy did not move beyond the flat portion of the AS curve. Some economists and political commentators warned that such a high level of government spending and deficits would certainly cause serious inflation—but as of late 2013, four years after the initiation of the stimulus program, inflation remained low (See Box 13.1).
Given continued unemployment and low inflation, would more macroeconomic stimulus make sense? Some economists argued that it would, but proposals for further fiscal stimulus were not acted on by Congress, largely out of fear that deficits were already too high (for more on this debate, see Chapter 16). So the Federal Reserve stepped in with the further monetary stimulus known as "quantitative easing" (as discussed in Chapter 12). The hope was that a combination of this monetary expansion plus recovering confidence on the part of consumers and businesses could lead to a more complete recovery.
This goal (not yet reached as of late 2013) is shown in Figure 13.8. Here we see that a larger AD shift brings the economy back into the full-employment zone. At this point, the model predicts that there could be at least a slight increase in inflation. Detection of such rising inflation would signal the Fed to cut back on its monetary expansion. Provided any inflation effect remained small, the overall effort could be judged a success.
As we see later in this chapter, not all economists agree with this analysis. Some classical economists argue that inflation has merely been delayed but will eventually cause major problems and perhaps force a return to recession. We will look into the theoretical issues involved later (without providing any definite judgment on the debate).


BOX 13.1 WHAT HAPPENED TO INFLATION?
As of mid-2013, inflation in the United States remained sluggish. Prices rose at the slowest pace in at least half a century, up just 1.1 percent over the previous year as of May 2013, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis. "Inflation has been quiet, and perhaps more important from a central bank perspective, inflationary expectations remain subdued" (Norris, 2013).

Slow inflation may sound like a good thing, but it's not ... Economic research suggests that inflation is best in moderation. Price increases lead to wage increases, which make it easier to repay existing debts, like mortgages, and more attractive to incur new debts, like borrowing to start a company. Inflation also functions as a kind of economic WD- 40, easing shifts in the allocation of resources. It is easier for struggling companies and industries to adjust by withholding cost-of-living increases than by seeking to impose wage cuts. Perhaps most importantly, moderate inflation keeps the economy at a safe distance from deflation, or general price declines, which can freeze activity as would-be buyers wait for lower prices. (Appelbaum, 2013)

According to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, "We are certainly determined to keep inflation near its objective, not only avoiding inflation that's too high, but we also want to avoid inflation that's too low." According to economist Paul Krugman, the current low inflation results from persistent weakness in the economy, and the need is not for anti-inflationary policy, but for more economic stimulus to fight unemployment. Predictions that stimulus policies by the federal government and the Federal Reserve would lead to runaway inflation have been proved wrong by the course of events (Norris, 2013). While some continue to warn of future inflation, Krugman argues that the reality of continuing unemployment imposes immediate, and lasting, costs on the economy, and therefore represents the more urgent problem to address.
Sources: Binyamin Appelbaum, "Yes, We Have No Inflation," New York Times, June 27, 2013; Floyd Norris, "Predictions on Fed Strategy that Did Not Come to Pass," New York Times, June 29, 2013; Paul Krugman, "Not Enough Inflation," New York Times, May 2, 2013.






Figure 13.8 A Greater Expansion of Aggregate Demand
If Aggregate Demand increases by a larger amount, it can bring the economy back into the full employment zone. At equilibrium point E1 the AS/AD model indicates the possibility of a slightly higher inflation level.

We do know, however, that there have been other times in recent economic history when inflation has been a major problem. What does the AS/AD model indicate about policy in such periods? We explore this topic next.

3.2 AN OVERHEATED ECONOMY

Problems with inflation were a major issue in the United States starting in the late 1960s. High government spending, in particular spending on the Vietnam war, meant that fiscal policy was excessively expansionary. Monetary policy during this period tended to accommodate the fiscal expansion. Although unemployment was very low as a result, the economy started to "overheat," causing inflation to rise.






Figure 13.9 Excessively High Aggregate Demand Causes Inflation
Expansionary policy causes the economy to "heat up." In the short run, people respond by increasing output, but tight markets for labor and other resources cause inflation to rise as well at equilibrium point E1.





Figure 13.10 The Phillips Curve in the 1960s
In the 1960s economist A.W. Phillips identified an inverse relationship between inflation and unemployment. While this basic relationship still holds true, events of the 1970s and later showed that inflation can be much more variable than the simple Phillips principle implies.

This period of history is modeled in Figure 13.9. The AD curve moves further to the right due to the increases in government spending. It shifts from AD0, which at E0 corresponds to a full-employment equilibrium, to AD1 which crosses the AS curve in the wage-price spiral range. The economy became overheated, moving beyond full employment to E1
The tradeoff between unemployment and inflation in the 1960s established a pattern that became known as the Phillips curve, after the economist who first identified it. The 1960s Phillips curve is shown in Figure 13.10. As you can see, the shape of the upward-sloping portion of the AS curve is essentially a mirror image of the Phillips curve. This is no coincidence. The models that economists developed during the 1960s grew out of observing such a pattern of unemployment and inflation rates and trying to explain why it occurred. The Phillips curve relationship seemed to suggest that policymakers could continue to "trade off" inflation and unemployment—that they could, by use of appropriate fiscal and monetary policies, choose to settle the economy at any point along the curve. Policymakers could push up inflation to keep unemployment low or perhaps sacrifice some employment to push down inflation—or so it was thought at the time.

3.3 STAGFLATION

The developments of the early 1970s came as a shock to Phillips-curve-minded economists and policymakers. From 1969 to 1970, unemployment and inflation both rose, and both stayed fairly high through the 1970-73 period. This combination of economic stagnation (recession) and high inflation came to be known as stagflation.

stagflation: a combination of rising inflation and economic stagnation

What happened? In 1968, worried about rising inflation, President Lyndon Johnson persuaded Congress to enact an income tax surcharge. In our model, we show this contractionary fiscal policy as a leftward shift of the AD curve in Figure 13.11.
This policy move is widely considered to have been "too little, too late" to curb consumer and investor spending. By the time the economy started to cool off, inflationary expectations had become firmly implanted. Having recently experienced a wage-price spiral, people had built expectations of higher inflation into their wage and price contracts. As Karl Otto Pohl, former president of the Bundesbank, the German central bank, once commented, inflation is like toothpaste—once you squeeze it out of the tube, you cannot get it back in. Although the fiscal cutbacks contributed to falling GDP and rising unemployment, they did not bring down inflation due to this institutional "ratcheting up" of inflationary expectations.






Figure 13.11 Rising Inflationary Expectations and Contractionary Fiscal Policy
Once inflationary expectations increase, they become difficult to reverse. Contractionary fiscal policy raises unemployment at equilibrium point E1, but lowers inflation only slightly.


The increase in inflationary expectations is represented by an upward shift of the AS curve. In Figure 13.11, the combination of the contractionary fiscal policy and the rise in inflationary expectations is shown as moving the economy from an overheated boom point of E0 to a recessionary, high inflation point of E1. This is exactly what happened to the U.S. economy in the early 1970s.
The situation became worse later in the decade. In 1973-74, the member countries of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) cut production, greatly increased the price at which they sold their oil, and even temporarily stopped shipping oil to certain countries. The price of oil, a key input into many production processes, suddenly quadrupled. What effect did this have on the macroeconomy?
The impact of the oil price shock is shown in Figure 13.12. The economy starts off in a recession at point E0, which is substantially to the left of the initial maximum capacity line. The cut in foreign oil production meant that the United States (and many other oil-importing countries) now suffered from a reduced capacity to produce goods, which is shown in Figure 13.12 by the maximum capacity line and AS curves shifting to the left. Even if labor resources were fully employed, an economy with reduced access to other inputs would not be able to produce as much. At the same time, the rise in oil prices had an immediate and direct effect on inflation, shifting the AS curve up as well, as also shown in Figure 13.12. Both inflation and unemployment got worse.






Figure 13.12 The Effect of the Oil Price Shock of the 1970s
A drastic increase in the price of a key resource reduces the economy's total capacity and shifts the AS curve up and to the left. Both inflation and unemployment get worse at equilibrium point E1.
3.4 A HARD LINE AGAINST INFLATION

This was still not the end of the inflationary story of the 1970s. Although oil prices held steady and inflation moderated during the period 1975-78, oil prices jumped again in 1979 and 1980. In 1979, the price of oil was ten times higher than it had been in 1973. The overall inflation rate in the United States was more than 9 percent in 1979—and exceeded 10 percent (measured at an annual rate) during some months.
The high rates of inflation experienced in the late 1970s were very damaging to the economy. As we noted in Chapter 11, high rates of inflation can wipe out the value of people's savings and make it very difficult for households and business to plan, save, and invest. Because unemployment was also high, as shown in Figure 13.12, it was difficult to see how consumers and businesses could ever recover confidence while inflation seemed out of control.
Even though the economy was already in a recession, and the unemployment rate was above 7 percent, the Federal Reserve, under the chairmanship of Paul Volcker, took deliberate and drastic action to bring the long-term inflation rate down, by implementing very contractionary monetary policies. The effects of these "tight money" policies during the early 1980s can be seen in Figure 13.13.
As discussed earlier, contractionary monetary policy shifts the AD curve to the left. The AS/AD model predicts that the immediate effect of this policy will be to send the economy even deeper into a recession, with output falling even farther below its full-employment level, as shown by equilibrium point E1 But there is a further effect, on inflationary expectations.
This contractionary policy was accompanied by many stories in the media about how Volcker was really committed to bringing down inflation, no matter the cost. Because people found this commitment credible, their expectations of inflation also came down. The effect of this decrease in inflationary expectations is shown as a downward shift in the AS curve to AS1, showing a reduction in inflation. Such a recession with falling inflation is, in fact, what happened during the Volker contraction. By 1983, the inflation rate had fallen to 4 percent, but at a significant human and economic cost. Unemployment during 1982 and 1983 rose to nearly 10 percent. But in the years that followed, the economy recovered and employment increased, as shown by equilibrium point E2.
The experience of the 1980s showed that after inflationary expectations become established, they can be reduced only by policies that cause major economic pain. This has led future policymakers to be very wary of encouraging any new inflationary wage-price spiral. Changes in the global economy in the 1990s, however, made achieving low-inflation goals significantly easier, as discussed in the next section.






Figure 13.13 The Effects of The Fed's "Tight Money" Policies in the 1980s
A very restrictive monetary policy drives the AD curve sharply to the left, pushing unemployment to very high levels. But a resulting decrease in inflationary expectations shown in aggregate supply curve AS1 lowers inflation and allows the economy to recover to equilibrium point E2.
3.5 TECHNOLOGY AND GLOBALIZATION

Following the substantial recession and disinflation of the early 1980s, output began to recover again. Fluctuations in unemployment and inflation continued, though within narrower bands than during the earlier years. From 1984 to 2004, unemployment varied from 4 percent to about 8 percent and inflation from 1 percent to about 6 percent; since 1992 inflation has never risen above 4 percent, and briefly fell to zero following the Great Recession (raising concerns about the opposite problem of deflation, as discussed in Chapter 11). Unemployment was low throughout the 1990s, but peaked again at 10% in 2010 following the Great Recession, and then declined only slowly (see Figures 13.14 and 13.15).






Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Current Population Survey, 2013.
Figure 13.14 Unemployment trends 1960-present (Percentage of Labor Force)
Unemployment peaked in 1982, and again in 2010. Since 2010 unemployment has declined slowly, and was just above 7% at the end of 2013.





Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Consumer Price Index (CPI-U), 2013.
Figure 13.15 Inflation trends 1960-present (Annual Percent Inflation)
After peaking in 1980, inflation fell throughout the 1980s and 1990s, and has remained low. Following the Great Recession it fell briefly to zero, raising concerns about possible deflation. By 2011 it had returned to about 2%, historically a relatively low level.

We can use our AS/AD analysis to focus on one more period: the expansion of the 1990s. From 1992 to 1998, unemployment rates and inflation rates steadily fell, as shown in Figures 13.14 and 13.15. In 1998, unemployment was 4.4 percent, the lowest it had been since 1965. Inflation was 1.6 percent, lower than it had been in more than 10 years. This was clearly the best macroeconomic performance in decades. Unemployment continued to fall for another two years, reaching 3.9 percent in 2000.
What caused this sustained recovery? Significant advances in innovation—in particular enormous leaps in information technology, including the advent of widespread use of the Internet and information systems for business supplies, deliveries, and product design— provided a major impetus for this period of superior macroeconomic performance. This can be modeled as a period of beneficial supply shocks, as shown in Figure 13.16.
Many economists also point to increasing global competitiveness as a factor in the rising productivity of this period. Competition from foreign firms, they argue, made U.S. firms work harder to become efficient. Meanwhile, competition from foreign workers and anti-union government policies weakened the power of domestic unions. This helped keep wage and price inflation low (though it also had consequences for the U.S. distribution of income, as described in Chapters 3 and 8).
The strong performance of the macroeconomy in the 1990s inspired economic optimism. A number of commentators wondered whether we were entering a "new economy" in which business cycles would become a thing of the past. Events after 2000 proved otherwise. In 2001-2 the stockmarket crashed, as the "dot-com" speculative bubble burst. About a year later, the economy slid into recession. Expansionary fiscal and monetary policies, including tax rate cuts and low interest rates, helped to promote a recovery from that recession. But in 2007, another even more significant speculative bubble in housing collapsed, leading rapidly to the most severe recession since the 1930s—often referred to as the Great Recession because of its length and severity. The housing bubble and the Great Recession are discussed in much greater detail in Chapter 15.






Figure 13.16 The Effects of Technological Innovation and Increased Efficiency
Beneficial supply shocks such as improved technology move the AS curve and the economy's maximum capacity to the right, also tending to raise employment and output while lowering inflation levels, as seen in the shifts from E0 to E1 to E2.

This brings us back to the first application that we discussed for AS/AD analysis—policies to recover from recession. It seems that we have not entered a new, business-cycle-free, "recession-proof" economic optimum. Instead, we have relived some of the recessionary problems of previous decades. Although the real productivity gains made during the 1990s did not go away, and the effects of that part of the expansion persist to this day, the kinds of economic fluctuation and policy response that we have tried to model with AS/AD analysis clearly remain of prime importance to macroeconomics (see Box 13.2).

 

BOX 13.2 SOFT JOBS DATA POSES DILEMMA FOR FED
A disappointing jobs report in September 2013 raised questions about whether the Federal Reserve should continue with its stimulus program, or "taper" its efforts. While the economy continued to add jobs, the rate of growth was slow, and the proportion of Americans either working or looking for work fell to its lowest level since 1978. There were a few bright spots in the report, including a slight increase in the number of hours worked and a 5-cent gain in hourly wages for private sector workers. Over the previous year, average hourly earnings have risen by 52 cents, or 2.2 percent, before adjusting for inflation of about 1.6 percent.

"If you had a more optimistic view of the economy, which I think the Fed does, this should give you some pause," said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR economic consultants. "It's been a real struggle here in the labor market."
Still, some economists said they believed that Fed governors would find enough bright spots in the report to justify scaling back their monthly purchases of long-term Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities—measures that help push down long-term interest rates—after their next meeting. "There's just barely enough in that report and other forward-looking indicators to give Fed governors the confidence they need to taper," said Ian Shepardson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics.

Despite the lukewarm jobs growth, the jobless rate edged closer to the 7 percent level that the Fed had identified as their target for ending asset purchases. Some economists suggested that the Fed governors might taper bond purchases more slowly, and combine this with other measures aimed to maintain employment growth, such as continuing to hold short-term interest rates near zero for an extended period.
Source: Catherine Rampell, "Soft Jobs Data Not Expected to Deter Fed," New York Times, September 6, 2013.

Discussion Questions

1.Under what circumstances can aggregate demand be increased without leading to problems with inflation? Under what circumstances is an increase in aggregate demand likely to cause inflation?
2.Stagflation—a combination of unemployment and inflation—seems to be the worst of both worlds. What policies were used to respond to the stagflation of the late 1970s and early 1980s? What factors led to improving economic conditions in the later 1980s and the 1990s?

4. COMPETING THEORIES

The AS/AD model has given us insight into some of the major macroeconomic fluctuations of the past several decades. But there remains much room for controversy. Was it necessary to enact expansionary fiscal policy in order to get the economy out of the 2007-8 recession? Was it a good idea for the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates to near zero in 2007-13 to try to promote recovery? Economists differ greatly in their views on these issues, and their theoretical backgrounds tend to inform their answers to these and other more contemporary questions.
Here we review the ways in which classical and Keynesian economics address these questions. Additional theories—some of which take positions between these two poles—are reviewed in the Appendix to this chapter.

4.1 CLASSICAL MACROECONOMICS

As discussed in previous chapters, economists with ties to the classical school tend to believe in the self-adjusting properties of a free-market system. In the classical view, labor markets clear at an equilibrium wage (Chapter 8). Classical markets for loanable funds cause savings and investment to be equal at an equilibrium interest rate (Chapter 9). In theory, then, a smoothly functioning economy should never be at anything other than full employment.
In terms of the AS/AD model, the classical theory implies an AS curve that is quite different from the one that we have been working with, as shown in Figure 13.17. In such an economy, output would always be at its full-employment level (now shown as a distinct value, rather than a range). The AD level would determine the inflation rate, but nothing else.
The rationale for this vertical AS curve is as follows. At the full-employment level, people are making their optimizing choices about how much to work, consume, and so on. If for some reason the economy were to produce at less than the full-employment level, the unemployed workers would bid down wages and full employment would be restored. If the economy were to produce at more than its full-employment level, wages would be bid up, and employment would drop back to its full-employment level. Such processes are assumed to work so quickly and smoothly that the economy will return to full employment fairly quickly.






Figure 13.17 The Classical View of AS/AD
The vertical AS curve represents the classical view that the economy will tend to return to full employment automatically

What, according to the classical model, is the effect of aggregate demand management policies? As we can see in Figure 13.17, expansionary fiscal or monetary policy can have no effect on the output level. Classical economists believe that increased government spending just "crowds out" private spending (as discussed in Chapter 10), in particular spending on investment. Because the economy is already at its full-employment level of Y*, more spending by government just means less spending by consumers and businesses.
Similarly, in the classical view, monetary expansions are believed to lead only to increased inflation. As we saw in our discussion of classical monetary theory in Chapter 12, the classical prescription is that the central bank should just choose a certain growth rate of the money supply or level of the interest rate to support and stick to it, without concerning itself about unemployment and output. Classical theory tends to support politically conservative policies that emphasize small government and strict rules on monetary policy. Classical economists would tend to say that the fiscal expansionary policies put into place in 2009 were unnecessary for the purposes of macroeconomic stabilization but that the Volcker contraction of the early 1980s was a good idea.

4.2 KEYNESIAN MACROECONOMICS

The original Keynesian belief was that market economies are inherently unstable. The Keynesian notion of the influence of "animal spirits" on investment refers to the tendency of private decision-makers to become overly optimistic and create booms in investing and production. And the higher the boom, the deeper the crash. Firms that have overextended and overproduced during an upswing need time to regroup, sell off inventory, and so on, before they will be ready to go on the upswing again. Households that have overextended and overspent during a boom also need to regroup and perhaps pay down debt, before they will be willing to restart an optimistic spending bandwagon.
This view of perpetual business cycles is a fundamentally different worldview from those that presume an automatic "settling down" of the economy at a full-employment equilibrium. Keynes did not believe that macroeconomic phenomena could be explained by assuming rational, optimizing behavior by individuals and then extrapolating from models of individual markets to the macroeconomy. Modern Keynesians argue that this inherent tendency toward market instability requires active government intervention and that the alternative—simply waiting for the market to correct itself—risks major economic damage and long-term depression.
It is important to note that Keynesians do not only favor expansionary fiscal and monetary policies. They believe that they are needed in case of recession, but under different circumstances, such as the inflationary periods that we have discussed, contractionary policy may be called for. Keynesians thus find the kind of analysis that we have presented in this chapter very useful for determining what type of policy is needed in different circumstances. The traditional model of Keynesian business cycles must be modified to deal with new events such as supply shocks (discussed above) and sustainability issues (discussed in Chapter 18). These require models that are flexible enough to address new issues as they arise. Such models are best built on the understanding that economies are subject to a variety of forces, many of which can swamp the market equilibrium logic that would be expected to lead to a classical situation of full-employment equilibrium.
In the modern era, the debate between economists who favor classical approaches and those who argue for Keynesian analysis has continued. The Great Recession and its aftermath have provided new fodder for these arguments about economic analysis and policy (see Box 13.3).

 

BOX 13.3 CLASSICAL AND KEYNESIAN VIEWS OF RECESSION AND RECOVERY
The Great Recession of 2007-9 and its aftermath— a very slow recovery that was still in progress as of 2013, four years after the formal end of the recession—have provided a new arena for the long-running debate between classical and Keynesian views in economics.
Two major responses to the recession—the U.S. fiscal stimulus program of 2009-11 and the Federal Reserve policies of ultralow interest rates and "quantitative easing" to expand the money supply—are right out of the Keynesian playbook of expansionary fiscal and monetary policy. At the same time, policies of "austerity" (drastic spending cutbacks) implemented in many European countries reflect the classical perspective that excessive government spending is a problem, not a solution, and that budget deficits need to be eliminated. Thus the discussion has focused on the relative success or failure of these policies.
Keynesians argued that the stimulative fiscal and monetary policies implemented in the United States prevented a much worse recession, saving or creating millions of jobs (Blinder and Zandi, 2010) and putting the country on a (slow) road to recovery. They believed that the results, in terms of employment creation, were limited mainly because the stimulus was not large enough and that the stimulus was essentially reversed after the 2010 Republican congressional victories. Although Keynesians generally supported the Fed's expansionary policies, they suggested that they are subject to the "liquidity trap" identified by Keynes—the tendency of banks and individuals to hold on to money in bad times, limiting the effectiveness of expansionary monetary policy (Krugman, 201 1, 2013). Meanwhile, they pointed to the deepening recession in Europe as proof that the "classical medicine" of budget austerity was counterproductive.
Classical economists, by contrast, saw the government efforts at economic stimulation as a failure, one that would saddle the country with an increased burden of debt. According to Allan Meltzer (2011),

U.S. fiscal and monetary policies are mainly directed at getting a near-term result. The estimated cost of new jobs in President Obama's jobs bill is at least $200,000 per job ... once the subsidies end, the jobs disappear—but the bonds that financed them remain and must be serviced. Perhaps that's why estimates of the additional spending generated by Keynesian stimulus—the "multiplier effect" have failed to live up to expectations.

As of 2013, the U.S. economy was performing much better than most European economies, which were still well below their production levels of 2007, with unemployment rates reaching Great Depression levels of over 25 percent. Predictions by classical economists of the beneficial effects of budget austerity in Europe, and of accelerating inflation in the United States, had not come true (Morris, 2013). U.S. budget deficits were falling (in June 2013, the federal government even briefly ran a surplus)—something that Keynesians attributed to the success of their policies, while classical economists pointed to budget cuts imposed as part of the "debt ceiling" deal of 2011 (discussed further in Chapter 16).
Does this situation amount to a vindication of Keynesian policies or merely a temporary and partial success that will look different in a long-term perspective? Will the United States end up crippled by debt, or will economic recovery make debt management much easier? Will European economies rebound based on conservative budget policies, or will these countries eventually turn to more expansionary approaches? The economic argument will continue, and new policies and new data will be grist to the mill of continued economic debate.
Sources: Alan S. Blinder and Mark Zandi, "How the Great Recession Was Brought to an End," 2010, w­w­w­.e­c­o­n­-­o­m­y­.c­o­m­/­m­a­r­k­-­z­a­n­d­i­/­d­o­c­u­m­e­n­t­s­/­E­n­d­-­o­f­-­G­r­e­a­t­-­R­e­c­e­s­s­i­o­n­.p­d­f­; Paul Krugman, "Keynes Was Right," New York Times, December 29, 2011, and "Deficit Hawks Down," New York Times, January 25, 2013; Allan H. Meltzer, "Four Reasons Keynesians Keep Getting It Wrong," Wall Street Journal, October 28, 2011; Harvey Morris, "Europe Urged to Make a U-Turn on Austerity," International Herald Tribune, April 10, 2013.

Discussion Questions

1.What is the effect of expansionary fiscal and monetary policies in the classical model?
2.Which do you think gives a better description of economic realities: classical or Keynesian macroeconomic theory? Explain.


REVIEW QUESTIONS
 1.What does the AD curve represent, and why does it slope downward?
 2.What shifts the AD curve?
 3.What does the AS curve represent, and why does it have the shape that it has?
 4.What shifts the AS curve?
 5.Describe, using the AS/AD model, a combination of events that might cause an economy to suffer from "stagflation."
 6.Describe, using the AS/AD model, the impact of an adverse supply shock.
 7.Describe, using the AS/AD model, how Federal Reserve policy might bring down inflation over time.
 8.Describe, using the AS/AD model, the effects of a series of positive supply shocks.
 9.What does the AS curve look like in the classical model, and why?
10.What underlying dynamic did Keynes believe is behind the business cycle? Illustrate with an ASIAD graph.

EXERCISES
1.For each of the following, indicate which curve in the AS/AD model shifts (initially), and in which direction(s):
a.A beneficial supply shock
b.An increase in government spending
c.A monetary contraction designed to lower the long-run inflation rate
d.An increase in taxes
e.An adverse supply shock
f.A fall in people's expectations of inflation
g.A decrease in consumer confidence
2.Suppose the inflation rate in an economy is observed to be falling. Sketching an AS/AD model for each case, determine which of the following phenomena could be the cause. (There may be more than one.)
a.The federal government gives households a substantial tax cut
b.Agricultural harvests are particularly good this year
c.Businesses are confident about the future and are buying more equipment
d.The Fed is trying to move the economy toward a lower long-run inflation rate
3.Suppose that an economy is currently experiencing full employment, and inflation is only slightly higher than had been expected.
a.Draw and carefully label an AS/AD diagram that illustrates this case. Label the point representing the state of this economy E(a).
b.Suppose that investors' confidence is actually only in the middle of an upswing. As investor confidence continues to rise, what happens to inflation and output? Add a new curve to your graph to illustrate this, as well as explaining in words. Label the point illustrating the new situation of the economy E(b).
c.What sort of tax policy might a government enact to try to counteract an excessive upswing in investor confidence? Assuming this policy is effective, illustrate on your graph the effect of this policy, labeling the result E(c).
4.Suppose that an economy is in a deep recession.
a.Draw and carefully label an AS/AD diagram that illustrates this case. Label the point representing the state of this economy E0.
b.If no policy action is taken, what will happen to the economy over time? Show on your graph, labeling some new possible equilibrium points E1, E2, and E3. (Think about which curve shifts over time, and why, when the economy stagnates. Assume that no changes occur in investor or consumer confidence or in the economy's maximum capacity output level.)
c.Suppose that the changes you outlined in (b) occurred very rapidly and dramatically. Is government policy necessary to get the economy out of the recession?
d.Write a few sentences relating the above analysis to the dispute between classical and Keynesian macroeconomists.
5.Check recent inflation rates in Figure 13.15 and at h­t­t­p­:­/­/­u­s­i­n­f­l­a­t­i­o­n­.o­r­g­/­u­s­-­i­n­f­l­a­t­i­o­n­-­r­a­t­e­/­ What do you think explains the recent pattern of inflation? How does this relate to AS/AD analysis, and to the debate among different schools of thought, as discussed in Box 13.3?
6.Empirical data on the macroeconomy can be found in the Economic Report of the President. Go to w­w­w­.g­p­o­a­c­c­e­s­s­.g­o­v­/­e­o­p­/­ and download statistical tables for the "civilian unemployment rate" and "price indexes for gross domestic product." Jot down data on the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate and the percent change in the GDP implicit price deflator for recent periods. Plot a few points on a graph to show how the economy has performed recently. (Sometimes data is presented for months or calendar quarters, rather than for years. For the purposes of this exercise, you may simply average the numbers within a year to get a number for the year.)
7.Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B.
 








Column A

Column B


a.
Aggregate supply
 1.
A rightward shift in the AD curve


b.
Real wealth effect
 2.
A suggested relationship between inflation and unemployment


c.
Increase in autonomous consumption
 3.
People's feelings about prices, based on experience or observation


d.
Maximum capacity output
 4.
The economy's total production in relation to inflation


e.
Beneficial supply shock
 5.
A sudden shortage of a key resource


f.
Reduction in autonomous investment
 6.
A self-reinforcing tendency of wages and prices to rise


g.
Aggregate demand
 7.
Increased (or decreased) spending as a result of feeling wealthier (or poorer)


h.
Inflationary expectations
 8.
Government regulations to prevent wages and prices rising


i.
Phillips curve
 9.
The economy's total production if all resources are fully utilized


j.
Wage-price spiral
10.
A burst of technological progress


k.
Wage and price controls
11.
Total spending on goods and services in an economy


l.
Vertical AS curve
12.
A leftward shift in the AD curve


m.
Adverse supply shock
13.
Represents the classical model of an economy at full employment




NOTE
1. Congressional Budget Office, Estimated Impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act on Employment and Output from October 2012 through December 2012, 2012; "Congressional Budget Office Defends Stimulus," Washington Post, June 6, 2012; Alan S. Blinder and Mark Zandi, "How the Great Recession Was Brought to an End," w­w­w­.e­c­o­n­o­m­y­.c­o­m­/­m­a­r­k­-­z­a­n­d­i­/­d­o­c­u­m­e­n­t­s­/­E­n­d­-­o­f­-­G­r­e­a­t­-­R­e­c­e­s­s­i­o­n­.p­d­f­, 2010.

APPENDIX: MORE SCHOOLS OF MACROECONOMICS
A1. NEW CLASSICAL ECONOMICS

In the simple classical model presented above, the economy is nearly always at or close to full employment. Faced with the empirical evidence of widely fluctuating output and unemployment rates, some modern-day economists—often called "new classical" economists—have come up with a number of theories that seek to explain how classical theory can be consistent with the observed fluctuations.
At one extreme, some economists have sought to redefine full employment to mean pretty much whatever level of employment currently exists. Assuming that people make optimizing choices and markets work smoothly, one might observe employment levels rise and fall if, for example, technological capacities or people's preferences for work versus leisure shift over time. Some new classical economists, who have worked on what is called real business cycle theory, have suggested that "intertemporal substitution of leisure" (i.e., essentially, people voluntarily taking more time off during recessions) could be at the root of the lower employment levels observed during some historical periods.

real business cycle theory: the theory that changes in employment levels are caused by change in technological capacities or people's preferences concerning work

Economists of the rational expectations school (which originated during the 1970s and 1980s) proposed a theory as to why monetary policy only affects the inflation rate and not output. The basic idea is that people have perfect foresight (i.e., they are perfectly rational), so their decisions already factor in the effects of predictable Fed policy, rendering it ineffective. This model can be explained by using the AS/AD model with a classical-type vertical AS (as shown in Figure 13.17). This vertical AS is interpreted to be the real supply curve for the economy, while in the short term the ordinary, curved AS reflects people's inflationary expectations.

rational expectations theory: the theory that people's expectations about Federal Reserve policy cause predictable monetary policies to be ineffective in changing output levels

Figure 13.18 shows the effects of an expansionary monetary policy in this classical world. Starting at E0, the Fed acts to shift the AD curve to the right by expanding the money supply, from AD0 to AD1. Economists of the rational expectations school predict that actors in the private economy will anticipate this expansionary move by the Fed and interpret it to mean that higher inflation is likely. As a result, they immediately raise their inflationary expectations. This rise in expected inflation, shown by the upward shift of the standard AS curve from AS0 to AS1, cancels out the expansionary effects of the policy. Output will not change, and the economy stays on the classical AS curve—but at a higher level of inflation. Possibly a very unexpected move by the Fed might have a temporary effect on output, but as soon as people understand what policies the Fed is carrying out, the policies will become ineffective due to changes in expectations.
Other new classical economists accept that unemployment is real and very painful to those whom it affects. However, they see aggregate demand policies as useless for addressing it. Rather, they claim that unemployment is caused by imperfections in labor markets (the "classical unemployment" described in Chapter 8). To reduce unemployment, new classical economists prescribe getting rid of government regulations (such as rigorous safety standards or minimum wages) that limit how firms can do business, restricting union activity, or cutting back on government social welfare policies that make it attractive (according to the new classical economists) to stay out of work. Market pressures, they believe, will be enough on their own to support full employment—if given free rein.






Figure 13.18 A New Classical View of Economic Fluctuations
"New Classical" economists suggest that an expansionary move by the Fed, shifting the AD curve to the right, will be accompanied by an increase in inflationary expectations, shifting the AS curve up. The net effect, at E1, is an increase in inflation with no change in equilibrium output.
A2. THE NEOCLASSICAL SYNTHESIS AND NEW KEYNESIAN MACROECONOMICS

Somewhere in the middle ground is what has been called the "classical-Keynesian synthesis" or neoclassical synthesis. (It is a bit confusing that the terms "neoclassical" and "new classical" sound so similar, but they represent two different approaches). In this way of looking at the world, Keynesian theory, which allows for output to vary from its full-employment level, is considered a reasonably good description of how things work in the short and medium run. However, this view holds that, for the reasons set out in the classical model, the economy will tend to return to full employment in the long run.

neoclassical synthesis: A combination of classical and Keynesian perspectives

You may have noticed that in the exposition of the AS/AD model above, we talked about the short run and the medium run, but did not mention the long run. This is because in more decidedly Keynesian thought (to be discussed below), the economy is really a succession of short and medium runs. Shocks to the economy are so frequent and so pronounced, and price and wage adjustments (especially downward ones) so slow, that the economy never has a chance to "settle down" at a long-run equilibrium.
In the neoclassical synthesis, however, it is assumed that the economy, if left to its own devices for long enough, would settle back at full employment, due to the (eventual) success of classical wage and price adjustments. Models built on this basis would use an analysis much like that presented in the AS/AD model used in the body of this chapter but add a vertical AS curve such as that shown in Figures 13.17 and 13.18, labeling it "long-run aggregate supply."
To the extent that neoclassical economists and some Keynesians agree on this model, then, debates come down to a question of how long it takes to get to the long run. More classically-oriented economists tend to emphasize that excessive unemployment is merely temporary and believe that (at least if government stays out of the way) the long run comes fairly soon. Some Keynesian economists, often called New Keynesians, have accepted the challenge from classical economists to present all their analysis in terms of the workings of markets, individual optimizing behavior, and possible "imperfections" in markets. They have built up theories (such as efficiency wage theory, discussed in Chapter 8) to explain why wages do not just fall during a recession to create a full employment equilibrium. They tend to work within the neoclassical synthesis, but claim that due to institutional factors the long run may be a long, long way away. They believe that government action, then, is often justified.

New Keynesian macroeconomics: a school of thought that bases its analysis on micro-level market behavior, but which justifies activist macroeconomic policies by assuming that markets have  "imperfections" that can create or prolong recessions


A3. POST-KEYNESIAN MACROECONOMICS

Post-Keynesian economists base their analyses on some of the more radical implications of the original Keynesian theory.* They believe that modern economies are basically unstable and do not accept the idea of a long-run equilibrium at full employment. They stress the view that history matters in determining where the economy is today. They also believe that the future, although it will depend to some extent on the actions we take now, is fundamentally unpredictable, due to the often surprising nature of economic evolution and world events.

post-Keynesian macroeconomics: a school of thought that stresses the importance of history and uncertainty in determining macroeconomic outcomes

For example, one post-Keynesian argument is that high unemployment, like high inflation, may also be "toothpaste" that is very difficult to get back into the tube. When people are unemployed for a long time, they tend to lose work skills, lose work habits, and may get demoralized. If this is true, then government action to counter unemployment is even more needed, since high unemployment now may tend to lead to high unemployment in the future, even if the demand situation recovers. (Economists refer to this idea that future levels of unemployment—or any other economic variable—may depend on past levels as "hysteresis" or "path dependence.")
In addition, long periods of high unemployment mean a permanent loss of output and investment—making the economy weaker in the long term. For these reasons, it is essential for the government to act to maintain full, or close-to-full, employment. Post-Keynesian economists would say that the fiscal expansionary policies put into place in 2009 were a good idea, because they do not believe that an economy left to its own devices will naturally return to full employment, even "in the long run."



* Some versions of the AD curve use "price level" rather than inflation on the vertical axis. The authors of this text believe that using inflation better represents the reality of an economic system in which prices are rarely constant.
* As defined in Chapter 5, and discussed further in Chapter 14, net exports are exports minus imports, and represent a net addition to aggregate demand and GDP levels.
** The specific role of net exports will be discussed further in Chapter 14.
* As distinguished from the long run, discussed in the Appendix.
* Again, the similarity between the terms "New Keynesian" and "post-Keynesian" can be confusing, but there is a difference in the theoretical perspectives, as noted.













 
 
 




14
The Global Economy and Policy




 
 

Do you know how many Philippine pesos, South African rand, or Peruvian nuevos soles you can get for a U.S. dollar? No? If you traveled to one of these countries, you might be surprised to find out that the average person on the street in any city can often easily quote you the going exchange rate between their currency and the U.S. dollar. People in smaller economies have always been very vulnerable to international economic conditions and hence make it a habit to stay current on the rate.
In contrast, because the United States has a large economy and its currency currently dominates the world financial system, people living in the United States have historically tended to be relatively unaware of global economic conditions. In recent years, that has changed. Now international trade and global borrowing and lending have significantly increased in importance, for the United States as well as globally.
The financial crisis of 2007-8 led to a world economic downturn, drawing attention to the degree to which economies are interdependent. Recovery in the United States, for example, was slowed by bad economic conditions in Europe. Much attention has also focused on the large U.S.-China trade imbalance, with efforts by the United States to get the Chinese government to allow an increase in the value of their currency in order to improve the U.S. balance of trade with China. There is concern that the large U.S. trade deficit means that the United States owes too much money to China and that this will cause economic problems in the future. How can we evaluate such international economic issues?

1. MACROECONOMICS IN A GLOBAL CONTEXT

In earlier chapters, our macro model has generally limited its scope to the three main economic sectors: households, businesses, and the government. We have seen how each of these—through consumption, investment, and government spending—contributes to aggregate demand. It is now time to open things up a bit and introduce the foreign sector. Doing so will provide insight into how national economies are linked together and the opportunities and problems that this linkage creates.

1.1 GLOBAL CONNECTIONS

An economy with no international linkages is called a closed economy, while one that participates in the global economy is called an open economy. The economic linkages among countries can take many forms, including:
• international trade flows, when goods and services that have been created in one country are sold in another
• international incomeflows, when capital incomes (profit, rent, and interest), labor incomes, or transfer payments go from one country to another
• international transactions in assets, when people trade in financial assets such as foreign bonds or currencies, or make investments in real foreign assets such as businesses or real estate
• international, flows of people, as people migrate from one country to another, either temporarily or permanently
• international flows of technological knowledge, cultural products, and other intangibles, which can profoundly influence patterns of production and consumption, as well as tastes and lifestyles
• international sharing of, and impact on, common environmental resources, such as deep-sea fisheries and global climate patterns
• the institutional environment created by international monetary institutions, international trade agreements, international military and aid arrangements, and banks, corporations, and other private entities that operate at an international scale.
Any one of these forms of interaction may be crucially important for understanding the macroeconomic experience of specific countries at specific times. Mexico and Turkey, for example, receive significant flows of income from remittances sent home by citizens working abroad. Biological hazards, such as diseases or insects that threaten human health or agriculture, can travel along with people and goods. Trade in "intellectual property," such as technology patents and music copyrights, is currently an issue of hot dispute.
Thoroughly describing the international economic system is too large a project for one textbook. This chapter looks at how trade in goods and services affects aggregate demand as well as how it corresponds to a country's international finances. We look at how trade and finance influence the exchange rate of a country's currency. As we will see, these international issues can all affect living standards and macroeconomic stabilization. Later chapters look in more detail at issues of growth and sustainability.

1.2 MAJOR POLICY TOOLS

We say that a country's economy is "open" if it exports and imports large amounts relative to its GDP and "closed" if it exports and imports relatively small amounts. Governments can try to control the degree of openness or "closedness" of their economy through a variety of policy tools. The most drastic way to "close" an economy is to institute a trade ban. In theory a country could prohibit all international trade, but this hardly ever happens. More often countries make trade in selected goods illegal or ban trade with particular countries (such as the U.S. ban on trade with Cuba). Inspections at the country's borders or at hubs of transportation, such as airports, are used to enforce a ban.

trade ban: a law preventing the import or export of goods or services

A less drastic measure is a trade quota, which does not eliminate trade but sets limits on the quantity of a good that can be imported or exported. A quota on imports, by restricting supply, generally raises the price that can be charged for the good within the country. An import quota helps domestic producers by shielding them from lower-price competition. It hurts foreign producers because it limits what they can sell in the domestic market. Some foreign producers may, however, get some benefit in the form of additional revenues from the artificially higher price.

trade quota: a restriction on the quantity of a good that can be imported or exported

A third sort of policy—which has been used often throughout history—is a tariff (or "duty"). Tariffs are taxes charged on imports or exports.* Tariffs, like quotas, can reduce trade because they make internationally traded goods more costly to buy or sell. Like quotas, import tariffs benefit domestic producers while raising prices to consumers. Unlike quotas, however, import tariffs provide monetary benefit to the government that imposes them. Also unlike quotas, tariffs do not give foreign producers an opportunity to increase prices—in fact, foreign producers may be forced to lower prices in order to remain competitive with domestic producers that do not pay the tariff.

tariffs: taxes on imports or exports

There are also various non-tariff barriers to trade that can be imposed. These include the use of specific licensing requirements, standards, or regulations on imported goods, which permit trade but may limit its extent.

non-tariff barriers to trade: use of licensing or other requirements to limit the volume of trade

The last important major category of trade-related policies—trade-related subsidies—may be used to either expand or contract trade. Export subsidies, paid to domestic producers when they market their products abroad, are motivated by a desire to increase the flow of exports. Countries can also use subsidies to promote a policy of import substitution, by giving domestic producers extra payments to encourage the production of certain goods for domestic markets, with a goal of reducing the quantity of imports.

trade-related subsidies: payments given by governments to producers to encourage more production, either for export or as a substitute for imports
import substitution: the policy of subsidizing domestic producers to make products that can be used in place of imported goods

Government policies can also influence international capital transactions (financial flows). Central banks often participate in foreign exchange markets with policy goals in mind, buying or selling foreign currencies, as discussed in detail later in this chapter. Countries sometimes institute capital controls, which are restrictions or taxes on transactions in financial assets such as currency, stocks, or bonds, or on foreign ownership of domestic assets such as businesses or land. Restrictions on how much currency a person can take out of a country, for example, are one type of capital control. Such controls are usually instituted to try to prevent sudden, destabilizing swings in the movement of financial capital.

capital controls: the regulation or taxation of international transactions involving assets

Countries may also regulate the form that foreign business investments can take. Some have required that all business ventures be at least partially owned by domestic investors. Some have required that all traded manufactured goods include at least a given percentage of parts produced by domestic companies. Countries that have adopted such domestic content requirements include China, Indonesia, Mexico, and the Philippines. Sometimes such controls are related to a development strategy, while in other cases they simply reflect a desire to avoid excessive foreign control of domestic economic affairs.

domestic content requirement: laws requiring traded goods to contain a certain percentage of goods produced by domestic companies

Some trade policies are enacted to try to attract foreign investment, for example, by giving foreign companies tax breaks and other incentives. A popular form of this is the foreign trade zone, a designated area of the country within which many tax, tariff, and perhaps regulatory policies that usually apply to manufacturing are suspended. By attracting foreign investment, countries may hope to increase employment or gain access to important technologies. A well-known example is the maquiladora policy in Mexico under which manufacturing plants can import components and produce goods for export free of tariffs.

foreign trade zone: a designated area of a country within which foreign-owned manufacturers can operate free of many taxes, tariffs, and regulations

Migration controls are another important aspect of international policy. Countries generally impose restrictions on people who visit or move to their territory, and a few also impose tight regulations on people when leaving the country. Although beliefs about race, national culture, and population size are often the most obvious concerns behind the shaping of these controls, economic interests also play a role. For example, policies may be affected by concerns about the skill composition of the domestic labor force or the desire to receive remittances from out-migrants.

migration controls: restrictions on the flow of people into and out of a country

Countries do not necessarily choose sets of policies that consistently lead toward openness or consistently toward "closedness." Often there is a mix—policies are chosen for a wide variety of reasons and can even be at cross purposes. Nor do countries choose their policies in a vacuum. Policymakers need to take into account reactions to their policies by foreign governments. Increasingly, they also need to pay attention to whether their policies are in compliance with international agreements.

1.3 PATTERNS OF TRADE AND FINANCE

International trade has grown immensely in recent years. Sometimes the sum of a country's imports and exports of goods and services, expressed as a percentage of GDP, is used as a measure of an economy's "openness." Growth in trade according to this measure is shown for 1960-2011 in Figure 14.1. Although trade still remains relatively less important in the United States than in many other countries, its importance has been increasing here as well.






Source: World Development Indicators, World Bank, 2012.
Note: Since this measure includes both imports and exports, it does not mean that over 50% of all produced goods and services in the world are traded—it counts the same goods both as exports from one country and imports to another.
Figure 14.1 Trade Expressed as a Percentage of Production, World and United States, 1960-2010
The worldwide volume of trade, including both imports and exports, expressed as a percentage of global GDP, has been increasing over the past four decades. While the United States remains less "open" than many economies, trade has become more important here as well.

Why has trade grown over time? The first reason is improvements in transportation technology. The costs and time lags involved in shipping products by air, for example, are far less now than in 1950. Fruit from Chile and flowers from Colombia are now flown into the United States every day—and are still fresh when they arrive. The second reason for increased trade is advances in telecommunications. The infrastructure for phone, fax, and electronic communication has improved dramatically. Better telecommunications make it possible for many kinds of services, such as customer support and many technical functions, to be directly imported from, for example, call centers in India. The third reason is that many governments have, over time, lowered their tariffs and other barriers to trade. The World Trade Organization, with 149 member countries, conducts negotiations aimed at lowering trade barriers, and mediates trade disputes between countries.

World Trade Organization: An international organization that conducts negotiations aimed at lowering trade barriers, and mediates trade disputes between countries.

Figure 14.2 shows the volume of exports that the United States sells to the top eight buyers of its goods and the volume of its imports that come from the top eight countries that sell to it. Historically, the closest neighbors of the United States—Canada and Mexico—have been very important trading partners. Germany, the United Kingdom, and Japan, not surprisingly, have also been leading trade partners. The growing importance of South Korea and Brazil is a more recent phenomenon that can be attributed mostly to their rapid development. The presence of Saudi Arabia among the top eight sellers to the U.S. (as of 2012) was due almost entirely to petroleum imports.
The biggest development in recent years has been the emergence of China as a major source of U.S. imports. Until about 1980, U.S. trade with China was negligible. Since then, U.S. importation of Chinese products—especially electronics (including computers and televisions) as well as clothing, toys, and furniture—has boomed. Although China buys some U.S. goods, including agricultural products and aircraft, the value of U.S. imports from China far exceeds the value of U.S. exports to China.






Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Foreign Trade Statistics, Top Trading Partners, 2012.
Figure 14.2 Top Purchasers of Goods from the United States and Suppliers of Goods to the United States, 2012
The United States' neighbors, Canada and Mexico, have long been among its major trading partners. But China has been an increasingly important source of merchandise imports.

The volume of global financial transactions has also exploded in recent years. For example, foreign exchange flows in 2013 averaged about $5.3 trillion—per day! This daily figure equates to more than $700 per person on earth. The volume in mid-2013 was almost four times the amount in 2001.1

 Discussion Questions

1. How do international linkages affect your own life? Can you give examples of the sorts of linkages listed in Section 1.1 that have had direct effects on you or your family?
2. Production of apparel has been widely globalized in recent years. Before going to class, check the labels on a number of items of clothing that you own. Which countries are represented?

2. THE TRADE BALANCE: COMPLETING THE PICTURE

How does trade affect the economy? It is certainly an important factor. Consumers who go to any U.S. shopping mall cannot help but notice that a large proportion of the goods are imported. Many U.S. jobs are in industries that depend on export markets. We often hear concern expressed about the trade deficit. In 2012, the U.S. trade deficit equaled about 3.4 percent of GDP. This means that people in the United States were spending much more on foreign goods and services (importing) than the United States was selling to foreign buyers (exporting). In other words, U.S. net exports (exports minus imports) were negative. In other countries, such as China, the situation is reversed—they are large net exporters. Were it not for the United States, however, China also would be a sizable net importer, because its total trade surplus in 2012 was less than one-third of its surplus just with the United States (known as a bilateral surplus, equal to $315 billion in 2012).2

trade deficit: an excess of imports over exports, causing net exports to be negative


2.1 THE CIRCULAR FLOW REVISITED

Our trade balance is related to the circular flow discussed in earlier chapters. In this section, we look at the impact of our exports and imports on aggregate demand and GDP. We can introduce trade into our macroeconomic model by adding net exports (NX) into the equation for aggregate demand:
AD = C + II + G + NX
As discussed in Chapter 5, net exports (NX) equals exports minus imports (X − IM). Exports, like intended investment (II) and government spending (G), represent a positive contribution to aggregate demand. More exports means more demand for domestically produced goods and services. Imports, however, are a negative in the equation. That means they represent a leakage from U.S. aggregate demand—a portion of income that is not spent on U.S. goods and services.
Negative net exports (when X < IM) therefore represent a net subtraction from demand for the output of U.S. businesses and a net leakage from the circular flow. A decrease in exports (or increase in imports) tends to reduce the circular flow of domestic income, spending, and output—unless injections such as intended investment and government spending counteract this contraction. An increase in net exports, on the other hand, encourages a rise in GDP and employment. For example, an increase in U.S. purchases of foreign cars and a decrease in purchases of domestic cars would lower aggregate demand in the United States (and raise it in other car-exporting countries). But an increase in foreign sales by the U.S. computer software industry would raise U.S. aggregate demand and employment.
Adding exports and imports completes our basic macroeconomic model. We started with a very simple economy, with just consumers and businesses, then added government spending, taxes, and the international sector. We now have a more complex model, with three leakages (saving, taxes, and imports) and three injections (intended investment, government spending, and exports). Imports are considered leakages because, like saving and taxes, they draw funds away from the domestic income-spending flow. Exports, like intended investment and government spending, add funds to the flow. We can modify our original circular flow diagram to show all these flows (Figure 14.3).






Figure 14.3 Leakages and Injections in a Complete Macroeconomic Model
Leakages from the circular flow include taxes, saving, and imports. Injections include intended investment, government spending, and exports. The level of macroeconomic equilibrium will depend on the balance of all these flows as well as consumption levels.

Macroeconomic equilibrium involves balancing the three types of leakage with the three types of injection. A change in any one will alter the equilibrium level of output. The model that we have constructed allows us to understand how all these factors are related to levels of income and employment. We put it to use shortly to explain how saving and investment are linked to the global economy. But first we look at the multiplier effects of exports and imports.

2.2 EFFECTS ON THE MULTIPLIER

The multiplier effect for an increase in exports is essentially the same as that for an increase in II or G. Using the same model as in Chapter 10 (with a multiplier of 5), an increase of exports of 40, for example, leads to an increase of 200 in economic equilibrium.
∆Y = mult ∆X
We can use exactly the same logic for a lump-sum increase in imports—the effect on equilibrium income just goes in the opposite direction. An increase in imports of 40 would lower the equilibrium level of income by 200, and a decrease in imports of 40 would raise the equilibrium by 200.
The multiplier logic becomes a little more complicated, however, when we consider how import levels are determined. In general, when people receive more income in an economy that is open to trade, they spend some of it on domestically produced goods and some on imports. The proportion spent on imports, as we noted above, is a "leakage" that does not add to domestic demand. If we want to account for this fully, we need to modify our multiplier logic. The effect is similar to that of a proportional tax on consumption: It tends to flatten the aggregate demand curve, for the same reason. When people receive additional income, a portion of it "leaks" away into imports. This portion does not stimulate the domestic economy, so multiplier effects are smaller and the economic response a bit less dynamic. Multipliers in the neighborhood of four or five seldom are observed in the real world, because mpc is affected not only by our marginal propensity to save but also by the rate of taxation and our marginal propensity to import. For a full treatment of this effect, see Appendix A1.
In an open economy, a portion of any aggregate demand increase goes to stimulate someone else's economy via imports. Thus U.S. consumers who buy imported goods from Canada are creating jobs and income in Canada, not the United States. Does this mean that imports are bad for the United States? Not necessarily. Two other factors are important to consider.
The first is that U.S. consumers and U.S. industry benefit from cheaper imported goods and services, raw materials, and other industrial inputs. The second is that at least some of the money spent on imports is likely to return to the United States as demand for exports, which, as we have seen, stimulates an increase in GDP and employment. More generally, the U.S. economy, and overall quality of life in the United States, improves when other countries have healthier economies and diminishes when other countries are suffering economic setbacks. A prosperous world is a happier world for all. Thus, in the largest sense, if China or Canada benefits from exporting to the United States, to some extent this benefits everyone. Problems can arise, however, when trade deficits (negative net exports) are too large for too long. We explore this issue further later in the chapter.

2.3 BALANCE BETWEEN SAVINGS, INVESTMENT, AND NET BORROWING

We can use our macro model to demonstrate that saving and investment are related not only to net exports but also to foreign lending and borrowing. Understanding this link is critical to making sense of much that happens in the global economy.
We start with the usual equation breaking down GDP into consumption, investment, and government spending. In addition, we follow the convention—seen earlier in Chapter 5—of breaking government spending down into "government consumption" and "government investment," which results in the following equation:






GDP
=
Personal consumption + private investment + government consumption + government investment + net exports



or
GDP = C + II + GC + GI + NX
Rearranging, we obtain
GDP - C - GC = II + GI + NX
Because saving is what is left over from income after spending on consumption (the left-hand side of the equation above), if we combine private and government savings into a single term Stotal and private and government investment into a single term Itotal, we get:
Stotal = Itotal + NX
or:
Total saving = Total investment + net exports
Thinking about these quantities in terms of valuable goods and services, this important identity says, intuitively, that goods and services that are produced in our domestic economy in excess of what we currently use for consumption can become investment goods—additions to our stock of manufactured assets (including replacement of depreciated assets)—or can be sold to foreign countries (in excess of the value of what we import from them).
Another way of understanding this is in terms of macroeconomic equilibrium. If, say, total domestic saving exceeded investment, a net leakage from the circular flow would occur. In order to obtain an equilibrium, this leakage would need to be offset by a trade surplus (an excess of exports over imports, creating a net injection). If total investment exceeded saving, the opposite would result—that is, there would be a trade deficit. In this case, the net leakage from an excess of imports over exports would balance the net injection caused by investment exceeding savings.
Yet another way to look at the relation of saving, investment, and trade is to think of how the various sectors finance their purchases of goods and services. In a contemporary economy, goods are rarely traded for goods; rather, money is used as a means of exchange. So, corresponding to any flow of goods and services transacted in exchanges, there is an equivalent flow of monetary funds.
Consider, for a moment, a closed economy. In this case the last equation would reduce to:
Stotal = Itotal
This says that, in a closed economy, the total amount that is not spent on consumption goods is available for spending on investment goods. How does financial saving get turned into tangible investments?
In the national accounts, it is primarily businesses and the government that are counted as investing. They finance their investment expenditures either from their own savings or by borrowing someone else's savings. Household savings, in the form of income not spent on consumption, can be made available for investment by the other sectors—as when the funds in a household's bank deposit are lent to a business or a household buys a government bond. The "saving = investment" identity tells us that at an aggregate national level in a closed economy, only what the country as a whole saves out of current income can be available to finance investment for the future.
When we consider an open economy, things get more complicated. Now the country as a whole can also borrow from, or lend to, the foreign sector, and the relevant identity, as noted above, is:
Stotal = Itotal + NX
If net exports are positive, we sell more goods abroad than we buy. How would people abroad pay for all our goods, if the value of what we sell to them exceeds the value of what they sell to us? They are not earning enough from their sales to pay us! The main way for them to finance their purchases of our goods is by borrowing from us. They would need to borrow the amount by which our exports to them exceed our imports from them. So the identity can be (approximately) rewritten as:
Stotal = Itotal + net foreign lending
That is, if we had extra savings, above and beyond what is being used for domestic investment, we could lend it to foreigners so that they could buy our goods. The equation above is only approximate, because foreigners can also get more goods and services from us than they sell to us by receiving our goods as gifts, paying for them out of transfer income, or selling us their assets, such as land or businesses, in return. We discuss these possibilities in greater detail in the next section.
In recent years, however, the United States has tended to have net exports that are negative—we tend to buy more from foreign countries than we sell. This means that we need to borrow from them. The following identity means exactly the same thing as the last one, but is easier to use to represent the recent U.S. situation:
Stotal = Itotal - net foreign borrowing
When we are in a situation of borrowing from abroad, then the amount we are really "putting away for the future"—that is, saving—is less than what we would assume if we looked only at what we are investing. Although we may be investing domestically, if we are using "net foreign borrowing" to obtain investment funds, we are also creating future indebtedness to other countries by borrowing from them.
Should we worry that our country has to borrow from foreigners? As in the case of your personal finances, it makes a difference what the purpose of the borrowing is. If the borrowing financed the purchase of productive new private or government investment goods, then it might be a way of actually improving the country's outlook for the future. As mentioned in Chapter 1, for many decades international authorities encouraged poor countries to borrow heavily for development projects, using exactly this reasoning.
But if the funds borrowed went largely into investments that did not pay off financially or if the borrowing only financed a high level of consumption, there would be reason to worry. A country that borrows a lot may be in trouble when it comes time to pay back its loans. In recent years, many poor countries have found themselves unable to pay the interest on the enormous foreign debts that they have built up over the years—much less repay the principal. In the case of the United States, the country's creditworthiness has not been seriously questioned, and to date paying interest and principal on foreign debt (known as "servicing" the debt) has never posed problems. However, as discussed further in Chapter 16, a high level of international indebtedness has potential costs over the long term.

Discussion Questions

1. What will be the likely effect of increased imports on U.S. GDP? Do imported goods undercut employment in the United States? What other developments in the economy might counteract this effect?
2. Savings, imports, and taxes are all considered "leakages" from aggregate demand. Are they bad for the economy? Or is there an important function for each? How are their levels related to equilibrium GDP, income, and employment?

3. INTERNATIONAL FINANCE

In addition to trade in goods, countries are also linked through exchange of currencies, flows of income, and purchases and sales of real and financial assets across national borders. As we consider how international finance is related to trade and to domestic macroeconomic policies, the realization that "everything is linked to everything else" can become overwhelming. Most topics that we have discussed earlier in this book—such as supply and demand, interest rates, inflation, aggregate demand, and the Fed—will come back into play. In order to ease into the topic, we focus on relatively simple concepts and models, starting with the difference between purchasing power parity and currency exchange rates.

3.1 PURCHASING POWER PARITY

Purchasing power parity (PPP) refers to the notion that, under certain idealized conditions, the exchange rate between the currencies of two countries should be such that the purchasing power of currencies is equalized. Consider, for example, the exchange rate between U.S. dollars ($) and euros (€). As of mid-2013, $1 was worth about €0.75. Equivalently, we could say that one euro was worth $1.33. The two rates are inverses of one another. When we cite "the exchange rate" for the dollar in terms of a foreign currency, what we mean is the number of units of the foreign currency that you can get in exchange for a dollar.

purchasing power parity (PPP): the theory that exchange rates should reflect differences in purchasing power among countries
exchange rate: the number of units of one currency that can be exchanged for one unit of another currency

If currencies could be traded freely against one another, if goods were freely traded and totally across countries, and if transportation costs were not important, then there would be a strong logic to the theory of purchasing power parity. Suppose that a winter jacket costs $200 in New York. If you lived in the United States and changed $200 into euros, the theory of PPP says that the number of euros you would receive in exchange for your dollars should be exactly enough for you to buy the identical winter jacket in Paris. If, indeed, the jacket costs €150 (= $200 × 0.75 euros per dollar) in Paris, PPP holds. If economies really were as smoothly integrated as we are assuming in our idealized world, an item (whether a winter jacket or an hour of labor services) should cost the same, no matter where you are.
If this were not true, there should be pressures leading toward change. For example, suppose that the jacket costs $200 in New York and €150 in Paris, but the exchange rate is higher, at €1 : US$1. Why would anyone buy a jacket in New York, if by changing their money into euros they could order it from Paris and save $50? For jackets to be sold in both locations—in this idealized world—the price in New York would have to be bid down, the price in Paris would have to be bid up, or the exchange rate would have to fall.
Of course, in the real world, national economies are not nearly as integrated as this theory assumes. Transportation costs do matter; there are many varieties of goods; markets for goods and services do not work as quickly, smoothly, and rationally as sometimes assumed; and exchange rates are often "managed" (see Section 4.3). Any of these factors can mean that converting monetary amounts from one country to another using the prevailing exchange rates may be misleading. The fact that the price of a jacket is higher in Paris than in New York might, for example, reflect a higher general cost of living in Paris.
Sometimes, we see comparisons of international income levels expressed "in PPP terms." Rather than simply using current exchange rates to convert all the various income levels into a common currency, PPP adjustments try to take into account the fact that the cost of living varies among countries. For example, converting Mexican average per capita income figure from pesos to dollars would probably understate the living standard of the average Mexican. Even though the conversion is "correct"—in the sense that there exists a peso-dollar exchange rate that can easily be used for such an adjustment—many of the goods and services in Mexico are probably much less expensive than in the United States. So the dollar equivalent of what the average Mexican earns each year goes much further in Mexico.

purchasing power parity (PPP) adjustments: adjustments to international income statistics to take into account the differences in the cost of living across countries

The "Big Mac Index" published every year by The Economist is a somewhat lighthearted attempt to determine how much exchange rates and the price of goods vary from PPP predictions, by comparing the prices (converted into dollars using market exchange rates) of a McDonald's hamburger across various countries. More sophisticated analysis uses a larger "basket" of goods to make such comparisons and estimate appropriate PPP adjustments.

3.2 CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES

What makes exchange rates go up and down? Currencies are traded against each other all over the world, as people offer to buy and sell. The supply-and-demand model explained in Chapter 4 can be applied to foreign exchange markets, once we realize that an exchange rate is really just another kind of price.
Figure 14.4 shows an idealized foreign exchange market in which U.S. dollars are traded for euros. The quantity of dollars traded is given on the horizontal axis, and the "price" of a dollar is given on the vertical axis, in terms of the number of euros it takes to buy a dollar.
In a well-behaved foreign exchange market, domestic residents largely determine the supply curve of dollars, by deciding how many dollars they are willing to offer in order to buy foreign-produced goods and services and foreign assets. Because foreign-produced goods, services, and foreign assets must be paid for in the currency of the country from which they will be purchased, dollars must be traded in the foreign exchange market. Professional currency traders and banks usually do the actual trading. The more euros that U.S. residents can get for their dollars, the cheaper that European items are to them, and the more they will want to buy from Europe rather than from domestic producers. Thus, the higher the exchange rate, the more dollars they will offer on the market. The supply curve slopes upward.
It is residents of other countries who largely determine the demand curve for dollars. They may want to buy goods and services from the United States or to invest in U.S. bonds or businesses. To make these purchases, they must acquire dollars. The more euros, or other currencies, they have to pay to get a dollar, the more likely they are to go somewhere other than the United States for what they want and the lower will be the quantity of dollars that they demand. But if the U.S. dollar is relatively cheap in terms of euros, they will want to demand more dollars. So the demand curve slopes downward. Market equilibrium is established at point E.






Figure 14.4 A Foreign Exchange Market for Dollars
When currencies are traded against each other on a market, the "price" is the exchange rate, that is, the number of units of the other currency that are required to buy a unit of the currency in question.

When the exchange rate falls, we say that the currency has depreciated. Suppose, for example, that a European technology firm comes out with a new device for listening to music that everyone wants to buy. In their desire to obtain euros to buy the good, people in the United States will offer more dollars on the foreign exchange market, shifting the supply curve to the right. Excess supply will, as in any other market, cause the price to fall, as shown in Figure 14.5. Commentators may say that the dollar is now "weaker" against the euro. (Conversely, of course, the euro is now "stronger" against the dollar.)

currency depreciation: when a currency becomes less valuable, for example, due to a decrease in demand for a country's exports or an increase in its demand for imports

But an increase in demand for U.S. products or assets would lead to an appreciation of the dollar. For example, if investors became eager to buy U.S. real estate, the demand curve for dollars would shift outward and the dollar would appreciate—that is, gain in value. A currency may appreciate or depreciate relative to a specific currency, or it may appreciate or depreciate generally—that is, in relation to all or most other currencies.

currency appreciation: when a currency becomes more valuable, for example, when increased demand for a country's exports causes an increase in demand for its currency

Which factors are most responsible for the depreciation or appreciation of a country's currency? The first potentially important factor is relative prices. If prices in general rose more rapidly in the United States than in, say, Japan (meaning that inflation is lower in Japan), the Japanese would be less interested in purchasing U.S. goods, ceteris paribus, and we would be more interested in purchasing theirs. What this means in terms of the foreign exchange market is that the United States would supply more dollars (in order to obtain yen to make purchases from Japan), and the Japanese would demand fewer dollars to purchase our higher-priced goods.
A rightward shift in supply coupled with a leftward shift in demand unambiguously lowers the yen "price" of the dollar, meaning that the dollar would depreciate relative to the yen (and the yen would appreciate relative to the dollar). Note that, in this example, the dollar would not depreciate with respect to all other currencies—it would merely depreciate relative to the yen.
The second factor influencing exchange rates may be a country's GDP growth rate relative to that of its trading partners. If, for example, the United States experienced rapid growth in employment and output, it would generally mean that imports (as well as consumption, investment, government spending, and exports) also increase relatively rapidly. This would lead the United States to demand more foreign currencies (to purchase imports) relative to the foreign demand for our dollars. Our greater demand for foreign currencies (and supplied more dollars to purchase them) would cause the dollar to depreciate.






Figure 14.5 A Supply Shift in a Foreign Exchange Market
When people become more eager to sell a currency, this causes it to lose value, that is, to depreciate.

One might conclude from this discussion that countries that consistently import more than they export should have a persistently weak currency. The United States has, in fact, imported significantly more than it has exported for many years. Yet the value of the dollar not only has not collapsed but remains one of the most stable currencies.
How is this possible? Some economists highlight interest rates as a third key factor in determining exchange rates. If the interest rate on, say, the six-month U.S. Treasury bill were higher than the rate on comparable investments in other countries, the United States might attract flows of money from foreign investors seeking to exploit the interest rate differential. Because Treasury bills are denominated in dollars, the foreign money would be seeking to buy dollars, raising dollar demand. The result would be an appreciation in the value of the dollar. As a general rule, then, higher relative interest rates have a tendency to raise demand for the domestic currency and hence lead to a currency appreciation.
Yet it would be misleading to attribute dollar stability solely, or possibly even at all, to higher interest rates. For example, most countries set interest rates lower in the wake of the 2007-8 financial crisis, and the United States, as we saw in Chapter 12, has been no exception to this trend. There is a more general foreign appetite for U.S. assets, such as government bonds, that explains the steady and reliable demand for dollars. It is a country's investment attractiveness (or lack thereof) that influences its currency exchange rate; the prevailing interest rate is merely one variable in what makes the country attractive to investors.
In addition to currency needs for trade and investment, many traders buy and sell currency for speculative reasons. As discussed in Chapter 4, sometimes people buy something not because they need it (e.g., in this case, for facilitating a trade in real items), but because they are betting that its price will go up or down in the future. Speculative buying and selling of currencies often plays a large role in foreign exchange markets.
Unfortunately, because the ability of a country to participate in global trade critically depends on its exchange rate, such "bets" have the potential to produce real economic effects that are not always beneficial. As the role of speculation grows in importance relative to other factors that influence exchange rates, the ability of financial decisions to affect entire economies—especially small, relatively vulnerable economies—only increases. The relationship between speculation and finance, on the one hand, and the "real" economy, on the other, is discussed in Chapters 7 and 11 and is explained further in Chapter 15.
As noted above, different countries experience different levels of domestic inflation. To clarify, "inflation" refers to when a currency weakens in terms of domestic purchasing power (higher prices mean that the currency is worth relatively less) while "depreciation" is the weakening of currency in relation to other currencies (a reduction of its exchange rates). As you might expect, the two concepts are related, and what really matters for trade is the real exchange rate between currencies. A country with high inflation, for example, will generally experience a steady depreciation of its nominal (money value) exchange rate against the currencies of lower-inflation countries, even without any changes in demand for its items. Foreigners are willing to purchase the country's products at the higher prices resulting from inflation only if they receive more currency units per unit of foreign exchange that they offer, such that the real price remains the same.

real exchange rate: the exchange rate between two currencies, adjusted for inflation in each country

Most foreign exchange transactions are made in "strong" currencies or currencies that other countries would generally not hesitate to accept as payment for goods and services or for some investments. The U.S. dollar tops the list, but the euro and the yen also qualify and probably the British pound as well. Beyond this, the Swiss franc, famed for its remarkable stability, is also considered to be a member of this exclusive club. But the dollar, the euro, and the yen stand out as the top three. These currencies are often referred to as foreign exchange due to their general acceptability for foreign transactions.

foreign exchange: the class of currencies that is broadly acceptable by foreigners in commercial or investment transactions. Generally limited to three currencies—the dollar, the euro, and the yen.

Weak economies seldom if ever accept one another's currencies, and sometimes not even their own currency, as payment for goods, services, or assets. As will become clear, it benefits them to be paid in strong currencies. Thus the overwhelming majority of global currency trades are in dollars, euros, or yen.

3.3 THE BALANCE OF PAYMENTS

The flows of foreign exchange payments into and out of a country are summed up in its balance of payments (BOP) account. Table 14.1 shows the BOP account for the United States in 2011. The top part of the table tallies the current account, which tracks flows arising from trade in goods and services, earnings, and transfers. The trade account (not shown separately in Table 14.1) refers exclusively to the portion of the current account related to exports and imports.

balance of payments (BOP) account: the national account that tracks inflows and outflows arising from international trade, earnings, transfers, and transactions in assets
current account (in the BOP account): the national account that tracks inflows and outflows arising from international trade, earnings, and transfers
trade account (part of the current account): the portion of the current account that tracks inflows and outflows arising exclusively from international trade in goods and services

Various kinds of transactions lead to payments flowing into this country (and to a demand for dollars in the foreign exchange market). When we export goods, we receive payments in return. So the first entry under current account inflows is the $1.497 trillion that the United States earned from exports of goods. Exports of services (such as travel, financial, or intellectual property) also bring in inflows, as do incomes earned abroad (as profits or interest) by U.S. residents. All told, inflows into the United States from exports and incomes totaled more than $2.8 trillion in 2011.
Other transactions lead to payments going abroad (and to a supply of dollars to the foreign exchange market). When we import goods and services, we need to make payments to foreign residents. Foreign residents can take home incomes earned in the United States. The BOP account also includes a line for net transfers abroad. The account consists of monies paid out in government foreign aid programs as well as remittances—money sent home to families from the host country by foreign workers. All told, outflows of payments from the United States totaled just over $3.3 trillion in 2011.

Table 14.1 U.S. Balance of Payments Account (2011, billions of dollars)




Current account



Inflows:



Payments for exports of goods
1,497


Payments for exports of services
606


Income receipts
745


Total
2,848


Outflows:



Payments for imports of goods
−2,236


Payments for imports of services
−427


Income payments
−518


Net transfers
−133


Total
−3,314


Balance on current account (= inflows − outflows)
−466


Capital account



Outflows (e.g., U.S. lending, portfolio investment, or FDI abroad)
−430


Inflows (e.g., U.S. borrowing from abroad, and portfolio investment or FDI into the United States)*
1,001


Balance on capital account (= inflows − outflows)
571


Official reserve account
−16


Statistical discrepancy
−89


Balance of payments
0


Source: U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. International Transactions Accounts Data, table 1, with rearrangements and simplifications by authors.
* Also includes the net value of financial derivatives (financial instruments whose values are linked to an underlying asset, interest rate, or index, such as futures or options).

The balance on the current account is measured as inflows minus outflows. Because outflows exceeded inflows on the current account in 2011, the United States had a current account deficit. As you can see from Table 14.1, imports of goods exceeded exports, meaning that the United States had a negative trade balance, or trade deficit. Moreover, because income flows and transfers were relatively balanced, it was the trade deficit that largely accounted for the current account deficit of $466 billion. In fact, as you can see in Figure 14.6, the United States has had trade deficits fairly steadily since about 1980, with the gap between imports and exports widening to about 6 percent of GDP in some years, but recently narrowing to about 3 percent.
How can a country steadily import more than it exports? If you, personally, wanted to buy something that costs more than you have the income to pay for, you might take out a loan or perhaps sell something that you own, such as your bicycle or your car. Likewise, countries can finance a trade deficit by borrowing or by selling assets. These are the sorts of transactions listed in the capital account.

capital account (in the BOP account): the account that tracks flows arising from international transactions in assets

To the extent the United States lends abroad (e.g., when the government extends loans to other countries, foreigners borrow from U.S. banks, or people in the United States buy foreign bonds), capital outflows are generated. This terminology may be confusing. Think about capital flows as going in the direction of the country that ends up with "the cash" or the power to purchase goods, and away from the country that "buys something." In the case of a loan, the borrower received "the cash," while the creditor "buys" a bond or other security representing a promise to repay; thus a loan is an outflow from the lender and an inflow from the perspective of the borrower. Similarly, if a U.S. firm engaged in portfolio investment—investment in the stocks or bonds of a foreign country or company—or foreign direct investment (FDI)—the buying of all or part of a business in another country—it is the people abroad who would end up with "the cash," while the U.S. company would receive the asset. This is also counted as an outflow. From Table 14.1, we can see that the United States had $430 billion in capital outflows during 2011.

portfolio investment: investment in stocks or bonds of a foreign country or company
foreign direct investment (FDI): investment in a business in a foreign country







Source: BEA NIPA Tables 4.1 and 1.1.5.
Figure 14.6 U.S. Imports and Exports of Goods and Services, 1960-2012
In 1960 imports and exports were each between 4 and 5 percent of GDP. Since then, however, trade—and trade deficits—have increased. In 2012 the United States imported goods and services with a value equal to 17.4 percent of GDP, while exports were equivalent to 14 percent of GDP, creating a trade deficit of 3.4 percent of GDP.


Capital outflows can have widely differing meanings and impacts, depending on where they occur. Weak, unstable economies are much more vulnerable to a specific kind of movement known as capital flight, which occurs when investors fear investment losses and rush to move their assets to "safer" countries (mostly the United States, the member countries of the European Union, and Japan). Capital flight may represent Wall Street investors rushing to take their money out of a weak country—as happened with South Korea, Indonesia, and the Philippines during the East Asian financial crisis of 1997—or the wealthy elite seeking to take money out of their own country. In either case, capital flight has the potential to destabilize economies by making foreign exchange scarce, and governments will often go to great lengths to try to stop it (see Box 14.1).

capital flight: rapid movement of capital assets out of a country

A country receives capital inflows when it borrows from foreigners or when foreigners purchase assets there. In the case of the United States, many people abroad buy U.S. government bonds, because they are considered a very secure investment. For similar reasons, many also put funds into bank accounts here. These are both capital inflows—the sellers of the U.S. securities and the U.S. banks receive "the cash." Likewise, if a foreign multinational bought an interest in a U.S. publishing company, it would be a capital inflow. In 2011, the United States received just about $1 trillion in capital inflows.
As with the current account, the balance on the capital account is measured as inflows minus outflows. Thus, the United States had a $571 billion capital account surplus in 2011. It was the willingness of foreigners to buy U.S. securities (and other assets) that financed the deficit in the current account. Many commentators worry that the United States is putting itself in a vulnerable position by relying on borrowing to "spend beyond its means" on imports. Notice that present-day capital inflows create the obligation to pay future income outflows: The interest due in the future on U.S. government bonds sold abroad this year, and future profits made by firms located in the United States that were bought by foreign parties this year, will become part of "income payments" in the outflows section of the current account, in years to come.
Next comes what is known as the official reserve account. It represents the foreign exchange market operations of the country's central bank (in the United States, the Federal Reserve). Why the central bank? Here it is probably more helpful to imagine a somewhat smaller, less-developed country—say, Indonesia. Like any other country these days, it must import some goods and services from other countries. How can it pay for the imports? Its currency, the rupiah, will not do. Most exporters have no faith in the value of the rupiah and will insist on being paid in foreign exchange—that is, dollars, euros, or yen. This presents a problem for Indonesia, because it cannot produce its own dollars. It can, however, obtain them.

official reserve account: the account reflecting the foreign exchange market operations of a country's central bank



BOX 14.1 ARGENTINES TURN CASH INTO CONDOS IN MIAMI
In 2012, brokers selling Miami real estate found that some of their best clients were from Argentina. Argentines were rushing to move their money out of their country and into real estate in Miami and New York. A weakening Argentinian peso and 25 percent inflation led many affluent Argentines to move their money into American real estate by expensive, even sometimes illegal means.
Capital outflow from Argentina nearly doubled from $11.4 billion to $21.5 billion between 2010 and 2011. The Argentine government has instituted capital controls to try to stop the outflow, requiring special permits to convert pesos into dollars. Trained dogs are even used to sniff out dollars at ports, airports, and border crossings. Some Argentines are willing to pay a black-market premium of up to 40 percent to convert their money into dollars.
The government controls appear to be having success. Capital flight from Argentina fell to $3.57 billion in the first half of 2012, from $11.7 billion in the second half of 2011.
Source: Charles Newbery, "Argentines Turn Cash into Condos in Miami," New York Times, September 13, 2012.


For example, when Indonesia exports, say, coffee, it can insist on being paid not in rupiah but in foreign exchange such as dollars. In this way, it has a strong currency available to pay for its imports. It works the same way with the capital account. Indonesia has creditors to whom it owes interest every year (which is reflected in the income section of the current account) that require payment in foreign exchange. Yet Indonesia obtains this foreign exchange not only by exporting coffee and other products but also by attracting foreign capital, which it also insists take the form of dollars, euros, or yen.
Bank Indonesia, the country's central bank, holds reserves of foreign currency, so that it can make up for a balance of payments deficit if necessary. Of course, it cannot do so indefinitely. If the central bank runs short of foreign exchange reserves, the country will have to cut back on imports. But in the short term the central bank can supply foreign exchange to cover a balance of payments deficit or acquire foreign exchange if there is a balance of payments surplus. If the central bank supplies foreign exchange, it is recorded as a positive item in the official reserve accounts; if it acquires foreign exchange, it is recorded as a negative item.
In some versions of the BOP, the official reserve account is lumped with the capital account.* When this is done, the total inflows and outflows from the current and capital accounts always "balance." When treated separately, the official reserve account, as we have seen, offsets the discrepancy between current and capital accounts. The United States reduced its official reserve account by $16 billion in 2011, which means that the Fed's holdings of these assets increased by this amount. If this is confusing, think of it as the negative sign signifying that the Fed removed $16 billion in reserve assets (mostly foreign exchange) from the U.S. economy.
One additional caveat is the statistical discrepancy. It represents an inability of the BEA to make the accounts balance precisely, given problems in the quality of the data, and some small items in the accounts that we do not get into here. Allowing for this discrepancy, the balances in the current account, the capital account, and the official reserve account must add up to zero (the "balance of payments"). The difference between the current and capital accounts must be "balanced" by a flow of foreign exchange to or from the central bank. Any gap can be fully attributed to measurement error, which is what the statistical discrepancy reflects.

4. MACROECONOMICS IN AN OPEN ECONOMY

In earlier chapters, our discussion of how fiscal and monetary policy can be used to influence aggregate demand was limited to a "closed" economy. We are now ready to consider a more complete picture of the effects of such policies. The bottom line of what is laid out in sections 4.1 and 4.2 is simple to state: The intended effects of monetary policy are strengthened, or amplified, by interactions with the foreign sector; while trade with foreign partners may either strengthen or weaken fiscal policy actions. The reasons why this is so are, however, rather complex. The value of working through them, as we shall do, is that it is a way of showing in action some of the principles of macroeconomic supply and demand that have been laid out thus far.

4.1 FISCAL POLICY

Recall from our earlier concept of a macroeconomic equilibrium that, for equilibrium to be present, injections must equal leakages. We know from Chapter 10 that a budget deficit is a net injection because government spending (injection) is greater than tax revenue (leakage). If we assume that private savings and investment are in balance, a government budget deficit requires a net leakage from the foreign sector for macroeconomic equilibrium to be achieved—that is, imports must exceed exports (again, disregarding for now the transfers and net income).
In other words, a government's budget balance is correlated with the country's trade balance—a government deficit, not financed from domestic savings, implies a trade deficit. But what is the economic mechanism by which they are related? A country's budget balance can influence its trade balance through at least two separate channels, each related to the exchange rate of its currency.
First, we have seen that deficit spending has the potential, in economies at or near full employment, to cause crowding out. This tends to lead to higher interest rates. In an open economy, the higher rates are likely to attract more foreign investment in the form of bond purchases. If foreigners demand more U.S. bonds as a result of the higher interest rates that they offer, the demand for dollars increases (because U.S. bonds are all denominated in U.S. dollars). The resulting increase in demand for dollars, ceteris paribus, leads to an appreciation of the dollar compared to other currencies.
We have also seen that a stronger currency makes a country's goods relatively more expensive in the global markets. In other words, if the U.S. dollar appreciated, we would expect the United States to be able to export less than before. At the same time, imports would increase because a stronger dollar makes other countries' goods (denominated in their currencies) appear cheaper. Through this sequence, an increase in the budget deficit might increase the size of the trade deficit.
Notice, however, that while both deficits grow, the economic effect of the rising trade deficit is to offset the expansionary effect of the budget deficit. Imports (leakage from the circular flow) increase while exports (injection) decrease. Because we do not know the magnitude of each of these changes, we are not saying that the open economy effect cancels out the original effect of the fiscal stimulus. What we can say is that it probably dampens its effect somewhat.
The other channel is a more direct consequence of the fiscal expansion. Deficit spending boosts aggregate demand, increasing spending and generating greater employment and more income. Yet, as the economy grows, all spending grows, including spending on imports. The greater demand for imports increases the global supply of dollars, as U.S. citizens demand more foreign currency to purchase imports. This causes the dollar to depreciate, reversing the process, because a weaker dollar results in more exports and less imports.
Depreciation of the dollar will tend to narrow the trade deficit, resulting in a net injection to the circular flow and reinforcing the initial fiscal stimulus. Since the two effects we have described go in opposite directions, we cannot say anything specific about the magnitude of the changes, nor can we say overall whether the "open economy" on balance reinforces or countervails the domestic fiscal policy. But we can say that the effect of deficit spending is complicated by consideration of foreign sector effects.

4.2 MONETARY POLICY

In Chapter 12 we discussed monetary policy in a closed economy. In an open economy, monetary policy is more effective in changing aggregate demand, because, unlike fiscal policy, its global effects unambiguously reinforce the domestic policy.
Suppose that the Fed believes the U.S. economy needs a boost and lowers interest rates in an attempt to stimulate aggregate demand. As we saw in Chapter 12, the decrease in interest rates should encourage investment spending. But in an open economy, the fall in interest rates should also increase net exports, another component of aggregate demand.
This is because a reduction in U.S. interest rates is likely to drive away some foreign financial capital. If interest rates here fell, people abroad would be less inclined to buy U.S. government bonds or put their money in U.S. bank accounts. As they sent their financial capital elsewhere, the demand for U.S. dollars would decrease. This would be portrayed as a leftward shift of the demand curve in the foreign exchange market. As discussed above (refer to Figure 14.4) a decrease in the demand for dollars would cause the dollar to depreciate.
A depreciation in the dollar means that a dollar now buys fewer units of foreign exchange, which, you will recall, discourages spending on imports. Meanwhile, the fact that a dollar can be purchased for fewer units of foreign exchange means that U.S. exports become "cheap" for foreign buyers. Exports should increase. Because it is demand for U.S.-produced goods and services minus imports that enters into aggregate demand, the latter rises. Thus, both an increase in exports and a decrease in imports have the effect of raising aggregate demand.
The openness of the economy can be thought of as adding an extra loop to the chain of causation discussed in Chapter 12, as illustrated below:






Yet this is not the end of the story. Just as in the earlier case of deficit spending, an increase in aggregate demand tends to produce an increase in imports. As we have seen, this leads to dollar depreciation, as U.S. citizens trade dollars for other currencies so that they can purchase imported products.
Here, also, the effect is to reinforce the initial domestic stimulus, since a weaker dollar tends to narrow the trade deficit that, as we have seen, increases aggregate demand, ceteris paribus. So in contrast to the fiscal policy case, where "opening up" the economy produces ambiguous effects in relation to a domestic fiscal stimulus, for monetary policy the international trade consequences clearly reinforce the domestic policy. A monetary stimulus, in other words, is amplified in an open economy. We should note that a monetary contraction would also be magnified; the same causal mechanisms would be in effect, only in reverse.

4.3 MANAGED VERSUS FLEXIBLE FOREIGN EXCHANGE

So far, we have assumed that exchange rates are determined by market forces, as modeled in Figure 14.5. In a flexible or floating exchange rate system, countries allow their exchange rates to be determined by the forces of supply and demand. But this is not always the case.

flexible (floating) exchange rate system: a system in which exchange rates are determined by the forces of supply and demand

Flexible exchange rates can create significant uncertainties in an economy. A manufacturer may negotiate the future delivery of an imported component, for example, only to find that exchange rate changes make it much more expensive than expected to complete the deal. Foreign exchange markets can also be susceptible to wild swings from speculation. A mere rumor of political upheaval in a country, for example, can sometimes create a rush of capital outflows as people try to move their financial assets into foreign banks, causing a precipitous drop in the exchange rate. Or an inability to obtain short-term foreign loans may send an economy into crisis—and its exchange rate swinging—even if over a longer period the economy would be considered financially sound. It can be hard to maintain normal economic activities when exchange rates fluctuate wildly.
Many countries have tried to control the value of their currencies in order to create a more predictable environment for foreign trade. The strictest kind of control is a fixed exchange rate system. In this case, a group of countries commits to keeping their currencies trading at fixed ratios over time. Starting in 1944, many countries, including the United States, had fixed exchange rates under what is known as the BrettonWoods system (named after the international monetary conference in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire that created a post-war financial order including the Intentional Monetary Fund and the World Bank).

fixed exchange rate system: a system in which currencies are traded at fixed ratios
Bretton Woods system: a system of fixed exchange rates established after World War II, lasting until 1972.

The exchange rates in such a system, however, do not usually remain perfectly fixed. For one thing, it is impossible to literally fix an exchange rate, because the central bank would need to have perfect (and continuously perfect) information about all trades. What the countries that participated in the Bretton Woods conference did—and countries today that fix their currency generally do—is set a "band" or range around a "target rate" and allow the "fixed" rate to fluctuate within this band. In the case of the countries that were part of the Bretton Woods system, the band was very narrow—on the order of plus or minus 1 percentage point.
Over the long term, the target rate within the band can change, at the government's discretion. When a government lowers the level at which it fixes its exchange rate, what is called a devaluation occurs, and when it raises it, a revaluation takes place. But the system can be undermined if there are too many changes, and when key currencies such as the dollar come under too much selling pressure a fixed exchange rate system can break up. This is what happened to the Bretton Woods system in 1972. The U.S. dollar had been the linchpin of the system, and had been convertible to gold. When the United States suffered large currency outflows, the U.S. eliminated gold convertibility and allowed the currency to float, which was quickly followed by other major countries floating their currencies also.

devaluation: lowering an exchange rate within a fixed exchange rate system
revaluation: raising an exchange rate within a fixed exchange rate system

After the Bretton Woods system ended, many countries moved to a "floating" system, while others tried to exert some management over their currencies. Such management is performed by trying to maintain certain target exchange rates, by "pegging" the currency to a particular foreign currency or by letting it "float" but only within certain bounds (something like the Bretton Woods system, only with a much wider band).
How does a country keep its exchange rate fixed, or at least within bounds? A government has at its disposal two main tools. The first is imposing capital controls. For example, a country that wants to limit foreign exchange trading may require that importers apply for licenses to deal in foreign exchange or impose quotas on how much they can obtain. By only allowing highly regulated transactions, it can control the prices at which exchange transactions are made.
The second is foreign exchange market intervention. As we saw earlier in our discussion of official reserve accounts, central banks have the power to intervene in foreign exchange markets. They may do this under a floating exchange rate regime, with the object of raising or lowering the rate, or to build up or lower their holdings of foreign exchange. When a country is committed to a fixed exchange rate, it is the responsibility of the central bank to respond to upward or downward pressures on the rate with appropriate intervention in order to keep the rate at the prescribed level.

foreign exchange market intervention: an action by central banks to buy or sell foreign exchange reserves in order to keep exchange rates at desired levels

To see how intervention works, consider Figure 14.7. Suppose that the government would like to keep the exchange rate of its domestic currency at (or above) the level e*, but market pressures are represented by the curves Smarket, and Dmarket. At the exchange rate e*, there is an excess supply (surplus) of domestic currency, and so there is pressure on the exchange rate to fall. The central bank must artificially create more demand for the domestic currency, as shown by demand curve Dwith intervention. It does this by going into the market and exchanging foreign currency for domestic currency—essentially "soaking up" the surplus domestic currency.
The problem is that the central bank can do this only as long as it has sufficient reserves of foreign exchange on hand. If it ran out of foreign exchange, it would be unable to support the currency and be forced to devalue. This is, in fact, fairly common among countries with deficits in their BOP, and in some cases leads to a balance of payments crisis.

balance of payments crisis: when a country gets precariously close to running out of foreign exchange and is therefore unable to purchase imports or service its existing debt

Is devaluation a bad thing? The answer to this question is complex. Devaluation is generally thought to be good for exporters, because it makes the country's goods cheaper abroad. But it also means that people in the country will find that imports are now more expensive. And sometimes devaluation is taken as a sign of instability or poor policy in a country or leads to international runs of speculation or competitive devaluation.






Figure 14.7 Foreign Exchange Intervention
In order to keep the exchange rate Dwith intervention at the target level e*, the central bank has to buy up the surplus of domestic currency, using in payment its reserves of foreign exchange.

Imagine, for example, an investor who is considering investing $100 million in Bolivian government bonds. If it seemed likely that the country's currency—the sucre—would at some point be devalued, the best strategy would be to avoid investing in Bolivia. If the exchange rate today were 5,000 sucres to the dollar, the investor could purchase 500 billion sucres worth of bonds with $100 million. But if the currency were in fact later devalued—to the point where 10,000 sucres would be needed to purchase a dollar—the investment would subsequently only be worth $50 million if the investor decided to sell the bonds and convert back to dollars. Because of the potential problems resulting from currency devaluation, many economists have grown cautious about recommending devaluation as a cure for international imbalances.
In contrast, a country can keep its exchange rate lower than market forces would dictate by supplying a lot of its domestic currency on the market and amassing large amounts of foreign reserves. Recently, China has used this tactic, keeping the value of its currency, the renminbi artificially low to stimulate exports. (The value of renminbi is often cited in terms of its most common unit, the yuan). China has, in the process, become a large holder of U.S. dollars as well as other currencies. China has been under pressure from many countries to revalue the renminbi (see Box 14.2).
One complication with fixed exchange rates is that they make it impossible for a country to conduct independent monetary policy. The reason is that intervention by its central bank on money markets to buy and sell its currency for foreign exchange reasons necessarily affects the country's domestic money supply, and vice versa. A country can set its exchange rate or its interest rate, but not both. If it keeps its exchange rate fixed relative to another currency, the interest rates in the two countries will tend to move together.
The adoption of the euro by some member countries of the European Union (EU) is a dramatic recent example of fixed exchange rates—taken a step further. In 1999 eleven member countries established fixed exchange rates between their national currencies and the euro—although, at that time, the euro was just an accounting notation. In 2002, euro banknotes and coins were put into circulation and national currencies were withdrawn. The countries that have adopted the euro have given up having separate monetary policies, putting the European Central Bank in control of monetary policy-making for the group as a whole. Because of this, and the fact that different countries often have different objectives and requirements, monetary policy is often more complicated in the eurozone than in individual countries (see Box 14.3). At latest count, the EU has 27 members, of which 17 participate in the euro.


BOX 14.2 UNITED STATES PRESSURES CHINA TO REVALUE ITS CURRENCY
For some time, the United States has put pressure on China to revalue its currency. In May 2012, The U.S. Treasury Department said that China had made progress in allowing its currency to rise against the dollar. This finding averted a formal charge of currency manipulation and a likely trade dispute. But the Treasury still considered China's currency, the renminbi, to be undervalued, meaning that it needed to appreciate further against the dollar.

The renminbi gained 8 percent against the dollar between 2010 and 2012. A currency with a lower value gives China a trade advantage by making its exports cheaper and imports from the United States more expensive. Some American manufacturers have urged the administration to take punitive steps to force China to allow the renminbi to trade freely. The renminbi now trades within a narrow range against the dollar.

The U.S. trade deficit with China was $315 billion in 2012. The continuing trade deficit means that the issue of currency valuation will continue to be a point of dispute between the two countries, with some U.S. legislators urging stronger action to force China to revalue.
Source: Associated Press, "Citing Gains, United States Doesn't Call China Currency Manipulator," May 25, 2012.


BOX 14.3 EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK GRAPPLES WITH INTEREST RATES AND EURO VALUE
February 7, 2013—Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, cited the rising value of the euro as a possible threat to the region's economic recovery. His comments immediately sent the euro down sharply against the dollar and yen. While the ECB President denied trying to influence the value of the euro, he implied that the Bank could take action if the euro rose too much.

"The exchange rate is not a policy target, but it is important for growth and price stability," Mr. Draghi said at a news conference after the regular monthly policy meeting of the ECB's Governing Council, in which the central bank left its main interest rate at 0.75 percent, as expected.
Mr. Draghi, during the news conference, was careful to avoid any explicit threat to take action to push down the euro or to criticize any other countries. He said the euro's current value was not far from its historical norm. But he noted that economic policy by other countries, none of which he identified, could affect exchange rates.
Recovery in the Eurozone could be threatened by the rising value of the euro, which could hurt European exports by making them more expensive for foreign buyers. In recent weeks, the euro has risen substantially against the dollar, to its highest levels in a year.
A stronger euro means that products ranging from cars to wine become more expensive abroad, putting European producers at a disadvantage against foreign competitors. But there are also positive effects. Imports, particularly oil, become less expensive for Europeans, which helps stimulate the economy.

Source: Jack Ewing, "ECB President's Comments Send Euro Lower," New York Times, February 7, 2013.

5. INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

The Bretton Woods system of fixed exchange rates was only one aspect of the international financial structure established in the 1940s. Also formed during this period were the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), later expanded into the World Bank, with the goal of promoting economic development through loans and programs aimed at poorer countries, and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), established to oversee international financial arrangements. Although fixed exchange rates have been abandoned, the World Bank and the IMF continue—with considerable controversy—to play significant roles in international affairs.

World Bank: an international agency charged with promoting economic development, through loans and other programs
International Monetary Fund (IMF): an international agency charged with overseeing international finance, including exchange rates, international payments, and balance of payments management

The IMF was charged with overseeing exchange rates, international payments, and balance of payments management and with giving advice to countries about their financial affairs. The IMF has a complicated governance structure based on voting shares allocated to member countries, but in fact its policy-making has historically been dominated by the United States and certain countries in Europe. The appointed members of its executive board represent the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, and Japan. The IMF recently restructured its voting system to give China, South Korea, Turkey, and Mexico slightly larger shares. Both the World Bank and IMF have their headquarters in Washington, DC.
When a country is in financial trouble—for example, when it is unable to pay the interest that it owes on its foreign debts or is experiencing wild swings in its exchange rate—the IMF (in conjunction with the World Bank, if the country is poor) often advises the government on how to remedy the problem. The IMF has tended to encourage low-and middle-income countries with debt problems to remove their barriers to trade and capital flows, arguing that such liberalization promotes economic growth. The countries are also advised to minimize the size of their government and its expenditures, as a way to reduce the need for borrowing. They are told to keep their inflation rates down and are often advised about their exchange rate policies as well.
The policy prescriptions of trade liberalization, privatization, deregulation, and small government became known during the 1980s and 1990s as the Washington Consensus (described in more detail in Chapter 17). The policies have also become the source of much controversy, as many economists have come to believe that rigid, "one-size-fits-all" application of such policies often works against, rather than for, human welfare and international stability (see Box 14.4).

Washington Consensus: specific economic policy prescriptions used by the IMF and World Bank with a goal of helping developing countries to avoid crisis and maintain stability. They include openness to trade and investment (liberalization), privatization, budget austerity, and deregulation.

Although the lending power of the IMF gives it considerable say in the affairs of many countries—for better or worse—the powers of any international organization are limited, especially with regard to the countries that are larger and more powerful. For example, many commentators worry about issues such as the undervalued Chinese renminbi/yuan, or the volume of foreign debt being taken on by the United States, but there is currently no international institution with the power to force China or the United States to change their policies. The IMF was also unable to prevent the rapid development of global financial crisis in 2008-9, although it played a role in putting together bailout packages for some countries after the crisis.
Many observers are currently calling for reforms in the international financial system and perhaps for new international institutions. Dissatisfaction over the IMF prescriptions for liberalization has caused some changes within the organization itself. But some argue that these changes are not sufficient and that more radical changes are necessary. Suggestions include greater regulation of international banking, substantial reforms and increased transparency in multinational corporate governance, restrictions on short-term capital flows, a tax on speculative transactions in foreign exchange (see Chapter 15), and establishment of an international bankruptcy court.

 Discussion Questions

1. To check your understanding of international linkages, consider the following hypothetical scenario. Suppose that people overseas become less interested in buying U.S. government bonds (perhaps because they start to think of them as less secure). What would be the effect on:
a. The BOP financial account?
b. The supply or demand for U.S. dollars?
c. The value of the U.S. dollar?
d. The BOP current account?
2. Have international trade or financial imbalances, or actions of the IMF, been in the news lately? What are the current controversies?


BOX 14.4 THE IMF AND THE ARGENTINE DEFAULT
In December 2001, the Argentine government announced a moratorium on payments on its $155 billion in public foreign debt. This default—the largest by a sovereign nation in history—rocked the international financial world. Was there more that the IMF could have done to prevent this? Or might IMF advice have been part of the reason that the default occurred?
In 1991 Argentina had pegged its currency to the U.S. dollar, as a way of bringing hyperinflation to a halt. The IMF, believing that this would lead to more discipline in Argentine policy-making, approved the peg. But with the dollar strong against the currencies of Europe and Brazil, Argentina's major trading partners, the peg made Argentina's exports expensive. This discouraged Argentine industry and encouraged the purchase of imports. Trade deficits resulted, financed by borrowing from abroad. Unemployment rose.
The IMF advised the Argentine government to address its financial issues by cutting back on government expenditures and privatizing its social security program. The country's leaders complied, even though the economy was in a downturn. The IMF encouraged Argentina to institute free trade policies, though major markets in the United States and Europe remained closed to its exports. Meanwhile, financial crises in Asia, Mexico, and Brazil made investors more nervous about lending to middle-income countries. The fact that the Argentine economy was visibly struggling caused foreign lenders to demand higher interest rates to compensate them for the risk of default. This in turn made the debt even harder to bear, in a vicious circle.
In December 2001, the situation reached a crisis. With official unemployment nearing 20 percent, people demonstrated in the street, which led the government to fall. Unable to make its debt payments, the interim government announced the default. The Argentine economy continued in a downward slide well into 2002.
Some commentators have blamed the default on corruption and mismanagement by the Argentine government and suggested that the crisis might have been avoided if the government had cut its expenditures even more. Others, observing that the government budget deficit was actually of a quite reasonable size (less than 3 percent of GDP), believe that inappropriate IMF advice is at least as much to blame. Basic principles of macroeconomics say that a government should raise—not lower—spending during a recession, but the IMF policies went in the opposite direction, pushing the economy into a downward spiral. According to this view, given IMF advice, default was only a matter of time.
Source: Joseph E. Stiglitz, "Argentina, Shortchanged: Why the Nation That Followed the Rules Fell to Pieces," Washington Post, May 12, 2002, and other news sources.


REVIEW QUESTIONS
 1. In what seven ways are economies connected internationally?
 2. List four policies related to international trade.
 3. List two policies related to international capital transactions.
 4. Briefly describe the recent history of United States and world trade, and list the major U.S. trading partners.
 5. What are some international organizations and agreements dealing with trade relations?
 6. List six reasons why countries often limit trade.
 7. What is the theory of "purchasing power parity"?
 8. Who creates the supply of a currency on the foreign exchange market? Who creates the demand?
 9. Draw a carefully labeled graph illustrating a depreciation of the dollar against the euro.
10. What are the two accounts in the balance of payment account, and what do they reflect?
11. How and why is an imbalance (surplus or deficit) in the current account related to an imbalance in the capital account?
12. Does having an open economy make monetary policy stronger or weaker? Why?
13. What is the effect of an open economy on fiscal policy?
14. Distinguish between floating and fixed exchange rate systems.
15. How and why might a central bank "intervene" on a foreign exchange market?
16. What is the "Washington Consensus"?
17. What reforms have been suggested for the international financial system?

EXERCISES
1. Singapore is a natural-resource-poor country that has built its economy on the basis of massive imports of commodities and raw materials and similarly massive exports of refined and manufactured goods and services. In Singapore, exports are 178 percent of GDP! But how can a country export more than its GDP? (Hint: Remember that imports are subtracted to obtain the measure of net exports that is part of GDP.)
2. Classify each of the following as a trade flow, income flow, or asset transaction:
a. A U.S. software company sells its products to European consumers
b. A Saudi investor buys real estate in Europe
c. A U.S. retailer imports Chinese-made appliances
d. A worker in the UK sends some of her wages back to her family in India
e. A Mexican manufacturer pays interest on a loan from a Canadian bank
3. Suppose that, due to rising interest rates in the United States, the Japanese increase their purchases of U.S. securities.
a. Illustrate in a carefully labeled supply-and-demand diagram how this would affect the foreign exchange market and the exchange rate expressed in terms of yen per dollar.
b. Is this an appreciation or depreciation of the dollar?
c. Would we say that the yen is now "stronger"? Or "weaker"?
d. If the rise in interest rates was due to a deliberate Fed policy, does this international connection make such policy more, or less, effective? Explain in a few sentences.
4. Determine, for each of the following, whether it would appear in the current account or financial account section of the U.S. balance of payments accounts and whether it would represent an inflow or an outflow.
a. Payments are received for U.S.-made airplanes sold to Thailand
b. A resident of Nigeria buys a U.S. government savings bond
c. A U.S. company invests in a branch in Australia
d. A Japanese company takes home its profits earned in the United States
e. The U.S. government pays interest to a bondholder in Canada
5. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B.








Column A

Column B


a.
Tariff
1.
Makes international incomes comparable, by accounting for differences in the cost of living


b.
Current account
2.
A rise in the value of a currency in a floating exchange rate system


c.
Currency appreciation
3.
An organization charged with providing loans for development


d.
Purchasing power parity adjustment
4.
Investing in a foreign business


e.
Balance of payments crisis
5.
Tracks flows arising from trade, earnings, and transfers


f.
Quota
6.
A tax put on an internationally traded item


g.
Non-tariff barriers to trade
7.
When a country runs short of foreign exchange


h.
World Bank
8.
A rise in the value of a currency, under a fixed exchange rate system


i.
International Monetary Fund
9.
Using measures such as standards and licensing to restrict trade


j.
Capital controls
10.
When a central bank buys or sells foreign exchange


k.
Revaluation
11.
A fall in the value of a currency under a floating exchange rate system


l.
Foreign Direct Investment
12.
Putting a quantity limit on imports or exports


m.
Currency depreciation
13.
Government intervention to reduce or eliminate international capital flows


n.
Foreign exchange market intervention
14.
An organization charged with overseeing international finance




NOTES
1. Bank for International Settlements, Triennial Central Bank Survey, September 2013.
2. U.S. Census Bureau, U.S. Trade in Goods with China. w­w­w­.c­e­n­s­u­s­.g­o­v­/­f­o­r­e­i­g­n­-­t­r­a­d­e­/­b­a­l­a­n­c­e­/­c­5­7­0­0­.h­t­m­l­.

APPENDIX: AN ALGEBRAIC APPROACH TO THE MULTIPLIER, IN A MODEL WITH TRADE

Just as we modified the multiplier in the appendix to Chapter 10 to take account of the impact of taxes, we can now go a step further to consider the effect of trade. Suppose that, in addition to consumption's depending on income, imports depend on income according to the equation IM = mpim Y, where mpim is the marginal propensity to import (the proportion of additional income spent on imports). The mpim is a fraction. Starting with the equation for aggregate demand with a proportional tax that we had derived in the appendix to Chapter 10, we can get an equation for aggregate demand in an economy including trade, as follows:






The AD curve now has the intercept given by the first term in parentheses. Changes in exports shift the curve upward or downward. The new slope is given by the term in brackets. The slope is flatter, due to the subtraction of mpim.
Solving for Y (using the same method as in the appendix to Chapter 10—but leaving out some of the intermediate steps) yields:






The term in brackets is a new multiplier that includes both proportional taxes and imports that depend on domestic income. This multiplier here is even smaller than the previous two. For example, if mpc = .8, t = .2, and mpim = .1, the new multiplier is 1/(1 −.64 + .1) or 1/(0.46) or approximately 2.2. This is because any increase in Y now "leaks" not only into saving and taxes but also into increases in imports (which takes away from demand for domestic products).




* Often misunderstood, tariffs are taxes paid to the government of the importing country by the importing company or entity, not by the exporting country.
* In recent years, for example, the International Monetary Fund has resorted to calling the capital account the "financial account," with the latter calculated to include the official reserve account. We prefer to present the traditional approach to the BOP, finding it more transparent about whether a country is truly in surplus or in deficit.













 
 
 





P A R T

Macroeconomic Issues and Applications


IV



















 
 
 




15
The Financial Crisis and the Great Recession




 
 

The financial crisis that commenced in 2007 and its aftermath have been widely referred to as the "Great Recession"—and with good reason. From its beginning until its nadir in 2009, it was responsible for the destruction of nearly $20 trillion worth of financial assets owned by U.S. households. During this time, the U.S. unemployment rate rose from 4.7 percent to 10 percent (not counting the discouraged and marginally attached workers discussed in Chapter 8). By 2010, college graduates fortunate enough to find a job were, on average, earning 17.5 percent less than their counterparts before the crisis—and experts were predicting that such a decline in earnings would persist for more than a decade.
The crisis also spread beyond U.S. borders. As consumption and income declined in the United States, many countries experienced a significant reduction in exports as well as a decline in the investments that they held in the United States. As a result, global GDP declined by 2 percent in 2009. It has been estimated that between 50 million and 100 million people around the world either fell into, or were prevented from escaping, extreme poverty due to the crisis. Why did this happen? Why were its effects so long-lasting? What lessons can be learned for the future? These are complicated questions to which this chapter provides some answers.

1. PRELUDE TO A CRISIS

In retrospect, perhaps it is not difficult to see that something "big" was going to happen. Economic conditions were unusual. The federal funds rate, and interest rates in general, were at historic lows. The extremely low mortgage rates were particularly important, because they motivated an unprecedented rush to buy real estate. Even people who ordinarily would have little hope of obtaining a mortgage got in on the action. As record numbers of consumers bought homes and investment properties, housing prices surged. Most people—realtors in particular—did not appear to think that house prices could ever go down again.

1.1 THE HOUSING BUBBLE

The housing bubble was an archetypal bubble. Like others before it, this bubble began innocently enough, with an increase in demand for real estate. As we learned in Chapter 4, an increase in market demand tends to increase prices, and the housing market proved no exception. Unfortunately, the increase in home prices fed a speculative frenzy, and millions rushed to buy, believing that prices could only go in one direction—up! The buyers included not only would-be homeowners, but also speculators who were buying simply with an interest in "flipping" the property (reselling at a higher price). The naive view exhibited by so many is characteristic of earlier bubbles, during which the lessons of the past were ignored.
To obtain a sense of the magnitude of the housing bubble, consider that average real home prices—that is, adjusting for inflation—were only 2 percent higher in 1997 than a century earlier (Figure 15.1). But prices skyrocketed starting in the late 1990s, and by the time they peaked in 2006 the average price of a house was nearly twice the long-term average price in the previous century. And the subsequent collapse was such that a mere six years later, prices had reverted to their long-term trend.





Source: Shiller dataset. www.econ.yale.edu/~shiller/data.htm.
Figure 15.1 Historical Housing Prices
This graph shows the real (inflation-adjusted) cost of housing over the long term, with an index of 100 representing the average cost over the twentieth century. The graph shows fluctuation in real housing prices, with dips around 25 percent below average in the 1920s and '30s, upward spikes of only about 25 percent in later parts of the twentieth century, and then a spike that nearly doubled average house prices in the early years of the twenty-first century.
What fed the speculative flurry that gave rise to such a massive bubble? In part, it was the bubble immediately preceding it—the "dot-com" bubble in technology stocks (discussed in Chapter 4). Even after a bubble bursts—and the dot-com bubble deflated from 2000 to 2003—there are winners as well as losers. Many beneficiaries of the dot-com bubble perceived themselves as considerably better off than a few years earlier and spent their newfound wealth on, among other things, bigger and more expensive houses. Demand for houses persisted, and even grew, despite continually increasing prices that, perversely, only confirmed expectations of continually rising prices. The result was an upward spiral of self-fulfilling speculative price hikes.
Another major factor was the unprecedented access to credit in the form of mortgages. During the mid-1990s, U.S. households borrowed an annual average of approximately $200 billion in the form of mortgages for home purchases. The figure rose abruptly to $500 billion for the period 1998-2002 and to $1 trillion from 2003 to 2006. While widespread access to credit is arguably critical for a vibrant economy, an exceedingly rapid increase in borrowing has, throughout history, been among the most consistent determinants of financial crises. By inflating bubbles, credit booms have invariably led to financial busts.
The key Federal Reserve interest rates—particularly the federal funds rate—are decisive in regulating credit availability. We saw in Chapter 12 how the Fed uses monetary policy to control interest rates; the critical point to remember in this context is that changes in the Fed's key rates percolate through the economy, because banks that can borrow at lower rates will also lend at lower rates and vice-versa. The 2001 recession that followed the collapse of the dot-com bubble prompted the Fed, led by Chairman Alan Greenspan, to lower the target federal funds rate from 6 percent to 1.75 percent. The Fed kept the rate low and in the summer of 2003 lowered it still further—to 1 percent, its lowest level in 50 years. The low federal funds rate in turn led to rate reductions across the board, including the rates for loans and home mortgages. These reductions fueled the borrowing binge that caused real estate prices to spiral upward (Figure 15.2).
Mortgage rates hit a 50-year low of just over 5 percent in 2003, and borrowing to finance home purchases consequently skyrocketed. There was also a second, less well understood, channel through which low rates contributed to the housing bubble. To understand it, you must keep in mind that while low interest rates are attractive to borrowers, they are decidedly unattractive to lenders. Here we are speaking not so much of the commercial banks that are extending mortgages to their customers—because the rate they charge, however low, is always considerably higher than the rate that they must pay to depositors—as of other financial institutions (such as investment banks) or high-net-worth individuals who are seeking higher returns on their money. With the repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act provision separating commercial and investment banking, many more financial players were now able to participate in the mortgage market.





Sources: Federal Reserve (w­w­w­.n­e­w­y­o­r­k­f­e­d­.o­r­g­/­m­a­r­k­e­t­s­/­s­t­a­t­i­s­t­i­c­s­/­d­l­y­r­a­t­e­s­/­f­e­d­r­a­t­e­.h­t­m­l­/­ and w­w­w­.f­e­d­e­r­a­l­r­e­s­e­r­v­e­.g­o­v­/­r­e­l­e­a­s­e­s­/­h­1­5­/­d­a­t­a­.h­t­m­l­); Shiller dataset, w­w­w­.e­c­o­n­.y­a­l­e­.e­d­u­/­~­s­h­i­l­l­e­r­/­d­a­t­a­/­i­e­_­d­a­t­a­.x­l­s­.
Figure 15.2 Housing Bubble and Credit Access
The effective federal funds rate, shown on the right hand vertical axis, plummeted from 2000 until 2004. Although it then began to move back up, the momentum of the housing bubble continued until a softening in housing prices began to be apparent in 2006.
In this period, U.S. Treasury bonds of all types were paying very low rates, and stocks were still not performing well on account of the bursting of the dot-com bubble. Financial investors who had grown accustomed to the much higher returns on their money that were available in previous decades were struggling to find more profitable ways to invest their money. Meanwhile, a rapidly growing number of prospective homebuyers were seeking mortgages at favorable rates. Traditionally, home mortgages involved only the borrower, on one side, and the bank that provided the funds, on the other. But this was to change, as investment banks now saw a unique opportunity to meet both investor and homebuyer interests with a single financial product: a mortgage-backed security (MBS).

mortgage-backed security (MBS): a security composed of a bundle of many home mortgages issued by independent banks

A mortgage-backed security is a bundle of independently issued home mortgages that an investor may buy in order to obtain a share of the mortgage interest payments; you could think of it as something like a mutual fund, but containing mortgages instead of stocks or government bonds. The investor also takes on the default risk from the individual mortgages that make up the MBS—that is, the risk that the homebuyers might not be able to make their mortgage payments. This risk varies from case to case, and here is where matters become a bit more complex.
Each MBS is divided into tiers or tranches, with the "senior" tranche the first to be paid in the event of mortgage defaults (hence, the safest). The "lowest tranche" is the riskiest but is correspondingly paid a higher return. Essentially, MBSs are a kind of derivative, constructed by mathematically proficient analysts who are paid to calculate the appropriate risk-return balance for each of the individual tranches.*
Following the advent of MBSs in the 1990s, banks increasingly acted as intermediaries that made housing loans and then bundled the mortgages together to be sold for a fee to investors. In the early 2000s, MBSs offered more attractive rates of return to investors than many types of bonds, both because of the Fed's continued low interest rates and the fact that mortgages generally pay higher interest rates than most other types of loans. Private investment banks were selling large quantities of MBSs, and the share of residential mortgages that were bundled into MBSs grew from 50 percent in 1995 to more than 80 percent by 2008.

collateralized debt obligation: an investment product that packages together numerous assets including mortgage-backed securities

But financial institutions then went even further. They developed another type of security known as a collateralized debt obligation (CDO), which is an even more complex investment product. It packages together a variety of loans, including, especially, MBSs—thus making it a "bundle of bundles" of mortgages. As in the case of MBSs, a hierarchy of tranches is available, each carrying a calculated risk-return balance. The complexity of the bundling that was involved meant that even the analysts entrusted with the construction of CDOs did not always fully understand them, and certainly the investors who bought them, and many of the financial executives who approved their use, had little idea of the risks involved.

credit default swap: a security that is effectively an insurance policy against defaults related to MBSs and CDOs

After packaging mortgages into MBSs, and MBSs into CDOs, investment banks also sought to insure the most senior tranches of each of them against default risk. Companies such as American International Group (AIG) sold what are known as credit default swaps (CDSs), which are a form of insurance policy against defaults related to MBSs or CDOs. In such an arrangement, the buyer of the CDS (usually an investment bank) pays a fee to the seller (an insurance company), which agrees to cover losses in case of a default.
During the early 2000s, it became an increasingly common practice to sell CDSs to insure the top tranches of MBSs and CDOs. Anyone can enter the market to buy a CDS; when one buys the CDS without owning the debt or mortgage that it insures, it is known as a "naked" CDS. Critics have argued that naked CDSs should be banned—likening them to buying fire insurance on your neighbor's home—because the owner of the CDS in this case would gain if the investment defaults on its payments. The European Parliament indeed saw it this way when, in 2011, it banned naked CDSs on European government debt.
To feed the escalating demand for higher returns, investment banks started offering MBSs and CDOs, with the risk to be insured by CDSs. Yet in order to satisfy demand for the new products, it was important to maintain a large nationwide pool of home mortgages. And here a problem emerged. Despite the historically low interest rates and unprecedented access to credit, it seemed that new loans could not be issued quickly enough to fulfill investor demand for the new bundled securities. In order to persuade even more people to become homeowners, banks needed not only to continue offering low rates but also to relax some of their lending criteria. This was to be a critical factor in the subprime crisis.

1.2 THE SUBPRIME CRISIS


subprime mortgage: a mortgage given to someone with poor credit

Although unbridled optimism about home prices and cheap credit contributed their fair share to the housing bubble, the expansion and deflation of the bubble could not have been so dramatic or damaging in the absence of an extraordinary buildup of risky lending. A new kind of loan, the subprime mortgage, became common.
Banks typically classify subprime borrowers as individuals who may have difficulty repaying the loan due to a high level of debt, relatively low income, or a poor credit record. Historically, banks have either turned down the subprime borrower or charged him/her a higher interest rate to compensate for the increased lending risk.
During the housing bubble, both restrictions were relaxed: The criteria for mortgage eligibility were loosened, and the interest rate charged to subprime borrowers was lowered. The number of subprime mortgages soared. In 2002, less than 10 percent of U.S. mortgages were subprime; a mere three years later, approximately 25 percent were. While the housing bubble was inflating, many commentators exulted that homeownership was becoming a reality for many for whom it had previously been only a dream. The argument lost credibility several years later, however, when the housing bubble burst. Subprime credit evaporated, and countless borrowers, unable to keep up with their mortgage payments, faced foreclosure.
Evidence supports the claim that the explosion of subprime lending intensified both the rise and the fall of the entire housing bubble. As noted above, mortgage borrowing doubled from an annual average of $500 billion from 1998 to 2002 to $1 trillion in the 2003-6 period. The rapid increase can be attributed largely to the proliferation of subprime lending. When housing prices finally started turning downward in 2006, continuing mortgage payments became especially difficult for subprime borrowers. The resulting wave of subprime foreclosures hastened the downward spiral of prices, because they created a glut in housing supply. Meanwhile, a widespread tightening of credit led to a drop in demand. An increase in supply coupled with a drop in demand is a recipe for lower prices, and that is precisely what was observed after the bubble burst.

Discussion Questions

1. People often refer to the housing "bubble" and even the housing "crisis." Is an increase in the average price of homes not a good thing? What if prices are rising more rapidly than in the past? Explain.
2. Would you prefer interest rates in the economy to be high or low? On what does it depend? Who benefitted from low interest rates during the inflation of the housing bubble? How did the low interest rates create problems?

2. ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF THE CRISIS

In Chapters 7 and 11, we discussed the relationship between the financial and the "real" economies. The financial crisis clearly demonstrated the importance of this relationship. The disappearance of immense financial wealth in the immediate aftermath of the crisis spilled over into the real economy. As people had less wealth, they were apt to spend less. (This is what we identified as the "wealth effect" in Chapter 13.) Even those who preferred to continue spending often found that banks were suddenly much more reluctant to lend them money. Less spending resulted in sharply lower output and a weaker labor market, as our circular flow analysis suggests. (As noted in Chapter 13, Keynesian economists argue that, were it not for an active government policy and the existing social safety net, things could have been much worse.)

2.1 UNEMPLOYMENT AND THE VICIOUS RECESSIONARY SPIRAL

As a consequence of the crisis, the U.S. economy lost nearly 9 million jobs from 2007 to 2009. Over a particular eight-month period spanning 2008 and 2009, the average U.S. household lost nearly $100,000 from its property and retirement portfolio values combined. Approximately 11 million homebuyers faced foreclosure from 2008 to mid-2012, accounting for about one of every four mortgages in the United States. Tens of millions were made poorer, if not "officially" poor. Clearly, the massive loss of speculative financial wealth on Wall Street (much of it related to depressed MBS and CDO values) translated to a comparable loss of real wealth on "Main Street." The financial crisis had turned into a broad-based economic crisis.
Although many families experienced hardship, certain groups were affected disproportionately. Young people, for example, suffered a heavy impact from the unemployment crisis. Each year brought a new wave of recent graduates into the workforce, adding to the masses of young people already facing dismal job prospects. Certain industries, such as construction and manufacturing, were hit particularly hard. Construction unemployment rates nearly tripled from 2007 to 2010, while manufacturing unemployment jumped from 4.3 percent in 2007 to 12.1 percent in 2009.

home equity loan: a loan that permits a borrower to offer his or her home (or their equity stake in it) as collateral in case of failure to repay the loan

The economic impact of the financial crisis persisted for an unusually long period. The unemployment rate remained above 7 percent through late 2013 (see Box 15.1). Why was this? As we saw in earlier chapters, the circular flow economy can, in difficult times, produce a vicious cycle. Unemployed workers generally have less income to spend. Families facing income losses and needing financial assistance can ordinarily borrow money—but after the financial crisis of 2007-8, banks and financial institutions introduced tougher standards for credit card loans and home equity loans, in which an equity stake in a home is posted as collateral. This led to a "credit crunch" in which families and business were unable to obtain loans.
Many families were therefore compelled to cut their spending further; in the period from 2008 to 2011, U.S. consumers on average reported spending $175 per month less than they would have in the absence of a recession. Many employers, suddenly facing lower profits, fired workers, contributing to a vicious unemployment cycle. While the values of MBSs and other newfangled securities seemed to plunge overnight, it took longer for the ensuing credit contraction to affect business bottom lines, employment decisions, and consumer spending. Thus the crisis that began in 2007 led to a recession and very slow recovery that lasted more than five years.


Box 15.1 THE COSTS OF LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYMENT
The long-term unemployment that followed the Great Recession was unprecedented since the 1930s, and has exacted a huge human and economic cost.
Long-term unemployment is experienced disproportionately by the young, the old, the less educated, and African-American and Latino workers. While older workers are less likely to be laid off than younger workers, they are about half as likely to be rehired. [As a result] the number of unemployed people between ages 50 and 65 has more than doubled.
    The result is nothing short of a national emergency. Millions of workers have been disconnected from the work force, and possibly even from society. If they are not reconnected, the costs to them and to society will be grim. (Baker and Hassett, 2012)
Research indicates a 50 to 100 percent increase in death rates for older male workers in the years following a job loss. One reason for this higher mortality is suicide. The longer the period of unemployment, the higher the risk of suicide. Joblessness is also linked to higher rates of serious disease and higher probability of divorce. Effects last into the next generation; children whose fathers lose a job have lower annual earning as adults than those whose fathers do not experience unemployment.
In the aftermath of the Great Recession, a slow recovery has seen lower job gains for men than women. By 2013, women's total private sector employment was slightly higher than before the recession, but jobs for men still lagged 3 percentage points below their previous levels.
Work-sharing programs that encourage companies to cut hours rather than payrolls, as well as retraining and re-employment programs, could help to mitigate the cost of long-term unemployment. Unfortunately, many state governments have taken the opposite approach, cutting aid to the unemployed. In 2013 North Carolina, with one of the highest jobless rates in the nation, cut both the duration and amount of unemployment benefits. According to economist Paul Krugman, this is "counterproductive as well as cruel—it will lead to lower spending, worsening the economic situation, and destroying more jobs."
Sources: Dean Baker and Kevin Hassett, "The Human Disaster of Unemployment," New York Times, May 13, 2012; Floyd Norris, "Gender Gaps Appear as Employment Recovers from the Recession," New York Times, July 13, 2013; Paul Krugman, "War on the Unemployed," New York Times, June 20, 2013.


Modern economies are, in a certain sense, more vulnerable to events in finance than they were in the past. Due in large part to the proliferation of mutual funds and their increased availability in employee retirement accounts, a higher percentage of the population than ever before have a financial stake in the stock and bond markets.
Today, even if financial instability is mostly speculative in nature and does not have a direct economic cause, it produces very real economic effects because consumers who feel poorer spend less money, potentially triggering a downturn characterized by reduced economic output and high unemployment. As we saw in Chapter 13, a leftward shift in the AD curve during the financial crisis decreased GDP and produced widespread fears of deflation.
Income and wealth inequality, already severe before the crisis, only intensified after it. While the wealthiest members of society lost the most in dollar terms (although much of it was recovered by 2010), the lower and middle classes, on average, lost a far greater share of their existing wealth. From mid-2007 to early 2009, U.S. families lost $10.9 trillion in financial investments related to stocks and bonds, amounting to an average loss of nearly $100,000 per household. More than half of U.S. households held retirement accounts whose value plummeted during the crisis, wrecking the retirement plans of millions of middle-class families. From 2007 through 2010, the median household lost nearly 40 percent of owned wealth, effectively undoing 18 years of wealth accumulation. And the poorest 25 percent suffered the most; their average household net worth fell to zero.

2.2 THE GREAT DEPRESSION AND THE GREAT RECESSION COMPARED

Calling the period after the financial crisis the "Great Recession" invites comparison with the other "great" economic downturn of the past century, the Great Depression. What makes the Great Recession different from previous recessions is the duration of the downturn. During most of the twentieth century, after about 1940, a recession was an almost predictable business cycle downturn followed, after a few quarters, by a solid economic recovery. Although the NBER declared the latest recession "officially" over by 2009, the slow pace of recovery in the job market, continued foreclosures, and a continued sense of despondency among the general public made many feel that the "recession" continued much longer. Even after 2009, most of the damaging effects of recession lingered, especially for the long-term unemployed and for new entrants into the labor market.*
Are the current downturn and the Great Depression comparable? Followers of historical trends point out that both downturns were preceded by a period of apparent economic strength. Those who remember the dot-com bubble that preceded the one in housing may not know that Americans experienced a similar asset bubble during the 1920s. Many banks were starting to diversify their services, moving into real estate and other relatively risky investments, potentially contributing to the bubble. Not unlike the more recent period, in the 1920s people were feeling optimistic and were therefore spending, many immoderately, driving prices up. Average annual economic growth during the 1920s is estimated to have been more than 4 percent, so things were looking good. Yet, as also occurred before the current downturn, the rapidly inflating asset bubble in the 1920s, most manifest in the main stock indexes like the Dow Jones Industrials (not in housing), inevitably collapsed.
In terms of possible factors that caused each economic downturn, the two episodes may have been more similar than different. But in terms of economic consequences, the differences are noteworthy, and the principal reason relates to government regulation, automatic stabilizers, and discretionary fiscal and monetary policy. For example, thousands of banks failed in the early years of the Great Depression, causing millions of depositors to lose their savings. In contrast, there was not a single such case in the aftermath of the recent crisis. Some banks did fail (though far fewer than in the 1930s), but depositors' accounts were protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). In response to the crisis, the insurance limit for deposits was raised from $100,000 to $250,000, helping to prevent any depositor panic.
The existence of a government-financed "social safety net" also made a major difference. Not only was the unemployment rate at the nadir of the financial crisis much lower than during the depths of the Great Depression (10 percent compared to 25 percent), but the unemployed were eligible for "extended benefits" of up to 99 weeks during the worst period of the recession (reduced to 73 weeks in 2012). There was no unemployment insurance during the Great Depression, nor did food stamps exist.
Such benefits enabled many of those involuntarily jobless to function during the worst part of the recent downturn, keeping consumption levels, and the broader economy, more or less stable despite the slow job recovery. The absence of such basic government support during the 1930s consigned millions to misery and prolonged the depression. In addition to the existence of automatic stabilizers, such as unemployment and food stamps, aggressive expansionary fiscal and monetary policies were put in place by the federal government and the Fed, starting in late 2008 (discussed in detail below).
Broad statistics support the conclusion that, for all the difficulties caused by the Great Recession, they were significantly less than those during the Great Depression. The U.S. economy, for example, moved into its recovery phase a mere year and a half after the financial collapse; during the Great Depression it took almost four years. Because of the social safety net that is in place now, consumption remained relatively stable, and deflation was averted (average prices actually rose nearly 2 percent from 2007 to 2009). In contrast, during the early years of the Great Depression, prices declined by more than 25 percent. And while the Dow Jones Industrials average lost slightly more than half its peak value in late 2008, it lost nearly 90 percent of its value after the market collapsed in 1929.
The principal difference, then, between the two periods is the existence of a social safety net, government regulations to protect ordinary Americans, and activist macroeconomic policy. It is no coincidence that programs such as Social Security, food stamps, and unemployment insurance were introduced in the 1930s under the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt. For all the anxiety over deregulation and the reduction in the social safety net over the past three decades, the financial crisis laid bare the importance of a government presence in the economy. Government programs, first instituted in the 1930s, kept the current downturn from becoming far worse.

Discussion Questions

1. Do you think changes in the value of "paper assets" like stocks and bonds, or even of homes, should have real economic effects? Why? Why do you think that employment suffered from the disappearance of so much financial wealth following the financial crisis?
2. Do you think that the Great Recession is nearly as bad as the Great Depression was? In what ways is it similar to it? In what ways was it different? Do you know any stories of family members who lived through the Great Depression?

3. UNDERLYING CAUSES OF THE FINANCIAL CRISIS

Many factors were behind the Great Recession. We have reviewed the fact that many unqualified borrowers were permitted—often actively encouraged—to buy homes that they could not afford. Other factors include the determination of large banks and the "titans" of finance to maintain high returns for their loans and investments, in the process downplaying that risks were often, in the end, borne by others. Their ability to do so was greatly increased by a trend towards deregulation of industries, including finance. Economic globalization also provided fuel for the crisis, and allowed it to spread more rapidly. These factors combined to produce other effects on the character of the macroeconomy. These other effects range from growing inequality among the U.S. population, to the structure and functioning of large economic institutions, to global trends and issues.

3.1 INEQUALITY

In the three decades before the 2007 crisis, the income gap between rich and poor members of the U.S. population widened to levels not seen since the 1920s. During the last two decades of the twentieth century, rising income inequality was mostly due not to real income declines for the poor and middle classes but to relative gains for the wealthy. The low and middle-income groups were gaining in absolute terms; the problem was merely to keep pace with the rich. But starting around 1999, things changed. The median U.S. household income began a real decline, signifying that the low and middle classes were now losing in absolute terms as well. The majority of U.S. families now faced difficulty even maintaining their customary level of consumption.
Policymakers could address the growing disconnect between rising consumption expectations by the low- and middle-income groups and their decreasing real incomes in three ways. The first was the "laissez-faire" option of doing nothing and hoping that market forces would, over time, diminish income inequality. The second option was to alter the tax and spending mix in a way that some income could be either directly or indirectly channeled toward the relatively poor. The third option was to encourage credit expansion and set lower interest rate targets, in the hope that families who did not otherwise possess sufficient income to meet their spending needs might borrow to make up the difference. In practice, policymakers rejected the second option of redistributing income in favor of a combination of the first and third options: do nothing about growing inequality, but facilitate greater borrowing on the part of middle-class and low-income families.
Countless U.S. families—subprime or otherwise—exploited the opportunity to take out home equity loans on generous terms. The trend had broad bipartisan support; indeed, many policymakers greeted it with optimism rather than skepticism. It seemed to be a clever way of addressing the economy's need for sustained consumer spending while avoiding the thornier issue of inequality or unpopular government action.
In the years preceding the crisis, the approach appeared to bear fruit. Consumption continued to increase despite declining incomes. Expectation of continued appreciation in their home's value doubtless encouraged families to spend more money than they had. But the numbers contained what should have been a warning. In 1980, for example, U.S. households held an average debt level equal to about 60 percent of disposable income; in 2007 this figure exceeded 130 percent. As a result, there was a sharp increase in the number of families who found themselves unable to continue paying their mortgages. For the many thousands whose home values dropped in the subsequent collapse, it often became more economically practical to default and face foreclosure than to continue to pay, because the monthly payments would continue to reflect the original, and often much higher, value of the home.
Lower interest rates during these years undoubtedly fueled the credit expansion. But household indebtedness might have ballooned even without such stimulus. A widespread perception of falling living standards, largely a consequence of income inequality, was probably sufficient to provoke a rapid increase in demand for loans.

3.2 BANK SIZE AND DEREGULATION

Many believe that the immense size of some of the leading U.S. banks was one of the causes of the financial crisis. There is little question that banks have gotten much bigger and that banking sector assets have become more concentrated. Since around 1980, the steadily increasing frequency of bank mergers has led to a growing number of large banks. From 1984 to 2007, the number of banks with more than $10 billion in assets increased fivefold, from 24 to 119, and the share of banking sector assets held by large banks increased from 28 to more than 75 percent (Figure 15.3). The consolidation continues to this day. In 2012, the 19 largest banks held more than 60 percent of the assets of the sector, and the six largest of them held assets equal to two-thirds of U.S. GDP.





Source: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (www2.fdic.gov/qbp/); w­w­w­.f­d­i­c­.g­o­v­/­b­a­n­k­/­s­t­a­t­i­s­t­i­c­a­l­/­s­t­a­t­s­/­2­0­1­2­d­e­c­/­i­n­d­u­s­t­r­y­.h­t­m­l­.
Figure 15.3 Increasing Bank Size
This graph shows the proportion of bank assets held by banks of different sizes. Over a 16-year period, while medium-sized banks gradually declined in proportion of assets held, smaller banks lost ground even faster. The proportion of banks in the largest size category rose from below 30 percent to nearly 80 percent.
Both geographic and sectoral factors contributed to the consolidation. Before the 1980s, most states had strict regulations forbidding out-of-state banks from owning subsidiary banks within their borders. The point was to impede excessive bank growth. But, beginning in 1980, with the Reagan administration's promotion of a deregulatory agenda, this began to change. More states allowed their banks to merge with banks from outside the state. In 1994, Congress passed the Riegle-Neal Banking and Branching Efficiency Act, which effectively sanctioned and strengthened the deregulatory trend already in motion for more than a decade.
Another important factor was the sectoral changes that banking deregulation permitted. Ever since the Great Depression, customer bank accounts had been protected by the Glass-Steagall Act (see Chapter 11), which separated commercial and investment banking activities, essentially preventing commercial banks from engaging in risky investments and investment banks from holding deposits. The separation between the two was gradually eroded through the 1980s and 1990s, with the Fed becoming increasingly lenient about which activities were permitted for commercial banks. In 1999 the Financial Services Modernization Act (FSMA) effectively overturned Glass-Steagall, allowing large financial companies to engage in commercial and investment banking as well as insurance. This act, perhaps more than any other piece of legislation, contributed to the increase in the number of "megabanks," notable among them being Citigroup, the largest financial company in the world.
Among other important deregulatory policies were the gradual loosening of restrictions on capital across borders, a congressional ban on the regulation of credit default swaps, an agreement to allow banks to measure the riskiness of their own products, and increases in the amount of leverage permitted to investment banks. Allowing banks greater leverage meant that they could borrow huge sums at low rates of interest and invest the borrowed funds in the shaky bond products discussed earlier. Deregulation thus magnified the ultimate effects of the crisis.

economies of scale: benefits that occur when the long run average cost of production falls as the size of the enterprise increases

At the time many argued that the financial deregulation trend augured well, claiming that large banks are less prone to risk than small ones and therefore have less of a destabilizing effect on the economy. A large bank would, for instance, lend to borrowers who are more geographically dispersed, thereby making it less vulnerable to locally concentrated defaults. Also, according to this argument, a large bank faces less risk because it possesses a greater diversity of income sources (e.g., stocks and real estate, in addition to loans) than a traditional small bank. Supporters also made so-called economies of scale arguments, stating that a larger size would allow a bank to operate more efficiently by allowing it to cut costs in many areas. On the other side were those who argued that, insofar as such claims were true, it meant that only large banks were free to take on offsetting degrees of high risk elsewhere by, for example, leveraging highly in order to invest vast sums in potentially risky assets. Empirical studies have generally supported the latter claim. In 2013, megabank JPMorgan Chase agreed to pay a $13 billion settlement resulting from the bank's questionable mortgage practices leading up to the financial crisis.

"too big to fail": when a company grows so large that its failure would cause widespread economic harm in terms of lost jobs and diminished asset values

The principal argument against excessively large banks is related to what is known as "too big to fail." "Too big to fail" does not mean that it is impossible for a large bank to fail; as the financial crisis made painfully obvious, it is all too possible. What it means is that it is possible for an enterprise to grow to such a size that its subsequent failure would harm not only the shareholders but also the public at large.
Large banks count many other large companies among their creditors, so the failure and eventual bankruptcy of any one of them could cause a "domino effect," in which the inability of one bank to pay other creditors could jeopardize the financial standing of others, with potentially catastrophic spillover effects. It was such a fear that prompted federal regulators to "bail out" large financial companies like Citigroup, Bank of America, and AIG (via grants, loans, or assisted mergers). Although many people did not like the idea of the U.S. government's granting so much assistance to failed banks—which had failed due mostly to recklessness, not poor fortune—it was generally agreed that the alternative—a potential economic collapse—was much worse.

moral hazard: the creation of perverse incentives that encourage excessive risk taking because of protections against losses from that risk

Despite agreeing with the decision, many banking industry critics point out that we would not have faced the problem in the first place if banks had not been permitted to grow "too big." They argue that after banks (or companies in any sector of our economy) become aware that they are "too big," they have an incentive to take on greater risks, anticipating that they will lose very little regardless of the outcome of their ventures. If the ventures fail to pay off, the large banks would be first in line for government assistance in the form of a bailout. The creation of such perverse incentives is what economists refer to as moral hazard.
The moral hazard created by "too big to fail" in effect divorced the public's interests from those of the banks, creating a situation in which the pensions or portfolios owned by many millions of households suffered large losses while major banks were bailed out. In 2008, Congress passed the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), which authorized the U.S. Treasury to spend as much as $700 billion in loans, stock purchases, and asset buyouts for insolvent banks, in addition to earlier loans provided by the Fed. This served mostly to assist the "too big" banks; for example, the Treasury spent $220 billion to purchase stock from the 19 largest financial companies but only $41 billion for all other banks.
In its defense, the Treasury pointed out in 2012 that not only had 94 percent of its TARP investments been repaid but that the value of those investments had increased by $19 billion. Nevertheless, taxpayer money had been used to shoulder $700 billion worth of risk. Although the TARP investments turned out favorably this time, the fact that it was even needed vividly illustrates the dangers of a banking sector that is "too big to fail."

3.3 MISGUIDED CORPORATE INCENTIVE STRUCTURE

Although the existence of "megabanks" encouraged financial risk taking, bank managers were facing a changing payment structure that would similarly distort their incentives. Before the 1990s, compensation for bank chief executive officers (CEOs) was mostly unrelated to company fortunes. That is, they were generally paid a salary that would grow at a rate comparable to that of many other employees. If the company performed especially poorly, the CEO might lose his/her job, but otherwise the CEO's salary remained unaffected by company performance.
More recent views, including those taught in business schools, increasingly supported the idea that executive compensation packages should include performance incentives. CEO pay started to come more in the form of stock options, and bonuses were more frequently tied to the company stock value. The rationale for the changes was that they would give CEOs a greater incentive to take steps that would ensure a good return for the company shareholders. Many believed that rapid growth in the stock value would be a reflection of the CEO's ability and understanding of risk.
The new pay structure, however, generated unexpected problems. If CEOs were to be evaluated primarily on the basis of company stock price, they would be motivated to focus on short-term gains in this area, ignoring long-term risks. They would be compensated handsomely—in terms of both the number of stock options and bonus size—if the stock price went up, even if the increase was not sustainable. The CEO might well have left the company before the long-run damage became evident. In the case of the housing bubble, any self-interested CEO could have profited even if he suspected that the rapid increase in home prices could not last. The new pay structure created an incentive for gambling on risky mortgages. It became apparent only later that such an incentive-based pay structure was another example of moral hazard (see Box 15.2).
From 2000 to 2007, the period during which the housing bubble was inflating, Lehman Brothers (which was to be the sole "megabank" to be allowed to fail during the crisis) and Bear Stearns (which also went out of business but was taken over by Bank of America under pressure from the Fed, thereby technically avoiding bankruptcy) paid their CEOs $61 million and $87 million respectively in bonuses, with both citing unprecedented increases in their stock price as justification. These CEOs also earned $461 million and $289 million respectively from exercising their stock options during this time. During this period, the companies were engaging in the unsustainable borrowing that would lead to their collapse. By the time the game was up in 2007, and the share prices plummeted, the CEOs had already become immensely wealthy and were under no obligation to return the funds.


Box 15.2 CEO PAY AND TAX LOOPHOLES
According to a 2012 report by the Institute for Policy Studies (IPS), various current tax provisions encourage excessive CEO pay. According to the report:
The four most direct tax subsidies for excessive executive pay cost taxpayers an estimated $14.4 billion per year—$46 for every American man, woman, and child. That amount could also cover the annual cost of hiring 21 1,732 elementary-school teachers, or provide Pell Grants of $5,500 to 2,591,021 college students.
The largest of these tax provisions relates to a company's ability to claim a tax deduction for executive pay. A 1993 law limits this deduction to $1 million annually for direct compensation, but there are no deductibility limits placed on "performance-based" pay in the form of stock options. In 2011 Larry Ellison, the CEO of Oracle, received more than $76 million in performance-based pay, and the company did not have to pay any federal taxes on this amount.
Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of California, has introduced legislation, the Income Equity Act (HR 382), that would limit a company's ability to deduct CEO pay to 25 times the salary of the company's lowest-paid worker. Her bill would not limit the amount that a company could pay its CEO, just the amount that would be tax deductible. The bill "would encourage corporations to raise pay at the bottom of the corporate pay ladder. The greater the pay for a company's lowest-paid worker, the higher the tax-deductible pay for the company's highest-paid executives."
Source: Sarah Anderson, Chuck Collins, Scott Klinger, and Sam Pizzigati, "The CEO Hands in Uncle Sam's Pocket, Executive Excess 2012, 19th Annual Executive Pay Survey," IPS, August 16, 2012.


It may not be self-evident why shareholders would allow for such a skewed incentive structure if it actually threatened their share values. Could it be that the inherent moral hazard in such a pay structure did not occur to anyone? It is highly unlikely. The fact is that shareholders in major companies do not actually possess much influence over CEOs. The boards of directors of companies have historically acted, in theory at least, on behalf of shareholders. And one "action" is determining CEO compensation.
In practice, and especially in recent years, company boards tend to be more aligned with CEO interests than with those of the shareholders whom they are presumed to represent. In some companies, CEOs hold sway over board members' compensation and re-election prospects, generating an incentive for "mutual favors." Moreover, many bank CEOs sit on the boards of other banks, providing ample opportunity for board members to cater to CEO interests, and vice versa. Therefore it should be no surprise that some CEOs were allowed to profit greatly from short-term growth, to the cost of not only shareholders but also the population at large.

3.4 GLOBALIZATION AND LONG-TERM ECONOMIC TRENDS

Events originating outside the United States also contributed to the financial crisis. First, the progressive globalization of labor markets took its toll on U.S. workers. Beginning around the late 1960s, the United States started to rely more on foreign countries (e.g., China and Mexico) for production of consumer goods, because these countries, which pay a far lower average wage, could produce them at a lower price. We noted in Chapter 7 that the U.S. manufacturing sector has been in decline from about this time, and in Chapter 8 that real wages in the United States have failed to keep up with gains in productivity since the 1970s. This trend was facilitated by a gradual weakening of labor unions. In the mid-1960s, about one-third of all employees were in a labor union; today only about 12 percent of public sector workers are, and 7 percent in the private sector.
While globalization also brought significant advantages to the United States (as noted in Chapters 13 and 14), the distribution of the gains and losses tended to reinforce the growing pattern of inequality discussed above. This put pressure on struggling middle-class and low-income families to take on more debt. As we have outlined, easy credit access made going into debt a seemingly attractive option, and as long as house prices were rising, the illusion of increasing wealth encouraged taking on large mortgages. Household debt outstanding, mostly mortgage or credit card debt, rose to 98 percent of GDP by 2007. This allowed American families to live beyond their means, until the 2008 crisis forced massive retrenchment.
Another factor was the persistent U.S. current account deficits. Although the United States did not consistently import more than it exported until the mid-1980s, from then on the current account grew ever more unbalanced. The deficit increased from about 1 percent of GDP in 1990 to 6 percent in 2006, causing a massive inflow of foreign money that, as we saw in Chapter 14, is necessary to keep international financial flows "in balance." The flood of foreign money was invested in a variety of U.S. assets, intensifying the asset price inflation that was already occurring. Some of it was used to purchase Treasury bonds, but much of it financed borrowing by U.S. homeowners or was directly invested in stocks, MBSs, and CDOs.
One major consequence of the foreign savings inflow was that it reinforced the lowering of interest rates. Recalling the classical model of the loanable funds market first discussed in Chapter 9, the inflow substantially increased supply (a rightward shift of the supply curve), thereby leading to a reduction in the interest rate. We have already seen that low interest rates can potentially induce an increase in the level of real domestic investment, which historically leads to healthy economic growth and domestic employment. But lower interest rates can also play a decisive role in inflating bubbles by fueling consumption and provoking excessive leveraging for purposes of financial speculation. In the case of the foreign inflows resulting from U.S. current account deficits, it is not possible to know whether they would have been sufficient, on their own, to produce a financial bubble in the United States, but we do know that they played an important role.
By the time the housing bubble was close to bursting, the financial sector had been deregulated to an extent not seen since before the Great Depression. Globalization only served to reinforce the inflation of the bubble. Movement of capital by investment banks and hedge funds across borders is only lightly regulated. So the problems discussed earlier, in which there was inadequate oversight of bank investments and loans—and of the management of risk—were magnified because there was no such oversight at all when it came to capital investments from overseas. Because foreign investors were parking their excess funds in the U.S. financial system (recall that they had these funds in no small part as a result of years of trade surpluses with the United States), investment banks and hedge funds possessed more capital with which to take on more risk and more debt (with historically low interest rates serving as another incentive), in order to multiply their returns.
How did finance come to play such an important role in the economy? One possible explanation is that the steady decline in U.S. manufacturing made it increasingly difficult to obtain an attractive return on investments in companies that were manufacturing real products. This downward trend may, at least in part, explain the proliferation of arcane financial products, as discussed earlier. Because expected returns in industry were relatively low, many financial investments seemed to promise attractive returns (if only in the short run). As we have seen, bubbles are inflated when investors desperate for high returns sink their money into assets with highly questionable foundations, causing their price to rise rapidly, which in turn draws in further investors.

Discussion Questions

1. Have you seen anything in the news in recent weeks about the regulation of banking and finance? Do you think, in general, that it is a good idea to allow banks and financial institutions to conduct their business with minimal government interference? Why or why not?
2. Did the financial crisis mostly have to do with banks? Homebuyers? International economics? What do you think is the most important factor that explains it?

4. REMEDIES AND IDEAS FOR AVERTING FUTURE CRISES

The financial crisis called for both short-and long-term responses. Many believe that it was critical, in the short term, to restore at least some semblance of stability to the financial system, lest it collapse and bring the broader economy down with it. This urgent need prompted the government to act, by bailing out the institutions deemed most systemically important to the health of the economy and by instituting a "stimulus" program of federal spending. The Fed joined in as well, actively purchasing not only Treasury bonds but also securities such as MBSs through its "quantitative easing" program (as discussed in Chapter 12).
After the worst had been averted, attention turned to the long-term question—how to prevent future financial crises. This is a more difficult issue. One possible solution is to reverse, at least partially, some of the financial deregulation that helped lead to the crisis. Many have supported calls for more regulation of the financial sector, and some reforms have been implemented, although there has been opposition both from some who think that they go too far and from others who believe that they do not go far enough.

4.1 FISCAL AND MONETARY RESPONSES

After the emergency measures taken to forestall a complete economic collapse in late 2008, there remained the task of stimulating the economy, especially with the goal of creating rapid job growth. To this end, Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), an $831 billion government-spending bill. Whether the amount was big enough or too big remains an open question. But independent analysts estimate that ARRA created between 1.5 million and 7.9 million new jobs from 2009 to 2012. Nevertheless, employment growth remained lackluster through 2013, with the unemployment rate remaining above 7 percent.
Moreover, as we have seen, when the government ramps up spending without a corresponding tax increase, the result is a swelling deficit, increasing the overall national debt. Some critics contend that this policy will lead to even greater problems in the long term (we review the issue of deficits and debt in Chapter 16). But one indisputable consequence of the crisis, and the bill that followed, is that Keynesian economics once again became an important influence in U.S. policy-making.
While the federal government was rapidly boosting spending, many state and local governments were doing the precise opposite. The drop in household income resulting from mass layoffs and stagnant wages meant that state and local governments could collect less tax revenue, resulting in the sharpest drop in state tax revenue in U.S. history. State budget deficits ballooned, peaking at a total of $191 billion in 2010 and remaining high at $55 billion even for fiscal year 2013.
You may recall from Chapter 10 that while the federal deficit often seeks to stabilize the macroeconomy by pursuing countercyclical policy (i.e., deficit spending when times are bad, budget balance or surplus* when the economy recovers), states and municipalities—mostly because they are not empowered to create their own money—do the exact opposite. States did receive federal assistance as part of ARRA, but it covered only about 40 percent of their budget shortfalls from 2009 to 2011. To make up the rest, by 2012 46 states had cut spending on services while 30 states had increased taxes. Although fiscally prudent, both policies countervail economic recovery efforts, and some analysts estimate that these "anti-Keynesian" state policies have cost U.S. workers more than 4 million jobs from 2009 to 2012, undercutting the reported job gains from the federal stimulus program.
In the area of monetary policy, the Fed embarked on a stimulus plan that is unprecedented in nature. Immediately after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, the Fed purchased billions of dollars' worth of shaky assets, including mortgage-backed securities that had lost the majority of their value. The result was that the assets on its balance sheet jumped from about $950 billion in 2007 to more than $2.5 trillion in 2008.**
As discussed in Chapter 12, Fed purchases of securities effectively increase the money supply, because holding more reserves enables banks to offer more loans to the public. The principal difference between quantitative easing and open market operations is that while the latter involves the purchase of government Treasury bonds, the former means that the Fed is buying distressed assets. As of early 2013, the Fed's asset holdings approached $3 trillion, with a significant fraction uncharacteristically invested in assets of questionable value. In the fall of 2012, Fed chair Ben Bernanke announced the third round of quantitative easing (dubbed QE3), through which the Fed committed to purchasing $40 billion in MBSs per month.
These expansionary monetary policies had a major effect in promoting economic recovery, including in the housing market (see Box 15.3). But employing monetary policy to stimulate the economy has limitations; as noted earlier, one could flood the economy with money, but if consumers and businesses remain pessimistic, the existence of more money does not necessarily lead to increases in consumption or investment. Despite the Fed's very expansionary policies, banks remain fairly reluctant to lend their excess reserves, except to their most creditworthy borrowers.


Box 15.3 HOUSING PRICES HEADED BACK UP
Although Figure 15.1 shows housing prices declining from their 2006 peak, more recent data indicate that housing prices are headed back up. Over the 12 months from March 2012 to February 2013, the Case-Shiller index of housing prices was up 9.3 percent. That was the biggest 12-month gain in the index since May 2006, shortly after the index indicated record-high home prices.
The index showed a 12-month decline in prices almost every month over a five-year period through May 2012. But every month since then has shown a gain in home prices, and each month's gain has been stronger than the one that came before. "Despite some recent mixed economic reports for March, housing continues to be one of the brighter spots in the economy," said David Blitzer, chairman of the index committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices.
While rising housing prices are a sign of an economic recovery, some economists worry that the recent rapid rise in home prices could be problematic. Stan Humphries, chief economist for real estate Web site Zillow, said that "regardless what data you look at, home values are clearly rising at an unsustainable pace."
Mike Larson, real estate analyst at Weiss Research, said he's concerned that much of the increase is being driven by investors flooding into some markets to buy homes in order to rent them out, outbidding the potential homeowners who want to live in a home. "Prices are not at bub-blicious levels, but you're talking about a trend that can be destabilizing," he said.
The biggest increase in housing prices was in Phoenix, AZ, a city particularly hard-hit during the financial crisis, where prices increased by 23 percent. Some neighborhoods in the city saw housing prices rise by 40 percent. According to Dean Baker, codirector of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, these dramatic price increases were being driven by speculators. He noted that in the housing markets most hurt by the bursting of the housing bubble, there was a danger that new bubbles will form. "The end of this round of speculation is not likely to be much prettier for the areas affected than the end of the last round," he said.
Source: Chris Isidore, "Home Price Rise Continues to Pick up Speed," CNN Money, April 30, 2013. h­t­t­p­:­/­/­m­o­n­e­y­.c­n­n­.c­o­m­/­2­0­1­3­/­0­4­/­3­0­/­n­e­w­s­/­e­c­o­n­o­m­y­/­h­o­m­e­-­p­r­i­c­e­s­/­i­n­d­e­x­.h­t­m­l­


In addition, some fear that the Fed, through its efforts, is inadvertently inflating a new bubble. Wall Street, for example, appears ebullient at the efforts of both the fiscal and monetary authorities to reverse the economic decline; stock indexes rose to record levels in 2013. At the same time, there was a rush into "junk bonds"—corporate bonds considered at moderate to high risk of default—because of their relatively high interest rates. And we should not forget that sustained low interest rates are always an invitation for speculators to leverage their investment positions inexpensively, as some have returned to doing.

4.2 THE DODD-FRANK BILL

The deregulation that preceded the financial crisis had been developed over many decades. Starting in the 1980s, many government regulations that had been in place for decades were eliminated. The premise for deregulation was the belief that companies would benefit from less government intrusion in their affairs and that the broader economy would gain from an improvement in investment incentives. As we have noted, important deregulatory legislation, such as the Financial Services Modernization Act—which effectively overturned Glass-Steagall—were adopted, generally with bipartisan support, during the 1990s and 2000s.
But in late 2008 the political atmosphere changed rather abruptly. Suddenly, a clamor arose for regulatory reform to protect Americans from the recklessness of the financial sector, which only intensified after the first recipients of government assistance were revealed to be the financial companies themselves. The principal change arising from the call for reform was the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), cosponsored by Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Representative Barney Frank (D-MA), which seeks to address many of the causes of the financial crisis.
First, Dodd-Frank addresses the deteriorating lending standards that encouraged subprime loans and pumped air into the housing bubble. The legislation requires that financial companies that seek to lend money to prospective homeowners use minimum criteria (related to, e.g., credit history and income and debt levels) to determine whether the candidate for a mortgage can reasonably be expected to repay.
The law also seeks to put a halt to so-called predatory lending, which was increasingly common in the last years of the housing bubble. Predatory lending describes the practice in which financial companies target individuals whom they know are unlikely to repay a mortgage. Dodd-Frank creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (www.consumerfinance.gov/) that protects vulnerable borrowers but also monitors loosely regulated lenders known for predatory practices. In July 2013, the Bureau became fully operational with the appointment of a permanent director.
Another key feature of Dodd-Frank is that it directly confronts the moral hazard inherent in the financial system and its pay structure. In order to reduce the extent to which commercial banks transfer risk to investment banks through the use of MBSs and other securities, the legislation requires commercial banks to be exposed to a minimum amount of the mortgage default risk. Dodd-Frank, moreover, puts restrictions on CDSs, requiring companies that seek to insure senior tranches of MBSs or CDOs to post more collateral to back up their value.
In addressing corporate pay structure, Dodd-Frank calls for the Securities and Exchange Commission to ensure that corporate board members who determine CEO compensation do not have private interests in the company that might give them an incentive to favor higher CEO pay over broad shareholder interests.
Dodd-Frank also takes on ratings agencies like Moody's and Standard and Poor's, the companies that rate a great variety of debt and debt-related securities to give investors a clear picture of the riskiness of the asset. The new legislation requires the agencies to disclose the method used to rate each security, in hopes of increasing transparency for investors. It partially addresses conflict of interest concerns stemming from the fact that the agencies are regularly paid by the banks that they rate, possibly creating an incentive to understate the risk of certain securities. Nevertheless, Dodd-Frank does not prohibit ratings agencies from being paid by the firms that they rate.
The legislation also limits the amount of leverage permitted to large financial firms. As noted earlier, the instability leading to the crisis was magnified by the fact that firms were allowed to borrow amounts so high that they intensified the artificial rise in asset prices.
Perhaps most important, the Dodd-Frank bill takes on the issue of "too big to fail." It uses the designation "systemically important" for financial companies that hold assets in excess of $50 billion (of which there are currently almost 40) and subjects them to Fed-imposed restrictions on their activities that are more stringent than those faced by smaller firms. The law also seeks to restrict further growth. For example, it forbids any merger that allows a single firm to hold more than 10 percent of the liabilities of the entire financial sector.

4.3 BEYOND DODD-FRANK

Like most historic pieces of legislation, the Dodd-Frank bill has received no shortage of criticism. A familiar argument against it is one that is commonly heard about regulation in general: that the bill creates significant costs for financial firms, slowing down business and job creation. Another point of criticism is that the legislation is too complex, perhaps even contradictory.
A third argument made against Dodd-Frank is that it has been "watered down" to a great extent by intense lobbying efforts by the financial industry itself—suggesting, in effect, that the regulators are under the influence of the regulated. One salient example supporting this claim is the fact that, in 2012, regulators decided that new CDS regulations would not apply to firms that sell less than $8 billion in CDSs per year. Because of this change, which was a direct result of pressure from the finance lobby, the overwhelming majority of companies are exempt from CDS regulations.
As of late 2013, only 40 percent of the rules provided for in Dodd-Frank had been adopted in final form. In the process, a number of them had been watered down or eliminated due to pressure from the financial industry. Dodd-Frank also encountered problems globally, as foreign countries protested aspects that affected their financial companies.
Opposition to Dodd-Frank is not, however, limited to Wall Street. Although much of the public favors reform and greater regulation of the financial industry, many remain opposed to or at least highly skeptical of Dodd-Frank. Polls indicate that nearly half the U.S. population believes that the legislation would do more to protect the financial industry than consumers.
In order to go beyond Dodd-Frank, we must ask not merely how to regulate finance, but also how to redirect finance to the goal of increasing overall benefits to society. One obvious way would be to reverse course in the direction of smaller and more specialized banks, along the lines of the Glass-Steagall Act. Free market principles align with the idea that banks should be "small enough to fail." In other words, market competition should weed out the weak or inferior banks, and in the process the banking system would be made more robust.
A system based on small banks would highlight the important economic role that they already play. Despite holding barely 10 percent of total banking sector assets, small banks provide more than one-third of all small business loans in the United States. This is a critically important service, because small businesses have created over two-thirds of new jobs in the United States since the early 1990s.
Such a change, in effect a return to traditional banking, would require addressing the heavy influence in government that is arguably responsible for the deregulation in the first place: the veritable "revolving door" through which some of the "big players" in finance subsequently take on important government posts, and vice-versa. Attempts to block this door have included proposed requirements that individuals must wait a significant number of years between the time that they leave a government position in which they can affect legislation on industry sectors and when they begin to work in those sectors.
Another means of redirecting finance to serve society would be to ask investors to pay a modest tax each time that they complete a financial transaction. Keynes proposed such a tax in 1936—at a time when the role of finance vis-à-vis the real economy was minuscule compared to today—as a way of discouraging the short-term speculation that makes the price of company stock highly volatile. Decades later, another prominent economist, the Nobel laureate James Tobin, also argued that financial transactions, particularly currency trades, should be taxed. His idea was that each transaction be taxed at a low rate, but that speculators would end up paying much more than long-term investors because they buy and sell securities much more frequently. Today, the term "Tobin tax" is used to refer to any proposed financial transaction tax.
Studies estimate that a financial transactions tax of a fraction of a percentage point would generate billions of dollars in revenue. The European Commission has adopted a tax on all stock, bond, and derivative trading in the European Union beginning in 2014, and Canada has passed legislation that proposes to implement a Tobin tax if enough other countries agree to participate.
In future, the financial sector will continue to be the focus of an extensive debate about regulation, transparency, and the political power of large financial institutions. Economic theory cannot provide definitive answers to these questions, but as this chapter has shown, many of the macroeconomic analyses that we have developed are very relevant to understanding and evaluating these issues.

Discussion Questions

1. What is "quantitative easing"? Can you think of anything you learned earlier in the book to which it is related? What do you think are the main advantages and disadvantages of such a policy?
2. What would you think about a proposal to tax financial transactions? Would you prefer it to an income or a sales tax? Why or why not?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. What was the nature of the housing bubble experienced in the early to mid-2000s? What were its main causes?
  2. What is "subprime" lending? How did it contribute to the bubble and the subsequent financial crisis?
  3. How can a collapse of the U.S housing market and weakness in the banking system cause an economic recession and unemployment?
  4. How is the recent economic downturn similar to the Great Depression? How is it different?
  5. What are mortgage-backed securities? Collateral-ized debt obligations? Credit default swaps? Are these "investments" in the traditional sense?
  6. Did social inequality play a part in inflating the bubble that led to the 2007 financial crisis? If so, how?
  7. What is financial deregulation? How important is it in explaining the financial crisis?
  8. Explain "too big to fail" and why it is a potential economic problem in any economic setting. How is "too big to fail" related to moral hazard?
  9. Are short-term individual incentives for corporate officers consistent or in conflict with long-run interests of their companies and the economy as a whole?
10. In what ways did globalization contribute to the financial crisis?
11. What have been the principal fiscal and monetary responses to the recession to date? What have been the results thus far?
12. What is the purpose of the Dodd-Frank bill? What are its main provisions? Has it been favorably received?
13. What is the Tobin tax? What would be its effect on financial transactions?

EXERCISES
1. For this exercise you need to locate housing price index data for specific states. Begin at the Federal Housing Finance Agency website (www.fhfa.gov) and select the "State HPI Data" link from the "House Price Index" tab. Select various states to get a better understanding of how the housing market in the U.S. has evolved over the past twenty years (you may want to repeat the three state comparison multiple times to get a larger sense of the experiences of different states, but make sure that at some point you look at states like Nevada and/or Florida and that you spend some time thinking about what the numbers mean). Now write a short summary of what you've learned. Make sure that you incorporate some specific data into your summary.
2. How does the Great Recession compare to recent economic downturns? To explore this question in further detail, begin at the National Bureau of Economic Research website (www.nber.org).
a. Select "Business Cycle Dates" from the "Data" tab at the NBER site and then record the starting dates (peaks) and ending dates (troughs) for the last four recessions. Assemble these dates in a table.
b. Now gather some macroeconomic data. You can do this at the Federal Reserve Economic Database (h­t­t­p­:­/­/­r­e­s­e­a­r­c­h­.s­t­l­o­u­i­s­f­e­d­.o­r­g­/­f­r­e­d­2­/­). Using the "National Income & Product Accounts" under the "National Accounts" tab within "Categories," locate Real Gross Domestic Product data for each peak and each trough in your table. Record these numbers in a new table. Calculate the percentage change in Real GDP from peak to trough for each of the last four recessions. Report these results in your new table.
c. Return to the categories page at the FRED website. Select the "Current Population Survey (Household Survey)" link under the "Population, Employment, & Labor Markets" category. Select the "unemployment rate" series and record the numbers for each peak and each trough for each of the last four recessions. Organize these data in a table.
d. Review your tables and calculations. Write a concise summary comparing the Great Recession to the previous three recessions. Make sure that you incorporate specific numbers into your summary.
3. The chapter identifies a series of contributing factors in its exploration of the underlying causes of the financial crisis. Identify the major factors and state which you think were most important.
4. What is the meaning of moral hazard? Give some examples of moral hazard, as discussed in the text, or others that you can think of.
5. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B.




Column A
Column B


a. Mortgage-backed security
 1. When a company grows so large that its failure would cause widespread economic harm in terms of lost jobs and diminished asset values


b. Collateralized debt obligation
 2. A loan that permits a borrower to offer his or her home (or their equity stake in it) as collateral in case of failure to repay the loan


c. Credit default swap
 3. A security that is effectively an insurance policy against defaults related to MBSs and CDOs


d. Sub-prime buyer
 4. A would-be home-buyer whose credit-worthiness is suspect because he or she already has a high level of debt, and/or a low income, and/or a poor credit record


e. Home equity loan
 5. Benefits that occur when the long run average cost of production falls as the size of the enterprise increases


f. "Laissez-faire"
 6. The Fed purchases MBSs from banks, and credits them with fresh reserves


g. Economies of scale
 7. An investment product that packages together numerous assets, including MBSs


h. Too-big-to-fail
 8. Doing nothing


i. Moral hazard
 9. A security composed of a bundle of many home mortgages issued by independent banks


j. "Quantitative easing"
10. The lack of any incentive to guard against a risk when you are protected against it



* As noted in Chapter 7, derivatives are a financial instrument whose value is "derived" from the value of another, underlying asset. In this case the underlying asset is the original home mortgage.
* Remember from Chapter 9 that a recession technically ends as soon as GDP stops falling and starts rising again, but that unemployment may continue to rise for some time after this.
* Or at least smaller deficits, facilitated by rising tax revenues.
* In "quantitative easing," the Fed purchases MBSs from banks and credits them with fresh reserves.













 
 
 




16
Deficits and Debt




 
 

You may have seen the national debt clock in New York City that continually shows how much our debt is increasing by the second. The total amount of the debt, which exceeds $16 trillion, seems very large. But what does it mean? To whom do we owe all this money? Is it a serious problem? Should we care about government debt when the economy has yet to recover from the financial crisis? Is it possible for the United States to stop borrowing? This chapter goes into detail in answering these questions and even considers some possible ways to reverse the trend. But first we provide some historical context to the notion of a national debt.

1. DEFICITS AND THE NATIONAL DEBT

Perhaps because the two terms sound so much alike, many people confuse the government's deficit with the government debt. But the two "D words" are very different. The deficit totaled $1.1 trillion in fiscal 2012, while total federal debt exceeded $16 trillion at the end of fiscal 2012. The reason the second number is much larger than the first is that the debt represents deficits accumulated over many years. In economists' terms, we can say that the government deficit is a flow variable while its debt is a stock variable. (See Chapter 3 for this distinction.)
The government's debt rises when the government runs a deficit and falls when it runs a surplus.* Figure 16.1 shows some recent data on the government's debt, measured as a percentage of GDP. The two lines on the graph indicate the total government debt and the part of government debt held by the public (as opposed to debt held by government agencies). After hitting a high of more than 100 percent of GDP during World War II, the debt generally declined as a percentage of GDP until 1980. It rose somewhat before 1996, then fell until 2000. Since 2000 the debt has risen, with a particularly sharp increase in the years following the 2007-9 recession.
What is the impact on the economy of government debt? One commonly expressed view of the government's debt is that it represents a burden on future generations of citizens. There is some truth to this assertion, but it is also somewhat misleading. It implicitly compares the government's debt to the debt of a private citizen. Certainly, if you personally accumulated a huge debt, it would not be a good thing for your financial future. But government debt is different in some important ways.
First, about half of government debt is, directly or indirectly, owed to U.S. citizens. When people own Treasury bills (T-bills), Treasury notes, or Treasury bonds, they own government IOUs. From their point of view, the government debt is an asset, a form of wealth. If your grandmother gives you a U.S. Savings Bond, she is giving you a benefit, not a burden. These assets are some of the safest ones that you can own.
Second, government debt does not have to be paid off. Old debt can be "rolled over," that is, replaced by new debt. Provided that the size of the debt does not grow too quickly, the government's credit is good—there will always be people interested in buying and holding government bonds. Most economists use the rule of thumb that as long as the rate of increase in government's debt is not significantly greater than that of GDP for several years in a row, it does not represent a severe problem for the economy. As Figure 16.1 shows, following the 2007-9 recession, persistently large deficits have caused the debt to rise much more rapidly than GDP in recent years. Nonetheless, the debt is still at a lower level relative to GDP than it was immediately after World War II, which was followed by nearly two decades of relative economic prosperity.







Source: Whitehouse.gov
Figure 16.1 U.S. National Debt as a Percentage of GDP
Total U.S. national debt, including debt held by the Federal Reserve Bank, has risen to about 100 percent of GDP, while debt held by the public is about 70 percent of GDP.

Third, the U.S. government pays interest in U.S. dollars. A country such as Argentina that owes money to other countries and must pay interest in a foreign currency (the U.S. dollar) can get into big trouble and go bankrupt. But it is much easier to manage a debt that is denominated in your own currency. Even if some of the debt is owed to foreigners, the United States does not have to obtain foreign currency to pay it. And so long as foreigners are willing to continue holding U.S. government bonds, it will not be necessary to pay it at all—instead, the debt can be rolled over as new bonds replace old ones.
But this should not encourage us to believe that government debt is never a concern. Rising debt creates several significant problems. First, interest must be paid on the debt. This means that a larger share of future budgets must be devoted to paying interest, leaving less for other needs. It is also true that the largest holders of government bonds tend to be wealthier people, so most of the interest paid by the government goes to better-off individuals. If this payment is not counteracted by changes in the tax system, it encourages growing income inequality. It also creates a problem of generational equity—future taxpayers will have to pay more interest because of government borrowing today. It is a burden on future generations in that debt finance detracts from other important functions that the government could be performing.
A second problem is that in recent years an increasing proportion of the debt has been borrowed from governments, corporations, and individuals in foreign countries (Figure 16.2). The interest payments on this portion of the debt must be made to those outside the country. That means that the United States must earn enough income from exports and other sources to pay not only for imports but also for interest payments to the rest of the world. Alternatively, the country could borrow more, but it is best to avoid this solution, since it would just make the overall foreign debt problem larger in the long run.







Source: White House Office of Management and Budget, Economic and Budget Analyses, Table 6-7.
Figure 16.2 Domestic and Foreign Holdings of U.S. Debt
The proportion of the U.S. national debt held by foreign individuals, corporations, and governments has risen in recent years.

Large foreign holdings of debt also pose another problem—what if those foreign debt holders decided to sell the U.S. bonds that they own? In that case, the government might have trouble finding enough people who are willing to hold government bonds (that is, lend money to the government). This could cause interest rates to rise sharply, which in turn would push the government budget further into deficit.
The question "Is government debt worth it?" can be answered only if we consider what that debt is used to finance. In this respect, an analogy to personal or business debt is appropriate. Most people—including economists—do not reject consumer and corporate debt. Rather, our judgment about debt depends on the benefits received.
For example, if debt is accumulated for gambling, it is a bad idea. If the bet does not pay off, then it is very difficult to pay the interest on the debt (not to mention the principal). But if the government borrows to pay for intelligently planned investment, it can be very beneficial. If the investment leads to economic growth, the government's ability to collect tax revenue is enhanced. This kind of borrowing can pay for itself, as long as the investment is not for wasteful "pork barrel" spending, poorly planned or unnecessary projects, and so on. Recalling our earlier discussion of the opportunity cost of government borrowing at full employment, the interest-generating capacity of the proposed project is certainly an important—though not the only—consideration.
Even if the debt finances current spending, it can be justifiable if it is seen as necessary to maintain or protect valuable aspects of life. Most people would not be opposed to borrowing to pay for cleanup after a natural disaster (e.g., in January 2013 Congress appropriated $60 billion in relief funds for Hurricane Sandy relief) or to contain a deadly pandemic. How about for military spending? Opinions differ about whether particular defense expenditures are necessary to maintain or protect valuable aspects of life. But wasteful spending, or spending on unwise defense policies, constitutes a drag on more productive economic activity (as suggested by the production-possibilities curve "guns-versus-butter" analysis introduced in Chapter 2).
The management of debt involves standard principles of wise stewardship of finances. When we apply them to government deficits and debt, we need to weigh the economic benefits of different spending and tax policies.

Discussion Questions

1. What is the difference between the deficit and the national debt? How are they related?
2. "The national debt is a huge burden on our economy." How would you evaluate this statement?

2. THE U.S. NATIONAL DEBT: A HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE
2.1 TWO CENTURIES OF DEFICITS AND DEBT

Deficit financing has been part of U.S. history from the very beginning. The Continental Congress put the country into debt in order to continue its fight for independence from Great Britain. As is done today, Congress issued bonds in order to finance the country's war effort. There was considerable controversy after the war regarding the role of the new federal government in absorbing the debts incurred by individual states. Alexander Hamilton, secretary of the Treasury under George Washington, was prominent among those who believed that, by introducing greater flexibility into the money supply, a national debt had the potential to strengthen the economy and the country. Despite opposition from other political leaders— John Adams and Thomas Jefferson among them—Hamilton helped set in motion a process through which the federal government regularly relied on debt to finance its operations.
After the United States became independent from Great Britain, its federal government generally repaid its debts fairly quickly. The War of 1812, however, proved very costly, and the national debt approached 15 percent of national income by 1816. In the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, it was mostly wars that depleted the government's finances. The Civil War was especially costly—the debt approached 40 percent of total national income at its peak—but the Mexican-American and Spanish-American wars also added to the national debt. By 1900 it had fallen below 5 percent of total GDP, but the budget deficits during World War I again pushed the national debt beyond 40 percent of GDP.
In terms of its effect on government finances, the Great Depression of the 1930s was truly a watershed. The economic crisis ultimately led to President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal social programs. From that point on, federal spending on social programs—in addition to continued military spending—has figured prominently in the total debt figures. Consequently, since 1931 the U.S. federal budget has been in surplus only seven years, compared with the years from independence until then, during which surpluses were seen twice as frequently as deficits. National debt in relation to income rose significantly during the 1930s, but it was World War II that had an even greater impact. Because consumer goods were rationed, savings accumulated, and people used them to purchase U.S. war bonds (a form of debt), which helped finance U.S. participation in World War II. After the war, the national debt totaled an unprecedented 122 percent of GDP (Figure 16.1).

2.2 "SUPPLY-SIDE" ECONOMICS

After World War II, as noted, the debt generally declined as a percentage of GDP until 1980. The national debt was just over $900 billion in 1981, but rose by nearly $2 trillion during the next eight years. In other words, over those eight years the country incurred twice as much debt as it had in its first 200 years! How did this happen?
Ronald Reagan's 1980 presidential campaign leaned heavily on the principles of "supply-side" economics, which promised that offering more benefits and incentives to the individuals and groups that held the most wealth and productive capital would stimulate rapid investment growth and job creation. According to this principle, tax cuts would pay for themselves through greater revenues from an expanded economy.
The major policy experiment with supply-side economics was the Economic Recovery Act (ERA, 1981), which cut income and corporate tax rates, substantially reducing government revenues. At the same time, military spending increased in the 1980s. Consequently, the annual budget deficit, which had been 2.7 percent of GDP in 1980, grew to an annual average of 4 percent during the Reagan presidency. True, a portion of the increase was due to cyclical factors, specifically an unusually deep recession in 1981-82. Most of it, however, resulted from the failure of supply-side economics to produce the revenue growth that was needed to make up for the tax cut.

2.3 1989 TO THE PRESENT

In absolute terms, the national debt continued to grow after Reagan left office, despite the fact that by then public awareness of the government's fiscal problems had grown. In an attempt to address the persistent deficits, President George H.W. Bush raised tax rates slightly and signed a bill in 1990 requiring that all spending increases be matched by either decreases in spending in other areas or tax increases, in a system known as PAYGO ("pay as you go"). Despite the introduction of that system, another recession (1990-91) and the first Iraq war kept deficits in the range of 4 percent of GDP annually. It also did not help matters that sizable sums had to be used to bail out many savings and loan banks that collapsed due to losses from risky and ill-conceived real estate investments (a precursor of the real estate bubble of the twenty-first century). In 1992 the national debt was $4 trillion.
Bush's PAYGO policy was continued under the administration of Bill Clinton. Congress again raised income tax rates, and the end of the cold war allowed the federal government to lower military expenditures (relative to GDP, although not in absolute terms), a side benefit often referred to as a "peace dividend." At the same time, the economy emerged from recession and began a period of sustained growth. The resulting movement from the trough to the peak of the business cycle from 1992 to 2000 generated surpluses in the overall federal budget from 1998 to 2001, a feat that had not been achieved since 1969. This period of budget surpluses, however, was short-lived.
During the presidency of George W. Bush (2001-9), a combination of recession, tax rate cuts, and increased military expenditures pushed the budget back into deficit and caused the debt to increase further. By 2008 the debt totaled almost 70 percent of GDP.
The first Obama administration (2008-13) was spent dealing with the worst recession since the 1930s. During this period, annual deficits averaged 8.7 percent of GDP, and the national debt rose to just over 100 percent of GDP, as the government deployed a $787 billion fiscal policy package to keep the 2007-9 recession from turning into a full-fledged depression. Tax revenue fell sharply, from $2.5 trillion in 2008 to $2.1 trillion in 2009. As is normal in a recession, expenditures increased due to automatic stabilizers (see Chapter 10). The combination of these factors with continued military expenses in Iraq and Afghanistan led to record deficits of more than $1 trillion. In 2012 the deficit began to decline, with further declines projected, but the national debt overall increased to more than $16 billion.

Discussion Questions

1. Has the U.S. federal government ever had a budget surplus? When was the last time? Was there ever a time that the government was not in debt?
2. What causes budget deficits? Are budget deficits necessarily a bad thing?

3. THE DEBT AND ITS LINKS TO FINANCE
3.1 TAXONOMY OF DEBT TYPES

In the popular press, one encounters different estimates of the country's debt, which can vary considerably. By some estimates, U.S. total debt now approximates 350 percent of GDP. Some confusion has been caused by differing terminology relating to the debt, so it may be helpful to distinguish between different categories.
Usually, the term "national debt" refers to the gross federal debt, which is actually the total debt outstanding for the federal government (Table 16.1) and is the debt to which we have referred until now. It is not, however, the same as the public debt. The gross federal debt includes money that the federal government "borrows" from other government accounts. Prominent examples include Social Security and Medicare, which, as noted earlier, are classified as "off budget." Basically, when the government collects more in tax revenue for these programs than it pays out, it realizes an off-budget surplus. It is then in a position to "borrow" the surplus, or at least a portion of it, as an alternative to borrowing money from the public. So it is the public debt, not the gross federal debt, that is a direct consequence of federal budget deficits.

gross federal debt: total amount owed by the federal government to all claimants, including foreigners, the public in the United States, and other government accounts
public debt: the gross federal debt minus the debt owed to other government accounts such as Social Security and Medicare


Table 16.1 Debt Taxonomy







Debt type
Description


Government
Gross federal debt
Generally synonymous with the national debt; refers to the total amount of money owed by the federal government to all claimants



Public debt
Gross federal debt minus debt held in government accounts



Debt held by public
Public debt minus the debt held by the Federal Reserve



Internal debt
The share of the gross federal debt owned by domestic individuals or groups



External debt
The share of the gross federal debt owned by foreign individuals or groups



State and local debt
The total value of all state and local bonds outstanding


Private
Households and not-for-profits
Includes mortgage debt, credit card debt, and bank loans



Financial sector
Total of all corporate debt for financial industry



Nonfinancial business
All corporate debt and bank borrowing for nonfinancial business



Recall that the Federal Reserve is an active participant in the market for U.S. bonds, as it buys and sells them to conduct its open market operations in hopes of influencing interest rates. So the Fed also holds a significant share of the federal debt. Its share is also a part of the public debt. The difference between the public debt and the debt held by the public (this terminology is unfortunately confusing, but we need to learn it!) is the debt held by the Fed.

debt held by the public: the gross federal debt minus the debt owed to other government accounts and also minus the portion that is held by the Federal Reserve

One final distinction is between the internal debt and the external_debt. The internal debt refers to the portion of the gross federal debt that is owned by individuals or groups within the country, and the external debt represents the portion held by foreigners or foreign groups.

internal debt: the portion of the gross federal debt that is owed to individuals or groups within the country
external debt: the portion of the gross federal debt that is owed to foreign individuals or groups

Like the federal government, state and municipal governments also often rely on borrowing to fund their operations. They issue a variety of bond instruments to acquire funds from the public, which in a sense add to the country's total indebtedness. This is also a point of frequent confusion. In its common usage, the term "national debt" usually refers only to the federal portion of the debt. This seems reasonable, because it is the debt that is directly related to fiscal policy and how it affects the national economy. Yet if we speak of the total debt of the country, it appears misleading to exclude the state and local debt. And the picture becomes even more complicated, because to get a complete accounting of debt we should include all household debt (e.g., mortgage and credit card), financial sector debt, and the debt of nonfinancial business, which includes both bank loans outstanding and corporate bonds issued to finance private debt.







Figure 16.3 Total U.S. Indebtedness as a Percentage of GDP
Here the federal debt is only a subset of the total, and one that has not increased substantially over the years. The household sector debt has grown much more rapidly, and that of the financial sector most rapidly of all.

If we add all the categories to represent the total indebtedness of the whole country, we find that, as of 2011, it did indeed exceed 350 percent of GDP and is much more than double what it was in the early 1970s (Figure 16.3). Such an inclusive debt concept is not of great significance in ordinary times, but during the run-up to the Great Recession, it should have been setting off alarm bells, as it meant that the country as a whole had used up much of the leeway in terms of borrowing capacity that could have been drawn on to get out of a recession. Note that since the Great Recession, total debt has fallen as the economic downturn forced households and businesses to reduce their debt levels.

3.2 FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BORROWING: POTENTIAL PROBLEMS

In earlier chapters, we saw that when the government borrows money, it issues bonds on which it must pay interest. The interest payments form part of the annual federal budget. Figure 16.4 shows how these payments as a percentage of federal spending have varied over time. Note that interest payments accounted for a much greater portion of the budget during the 1980s and 1990s than they do now. Considering that federal debt as a percentage of GDP has risen quite rapidly over the past decade, how can this be? The answer is that the unusually low interest rates that have prevailed over the same period make this possible.
We have seen in earlier chapters that a weak economy tends to induce lower interest rates, both naturally and as a consequence of policy measures. If interest rates are lower throughout the economy, the Treasury can issue new debt (e.g., Treasury bonds) at a low interest rate. When it does so, it is effectively reducing the portion of the federal budget that must be set aside for debt service. The phenomenon is not unlike the low monthly payments a homeowner makes after obtaining a mortgage with a very low interest rate. The major difference to keep in mind is that, unlike a household, the federal government has the ability to print money if need be to pay off its debt.
As of January 2013, the interest rate on a 10-year Treasury bond was 1.86 percent (see Figure 16.5). But during 2013 rates started rising, and in September 2013 had reached 2.92 percent. One might think that at the historically low interest rates prevailing from 2009 to 2012, borrowing was especially cheap, making it a good time for the government to run a budget deficit and accumulate debt. The argument for adding to federal debt seems even stronger if the government spends on programs that produce a high multiplier effect (Chapter 10). With low interest rates, the gain from the multiplier effect (in terms of the increase in aggregate demand) is potentially larger than the loss (adding to debt burden), making the net gain positive.
However, it may be counterproductive to allow the debt to grow if it is to finance "low-multiplier" activities. An example is tax cuts for the wealthy, which, as we saw in Chapter 10, do not produce as much "bang for the buck" as tax cuts for the poor or new spending on constructive activities. A useful way of understanding the problem is to imagine the federal government as a private business. Would a business borrow money at an interest rate higher than its expected rate of return? Here, the situation is similar, only a bit more complicated; the government needs to assess the projected "social return" of its expenditures.







Source: BEA.gov
Figure 16.4 Interest Payments as Percentage of Total Federal Outlays
Despite increasing debt levels, interest payments on the debt have fallen as a percentage of total federal outlays due to unusually low interest rates.






Source: St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank.
Figure 16.5 The Interest Rate on 10-Year Treasury Bonds
Interest rates on 10-year Treasury bonds have fallen steadily, and by the end of 2012 were slightly below 2%. They rose somewhat during 2013 (data for 2013 not included here).

Another concern with mounting debt is that, if sufficiently large, lenders might start to doubt the borrowers' ability to repay. If the doubt were severe and widespread, it could affect the bond market and, indirectly, the national economy. Risk-averse investors would sell their bonds, driving bond prices down. When bond prices go down, bond yields (interest rates) go up (as noted in the Appendix to Chapter 12), because the amount that the government has to pay in interest on the bond becomes higher relative to the value of the bond.
The greater the unease over the borrower's ability to pay, the higher the interest rate that the borrower must offer in order to attract lenders. In the summer of 2011, Standard and Poor's, one of the major ratings agencies, downgraded U.S. government debt from AAA to AA+. Fortunately for the United States, even with this downgrade, its debt remained very much in demand.
A third potential problem with too much debt concerns exactly how it gets repaid. An indebted country must repay the principal on its debt and service it with interest payments. To do so, it must either engage in new borrowing, raise tax revenues, or monetize the debt. We have seen that increasing tax rates has the potential to reduce consumption and investment, hurting GDP growth and employment. But it is also possible to finance a federal budget deficit with bonds that are purchased by the Fed. As we saw in Chapter 12, this amounts to an expansionary monetary policy.

monetizing the debt: the purchase of new debt from the Treasury by the Federal Reserve

A policy of monetizing the debt risks causing inflation, especially if the increase in the money supply is sufficiently large. If such inflation does occur, the bond markets might then demand higher interest rates on new debt to compensate for the anticipated loss from inflation. How serious is this danger? Some economists believe that a mild to moderate increase in inflation is not necessarily a problem, especially if it occurs in a depressed economy facing a looming threat of deflation. As we saw in Chapter 11, deflation would in most circumstances be more dangerous than inflation, while mild inflation has historically been associated with economic recoveries and gains in domestic employment. Severe inflation, however, would be very damaging to the economy, and other economists point to this as a possible result of increasing government debt.

Discussion Questions

1. How many different "types" of debt can you think of? Which one do people usually mean when they speak about the "national debt"?
2.What are some potential problems with excessive federal debt? How can the debt be managed or repaid?

4. POLITICAL ECONOMY OF THE DEBT
4.1 WHO OWNS THE DEBT?

We have already seen that when the federal government goes into debt, it sells government bonds. But who buys these bonds? It might surprise you to see how ownership of the gross federal debt is divided up. For example, due in large part to the recent and ongoing financial crisis, the Fed has increased its holdings of government bonds, so its share of the total debt was 9.6 percent as of 2012 (Figure 16.6). Meanwhile, the amount owed to the Social Security fund accounts for 16.4 percent of the debt. As noted above in the discussion of the public debt, one thing the federal government may do when it possesses inadequate funds to pursue its objectives is skim off some of the surplus—if one exists—from the Social Security trust fund. It must then issue the fund an IOU in the form of a bond.
Social security is by far the largest of the government accounts that hold federal debt. Among the many other funds, the principal ones are the funds for federal employee retirement, federal hospital insurance, and federal disability insurance. These and all the others collectively account for another 14.8 percent of federal debt. State and local governments, perhaps surprisingly, account for another 4.3 percent. States and municipalities will often use their budget surpluses to buy federal debt, because it is considered mostly risk free.







Source: Treasury Department, 2013, Federal Debt, Tables FD-1, FD-2, FD-3; Ownership of Federal Securities, Tables OFS-1, OFS-2.
Figure 16.6 Ownership of Gross Federal Debt
About a third of gross federal debt is held by government agencies, another third by foreign bondholders, and the rest by U.S. individuals, institutions, and state and local governments.

The domestic private sector owns a bit more than a fifth (21.3 percent) of the federal debt in the form of bonds, which are found in a variety of locations: banks, pension plans, insurance companies, mutual funds, and others, including households. Finally, as of 2012, foreigners owned just over one-third (33.5 percent) of all federal debt, totaling $5.5 trillion. This is the U.S. external debt; in absolute terms, it is by far the largest external debt of any country, but not when considered relative to GDP, as discussed below.
In 2013, China and Japan together owned more than 42 percent of the external U.S. debt (Figure 16.7), a reflection of the huge trade surpluses that the two countries have had with the United States for several decades. As we saw in Chapter 14, when China and Japan export more to the United States than they import from us, they acquire a surplus of U.S. dollars, which they then use to buy U.S. federal debt. Why do they choose to hold U.S. government debt? For the same reason that domestic investors, state and local governments, and the Social Security trust fund trustees do: Federal debt is widely perceived as returning risk-free income.
Four countries—Brazil, Taiwan, Switzerland, and Belgium—accounted for another 14 percent of the U.S. external debt; major oil-exporting countries had 4.6 percent, and another 5.2 percent were held in Caribbean offshore banking centers. Finally, the remaining countries (approximately 190) collectively owned 33.9 percent of the U.S. external debt as of 2013.
Although in absolute terms the U.S. debt is by far the highest in the world, it is a very different story if we look at total debt in relation to GDP. Japan's ratio of debt to GDP has risen since its economic slowdown started in the 1990s and is currently 214.1 percent of GDP (Figure 16.8). Nevertheless, Japanese bonds are still bought and traded on the secondary market, which may be a testament to the widespread belief in the stability of the Japanese economy. This is in stark contrast to Greece, which has had to raise its bond rates substantially to attract continued investors, even though its debt to GDP ratio (168 percent) is still significantly below Japan's. Italy's ratio, at 122.7 percent, also surpasses that of the United States.
Among the countries listed, only in the UK does the rate of increase in the debt : GDP ratio since 2006 surpass that of the United States, whose ratio increased from 66.4 percent to 108.6 percent from 2006 to 2012, impelled by tax cuts and the financial crisis. Still, the U.S. situation continues to resemble Japan's, in that growing indebtedness has not noticeably altered investor confidence, allowing the U.S. bond yields to remain fairly low.







Source: Treasury Department, 2013, Major Foreign Holders of Treasury Securities.
Figure 16.7 Foreign Holders of Gross Federal Debt
The largest foreign holders of U.S. debt are China and Japan, as a result of their long-running trade surpluses with the United States.






Source: OECD, w­w­w­.o­e­c­d­.o­r­g­
Figure 16.8 Debt-GDP Ratios, an International Comparison
Japan's ratio of debt to GDP is over 200%, but this has not caused economic crisis. Greece, with a much smaller economy, has suffered severely in trying to get its ratio of debt to GDP, now over 150%, under control. Debt to GDP ratios have risen in the US and major European countries since 2006.
4.2 THE BALANCED BUDGET DEBATE

If balancing the budget were legally required, the United States would never have accumulated the debt that it has. Hoping to avoid uncontrolled debt dependence, many in the past have advocated legislation requiring that the budget be balanced. Some have even recommended an amendment to the Constitution requiring a balanced federal budget, but the majority in Congress has always viewed the idea as too extreme.
Most states have a balanced budget requirement that forces them to cut services and government employees during a recession. The federal government often provides aid to allow states to minimize cost cutting, in an attempt to prevent the economy from weakening further. States have no other recourse because, unlike the federal government, they are unable to create additional funds. In large part, this explains why, as we discussed in Chapter 10, states (as well as municipalities) practice "procyclical" instead of countercyclical policy.
A balanced budget amendment would effectively make the federal government little different from the states. Proponents argue that such a law would prevent the federal government from imprudently running deficits, potentially causing inflation, in good economic times. But there is a very serious downside, in that such an amendment would make the federal government powerless to use countercyclical policy to fight recessions.
In 1985, Congress passed the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, more popularly known as the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings act (named after the senators who sponsored it). It required that a limit be set on the annual deficit and that the limit be reduced until a balanced budget was achieved in 1991. While less stringent than a constitutional requirement, the deficit ceiling was nevertheless strict. Not meeting it would require spending to be reduced automatically to the point where the deficit was no higher than the prescribed limit for that year. It proved too much for Congress—and even for the Supreme Court, which found the automatic reduction provision unconstitutional.

deficit ceiling: a congressionally mandated limit on the size of the federal budget deficit

In 2011 and again in 2013, the Obama administration faced a potential crisis over the near breaching of what is known as the U.S. debt ceiling. (This is different from a deficit ceiling. According to rules set by Congress, a vote of Congress is required to increase the debt beyond a set amount, called the debt ceiling.) As the debt approached the mandated ceiling, the United States faced the prospect of not being able to borrow fresh funds to pay bonds that were coming due for payment. The risk of such a default would be a decline in the perceived creditworthiness of the United States and, as noted earlier, in 2011 Standard and Poor's lowered the grade of U.S. Treasury bonds from AAA to AA+, the first time in history that this had happened.

debt ceiling: a congressionally mandated limit on the size of the gross federal debt

Following heated and partisan negotiations, Congress and the president struck a deal in 2011, allowing the debt ceiling to be raised (by a trillion dollars or so) and granting the federal government temporary access to more loans. The terms of the deal were that if the government failed to come to a long-term agreement by the end of 2012, the country would fall off a "fiscal cliff," meaning that $607 billion of tax rate increases and spending cuts would be implemented almost immediately.
Completely falling off the fiscal cliff undoubtedly would have contributed to debt reduction, but tax increases and spending cuts of the magnitude imposed by the terms of the 2011 agreement would have created serious dangers for a still-weak national economy. Even under normal conditions, there are strong arguments against a balanced budget requirement, but in early 2013 reducing deficits rapidly could have been especially harmful. From a Keynesian point of view (as noted in Chapters 10 and 13), a period of anemic job growth is a time to pursue countercyclical policy, using deficits to stimulate the economy and create jobs; it makes better sense to wait for a healthier economy before undertaking further deficit reduction.
Obama and Congress debated until the last few hours of 2012 before reaching an agreement in January 2013 to temporarily avoid the "cliff." They agreed, among other things, to restore payroll taxes back to 6.2 percent of income (they had been lowered in 2010 to 4.2 percent as part of a temporary tax holiday) and to raise the marginal tax rate on individuals earning more than $400,000 and households earning more than $450,000 from 35 to 39.6 percent. These tax rate increases were considerably less than those implied by the "cliff." But on the spending side, $85 billion in across-the-board spending cuts, known as the "sequester," did go into effect two months later.
In October 2013, another bitter conflict over the debt ceiling ended with an agreement just one day before the Treasury would have run out of funds to pay off bonds and meet other obligations such as Social Security payments, following a 16-day shutdown of the Federal government. Once again, the President and Congress agreed to negotiate over long-term debt reduction plans.
In the wake of the 2013 government shutdown, it was apparent that the crisis resulted in significant economic costs and a setback to the pace of recovery. Standard and Poor's estimated that the shutdown had cost had cost $24 billion, or $1.5 billion per day, and slowed the country's economic growth by an annualized 0.6 percent for the fourth quarter of 2013. Fighting over the debt appeared to be more damaging than the debt itself.
In the long run, of course, it is important to keep debt levels under control, but it is a mistake to presume that the federal government should maintain zero debt. The ability to use deficits at appropriate times to generate a fiscal stimulus is what sets the federal government apart from the states and cities and possibly protects a weak economy from sinking deeper.

4.3 IMPOSED AUSTERITY: THE CASE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION

In recent years, the member countries of the European Union (EU) have been confronting issues similar to those in the United States, but their response has been quite different. In a number of EU countries, as in much of the rest of the world, a financial collapse followed the bursting of real estate bubbles in the U.S. and many other countries. The sudden end to a global spree of excessive bank leverage and speculation forced many economies into recession.
Governments, faced with the choice of complete financial collapse or the bailout of banks with public money, chose the latter. Recessions in countries like Greece, Spain, and Portugal caused government revenues to fall and expenditures to rise, increasing deficit and debt levels. While the overall situation in Europe may seem strikingly similar to that of the United States, there is an important difference. In Europe, much of the crisis focuses on what is called sovereign debt—that is, government debt, especially government debt in a currency that the government does not control.

sovereign debt: government debt, especially debt denominated in a currency that the government does not control

Seventeen countries within the European Union have adopted the euro as their currency. In order to participate in the euro currency, EU member countries must meet certain convergence criteria. One criterion concerns government finances and requires both that a country's annual deficit not exceed 3 percent of GDP and that its national debt not exceed 60 percent of GDP.* After the country is accepted into the eurozone (countries that have adopted the euro as the national currency), the restriction is relaxed somewhat under circumstances of extreme economic difficulty (which explains, for example, how Greece, Italy, and others can have a debt: GDP ratio much higher than 60 percent), but countries must then demonstrate that they are making progress toward once again achieving the target amounts.

convergence criteria: the requirements that EU member countries must satisfy as a condition of participating in the eurozone

Table 16.2 shows deficit and debt figures for Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain. Although all are still far from satisfying the convergence criteria (Italy meets the deficit criterion but not the debt criterion), only for Greece have leading experts even discussed possible expulsion from the eurozone. But this does not mean that governments have not taken action to reduce these numbers.
Authorities in the European Union insisted on a policy of austerity for deeply indebted countries. Austerity policy required these countries to reduce expenditures or raise taxes to balance their budgets. Unfortunately, such policies have worsened recessionary conditions, pushing unemployment rates in some of the worst-hit countries to Great Depression levels.

austerity: a policy of deficit cutting that reduces public expenditures or raises taxes to balance the budget

Greece, Spain, and, to a lesser degree, Portugal have experienced considerable social unrest in recent years. There is widespread resentment of governments that are willing to bail out investors in the financial industry but then ask the public to accept higher taxes and spending cuts to pay for them. The populations of these countries include millions of retirees who see grave threats to the government pensions on which they rely for income support in their old age.
Since countries that are members of the eurozone do not have their own currencies, they cannot conduct expansionary monetary policy, and under austerity rules they must implement contractionary fiscal policy. The combination renders them unable to use economic policy to promote recovery. Their ability to borrow is also constrained, since too much borrowing could drive the interest rates on their debt to unsustainable levels.


Table 16.2 EU Deficit and Debt Levels in 2012 (percentage of GDP)






Deficit
Debt


Portugal
−4.6
124.3


Italy
−1.7
122.7


Ireland
−8.4
121.6


Greece
−7.4
168.0


Spain
−5.4
  87.9


Source: OECD, w­w­w­.o­e­c­d­.o­r­g­.

The United States does not confront the same problems, for two reasons. The first is that, at least up to the present, its bond yields are not nearly as sensitive to its escalating debt as are yields in other countries. The issue is related to the U.S. position in the global economy, which, as noted in Chapter 14, has much to do with the historic prestige and strength of the U.S. dollar. The U.S. dominance in this regard may change in the future, but as of now the United States enjoys the advantages of having a "safe haven" currency.
The second reason is that the Fed is far more flexible than its EU counterpart, the European Central Bank (ECB). The ECB's singular agenda is controlling inflation, and it does not consider the fiscal conditions in individual countries. The Fed, in contrast, has a dual mandate to address both inflation and unemployment, providing more flexibility to address short-term economic problems.* As we have seen since the financial crisis, the United States has the ability to employ countercyclical fiscal policy and use monetary policy such as lower interest rates and quantitative easing to try to spur economic activity. The EU, however, has favored policies of austerity, which have worsened recessionary conditions but have done little to reduce overall debt levels (see Box 16.1).

Discussion Questions

1. Should there be a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution? What problems might such an amendment create?
2.What is the difference between austerity and stimulus? Which tack does the European Union follow? How is it different from what the United States has done? Which do you think is a better approach?


Box 16.1 EUROPE PRESSURED TO RECONSIDER AUSTERITY POLICIES
In 2013, unemployment surpassed Great Depressionera levels in Southern Europe, and was rising even in the less hard-hit economies of the north. The jobless rate in the 17 countries of the Eurozone topped 12 percent in mid-2013. Influential voices warned that European policies of austerity were failing, worsening recession while not helping deficit and debt problems.

After years of insisting that the primary cure for Europe's malaise is to slash spending, the champions of austerity, most notably Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, find themselves under intensified pressure to back off unpopular remedies and find some way to restore faltering growth to the world's largest economic bloc.
Mounting doubts among ordinary Europeans and even the International Monetary Fund have forced senior officials in Brussels [official seat of the European Union] to acknowledge that a move away from what critics see as a fixation on debt and deficits toward more growth-friendly policies is necessary. "There has been a clear shift in thinking," said Guntram Wolff, an economist with the European Commission.
Hints of a new approach in Europe are likely to be greeted as good news by the Obama administration, which has urged healthy European economies to stimulate growth with increased spending and more relaxed monetary policy. The American economy, where government spending has not been reduced as drastically, looks relatively robust in comparison with Europe. (Higgins, 2013)

Sources: Andrew Higgins, "Europe Facing More Pressure to Reconsider Cuts as a Cure," New York Times, April 26, 2013; Harvey Morris, "Europe Urged to Make a U-Turn on Austerity," International Herald Tribune, April 10, 2013; "Joblessness Edges Higher To Hit a Eurozone Record," New York Times, Tuesday, July 2, 2013.

5. DEFICIT PROJECTIONS AND POTENTIAL POLICY RESPONSES
5.1 DEFICIT PROJECTIONS

The U.S. annual federal deficit declined from a peak of 10 percent of GDP in 2009 to 7 percent of GDP in fiscal 2012, and appeared on track to decline further, to around 4 percent of GDP in fiscal 2013.1 The Congressional Budget Office (CBO), which provides nonpartisan economic analysis for Congress, projects that the deficit will continue to decline as a percentage of GDP for a couple of years but then start to increase again after 2015 (Figure 16.9).2 Although the annual federal deficit averaged 3.1 percent of GDP from 1973 to 2012, the deficit is projected to grow to 3.8 percent of GDP in 2023 and continue on an upward trajectory after that (see Box 16.2, p. 378).







Source: Congressional Budget Office, Updated Budget Projections, 2013.
Figure 16.9 Projected Annual Deficit as a Percent of GDP
The annual federal deficit is expected to decline through 2015 as the economy improves, but over the longer term deficits are expected to rise due to the effects of an aging population, higher health-care costs and subsidies, and rising interest payments on the national debt.

Similarly, the federal debt held by the public is projected to decrease to 73 percent of GDP in 2018 but then slowly increase to 77 percent of GDP by 2023. The CBO analysis, which assumes no major changes in federal law, identifies four main reasons deficits are projected to remain at relatively high levels even as the economy stabilizes:
1. the demographic pressures of an aging population
2. an increase in health-care costs
3. an increase in federal subsidies for health care
4. an increase in interest payments on the federal debt
Note that the first three factors are closely related and suggest that a focus on health care should be an important component of any significant long-term budgetary reforms in the United States. The CBO explains:

The aging of the baby-boom generation portends a significant and sustained increase in coming years in the share of the population that will receive benefits from Social Security and Medicare and long-term care services financed through Medicaid. Moreover, per capita spending on health care is likely to continue to grow faster than per capita spending on other goods and services for many years... . Without significant changes in the laws governing Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, those factors will boost federal outlays as a percentage of GDP well above the average of the past several decades—a conclusion that applies under any plausible assumptions about future trends in demographics, economic conditions, and health care costs. Unless the laws governing those programs are changed—or the increased spending is accompanied by sufficiently lower spending on other programs, sufficiently higher revenues, or a combination of the two—deficits will be much larger in the future than they have tended to be in the past.3


5.2 POLICY CHOICES

The principle that the United States requires long-term budgetary reform is widely accepted. As implied in the CBO quotation above, the basic math dictates that the choices for reform are limited to three basic options:
1. revenue (i.e., tax) increases
2. spending decreases
3. some combination of revenue increases and spending decreases
Few economists or politicians advocate tax increases alone as a solution to reduce the federal deficit. Thus most of the debate concerns whether budgetary reforms should include only spending cuts or whether tax revenues also need to be increased. So far, both spending cuts and tax increases have been pursued.


Box 16.2 DECLINING BUDGET DEFICITS
According to a report issued by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) in May 2013, the federal deficit fell by 32 percent over the period October 2012—April 2013 compared to the same period in the previous year. The CBO noted:

The federal government ran a budget deficit of $489 billion in the first seven months of fiscal year 2013, according to CBO's estimates. That amount is $231 billion less than the shortfall recorded during the same period last year, primarily because revenue collections have been much greater than they were at this point in 2012. In contrast, federal spending so far this year has been slightly lower than what it was last year at this time.

And the CBO projected a continuation of the trend of shrinking deficits:

If the current laws that govern federal spending and taxes do not change, the budget deficit will shrink this year to $642 billion, the smallest shortfall since 2008. Relative to the size of the economy, the deficit this year—at 4.0 percent of gross domestic product (GDP)—will be less than half as large as the shortfall in 2009, which was 10.1 percent of GDP.

Tax receipts increased for several reasons, including:
• rising wages as the economy recovers
• the expiration of a payroll tax cut
• the implementation of higher tax rates on high-income earners
• an increase in corporate taxes due to higher profits
The reasons federal spending decreased included:
• decreasing payments for unemployment benefits
• a 5 percent decrease in defense spending
• decreased spending for housing assistance, energy programs, and international assistance
Spending on some programs increased, including Social Security and Medicare. Spending by the Federal Emergency Management Agency increased due to Hurricane Sandy, and spending by the Department of Agriculture increased as a result of drought conditions.
In longer-range projections, budget deficits were projected to fall even further, to about 2.1 percent of GDP in 2015. However, deficits were projected to increase again in the coming decade, reaching 3.5 percent of GDP in 2023, due to an aging population, rising health care costs, an expansion of federal subsidies for health insurance, and growing interest payments on federal debt.
Sources: Congressional Budget Office, Monthly Budget Review for April 2013, and Updated Budget Projections, May 2013.


Federal spending declined from a peak of 25.2 percent of GDP in 2009 to 22.8 percent in 2012, with further minor declines projected through 2017. Federal revenues increased from a low of 15.1 percent of GDP in 2009 to 15.8 percent in 2012 and are expected to continue growing for a few more years. Some of the change in both spending and revenues relates to improving economic conditions, but federal legislation has also been enacted to reduce budget deficits.
As mentioned earlier, in January 2013 Congress agreed to increase tax rates on the wealthiest households (individuals making more than $400,000 per year and couples making more than $450,000). At the same time, the 2010 provision that had temporarily reduced payroll taxes by two percentage points for all workers was allowed to expire. So while the richest households faced the largest tax increases, federal taxes rose for about 77 percent of American households in 2013.
The January 2013 legislation reduced current deficits but did not address the fundamental long-term budgetary imbalance of the federal government. We next consider two proposals for budgetary reform.

5.3 BUDGETARY REFORMS: THE SIMPSON-BOWLES PLAN

In early 2010, President Obama appointed an 18-member bipartisan commission to develop specific recommendations for deficit reduction. Known as the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform (NCFRR), it was led by Republican Alan Simpson (a former senator) and Democrat Erskine Bowles. Their recommendations are commonly known as the Simpson-Bowles Plan.* The plan called for a cumulative (not annual) deficit reduction of almost $4 trillion from 2012 to 2020 and eliminating the deficit entirely by 2035. The plan also projected that the debt held by the public would be reduced to 40 percent of its current level by 2035. Some key elements of this plan include:
1. Reducing discretionary spending by a cumulative $1.7 trillion, including both defense and nondefense cuts. The report suggests spending caps, a three-year freeze on congressional pay, eliminating Congressional "earmarked" spending for specific local projects, and a reduction in the federal workforce.
2. Adding about $1 trillion in cumulative revenues. While the report actually recommends reducing marginal tax rates, it more than offsets that by eliminating more than 150 tax deduction provisions. For example, under current law, a taxpayer can deduct the interest paid on the mortgage for a second home—the plan would eliminate this deduction. The plan advocates that the overall progressivity of the federal tax system should be maintained or increased, rather than imposing an additional burden on low-income households, and also recommends an increase in the gasoline tax of 15 cents per gallon.
3. Creating about $340 billion in cumulative savings from reductions in health-care costs, through various reforms to Medicare and Medicaid.
4. Realizing about $240 billion in cumulative savings from Social Security reforms. The plan recommends gradually increasing the full retirement age from 67 to 69 by 2075, slowing the growth of benefits to middle- and high-income individuals, and raising the cap on income subject to Social Security taxes (the cap was $113,700 as of 2013; increasing the cap would mean that wealthier individuals would pay more social security tax).
After being drafted, the Simpson-Bowles Plan first needed to be approved by 14 members of the full 18-member NCFRR. However, the plan received only 11 votes (support for the plan was split essentially equally among Republicans and Democrats). Thus the plan was not put to a vote in Congress. Despite this failure, both Simpson and Bowles have continued to advocate for their plan, making slight changes to it. In February 2013, they wrote:

The failure to get our debt under control, reform our Tax Code and put our entitlement programs on a fiscally sustainable course is robbing us of the ability to invest in our future and will leave us without the resources we need to meet other challenges facing our nation. And moving forward will be out of our reach as long as we continue to "pass the buck" on the debt crisis. It is critical that leaders in both parties come together in an honest and meaningful way to put our fiscal house in order if they have any hope of addressing the other challenges and opportunities that we face as a nation... . If both sides move as one beyond their comfort zone on health and tax reform, those changes could be combined with the other spending cuts discussed in the negotiations last December [2012] to produce a package large enough to stabilize and begin to reduce our debt as a share of the economy.6


5.4 BUDGETARY REFORMS: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

As a nonpartisan organization, the CBO does not provide specific recommendations. Instead, it aims to analyze the implications of various policy options from an objective point of view. Based on a 2011 analysis, the CBO considers three potential policy objectives:
1. Balance the federal budget by 2020: This would require $1 trillion in total annual budgetary reforms by 2020 (i.e., a combination of spending reductions and revenue increases).
2. Limit debt to 75percent of GDP in 2020: This would require $500 billion in total annual budgetary reforms.
3. A midway objective that would "keep future deficits stable at a relatively small percentageof GDP": This would require $750 billion in total annual budgetary reforms.
The CBO notes that even the most modest of these proposals (#2) would require substantial policy adjustment:

Very few policy changes, taken individually, can shrink the deficit enough to achieve any of those objectives. Ultimately, significant deficit reduction is likely to require a combination of policies, many of which may stand in stark contrast to policies now in place ... [A] wide gap exists between the future cost of the services that the public has become accustomed to receiving from the federal government—especially in the form of benefits for older people—and the tax revenues that the public has been sending to the government to pay for those services.4

The CBO analysis considers three categories of budgetary reforms:
1.Reduce mandatory spending: This primarily includes spending on programs such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.
2.Reduce discretionary spending: This includes spending on national defense, education, highways, scientific research, and the environment.
3.Increase revenues: This includes letting some existing tax cuts expire, as well instituting new taxes.
The CBO considered nearly 70 potential budgetary changes. For each change, it estimated the budgetary savings that would accrue in 2020 (see Table 16.3).
One implication of the CBO's estimates is that there is no "magic bullet" that can resolve the country's budgetary imbalance. Even the most significant action, letting all 2001, 2003, and 2009 tax cuts expire, satisfies only the least stringent policy objective listed above. Another implication is that spending cuts alone will not be sufficient to balance the federal budget. Even if all 47 budget cuts considered by the CBO were enacted, including the politically unpopular sequestration cuts, total budgetary savings would be only about $900 billion while $1 trillion in savings would be required to balance the budget.

Table 16.3 Selected Budgetary Reforms, Congressional Budget Office




Budgetary Reform
Potential Budget Savings in 2020 (billions)


Reductions in Mandatory Spending



Raise the age of Medicare eligibility to 67
  $30


Raise the full retirement age for Social Security
  $30


Link Social Security payments to average prices rather than average earnings
  $30


Limit malpractice torts
  $10


Increase the interest rates charged on student loans
  $10


Reductions in Discretionary Spending



Allow the sequestration budget cuts to reduce military spending*
  $75


Allow the sequestration budget cuts to reduce nonmilitary spending
  $70


Limit highway funding to expected highway revenues
  $11


Reduce funding for the National Institutes of Health
    $4


Reduce Department of Energy funding for energy research
    $4


Eliminate certain education programs
    $2


Revenue Increases



Allow all 2001, 2003, and 2009 tax cuts to expire as scheduled
$550


Limit tax deductions to 15 percent of income
$150


Institute a tax on greenhouse gas emissions
$140


Eliminate the tax deduction for state and local income
$110


Increase the earnings subject to Social Security taxes
  $60


Gradually eliminate the mortgage interest deduction
  $50


Increase the motor fuels excise tax by 25 cents per gallon
  $30


Source: CBO, Reducing the Deficit: Spending and Revenue Options, 2011.
* The "sequestration" budget cuts refer to the Budget Control Act of 2011. Sequestration came into force in 2013.

Revenue increases offer larger total budgetary savings (nearly $2 trillion for all 20 options considered by the CBO), but many of these options are rather unpopular, including letting existing tax cuts expire for all income levels and eliminating various tax deductions. Note that a tax on greenhouse gas emissions, starting at $20 per ton of carbon dioxide and increasing by 5.6 percent per year, could generate $140 billion in additional revenues.5
The various budgetary reforms analyzed by the CBO would differ in terms of their impact on the economy and the distribution of the burden. For example, the CBO notes that reducing investment on things like infrastructure and education would decrease future economic production. Increasing the retirement age for Social Security would disproportionately harm lower-income individuals, as they rely more heavily on Social Security benefits.

5.5 DEBT AND DEFICITS IN CONTEXT

The analyses by the CBO and Simpson-Bowles indicate that significant budgetary policy changes are needed to address a long-term structural fiscal imbalance in the United States. In both analyses, most of the policy options are phased in gradually to reduce the likelihood of economic disruptions.
The debate over debts and deficits should be placed in a larger macroeconomic context as well as a social and environmental context. For example, proposals to balance the federal budget by "broadening the tax base" may imply increasing economic inequality, already at historically high levels. Given the strong negative impacts of wide inequalities on the social and economic health of a society, it makes sense that major federal policies, regarding both spending and taxing, should emphasize reducing inequality. As shown in Table 16.3, some possibilities for generating additional revenues also address environmental concerns. A carbon tax on gasoline or, more broadly, on greenhouse gas emissions would not only reduce budget deficits but also internalize the negative externalities associated with burning fossil fuels and increase overall economic efficiency.
Recent budgetary impasses also reflect a change from earlier generations, when policies were frequently adjusted, often with bipartisan support, to address national needs. Consider that Social Security tax rates were raised more than 20 times between 1937 and 1990 as the program's needs increased. More recent strong opposition to raising those taxes stands in contrast to this historical context. Although the budgetary challenge facing the United States may not be its most pressing policy priority, relative to other priorities such as job generation and climate change, it will clearly require some difficult choices. But the problem is solvable, as long as policymakers are willing to compromise and take a long-term perspective.

Discussion Questions

1. Do you think that we can reduce deficits while also avoiding an increase in tax rates? Why would political leaders consider tax hikes? Should everyone experience the same increase?
2. Are there tax policies that can reduce the deficit while also addressing environmental problems?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. What is the difference between the national debt and a deficit?
  2. What years were debt/GDP levels the highest in the United States? What years were the lowest?
  3. What was the role of the national debt in the early period of U.S. history? What was Hamilton's vision for the U.S national debt?
  4. How did the national debt picture change with the New Deal and World War II?
  5. What factors contributed to the federal surplus during the Clinton administration, and why did it turn into a deficit in the following Bush administration?
  6. Summarize some of the potential problems with government debt.
  7. What does it mean to monetize the debt?
  8. How do European policies of austerity differ from U.S. policies reading debt and deficits?
  9. According to the Simpson-Bowles plan, what are six broad ideas for cutting deficits over the next 10 years?
10. According to the Congressional Budget Office, what are some possible budgetary reforms that could reduce the deficit?
11. What are the pros and cons of a balanced budget amendment?

EXERCISES
1. Go to Federal Reserve Economic Database (h­t­t­p­:­/­/­r­e­s­e­a­r­c­h­.s­t­l­o­u­i­s­f­e­d­.o­r­g­/­f­r­e­d­2­/) and look in categories/national accounts for recent data on the U.S. national debt as a percent of GDP and recent figures on budget deficits. What does this tell you about recent trends? Compare the period 1990-2007 to more recent years. Do the figures indicate that we may be returning to a more "normal" situation regarding debt and deficits?
2. Search the internet and locate relatively recent debt / GDP data for European countries. Construct a table of Eurozone members and their debt / GDP ratios based on your search. Review the convergence criteria for participation in the Eurozone presented in the chapter. Don't forget to document your source(s)! What did you discover in this exercise? Explain your answer.
3. The chapter identifies and explains several reasons why it is inappropriate to compare the government debt to the debt of a private citizen. Which of these explanations are consistent with the presentation in the chapter?
a. Governments have the ability to "roll over" their debt more or less endlessly.
b. Governments cannot default on their debt obligations.
c. A significant portion of the government debt is owed to U.S.citizens.
d. The U.S. government pays interest on its debt in dollars that it prints.
e. Government debt is always used to finance investment.
1. The chapter identifies and explains several reasons why we are likely to observe relatively high deficits in the U.S. even as the economy stabilizes. Which of these explanations is consistent with the chapter's presentation?
a. Health care costs are expected to continue to increase.
b. Young adults are having too many children and that creates demographic pressures.
c. Federal subsidies of health care are expected to grow.
d. The rising costs of higher education will contribute to deficits.
e. Interest payments on the debt will likely increase in the future.
5. The chapter is very clear that it's dangerous to assume that, "government debt is never a concern." Which of the following are reasons articulated in the chapter for why debt can be a concern?
a. Foreign holders of U.S. debt may decide to sell their bonds.
b. A larger share of future budgets must be devoted to interest payments.
c. It is always unwise for governments to get into debt
d. Interest payments to high income individuals could exacerbate income inequality.
e. Deficit spending during a recession will only make the economic downturn worse.
6. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B.








Column A

Column B


a.
Debt
  1.
The portion of the gross federal debt that is owed to individuals or groups within the country


b.
Deficit
  2.
A congressionally mandated limit on the size of the federal debt


c.
Gross federal debt
  3.
The portion of the gross federal debt that is owed to foreign individuals or groups


d.
Public debt
  4.
A stock variable that represents the accumulation of deficits over many years


e.
Internal debt
  5.
The gross federal debt minus the debt owed to other government accounts such as Social Security and Medicare


f.
External debt
  6.
A policy of deficit cutting that reduces public expenditures and/ or raises taxes to balance the budget


g.
Monetizing the debt
  7.
A flow variable that measures the excess of spending over revenue collections


h.
Debt ceiling
  8.
The requirements that EU countries must satisfy as a condition for participating in the Eurozone


i.
Austerity
  9.
The purchase of new debt from the Treasury Department by the Federal Reserve


j.
Conver gence criteria
10.
Total amount owed by the federal government to all claimants, including foreigners, the public in the United States, and other government accounts




Notes

1. Office of Management and Budget, "The President's Budget for Fiscal Year 2013," Historical Table 1.2.
2. Congressional Budget Office, "The Budget and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2013 to 2023," February 5, 2013.
3. CBO, "Choices for Deficit Reduction," November 2012.
4. Ibid., p. 2.
5. See CBO, "Reducing the Deficit: Spending and Revenue Options," March 2011, for details.
6. Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, "Memo to Congress, White House: Get Serious on Debt," Politico, February 14, 2013. w­w­w­.p­o­l­i­t­i­c­o­.c­o­m­/­s­t­o­r­y­/­2­0­1­3­/­0­2­/­m­e­m­o­-­t­o­-­c­o­n­g­r­e­s­s­-­w­h­i­t­e­-­h­o­u­s­e­-­g­e­t­-­s­e­r­i­o­u­s­-­o­n­-­d­e­b­t­-­8­7­6­7­8­.h­t­m­l­.


*Although the arithmetic requires that the debt rise when the government is in deficit—because the only way to finance a deficit is to borrow money—in the case of a surplus it is possible for the government to hold some funds in reserve, for example, to finance future expenditures. It is usually the case, however, that governments will use some or all of a surplus to reduce existing debt.
*The other three, which need not concern us here, are (1) an inflation rate no more than 1.5 percent higher than the average in the three best-performing EU members; (2) not having devalued domestic currency for at least two years; and (3) long-term interest rate no higher than 2 percent above that in the three best EU inflation performers.
*The "dual mandate" results from amendments to the Federal Reserve Act in 1977. Prior to 1977, the Fed did not have a history of pursuing job growth and had a reputation primarily as an inflation fighter.
*The plan is detailed in NCFRR, "The Moment of Truth: Report of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform," December 2010.













 
 
 




17
How Economies Grow and Develop




 
 

What do people mean by economic development? How do the economic status of countries and the well-being of their people change over time? Most of the macroeconomic theory that we have presented so far relates to advanced economies such as that of the United States. But if we think back a hundred years, the United States was a very different place than it is today. Most transportation was still horse drawn, with only a few cars operating on a poor-quality road system. Most rural areas did not have electricity or telephone service. In 1900, real per capita income in the United States was about $5,000 (measured in 2000 dollars). During the twentieth century, real per capita income in the United States rose about sevenfold, to more than $35,000.
The median income in the world today is about equal to that of the United States in the early 1900s. Although billions of people still live in severe poverty, some formerly poor countries—such as South Korea, China, and India—are rapidly developing. Many others have experienced little economic progress. It is both interesting and important to evaluate how economies grow, how the growth process differs in different cases, and why some countries are very successful at promoting rapid growth, while others seem to be "stuck" at a low level of income.
As we will see in what follows, economic growth and economic development are not always the same thing, and the differences become more pronounced at higher levels of income. One important theme in this chapter is that, contrary to some earlier theories, there is nothing "automatic" about poor countries becoming developed. Another is that even rapid and sustained GDP growth may not be sufficient to ensure broad-based well-being improvement.

1. DEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMIC GROWTH

Economic development is an idea that became formalized in the mid-twentieth century, as the colonial empires began to break down and the more industrialized countries gradually took on a changed set of attitudes toward the parts of the world that had not experienced industrialization.* The economic relations between colonies and their rulers had been dominated by the desire of the ruling countries to enrich themselves, first, through extraction of raw materials, and, second, through the creation of markets for goods that they wished to export. By the mid-twentieth century, resistance to imperial domination and strong movements for independence had made it impossible for the ruling countries to maintain their control. The emergence of many new independent countries required a change in attitude.
On the economic side, it was recognized that countries make better trading partners if they can escape from poverty. On the moral side was the recognition that, considering the improvement in living conditions that had accompanied industrialization for the richer countries, it was only right that the "underdeveloped" countries should have a chance to develop their economies and to gain greater wealth and well-being. Some theorists of "neo-colonialism" have argued that the former colonial powers continued to use political and economic power to maintain their dominant position. Nonetheless, newly independent countries were determined to promote economic progress, and the economic theory of development emerged with the purpose of helping to achieve this goal.
The idea of development initially focused on the question: How can poor countries most rapidly follow in the steps of the rich ones? The answers to this question are the subject of a large part of this chapter. We focus especially on the countries where there is a clear need for increased economic development to satisfy people's basic needs for food, shelter, health care, and education. But it is also worth noting that the term "development" can be used for all kinds of positive economic change and, thus, could also be applied to the countries that have successfully achieved greater wealth and industrialization. That is an issue to which we return in Chapter 18, where we will take a look at the changes that will be required both in wealthier countries and in rapidly developing countries such as China, if the global economy is to achieve a sustainable balance with its ecological context.

1.1 STANDARD ECONOMIC GROWTH THEORY

As we noted in Chapter 6, there are many criticisms of the use of GDP as a measure of economic progress. Standard models of economic growth, however, are all based on this measure, and we begin by reviewing some of these models.
The simplest definition of economic growth is an increase in real GDP (i.e., GDP adjusted for inflation). The growth rate of real GDP is the percentage change in real GDP from one year to the next. Using what we learned in Chapter 5, we can express the rate of growth in, for example, the period 2011-12, as follows:

For example, U.S. real GDP in 2011 (in chained 2005 dollars) was $13.44 trillion and in 2012 it was $13.67 trillion. Thus the growth rate of real U.S. GDP from 2011 to 2012 was

For purposes of evaluating how economic growth is related to economic development, it is often helpful to focus on the growth rate of GDP per capita—that is, output per person—rather than simply on overall output. Mathematically, GDP per capita is expressed as:
GDP per capita = GDP /population
The growth rates of GDP, population, and GDP per capita are related in the following way (where the sign « means "approximately equals"):
Growth rate of GDP ≈ Growth rate of population + growth rate of GDP per capita
or:
Growth rate of GDP per capita ≈ Growth rate of GDP − growth rate of population






Figure 17.1 Economic Growth in the AS/AD Model
Economic growth increases the maximum capacity of the economy. It involves both supply-side and demand-side expansions, and does not necessarily involve a change in the rate of inflation.

Thus, for example, an economy that has a GDP growth rate of 4 percent and a population growth rate of 2 percent would have a per capita GDP growth rate of approximately 2 percent. The per capita GDP growth rate is especially important because it indicates the actual increase in average income being experienced by the people of the country. If a country had a 2 percent GDP growth rate, but a 3 percent population growth rate, its per capita GDP growth rate would actually be negative, at -1 percent. The people would on average be getting poorer each year, even though the overall economy is growing. Thus for people's incomes on average to increase over time, the GDP growth rate must exceed the rate of population growth.
In terms of the aggregate supply and demand graphs that we used in Chapter 13, economic growth can be shown as a rightward shift of the aggregate supply (AS), increasing the economy's maximum capacity (Figure 17.1). If this kind of increase in aggregate supply took place without any shift in aggregate demand (AD), its effects would include growth in output and a declining rate of inflation. In practice, however, economic growth is almost always accompanied by, and is often caused at least in part by, an increase in aggregate demand. Thus a more typical pattern for economic growth would be for both the AD and AS curves to shift to the right, as shown in Figure 17.1. In this case, output clearly rises, but the effect on inflation is ambiguous.
What causes economic output to increase? One way that output could increase is if there is an expansion in the inputs used to produce it. Recall that in Chapter 3 we outlined five kinds of capital. Land and natural resources are natural capital. The stock of productive resources that have been produced by people is called manufactured capital. All the skills and knowledge possessed by humans are human capital, while social and financial capital both refer to institutional arrangements that make production possible.
Capital expansion is related to the production-possibilities frontier (PPF) that we first saw in Chapter 2. Recall that any point "outside" the PPF is unattainable—impossible to achieve with the present endowment of inputs and available technology. So another way of seeing GDP growth is in relation to the capital expansion required to "shift" the PPF outward, to where previously unattainable combinations of, say, guns and butter become possible. Such an outward shift could require an increase in any one of the capital types: for example, if all the material and technological resources are in place but are being used inefficiently, an outward shift could be achieved through an increase in social capital that allows better coordination and cooperation among workers and managers.
Economists sometimes think about output as being generated according to a "production function," which is a mathematical relation between various inputs and the level of output. In the most general sense, we might say that the output of an economy should be expressed as a function of flows from all the different types of capital that make production possible. The inputs to the production function are commonly referred to as factors of production. In the production functions most commonly used by economists, the factors that are emphasized are manufactured capital and labor. Sometimes, but not always, natural resources are also included.

factors of production: the essential inputs for economic activity, including labor, capital, and natural resources

Technology is the other important variable that influences economic output. We say that a point outside the PPF is unattainable "given available factors of production (i.e., inputs) and the present state of technology." In other words, it matters not only how many of the different factors we possess but also how productive on average each is—and productivity depends crucially on the level of technology.
In their production functions, economists often include a term that captures total factor productivity, which includes all contributions to total production not already reflected in the input levels. "Total factor productivity" has often been interpreted as reflecting the way in which technological innovation allows inputs such as capital and labor to be used in more effective and valuable ways. For example, the development of word-processing software greatly increased efficiency compared to the use of typewriters. Typewriters, which seem antique to us today, were themselves a huge productive advance over clerical work using pen and paper. This process of improved technological methods has resulted in an increase in labor productivity—more output can now be produced with fewer inputs. The input most often measured in productivity statistics is labor-hours; however, total factor productivity also takes into account natural capital, machinery, and any other relevant inputs.

total factor productivity: a measure of the productivity of all factors of production. It represents contributions to output from all sources, not just quantities of manufactured capital and labor.


1.2 HISTORICAL OVERVIEW AND TWENTIETH-CENTURY THEORY

The Industrial Revolution, a process of rapid social, technological, and economic change, which began in Britain and Western Europe, dramatically changed the nature of economic production. Although, as we discuss later, the applicability of this model to current development issues has been subject to criticism, its strong influence on standard views of economic growth makes it an important starting point for understanding development.

Industrial Revolution: a process of social, technological, and economic change, beginning in Western Europe in the eighteenth-century, that developed and applied new methods of production and work organization resulting in a great increase in output per worker

Several elements were critical in creating the Industrial Revolution. First, new agricultural techniques, along with new kinds of tools and machines, made agriculture more productive. Because farmers became more productive, fewer were needed to produce the necessary food, and many migrated to the growing urban areas. Second, the invention and application of technologies using fossil-fuel energy (especially coal) contributed not only to the productivity gains in agriculture but to growth in the number of factory jobs and the development of transportation networks. Third, Britain's increasing reliance on other countries, including its extensive network of colonies, for supplies of raw materials and as markets for its goods, was critical in the development of its industrial sector. Britain imported cotton fiber from India, for example. It discouraged the further development of cotton manufacturing within India by putting high import tariffs on Indian-made cloth, while requiring that India let in British-made cloth tariff-free.
While the Industrial Revolution began in Britain, by the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries it was well along in much of Western Europe and other "early industrializing" countries, such as the United States, Canada, and Australia. It is important not just as a historical episode but because the pattern of economic development that it established has become, in many people's minds, the model for how development should proceed worldwide. The vocabulary of referring to rich countries as "developed" and poorer countries as "developing," for example, involves an implicit assumption that poorer countries are on a path of industrialization, on the road to perhaps eventually "catching up" to rich countries' lifestyles and levels of wealth.
Starting in the early 1950s, a number of economists began to develop theories on how economies develop. The economic historian W.W. Rostow, for example, advanced the thesis that progress from "underdevelopment" to development invariably went through five stages. The first he referred to as "traditional, agrarian society," meaning not only an economy based on farming but also one that was stagnant—that is, not in an active process of development. The second stage, "preconditions for takeoff," is similar to the first, with the important exception that the country now possesses a critical mass of entrepreneurs and educated people, signifying the country's potential for development. Although he did not use these terms, for Rostow "human capital" was indispensable for development, and "natural capital" (which even the least developed countries possess), while important, was insufficient.
The third stage was "takeoff" (into self-sustaining growth). At this point, the country realizes its development "potential" by achieving a sufficiently high level of savings to finance the investment—specifically, manufactured capital accumulation—necessary for growth. From there, growth and development was expected to sustain itself. The fourth stage is the "drive to maturity," and the final stage, where the rich countries currently find themselves, is the "age of high mass consumption."
The main conclusion from Rostow's theory is that after the necessary "preconditions" (education and entrepreneurship) are present, investment in manufactured capital and technology is sufficient to propel a country to a high living standard. A very similar conclusion was reached by the more mathematical Harrod-Domar model, named after the economists Roy Harrod and Evsey Domar.
An important corollary to Rostow's theory is that if domestic savings were insufficient to enable a country to reach the "takeoff' stage, "foreign saving" should help compensate for the shortfall. This could come from private investment, assuming that countries had stable enough conditions to attract foreign investors. The theory also supported the then-widespread view that countries like the United States should provide foreign aid to developing countries in need, to help them raise their living standard (and also given the reality of the cold war, to lure them into their "sphere of influence"). Yet as we will see, success in this effort was far from universal. The failure of aid to stimulate sustained growth in many countries caused a great deal of frustration among policymakers.
By the 1980s, the idea that countries should engage in "structural reforms" as a precondition for being granted aid gained ground. Multilateral institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, which provided loans for development or to assist countries in financial difficulties, began to insist that all recipient governments undertake a broad swath of policy changes to qualify for further loans. The set of favored policies came to be known as the "Washington Consensus." The main principles of the Washington Consensus were:
• Fiscal discipline. Developing countries were urged to end fiscal deficits and balance government budgets by developing reliable sources of tax revenue and limiting spending.
• Market liberalization and privatization. Abolition of government-controlled industries, price controls, and other forms of intervention in domestic markets were seen as essential to promoting growth.
• Trade liberalization and openness to foreign investment. Countries were pressured to remove tariffs and other barriers to trade, as well as capital controls and other restrictions on foreign investment flows.
Loans from the World Bank, the IMF, and other institutions were made conditional on moving toward making such "structural reforms" or "structural adjustments" in a country's economy. The slogan "stabilize, privatize, and liberalize" governed the thinking of development policymakers. The implicit promise was that if these policies were followed, the conditions for rapid growth would be created. As in Rostow's theory, the emphasis was on making developing economies "safe" for foreign investment; also, the presumption was that the same guidelines applied to every developing country. A new element that arrived with the Washington Consensus was a set of limitations on the autonomy of developing country governments.

Table 17.1 Per Capita Annual Real GDP Growth in Select Latin American Countries, 1980-2010 (%)




Bolivia
  0.5


Brazil
  1.0


Chile
  3.2


Colombia
  1.6


Ecuador
  0.8


Mexico
  0.7


Peru
  1.1


Venezuela
−0.2


Middle Income
  3.5


Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators Database, 2013.

Recent growth performances seriously call into question the validity of these policy prescriptions. The region of the world most influenced by the Washington Consensus has been Latin America, and, as can be seen in Table 17.1, its growth rates over the past three decades compare rather unfavorably to the average growth rate for middle-income countries as a whole (with few exceptions, Latin American countries are in the "middle-income" category). Only Chile, which had 3.2 percent growth from 1980 to 2010, comes close to the global average for middle-income countries. All the other listed countries (with the possible exception of Colombia) grew anemically. The entire Latin America and Caribbean region grew only 0.9 percent on average.
The poor performance of this region of the world is, to date, the strongest indictment of the Washington Consensus. As we will see, however, even where growth in other regions has been stronger, it was quite imbalanced. One of the challenges in development economics is to address the growing inequality that results—both within and among countries.

Discussion Questions

1. How, according to twentieth-century theory, can a country achieve GDP growth? How is growth related to the capital endowments—and which kinds of capital are most important?
2. What, according to Rostow, are the five "stages of growth" through which all countries must pass in order to become developed? Do you think this theory fits with the actual experience of development? Can you name a country at each stage?

2. COUNTRY GROWTH EXPERIENCES

The Rostow and Harrod-Domar models were largely based on the phenomenal economic growth record of the industrialized countries. This section briefly reviews that record and then compares more recent growth rates of different countries.

2.1 GROWTH COMPARISONS ACROSS COUNTRIES

During the twentieth century, real income in the United States rose about sevenfold, and world per capita economic output grew about fivefold. Most of this growth came in the second half of the twentieth century. Figure 17.2 shows the record of global growth since 1971. Gross world product went up by a factor of 3.5 during this period (in inflation-adjusted terms). This was accompanied by a more than doubling in the use of energy, primarily fossil fuels. Even though world population nearly doubled over the period 1971-2011, food production and living standards grew more rapidly than population, leading to a steady increase in per capita income.







Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators Database, 2013.
Figure 17.2 World Economic Growth, 1971-2011
All series are shown using an index of 1
for 1971 levels. During ßthe period 1971-2011, population nearly doubled, energy use more than doubled, food production increased 160 percent, and gross world product increased by 240 percent.

This economic growth has been very unevenly distributed among countries, as well as among people within countries. Table 17.2 shows the per capita national incomes and rates of economic growth for selected countries and income category groups during the period 1990-2011. The table gives national income in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms, comparing countries based on the relative buying power of incomes.
As Table 17.2 shows, the record is highly variable, with some countries achieving less than 1 percent annual per capita economic growth, and others achieving more than 4 percent, with China in the lead at a sizzling 9.5 percent. Some already poor countries, such as Haiti and the Democratic Republic of Congo, are growing even poorer. While the table indicates that the middle-income countries are the fastest-growing group, this is largely a result of high growth rates in China and India, which together account for more than half the population of all middle-income countries.
What accounts for the striking differences in economic fortunes across countries? And can we expect such differences to increase or decrease?
Economies such as those of the United States, Europe, and Japan have benefited from many decades of economic growth. Such growth has not been uniform; periods of expansion have alternated with periods of slowdown or recession. (The Japanese economy, for example, has grown very slowly in recent years.) But overall, GDP in these countries has increased due to a combination of factors including growth in aggregate demand and—as discussed earlier—labor productivity, technological innovation, and investment in manufactured capital.
In addition, successful economic growth has often resulted from taking advantage of trade opportunities. Although industrialized countries have generally benefited from openness to trade, they have also typically used protectionism—tariffs and quotas to limit trade—to foster the development of important domestic industries. Critics such as economist Ha-Joon Chang claim that such countries have "kicked away" the (protectionist) ladder that they have used to ascend to higher living standards and now insist that poor countries seeking to develop their economies follow "free trade" rules and not use tariffs or quotas to protect their industries.

Table 17.2 Income, Growth, and Population Comparisons, Selected Countries and Country Groups






Country or Category
GDP per capita, 2011 (PPP, 2005, US$)
Percent growth in GDP per capita (PPP, annual average, 1990-2011)
Percent of world population (2011)


High Income
33,566
1.5
16.3  


Hong Kong
44,640
3.0
0.1


United States
42,486
1.4
4.5


Japan
30,660
0.7
1.8


France
29,819
1.0
0.9


South Korea
27,541
4.3
0.7


Middle Income
  6,245
3.5
72.0  


Russia
14,821
0.8
2.0


Turkey
13,468
2.5
0.8


Brazil
10,279
1.7
2.8


China
  7,418
9.5
19.3  


India
  3,203
4.7
17.8  


Low Income
  1,182
1.9
11.7  


Bangladesh
  1,569
3.6
2.2


Nepal
  1,106
2.1
0.3


Haiti*
  1,034
−1.4  
0.1


Ethiopia
     979
2.8
1.2


Congo, DR
     329
−3.0  
1.0


Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators Database, 2013.
*Data for Haiti growth rate is for 1991-2011.

Japan and other "Asian Tigers" (South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Singapore), starting in the mid-twentieth century, demonstrated a pattern of virtuous cycles in which high savings and investment lead to greater productivity, a competitive export industry, and growth of domestic industries. The resulting financial capital is then invested in machines, tools, factories, and other equipment that can further enhance productivity—and the cycle begins again. In addition, as the economy grows, more resources are available to invest in the development of health-care and educational systems. It sounds simple and obvious—yet many countries have had great trouble in achieving such virtuous cycles.

virtuous cycles (in development): selfreinforcing patterns of high savings, investment, productivity growth, and economic expansion

One factor that appears to be essential in almost every case for promoting growth and development is human capital. While the U.S. savings rate is low, American investment in human capital is relatively high. For example, only Sweden, Korea, and Finland have college enrollments beyond high school that are higher than those in the United States. The Asian Tigers have also benefited from generally excellent educational systems, along with industrial structure that (especially in Japan) motivated workers with good employment benefits linked to company profitability.
Early theories of development such as Rostow's assumed that the lessons from industrialized economies simply needed to be applied to countries at lower levels of income, so that they could follow a similar path of economic growth. But the global record of uneven development and inequality makes the picture significantly more complex. For example, the global distribution of per capita GDP across countries is shown in Figure 17.3, where each country's per capita GDP in 2011 has been translated into real 2005 U.S dollars and adjusted for PPP, for the sake of comparability. The United States, along with Canada, most of Europe, Australia, Japan, and a few other countries, enjoys a per capita GDP of more than $25,000. The poorest countries on earth tend to be in Africa and Asia, where income per capita can be below—sometimes much below—$2,500.







Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators Database, 2012.
Figure 17.3 GDP per Capita in 2011 (in constant 2005 PPP $ per person)
Income per person is highest in the industrialized countries of North America and Europe, along with Japan, Australia, and New Zealand. Income per person is lowest in many African and Asian countries.

Traditionally, many economists have taken an optimistic view concerning the future of global income inequality. They have argued that a given increase in the manufactured capital stock should lead to a greater increase in output in a country that is capital-poor than in a country that is already capital-rich. Therefore, as developing countries build up their capital stocks, it is just a matter of time until "less developed" countries catch up with the countries that have already "developed." The idea that poorer countries or regions are on a path to "catch up" is often referred to as convergence. Describing low-income countries as "developing" assumes that they are on a one-way path toward greater industrialization, labor productivity, and integration into the global economy.

convergence (in reference to economic growth): the idea that underlying economic forces will cause poorer countries and regions to "catch up" with richer ones

Is it true that "developing" countries are, in general, catching up with the "developed" countries? Some studies of GDP per capita growth rates, using data such as that in Table 17.2, emphasize that even the low-income countries have grown more rapidly, on average, than the high-income ones. However, this has largely been due to the strong growth rates experienced by more populous countries (as noted above, the rapid growth of China and India significantly raise the average for the middle-income group of countries). If we look at every country individually, the conclusion on convergence appears more ambiguous.
The evidence suggests that while some developing countries are on a path to catch up with the richer ones in GDP terms, others are not. In fact, if we count each country equally, the average annual growth rate of real GDP per capita (PPP) in 1990-2011 was 0.3 percent in the low-income countries, 1.9 percent in the middle-income countries, and 2.1 percent in the high-income countries—suggesting further divergence rather than convergence. It is also true that if a rich country and a poor one are experiencing the same percentage growth rate, this adds a great deal more income in the rich country than in the poor one. Thus in absolute terms the gap between them grows wider unless the poor country has a much higher growth rate.
In spite of all this, when GDP per capita of certain developing countries is expressed as a proportion of average GDP per capita in the high-income countries, some countries do appear to be "catching up" (Figure 17.4a). South Korea, for example, is well on its way to joining the ranks of the rich countries, as its per capita GDP rose from about 30 percent of rich-country GDP in 1980 to more than 80 percent today. Botswana's per capita income also rose considerably over this period, from 20 percent of rich-country GDP to 40 percent. Although at a lower level, the rise in China's per capita GDP has been the most rapid, from less than 3 percent of rich-country GDP to more than 20 percent. Finally, India is also "catching up," albeit somewhat more slowly and from a lower starting point.







Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators Database, 2013.
Figures 17.4a and 17.4b Per Capita GDP Expressed as a Percentage of per-Capita GDP in High-Income Countries
If poor countries are "converging" or "catching up" to rich countries, their incomes should be rising when expressed as a percentage of rich country incomes. This has happened for South Korea, China, and Botswana, and also for India, but much more slowly. Brazil, Bolivia, Nigeria, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in contrast, all fell farther behind over the period 1980-2005.

Other developing countries exhibit trends such as those seen in Figure 17.4b. Brazil, often touted as one of the most important "newly industrializing countries" (NICs), experienced a per capita income drop in relation to the average in rich countries over the period 1980-2005, but has rebounded somewhat since 2005. Bolivia, Nigeria, and the Democratic Republic of Congo, among many other countries, suffered losses as well, the latter two from a very low starting point, and have had weaker recoveries since 2005 (virtually none for D.R. Congo). A consistent pattern among the countries "falling behind" is a particularly sharp drop in the 1980s, followed by more or less of a leveling off after 2000.
One encouraging fact is that since 2000 there has been significantly more progress toward convergence, driven mainly by rapid growth in China and India but occurring in other countries also. According to one recent study, "the last decade witnessed a sharp reversal from a pattern of divergence to convergence—particularly for a set of large middle-income countries."1 But even if convergence is sustained, global inequalities will continue for a long time. The United Nations notes that were "high income countries to stop growing today and Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa to continue on their current growth trajectories, it would take Latin America until 2177 and Africa until 2236 to catch up."2
How rapidly are countries growing now? Figure 17.5 summarizes a wealth of information about economic growth across countries since 1980. The horizontal axis measures GDP per capita in 2011, in constant chained 2005, PPP-adjusted dollars. The size of the spheres is proportional to the population of the country represented, so that the United States is a medium-size sphere, while China and India—together, home to nearly 40 percent of the world's population—are represented by very large spheres. Spheres on the right represent the United States and other industrialized countries, and spheres on the left represent poorer countries.
The vertical axis measures average annual real GDP per capita growth rates from 1980 to 2011. Thus more rapidly growing countries, including China, India, and South Korea, are high on the graph, while slower-growing countries are represented by spheres closer to the horizontal axis. Some countries have experienced negative growth—that is, their levels of income per person have actually fallen in recent years after adjusting for inflation. High-income countries have generally experienced moderate, positive average growth rates (on the order of 1 percent to 2 percent), while growth rates diverge much more as one moves down the income scale. For developing countries, average growth rates diverge dramatically (ranging from 10 percent for China down to −3 percent for D.R. Congo).
China and India represent the "good news" side of the development story. Although many people in these countries remain very poor, at least the trend is going in the right direction. Because of strong growth in these two very populous countries, a large number of people have been lifted out of poverty in recent decades.
The countries of sub-Saharan Africa, which have been hit particularly hard by AIDS and war, account for a substantial proportion of the very low and negative growth rates (e.g., Cote d'Ivoire and D.R. Congo). This is the very "bad news" side of the contemporary development. Far from "developing," such countries have actually become poorer in recent decades.







Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators Database, 2013.
Figure 17.5 Growth and Income Relationship with Area Proportional to Population
Each circle represents a country. The size of the circle corresponds to the size of the country's population. The location of the circle shows GDP and GDP growth rate.
2.2 THE VARIETY OF SOURCES OF ECONOMIC GROWTH

What accounts for the striking differences in economic fortunes across countries? If there were just one simple story about how economic growth occurs, economic analysis would be much easier. In fact, however, one can point to a great variety of factors, all of which may play a role in development. But their significance—and even the direction of their effect, positive or negative—may vary greatly from country to country. For this reason, it is impossible to make all-encompassing statements about why many developing countries have failed to achieve sustained growth. The following observations summarize a range of reasons for growth; their relevance varies from one situation to another.

Natural Resources

Often, one of the first things that students of development think of is the role of natural resources. Indeed, large expanses of arable land, rich mineral and energy resources, good natural port facilities, and a healthy climate may make it easier for a country to prosper, while a poor natural endowment, such as a climate that makes a country prone to malaria or drought, can be a serious drag on development. But the historical record includes some surprises. Hong Kong and Singapore have prosperous trade-based economies, even though they have scant domestic resources, with little land or energy of their own.
In fact, the overexploitation of natural resources can lead both to environmental degradation and to economic distortion. Countries such as Nigeria have found that oil reserves, seemingly a source of wealth, can easily be misappropriated with very damaging effects on development. Misdirected oil revenues can lead to massive corruption and waste. Other sectors of the economy are starved of investment and resources, as available resources go primarily toward oil production. And because oil is an exhaustible resource, the country can eventually run out of oil and find itself worse off than before. Nigeria's experience is symbolic of what many have referred to as the "resource curse" (the idea that countries endowed with abundant natural resources often do worse than countries with fewer resources).

Savings and Investment

Investment in manufactured capital requires financial capital that, as we have seen, comes from savings. Yet investment in industrial manufactured capital is not the only important kind of investment. Investments in agriculture, through improvement of seeds, irrigation, and the like, are also essential to growth. Countries can also invest in human capital by improving their country's systems of education and health care. Workers who are skilled and healthy are more able to be productive. Many economists stress that education in science and technology, in particular, is likely to have significant effects on growth.
Additions to capital, however, do not automatically lead to growth. Technologies that are highly automated or "capital intensive" may sometimes be inappropriate in countries with an abundance of potential laborers. In such countries, more appropriate investments might be made in technologies that make greater use of its abundant potential workers—in other words, technologies that are more "labor intensive."

capital intensive: a process or procedure that makes use of more capital relative to other inputs such as labor
labor intensive: a process or procedure that makes use of more labor relative to other inputs such as capital

This claim is not without some controversy, because goods produced under labor-intensive processes tend to be less sophisticated and high tech and therefore promise less export revenue than other products made with modern equipment. Indeed, one of the conflicts regularly confronted by developing countries is the need to balance economic diversification (especially into "higher-end" products) with the need to provide employment opportunities for its population. There is also a significant tension between the motivations to provide more sophisticated products for export vs. products that will be of more use to people in the country. In extreme cases, countries export food that their people cannot afford to buy for themselves.

Allocation of Investment

According to market theory, investors should be attracted to the most profitable opportunities. But market allocation of investment alone may ignore social priorities and will not necessarily contribute much to the development of infrastructure (things like roads, ports, railroads, and electronic networks). These and other important public goods such as environmental quality and water supplies require a public role in directing investment.*
In addition to investing in public goods, governments have often played a role in planning other industrial investments. Known as industrial policy, this approach can involve promoting particular industries, using tariffs, subsidies, and other economic tools as needed, even when this implies active government modification of market outcomes. These tools may be applied to protect or subsidize industries that are not yet competitive, in the hope that they may become so over time; this is sometimes referred to as an infant industry policy.

industrial policy: a set of government policies designed to enhance a country's ability to compete globally
infant industry: an industry that is not yet globally competitive, but receives government support with the expectation that it may become so

Virtually all currently high-income countries used such policies in earlier stages of growth. Britain and the United States consciously formulated tariff policies to encourage domestic industries. Similar industrial policies employed by Japan and the Asian Tigers (Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan) were essential to their rapid development between the 1960s and 1990s. Ironically, Western countries that aggressively used industrial policies in earlier stages of development now often preach free trade and fiscal reform to others. As noted earlier, this has led to charges of hypocrisy with regard to developed countries that seem to want to "kick away the ladder" for later industrializers.

Foreign Sources of Financial Capital

If a country is not able to finance the investments it needs for development out of its own domestic savings, it generally seeks grants, loans, or investments from abroad. The sources of foreign capital for development can be either public or private. Public aid for development can take the form of either bilateral assistance or multilateral assistance. Bilateral development assistance consists of grants or loans made by a rich country's government to a poorer country. Many developing countries also receive multilateral development assistance from institutions such as the World Bank and regional development banks such as the Inter-American Development Bank and UN agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Countries may also borrow from the IMF, particularly during times of crisis.

bilateral development assistance: aid (or loans) given by one country to another to promote development
multilateral development assistance: aid or loans provided with the announced intention of promoting development by the World Bank, regional development banks, or UN agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)

Private foreign investment is carried out by private companies or individuals. Foreign direct investment (FDI) occurs when a company or individual acquires or creates assets for its own business operations (e.g., a German company building a factory to produce televisions in Mexico). FDI may or may not actually increase the capital stock in the recipient country, because it can include acquisitions of existing capital. Private flows also include loans from private banks. From 2000 to 2010, private flows of investment to developing countries increased dramatically, from $200 billion to more than $1 trillion, but have since leveled off at about $700-800 billion.3
The empirical evidence concerning the contribution of public and private foreign capital to economic growth is mixed. Some of the countries that are still among the poorest have also been the heaviest recipients of concessional aid (meaning aid without any requirements for repayment). In some cases, aid went to corrupt leaders who spent it on their own luxurious lifestyles rather than on benefits for their people. Many poor countries are now highly indebted and spend more on debt service (payment of principal and interest) than on health care for their population.
Foreign investment can sometimes play an essential role in spurring development, but welcoming foreign businesses also can have a downside. When a large, powerful transnational corporation moves into a developing country, it may "crowd out" local initiatives, by competing with them for finance, inputs, or markets, sometimes in effect replacing a viable, though small-scale, local business sector with an international corporation producing for international sales. It may also be disruptive politically or culturally. Some of the most oppressive actions in development history (such as peasants being forced off their land or union organizers repressed with violence) have come about through alliances between large transnational corporations and corrupt governments.

Domestic Demand vs. Export Orientation

Because there would be little point in increasing production if what is made cannot find a market, the level of aggregate demand in an economy is also of great importance for growth. One reason that developing countries sometimes fail to achieve sustained growth is that, while production for export is emphasized, not enough is done to develop domestic markets. There are counterexamples to this statement: countries such as Japan and South Korea broke into the ranks of more advanced economies by developing powerful export industries, and China is now following this same path. But export dependence can become a trap that stifles economic development when countries depend on exporting products for which world demand is limited. Producers of agricultural exports, in particular, often suffer when world terms of trade turn against them, so that the value of what they can sell on the world market drops relative to the value of what they want to import.

terms of trade: the price of exports relative to imports


Financial, Legal, and Regulatory Institutions

Recently, policymakers have gained a greater appreciation of the role played by financial, legal, and regulatory institutions (which fit into the category of social capital) in encouraging—or discouraging—growth. Very poor countries sometimes have banking and legal systems that do not reach very far into rural areas and provide credit only for the well-connected or well-to-do, making it difficult for small businesses and entrepreneurs to finance new or growing enterprises. The experience of Russia, where GDP fell more than 40 percent during its emergence from communism in the 1990s, highlighted the need for markets to be based in a good institutional framework.
Countries that have been successful in maintaining growth generally have effective systems of property rights and contract enforcement, which allow entrepreneurs to benefit from their investments, as well as effective corporate and bank regulation. Even in the case of property rights, however, the conventional wisdom does not always hold. China and Vietnam, for example, have been able to attract significant amounts of investment, even though, being at least nominally still communist countries, they do not have systems of private property rights. Nevertheless, they are able to assure firms that they will benefit from their investments by other means.
Some developing countries suffer from severe corruption, internal conflict, and other factors that make it difficult for effective institutions to take root. Political instability leads to economic inefficiency, difficulty in attracting foreign investment, and slow or no growth. This, in turn, means that less saving is available for future investment, reinforcing the problems. Breaking this vicious cycle is essential for development but can be very difficult to do.

2.3 DIFFERENT KINDS OF ECONOMIES

The previous section focused on the importance of investment—whether in agriculture or industrialization, in human and social capital, or in technology, infrastructure, or other physical capital. This raises the question: Who decides what are the most important investments to make? Should investment decisions be left to private markets or controlled by the government or some combination of the two? Historical experience offers a number of models.
The most extreme form of government control, represented by the experience of the Soviet Union from 1917 to 1989 and often referred to as a "command economy," has generally been discredited as an economic model. Its achievements in areas such as military production and some public goods (such as the Moscow subway system and elements of public education) came at a terrible human cost. Comparisons of Communist North Korea and East Germany with market-oriented South Korea and West Germany showed starkly that markets had a far better chance of achieving a more humane kind of development.
However, these alternatives are not, in fact, the only possibilities. Indeed, there are not only differences between market and command economies, but within each of these categories there is more than one alternative—and relative development successes or failures do not all fall neatly into one place. We can categorize economic organizations according to forms of ownership, making a basic distinction between capitalist vs. socialist economies. Then we may further subdivide each of these.
Capitalism is a system characterized by predominantly private ownership of productive assets; owners maybe either private individuals or businesses. Under laissez-faire capitalism, the role of the state is supposed to be relatively small; at least in theory, it is confined to maintaining a legal-institutional environment conducive to corporate ownership and market exchange. The United States and the United Kingdom are the two advanced countries that lie closest to this end of the spectrum. In contrast, administrative capitalism involves a more substantial amount of state activity alongside market-coordinated activity. Japan, France, and the Scandinavian countries fit this description. Canada, Australia, and New Zealand have tended to be somewhere in the middle, between these two varieties of capitalism.

laissez-faire capitalism: a national system characterized by private corporate ownership and a great reliance on exchange as a mode of coordination (with relatively little coordination by public administration)
administrative capitalism: a national system characterized by private corporate ownership and a substantial reliance on public administration (as well as exchange) as a mode of coordination

Socialism is a system that relies much more on public ownership, where the owners may be either government or various kinds of cooperatives. The former Soviet Union and North Korea exemplify administrative socialism, which centralizes a very large proportion of economic power in the government. In contrast, China and Vietnam have been experimenting with a hybrid—market socialism—that keeps political power centralized with state ownership predominating, but releases a growing amount of economic decision-making power to market forces.

administrative socialism: a national system in which state ownership predominates and activity is coordinated primarily by public administration (command)
market socialism: a national system in which state ownership predominates but much economic activity is coordinated through markets

Which of these systems is most conducive to development? And what kind of development? To compare the success of various types of economies, review some of the data presented in Chapter 0. How do the laissez-faire economies of the United States and United Kingdom perform compared to the administrative capitalist economics of Japan, France, and the Scandinavian countries? Or to the market socialism of China or Vietnam?
Consider the clearly economic categories (2 through 7 in Chapter 0): recent growth rate of GDP per capita; net national savings; government debt; labor productivity; average annual hours worked; and unemployment rate. Or what about the more well-being-related categories of income inequality: Internet users; educational performance; life expectancy; and subjective well-being—how do the different types of economies compare in these respects? Finally, consider the last two categories (CO2 emissions per capita and local air quality), which say something about the hidden environmental and health costs of high levels of production and consumption.
Clearly, there is not a single winner. The United States does relatively well in some areas: It is among the world's richest countries and has very high labor productivity and currently low inflation. It performs poorly on some other measures. The U.S. savings rate is near the bottom. Especially when compared to other developed countries, U.S. educational performance is mediocre, life expectancy is somewhat shorter, and inequality is relatively high.
If you look at the ranking of the countries whose economies are described as administrative capitalism (for example, Japan and the Scandinavian countries), you will find a different pattern—one that, to some people, looks appealing in terms of greater equality as well as health and educational measures.* And China, the nearly unique exemplar of market socialism, is virtually in a class by itself. Its extraordinarily high savings and GDP growth rates make it the winner among major countries in those categories. Its debt is low and its trade balance positive. But its income inequality, which used to be very low, has climbed to equal that of the United States. While China has a developing middle class, it still has many extremely poor people. On the environmental front, as is well known, it has become a major emitter not only of greenhouse gases but also of other harmful pollutants.
The debate on development continues. As the experience of the twentieth century reveals, there is nothing "automatic" about achieving sustained growth and a high standard of living. Undoubtedly, a combination of market and government-led policies will be used as countries continue to strive to develop. The unsettled question is how to determine the combination that will work best for a particular country and how best to promote a combination of goals that include economic development and social well-being. The fact that each country is unique and therefore requires a unique "playbook" of strategies makes the task of development economists all the more challenging.

Discussion Questions

1. Do you think that the economic challenges faced by developing countries today are the same as those faced by industrialized countries when they were starting out? If not, how are they different?
2. Think of a poor country that you know a little about—even if what you know is just where it is on a world map and who its neighbors are. Considering the varieties of sources of economic growth, where would you propose starting to design a development plan for that country?

3. UNDERSTANDING POVERTY

From the early days of development economics, the eradication of poverty has always been a goal—sometimes the primary goal, at other times taking second or third place to other goals, but always an important consideration. However, the understanding of poverty is not as obvious as might at first appear. This section uses the lens of measurement to show how different groups have tried to understand the issue.

3.1 GDP GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION

There is a close relationship between the goals that we set ourselves and the metrics that we use to assess where we are and how well we are progressing toward our goals. Joining a growing (new) consensus, the IMF and World Bank have replaced their focus on "structural adjustment" with an emphasis on "poverty-reduction" policies that are intended to give countries more voice in creating their own development solutions.* To reach such a goal, the first requirement is to define and measure the thing that we want to change.
As noted earlier, the simplest way of defining poverty is according to average income, or GDP per capita. Yet averages hide a great deal. An average GDP per capita of $9,000 could exist in a country where most people are able to cover their basic needs for nutrition, basic health care, and shelter, along with some access to education and communications. Alternatively, most of the people in such a country could be living in dire poverty, with a small percentage being quite rich, leading to the same average GPD per capita of $9,000. We must therefore consider some other poverty measures, as additional ways of understanding where economic growth is most needed and what role it plays in the larger topic of development.
One common approach is to define poverty as the percentage of the population below what is known as the poverty line. One international poverty line that is often used as a minimum standard to escape extreme poverty is $1.25 per day. According to this measure, many developing countries experiencing at least modest growth rates have succeeded in reducing the incidence of poverty in their countries. For example, from 1984 to 2010, Mexico had an average annual growth rate in per capita GDP of only 0.8 percent, yet this was sufficient to reduce its poverty rate from 12.8 to less than 1 percent (Table 17.3). And Brazil more than halved its poverty rate from 1981 to 2009 despite a growth rate of only 1.1 percent. Of the countries shown, Nigeria is the only one experiencing growth and an increase in poverty.

poverty line: the income threshold below which members of a population are classified as poor


Table 17.3 Growth Rates and Changes in Poverty Rates, Select Countries








Period
Annual growth rate in per capita GDP, %
Poverty rate at beginning of period, %
Poverty rate at end of period, %


Bangladesh
1984-2010
2.9
60.6
43.3


Brazil
1981-2009
1.1
13.6
  6.1


China
1981-2009
9.1
84.0
11.8


Egypt
1991-2008
2.9
  4.5
  1.7


Ethiopia
1982-2011
1.8
66.2
30.7


India
1978-2010
3.9
65.9
32.7


Indonesia
1984-2010
3.6
62.8
18.1


Mexico
1984-2010
0.8
12.8
  0.7


Nigeria
1986-2010
2.3
53.9
68.0


Philippines
1985-2009
1.6
34.9
18.4


South Africa
1993-2009
1.5
24.3
13.8


Thailand
1981-2010
4.2
22.0
  0.4


Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators Database, 2013.
Note: The poverty rate is based on a poverty line of $1.25 per day.

In comparing countries, it is necessary to use a universal standard, such as the $1,25-per-day threshold on which the poverty rates shown in the table are based. Almost all countries also have their own (national) poverty line—the threshold for the United States, for example, is about $20,000 per year for a family of four—and calculate their national poverty rate based on it. While not useful for comparing across countries, the advantage of a national poverty line is that it allows a country to define poverty according to its own standard of living. An income that classified someone as poor in the United States would almost certainly not be considered living at the poverty level in India. The international standard of $1.25 per day may help in classifying poor countries, but would be useless for rich countries, where the poverty rate using this standard would be nearly zero.
Both approaches are typically referred to as "headcount" measures, since they simply require the "counting" of people who fall below the poverty line. But many find that measuring poverty based exclusively on income reflects only a small part of the poverty picture. In what follows, we consider a more broad-based measure of poverty.

3.2 THE MULTIDIMENSIONAL POVERTY INDEX

Amartya Sen, a Nobel prize-winning economist, has argued that basing poverty on income deficiencies is exceedingly narrow and often does not provide an accurate picture of how poor a population may be. He has proposed that one's capabilities—that is, the opportunities that people have to be well-nourished, decently housed, have access to education, and in many other ways live lives that they find worthwhile—are more important than a simple income measure. Sen emphasizes the goal of enlarging people's choices, which depends fundamentally on building their capabilities.

capabilities: the opportunities that people have to pursue important aspects of well-being, such as being healthy and having access to education

The Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI), based on Sen's work, was developed in 2010 by the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative for the United Nations Development Programme's Human Development Report. The MPI considers several elements that are critical for a decent life, in the areas of physical living standards, education, and health, as outlined in a study by Oxford University (see Box 17.1). Although the 10 items on the list are not the only essentials, they are good proxies; people who do not have these can reasonably be considered deprived, or poor.
The study found that a total of 1.6 billion people are living in multidimensional poverty. This is more than 30 percent of the people living in the 104 countries surveyed. Among these, South Asia leads the world in poverty, with between 52 percent and 62 percent of those defined in the MPI as being in the world's bottom billion.* About 40 percent of the total are in India. Most of the rest live in sub-Saharan Africa, which is home to between 33 percent and 39 percent of the poorest billion. Of the 104 countries in the survey, only four—Belarus, Hungary, Slovenia, and Slovakia—were not home to any of the poorest billion people. Surprisingly, 41,000 of the poorest billion people live in countries defined, in this study, as high income: Croatia, Estonia, United Arab Emirates, Trinidad and Tobago, and the Czech Republic.


BOX 17.1 HOW THE MPI DEFINITION OF POVERTY IS CONSTRUCTED
A person is identified as multidimensionally poor if he or she is deprived in one third or more of the following weighted indicators:
Education (each indicator is weighted equally at 1/6)

• Years of Schooling: deprived if no household member has completed five years of schooling
• School Attendance: deprived if any school-age child is not attending school in years 1 to 8

Health (each indicator is weighted equally at 1/6)

• Child Mortality: deprived if any child in the family has died
• Nutrition: deprived if any adult or child for whom there is nutritional information is malnourished

Living standards (each indicator is weighted equally at 1/18)

• Electricity: deprived if the household has no electricity
• Drinking Water: deprived if the household lacks access to clean drinking water or clean water is more than a 30-minute walk from home, round-trip
• Sanitation: deprived if the household does not have adequate sanitation or their toilet is shared
• Flooring: deprived if the household has a dirt, sand, or dung floor
• Cooking Fuel: deprived if the household cooks with wood, charcoal, or dung
• Assets: deprived if the household does not own more than one of: radio, TV, telephone, bike, motorbike, or refrigerator; and does not own a car or tractor

Technical note: The MPI is the product of two components: (1 ) Incidence, the percentage of people who are disadvantaged (or the headcount ratio, H); and (2) Intensity of people's deprivation, the average share of dimensions in which disadvantaged people are deprived (A). Thus MPI = HxA.
Source: Sabina Alkire, José Manuel Roche and Suman Seth, Oxford Poverty & Human Development Initiative, Multidimensional Poverty Index 2013, ­w­w­w­.o­p­h­i­.o­r­g­.u­k­, March 2013.


It is interesting to compare the results of the MPI study with the "less than $1.25 a day" (income-poor) approach. In some countries, there are large discrepancies between the percentage of the population that is "MPI poor" and the percentage that is income poor. At one end of the scale are the countries that are the least poor in MPI terms. Three of these—Ecuador, Macedonia, and Georgia—are nevertheless identified as having between 10 percent and 20 percent of their population earning less than $1.25 a day.
The two largest discrepancies in the middle group are China, with nearly 30 percent below $1.25, but only a little over 10 percent MPI poor; and Swaziland, with over 40 percent income poor, but about 20 percent MPI poor.
As we survey the poorest countries (on both scales), which are mostly in Africa, we find that the proportions of the population suffering from MPI deprivation tend to be greater than the proportions living below $1.25 a day. Exceptions include Nigeria, with more than 50 percent MPI poor but nearly 70 percent income poor, and Madagascar, with nearly 70 percent MPI poor but more than 80 percent income poor.
Such discrepancies reveal the potential limitations in relying exclusively on income-based poverty measures. Clearly, based on the Oxford study, being above the income poverty line is neither necessary nor sufficient for escaping multidimensional deprivation. If income is a means to an end, and the "ends" include the health, education, and physical living standards criteria outlined in the MPI report, then multidimensional poverty may be more relevant than income poverty in the assessment of deprivation within countries. As we see in the following section, this "multidimensionality" is also present in any evaluation of a country's progress in achieving development.

3.3 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT AND THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS

There are alternatives to measuring development primarily in terms of GDP. Bearing in mind the "capabilities" approach and multidimensional approaches to defining poverty, some have argued that development should be geared primarily to meeting basic needs for food, shelter, and health care. The human development approach includes attention to such basic needs but goes further to encompass other dimensions of a worthwhile life.

human development: an approach to development that stresses the provision of basic needs such as food, shelter, and health care

Recent UNDP reports have, for example, examined how widespread, socially accepted domestic violence limits the human development of women in many regions and how human development may be limited by political oppression along ethnic or other lines. Such issues affect countries with high material standards of living, as well as those still unable to supply basic goods.
In September 2000, the member states of the United Nations unanimously declared their intention to try to reach a set of development objectives called the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). These goals focus on improvements in the life of the very poorest people in the world, emphasizing food security, education, gender equity, and health care (see Box 17.2). The MDGs include mention of environmental sustainability (discussed in Chapter 18). Most of the goals set a deadline of 2015 for achievement.

Millennium Development Goals (MDGs): a set of goals declared by the United Nations in 2000, emphasizing eradication of extreme poverty; promotion of education, gender equity, and health; environmental sustainability; and partnership between rich and poor countries

Each of the eight main goals, such as "reduce child mortality," is accompanied by one or more specific targets, such as "reduce the under-five mortality rate by two-thirds between 1990 and 2015." These targets, in turn, may relate to a number of policy actions, such as increasing education for mothers, vaccinating against measles, and distributing malaria-fighting mosquito nets. The eighth goal, "develop a global partnership for development," points to some policies that the richer countries should enact. They include eliminating tariff barriers to poor countries' products, canceling or restructuring debts, increasing foreign aid, easing the flow of essential drugs, and sharing technology.
As a high-profile, specific commitment of UN members, the MDG declaration has served to increase the global attention paid to the promotion of human development. Some have nevertheless criticized the MDGs, believing that the goals do not go far enough in addressing inequalities and injustices between rich and poor countries. And although the MDGs are a noble statement of intent, the follow-through on them since their declaration in 2000 has had mixed results.
For example, while the UN claims that the first MDG of halving the proportion of people living on less than $1.25 a day was met three years before the target date, progress has been very uneven. While regions such as North Africa and East Asia have seen considerable gains, conditions in Oceania (Pacific islands) and parts of sub-Saharan Africa have deteriorated (see Figure 17.5 and Table 17.3). In fact, were it not for poverty reduction in two countries—China and India—the picture would look far less optimistic.


BOX 17.2 THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS
1. Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger—Halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of people whose income is less than $ 1 a day or who suffer from hunger
2. Achieve universal primary education—Ensure that, by 2015, children everywhere, boys and girls alike, will be able to complete a full course of primary schooling
3. Promote gender equality and empower women—Eliminate gender disparity in all levels of education no later than 2015
4. Reduce child mortality—Reduce by two-thirds, between 1 990 and 2015, the under-five mortality rate
5. Improve maternal health—Reduce by three-quarters, between 1990 and 2015, the maternal mortality ratio
6. Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases—By 2015 have halted and begun to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other major diseases
7. Ensure environmental sustainability—Integrate the principles of sustainable development into country policies and programs and reverse the loss of environmental resources. Halve, by 2015, the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation. Have achieved, by 2020, a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum dwellers
8. Develop a global partnership for development—Including fair trade, debt relief, and access to health and information technology
Source: United Nations Development Programme, ­w­w­w­.u­n­d­p­.o­r­g­/­c­o­n­t­e­n­t­/­u­n­d­p­/­e­n­/­h­o­m­e­/­m­d­g­o­v­e­r­v­i­e­w­/


According to the UN's Millennium Development Goals Report 2013, "big gains have been made in health. Between 2000 and 2010, mortality rates from malaria fell by more than 25 percent globally, and an estimated 1.1 million deaths were averted. Death rates from tuberculosis could be halved by 2015, compared to 1990 levels."4 While new HIV/AIDS infections are declining, an estimated 34 million people were living with HIV in 2011. 8 million people in developing regions were receiving antiretroviral therapy, and the price of anti-HIV drugs has been brought down.
While there has been progress in reducing child and maternal mortality rates, improving school enrollments, and expanding access to sanitation, the U.N. report notes that 57 million children still do not have access to primary education, and 2.5 billion people still lack improved sanitation facilities. According to the report, "progress towards the eight MDGs has been uneven not only among regions and countries, but also between population groups within countries."
Debts are being cancelled for nineteen of the very poorest highly indebted countries, but they remain a burden for many others. Only five countries (all European) have met the UN target for offering international aid of at least 0.7 percent of GDP; overall, net aid disbursements have declined, especially for the least developed countries. The Doha round of World Trade Organization negotiations, intended to achieve reforms that would help developing countries, remains stalled after more than ten years.
Little progress has been made in opening up rich country markets to the products of poorer countries. The spread of some kinds of technology (particularly cell phones) has been rapid in some areas, but a technological gulf between rich and poor countries persists. In short, while there has been progress in certain areas, it is not clear that poor countries as a whole are "converging" to the levels of human development enjoyed in the industrialized world. For many countries, it seems that the opposite is true.
In addition to inadequate funding, another reason for limited success in achieving the MDGs may be a degree of incompatibility between its goals and the macroeconomic strategies employed by donor countries and multinational agencies, such as the IMF and the World Bank. The MDGs were derived from the UN work in defining and assessing human development. While, as noted above, the World Bank and IMF have recently shifted their focus to incorporate poverty reduction, for much of the last several decades development efforts were still dominated by the "neoliberal" Washington Consensus (discussed above).*
The neoliberal strategy was poorly suited to achieving the MDGs because, in effect, it has different goals (see Box 17.3). It does not concern itself with issues that are central to the UN concept of human development, such as care for children and the aged, inequality in general, or gender equity, including intra-household distribution of income and assets.**


BOX 17.3 COMPARISON OF NEOLIBERAL AND UNITED NATIONS APPROACHES TO DEVELOPMENT
Multilateral agencies in charge of development have often acted at cross purposes, with public statements of goals coming from the United Nations but implementation carried out by agencies with a "neoliberal" orientation towards development. Some of the differences were summarized in a UN Briefing Note written by advocates of the human development approach:

The human development approach emphasizes three areas of concern. First, it underlines the need for the inclusion of a broader group of governmental and nongovernmental actors in decisionmaking processes. In government, policy-making cannot be left to economic and financial decision makers alone. Other ministries or departments, particularly those concerned with nutrition, health, and education, need to be a part of the process. Outside government, local communities need to be included to ensure a human focus and a clear understanding of available options.
Second, the human development approach broadens the scope of indicators used to monitor development. In place of neoliberalism's sharp focus on economic and financial indicators as a means to human ends, human development relies on a wider range of human and social indicators that are given primary place as ends in themselves. Thus special importance is given to indicators that track the human situation: life expectancy, nutritional status, and ultimately of well-being and happiness. In this regard, human development is similar to the basic needs approach of the 1970s.
Third, there are differences in the two approaches that reflect different attitudes toward international policy. The urgency of human development needs requires stronger international action and more rapid and flexible support, financially in access to markets and in other forms such as peace operations. Moreover, the values and principles at the heart of the human development approach extend far beyond neoliberalism's preoccupation with economic efficiency and include human rights, justice, and human solidarity.

Source: Richard Jolly, Louis Emmerij, and Thomas G. Weiss, UN Intellectual History Project Briefing Note Number 8, July 2009, ­h­t­t­p­:­/­/­h­d­r­.u­n­d­p­.o­r­g­/­e­n­/­m­e­d­i­a­/­J­o­l­l­y­%;­2­0­H­D­R­%;­2­0­n­o­t­e­%;­2­0­%;­2­0­U­N­%;­2­0­I­n­t­e­l­l­e­c­t­u­a­l­%;­2­0­H­i­s­t­o­r­y­%;­2­0­P­r­o­j­e­c­t­%;­2­0­8­H­u­m­D­e­v­.p­d­f­, accessed April 2, 2013.

Discussion Questions

1. Do you think the categories in the Multidimensional Index of Poverty do a good job of reflecting who is truly poor? If you were asked to add one item to this list, what would it be?
2. Do you think the Millennium Development Goals realistic or achievable? What does the mixed success in achieving them so far say about current development policies?

4. INEQUALITY

We have discussed the issue of inequality between countries. Also important is the level of inequality within countries. As we have seen, many countries have very high levels of inequality (as measured by the Gini coefficent, shown for selected countries in Chapter 0), meaning that the poorest 40 percent of the population receive a meager share of national income, while in other countries the "pie" is more equally shared. Apart from any potential ethical issues, inequality within countries should concern us if it significantly influences a given country's prospects of achieving sustained growth and development.

4.1 GROWTH, INEQUALITY, AND THE KUZNETS CURVE

Although economic growth and poverty reduction have most often been the primary goals of development, there have also been many thinkers—in philosophy as well as in economics and other social sciences and humanities—who have placed equality, equity, or fairness high on their list of end goals: objects worth achieving for their own sake. Yet not everyone considers such matters paramount, especially economists. For some, equality is regarded as an intermediate goal—something worth achieving if it leads to other desirable outcomes. And some have argued that inequality may have a role to play at least at some stages in efforts toward economic development.
Although we have seen (e.g., in Chapter 0) that the extent of income inequality within countries is highly variable, it turns out that world income inequality is more extreme than in any individual country. In Figure 17.6, the world's population is organized into successive income quintiles, each representing 20 percent of the world's population. Thus the bottom quintile represents the poorest 20 percent of humanity, the next quintile represents the second-poorest 20 percent, and so on. The area associated with each quintile is in proportion to how much of the world's income they receive. Remarkably, 82.8 percent of the world's income goes to the richest 20 percent. Meanwhile, the poorest 40 percent receive only 3.1 percent of the world's income. This outcome is a product of both growing income inequality within many countries and growing inequality between countries (e.g., poor countries "falling behind").







Source: I. Ortiz and M. Cummings, "Global Inequality: Beyond the Bottom Billion," UNICEF Social and Economic Policy Working Paper, April 2011.
Figure 17.6. The Unequal Distribution of the World's Income, 2007
The "champagne glass" shape of the world's income distribution is based on over 80 percent of the world's income going to the top 20 percent of the world's population, while the poorest 20 percent get only 1 percent of total income.

Early in the history of development theory, Simon Kuznets (the same economist who initiated work on National Income and Product Accounts, as discussed in Chapter 5) discussed the issue of inequality in a famous paper.5 He proposed that during the initial stages of economic growth, inequality would increase as investment opportunities created a wealthy class, while an influx of rural laborers into cities would keep wages low. Eventually, according to Kuznets, further industrialization would lead to democratization, widespread increases in education, and safety-net policies that would lead to lower inequality. This Kuznets curve hypothesis suggests an inverted-U relationship between economic growth and inequality—inequality would first rise, then fall, with economic growth.

Kuznets curve hypothesis: the theory that economic inequality first increases during the initial stages of economic development but then eventually decreases with further economic growth

Some countries' development paths roughly correspond to the Kuznets curve hypothesis, especially the early industrializers, such as England, France, Sweden, and Germany—however, the evidence is more mixed when we consider a broader range of countries. Some countries, such as Norway, Japan, and South Korea, have experienced economic growth with a continual decrease in economic inequality. And as we have seen in earlier chapters, economic growth in the United States since the 1970s has been associated with an increase in inequality, which also contradicts the basic Kuznets curve hypothesis.
Although the Kuznets curve hypothesis looks primarily at the influence of economic growth on inequality, we can also look at the relationship in the opposite direction—how the level of inequality influences economic growth. Here the evidence is also mixed: Some studies find that countries that are highly unequal at the start of development have a difficult time achieving rapid growth, and others support the view that inequality correlates positively with growth. The latter conclusion conforms to a view sometimes associated with traditional economics: that the existence of economic inequality creates an incentive for hard work, thereby helping the economy grow. In other words, if the economic outcomes in a society were too equal, there would be little reason to seek to improve one's economic situation.
More recently, however, economists have debated whether the high level of inequality in the United States is slowing the recovery from the Great Recession. Nobel prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz, for example, argues that in the recent case of the United States, high inequality impedes economic recovery. He claims that the U.S. middle class is now weaker than in the past and is therefore unable to fuel a recovery adequately with consumer spending. A weakened middle class is also less likely to invest sufficiently in education or start enough new businesses.
According to research by the IMF, inequality is associated with greater economic instability.6 It may be no coincidence that the most significant economic downturns in the United States over the past 100 years, the Great Depression and the Great Recession, both occurred during peaks of inequality. As we saw in Chapter 3, the United States is the most economically unequal among the industrialized countries.
Others, such as Paul Krugman (another Nobel prize-winning economist), believe that it is not income inequality per se that impedes economic recovery. The problem is that extreme income inequality gives rise to political inequality, and this is what can impede recoveries. Krugman suggests that the slow economic recovery is due mostly to political problems. According to this view, wealthy individuals and powerful corporations in the United States, interested in their own economic welfare and wielding significant political power, can effectively prevent the policies that would promote a broad-based economic recovery (see Box 17.4 and Figure 17.7).
According to a recent OECD report,7 such policies for broad-based recovery should include:
1. Promoting education: policies that increase high school and college graduation rates as well as policies that promote equal access to education, reduce inequality, and increase long-term economic growth.


BOX 17.4 A UNITED STATES RECOVERY FOR THE 1 PERCENT
As the U.S. economy gradually recovered from the impact of the Great Recession of 2007-9, a disproportionate share of the economic gains went to the wealthiest Americans. While incomes for typical American households remained flat and the percentage in poverty did not decline, those who were already wealthy improved their position further.

From 2009 to 2012, average real income per family grew modestly by 6.0%. However, the gains were very uneven. Top 1% incomes grew by 31.4%, while bottom 99% income grew by only 0.4% from 2009 to 2012. Hence, the top 1% captured 95% of the income gains in the first three years of the recovery. (Saez, 2013)

        As a result, overall U.S. inequality increased to record levels. This raised questions about the durability of the recovery, since an economically healthy middle class is important for maintaining a stable level of aggregate demand. Economist Paul Krugman suggests that the rich, comfortable with a situation that "has been dismal for workers but not at all bad for the wealthy," oppose the kinds of policies that would favor more distribution of income to the middle class and low income families (Krugman, 2013). Historically, periods of high inequality in U.S. history, during the 1920s and recently, have been associated with the economic instability of the Great Depression and the Great Recession (see Figure 17.7).

The pay gap between the richest 1 percent and the rest of America widened [in 2012], making a record. The top 1 percent of U.S. earners collected 19.3 percent of household income in 2012, their largest share in Internal Revenue Service figures going back a century." (Wiseman, 2013)
The top 10 percent of earners took more than half of the country's total income in 2012, according to an updated study by economist Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty... . The economy remains depressed for most wage-earning families. With sustained, relatively high rates of unemployment, businesses are under no pressure to raise their employees' incomes because both workers and employers know that many people without jobs would be willing to work for less. The share of Americans working or looking for work is at its lowest in 35 years. (Lowrey, 2013)

Sources: Emmanuel Saez, "Striking it Richer: The Evolution of Top Incomes in the United States, University of California Economic Department discussion paper, September 2013; Paul Krugman, "The 1 Percent's Solution," New York Times, April 26, 2013; Paul Wiseman, "Top 1% Took Record Share of U.S. Income in 2012," Associated Press, September 10, 2013; Annie Lowrey, "The Rich Get Richer Through the Recovery," New York Times, September 10, 2013, ­h­t­t­p­:­/­/­e­c­o­n­o­m­i­x­.b­l­o­g­s­.n­y­t­i­m­e­s­.c­o­m­/­2­0­1­3­/­0­9­/­1­0­/­t­h­e­-­r­i­c­h­-­g­e­t­-­r­i­c­h­e­r­-­t­h­r­o­u­g­h­-­t­h­e­-­r­e­c­o­v­e­r­y­/







Source: Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez, U.S. incomes series, ­h­t­t­p­:­/­/­e­l­s­a­.b­e­r­k­e­l­e­y­.e­d­u­/­~­s­a­e­z­/­T­a­b­F­i­g­2­0­1­2­p­r­e­l­.x­l­s­
Note: Top 1 percent share includes capital gains. Data series differ from Census Bureau data shown in Figure 3.7 due to methodological differences.
Figure 17.7 Shares of U.S. Income Going to Top 10 Percent and Top 1 Percent, 1917-2012
The share of U.S. income going to the top 10 percent of families exceeded 50 percent in 2012, for the first time in the nation's history. The top 1 percent increased their share to nearly 20 percent. Similar levels of concentration were seen in the 1920s, but for many decades in between, the United States was characterized by less inequality, with lower shares for the top income earners.

2. Well-designed labor market policies and institutions: For example, as long as the minimum wage is not too high to reduce overall employment significantly, it can reduce wage inequality. Strong unions can also reduce wage inequality.
3. Immigration and discrimination policies: Policies that promote the integration of immigrants and that prohibit all forms of discrimination reduce inequality and can increase growth.
4. Tax policies: Eliminating tax loopholes that benefit primarily high-income households, such as the mortgage interest deduction, would increase the overall progressivity of the tax system and allow for a reduction in marginal tax rates, which increase the incentive for working.
The OECD report notes that some policies to promote economic growth are likely to increase inequality, such as shifting from taxation of income to taxation of consumption, using a sales tax or value-added tax (VAT)*. Thus the challenge becomes one of identifying policies that offer "win-win" outcomes—that is, those that promote both GDP growth and a reduction in the degree of income inequality.
Up to what point should inequality be reduced? Just as no one would be likely to advocate the extreme position of "the more inequality the better," few would support the idea of attempting to achieve perfectly equal income distribution throughout a society. Yet there is widespread concern that inequality has become excessive in many countries. High inequality exists in many developing countries but has also become increasingly evident in the United States. As noted, the evidence remains inconclusive regarding its effect on growth. But when we broaden our scope to consider the well-being aspects of development, instead of just economic growth, the negative effects of inequality become more apparent.

4.2 RECENT STUDIES OF INEQUALITY

Even if the relationship between income inequality and GDP growth remains somewhat ambiguous, the same is not true for the relationship between inequality and broad-based wellbeing. Countries that are more unequal in terms of income generally perform more poorly on many well-being indicators.
One way in which inequality affects people is in its impact on population health. Figure 17.8 plots one proxy for health—average life expectancies—against GDP per capita, with spheres, as before, proportional to the population of the country represented. A curve is drawn to fit the general pattern made by the data points. Looking at the far left-hand side of the figure, it is clear that living in a very poor country, such as Nigeria, dramatically increases the chance that one will die prematurely, compared with living in a country with somewhat higher GDP/capita, such as India or China. On the left-hand portion of the graph, we can see that substantial inequality between countries plays an important role in determining longevity.
In the middle section of the graph, moving from left to right, we see countries such as Mexico, which has achieved a life expectancy fairly close to those of the richest countries, even though its average income per capita is not even half as high. But South Africa lies far below the line, reflecting a case in which inequality makes it difficult to translate a moderate average level of income into well-being and longevity.
Looking at the spheres representing Western Europe, Japan, and the United States at the right-hand side of the figure, we see that the positive relationship between income and life expectancy essentially disappears. At high incomes, in fact, inequality within countries—not income per capita—may be an important factor in determining health and life expectancy. For example, according to a recent study, despite the fact that the average U.S. citizen can expect to live about 77 years on average—which is considerably better than the global average of about 70 years—U.S. life expectancy is lower than most other (generally more equal) industrialized countries, which are in the 78- to 82-year range. Infant mortality also appears to be higher in countries with greater inequality.8 The authors of this study argue that inequality is positively associated with a range of negative social outcomes, including mental health and incidence of violence.







Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators Database, 2013.
Figure 17.8 The Relation Between Life Expectancy and Income, with Area Proportional to Population
At very low levels of income per head, increases in per capita income are associated with steep increases in life expectancy. After a middleincome level of per capita GDP is reached, however, increases in income are associated with much more modest increases in life expectancy, and at high incomes the relationship flattens out.

Another recent study emphasizes the enormous inequality between countries in outcomes other than income:

The differences in life expectancy between countries dwarf those between different groups within countries. (This is true for income inequality, too.) There is an eight-year difference in life expectancy between Japanese women (86.1 years) and Japanese men (78.0 years), but both Japanese men and women can expect to live almost twice as long as a newborn in the countries with the lowest life expectancy in sub-Saharan Africa (Zambia, Angola, and Swaziland).
Infant mortality rates—which are the main drivers of differences in life expectancy between rich and poor countries—vary from 3 per 1,000 in Iceland and Singapore to more than 150 per 1,000 in Sierra Leone, Afghanistan, and Angola. In 1990, more than a quarter of children in Mali did not live to see their fifth birthdays, a marked improvement over 1960, when around half died in childhood—or put even more starkly, when median life expectancy at birth was only five years.9

Thus it seems clear that a special focus of development should be on increasing incomes for the poorest and eliminating the kinds of inequality that lead to major human suffering. These goals needs to be balanced with the more general objectives of development discussed above in Sections 1 and 2.

4.3 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

Over the past century, the world has seen dramatic economic growth, but the benefits of this growth have been unevenly distributed. Some developing countries, such as India and China, have experienced rapid growth rates.* Others, such as most countries in sub-Saharan Africa and some countries in Latin America and Central Asia, are still struggling with low, or even negative, growth rates. In terms of living standards and well-being, much of the world's population has been left out of the significant progress that appears in aggregate statistics. In the future, further development is clearly essential but simple models of economic growth may fail to capture important elements of the development challenge (see Box 17.5).
A growing number of development economists recognize the need to rethink development more in the direction of broad-based human development, with increased emphasis on inequality at all levels of development. For those suffering material deprivation, GDP growth is often, but not always or only, the first solution and policies to achieve GDP growth should be balanced with promotion of human development goals.
There is another important reason for a shift in paradigms regarding economic development. We cannot assume that indefinite GDP growth will in the long term be ecologically sustainable. This is the focus of Chapter 18, in which we consider some of the issues relating to the environmental and resource limits that we face in the twenty-first century.


BOX 17.5 COMPARING INDIA AND CHINA IN HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
Both India and China have experienced rapid economic growth since 2000, but there are significant differences in their human development levels. Nobel Prize winner Amartya Sen, who originated the "capabilities" approach to development, comments that the most significant gap between China and India is not in growth rates but in the provision of essential public services:

Inequality is high in both countries, but China has done far more than India to raise life expectancy, expand general education, and secure health care for its people. India has elite schools of varying degrees of excellence for the privileged, but among all Indians 7 or older, nearly one in five males and one in every three females are illiterate. And most schools are of low quality; less than half the children can divide 20 by 5, even after four years of schooling... . The poor have to rely on low-quality—and sometimes exploitative—private medical care, because there isn't enough decent public care... .
India's underperformance can be traced to a failure to learn from the examples of so-called Asian economic development, in which rapid expansion of human capability is both a goal in itself and an integral element in achieving rapid growth.

Despite a lack of democratic process in China, its leaders have placed a priority on eliminating hunger, illiteracy, and medical neglect. According to Sen, if India is to match China's economic record, it needs a "better-educated and healthier labor force at all levels of society," as well as "more knowledge and public discussion about the nature and huge extent of inequality and its damaging consequences for economic growth."
Source: Amartya Sen, "Why India Trails China," New York Times, Op-Ed, June 19, 2013.

Discussion Questions

1. How important to you are your income goals, relative to your other goals? A recent survey, for example, asked respondents to say whether each of the following was absolutely necessary, very important, somewhat important, not very important, or not at all important "for you to consider your life as a success." How would you answer?





Earning a lot of money
Having an interesting job


Seeing a lot of the world
Helping other people who are in need


Becoming well-educated
Living a long time


Having a good marriage
Having good friends


Having a good relationship with     your children
Having strong religious faith



2. How would you balance the issue of human development with the issue of economic growth? Is growth essential for human development? Could the answer differ for different countries? What kinds of policies do you think are best for promoting human development?


REVIEW QUESTIONS
  1. Which two variables can be added together to obtain the growth rate of GDP in a country?
  2. How can economic growth be represented using the AS/AD graphs discussed in Chapter 13?
  3. What was the Industrial Revolution? What factors were essential in creating the Industrial Revolution?
  4. How evenly has economic growth been distributed among different countries in recent decades?
  5. What factors are generally considered responsible for GDP growth in developed countries? Have the factors responsible for growth been the same in all developed countries?
  6. About how much of the world's income goes to the richest 20 percent? How much goes to the world's poorest 40 percent?
  7. What is the concept of convergence in economic growth?
  8. What is the evidence for and against economic convergence?
  9. How can investment be used to promote economic development?
10. Is an abundance of natural capital a prerequisite for economic development?
11. How can export development both promote and threaten economic growth?
12. In what different methods can foreign capital be provided to promote economic development?
13. What has been the most significant source of foreign capital for economic development in recent years?
14. What are the main principles of the Washington Consensus?
15. What is the evidence regarding the performance of the Washington Consensus recommendations?

EXERCISES
1. Suppose the real GDP of Macroland is $1.367 trillion in Year 1 and $1,428 trillion in Year 2. Also, assume that population in Macroland grew from 128 million in Year 1 to 131 million in Year 2.
a. What is the growth rate of real GDP in Macroland during this period?
b. What is the growth rate of real GDP per capita in Macroland?
c. What is real GDP per capita in Macroland in Year 2?
2. Suppose we know that the growth rate of output per worker in Macroland is 1.7 percent per year and the growth rate of total factor productivity is 0.8 percent per year. Using the growth accounting equation, calculate the growth rate of manufactured capital per worker in Macroland.
3. Using the data for each country in Table 17.2, create a graph similar to Figure 17.5 showing real GDP per capita in 2011 on the horizontal axis and the rate of real GDP per capita growth for 1990-2011 on the vertical axis. (You don't need to include the three country income groups.) Draw each data point as a sphere approximately equal to the population of the country. Does your graph support economic convergence? Explain.
4. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B:








Column A

Column B


a.
Factors of production
  1.
Nigeria


b.
A country that has shown significant economic convergence in recent decades
  2.
Development assistance from one country to another


c.
Foreign direct investment
  3.
3.1 percent


d.
The percentage of global income going to the top 20 percent of the world's population
  4.
Singapore


e.
Fiscal discipline
  5.
A characteristic of the Industrial Revolution


f.
An example of a country that has grown despite a low savings rate
  6.
Income inequality first increases, then decreases, with development


g.
Total factor productivity
  7.
The effect of technology on the productivity of capital and labor


h.
The percentage of global income going to the bottom 40 percent of the world's population
  8.
A structural reform under the Washington Consensus


i.
Bilateral development assistance
  9.
2 percent


j.
A country that has grown despite a lack of natural resources
10.
China


k.
High savings and investment rates
11.
82.8 percent


l.
Growth in GDP per capita if population grows by 2 percent and GDP grows by 4 percent
12.
A common factor in the economic development of the "Asian Tigers"


m.
A country that has not shown economic convergence in recent decades
13.
United States


n.
The use of technologies employing fossil fuel energy, especially coal
14.
Labor, capital, and natural resources


o.
Kuznets curve hypothesis
15.
A European company purchases a factory in an African country




NOTES

1. Justin Yifu Lin and David Rosenblatt, "Shifting Patterns of Economic Growth and Rethinking Development," Journal of Economic Policy Reform, 15:3 (2012): 171-194.
2. United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Human Development Report 2005: International Cooperation at a Crossroads, 2006, p. 37.
3. "Capital Flows to Developing Countries," The Economist, June 16, 2012.
4. United Nations, The Millennium Development Goals Report 2013 (New York: United Nations, 2013). ­w­w­w­.u­n­.o­r­g­/­m­i­l­l­e­n­n­i­u­m­g­o­a­l­s­/­p­d­f­/­r­e­p­o­r­t­-­2­0­1­3­/­m­d­g­-­r­e­p­o­r­t­-­2­0­1­3­-­e­n­g­l­i­s­h­.p­d­f­.
5. Simon Kuznets, "Economic Growth and Income Inequality," American Economic Review 45 (1955): 1-28.
6. ­w­w­w­.i­m­f­.o­r­g­/­e­x­t­e­r­n­a­l­/­p­u­b­s­/­f­t­/­s­u­r­v­e­y­/­s­o­/­2­0­1­1­/­I­N­T­1­0­1­1­1­1­A­.h­t­m­.
7. ­w­w­w­.o­e­c­d­.o­r­g­/­e­m­p­l­o­y­m­e­n­t­/­j­o­b­-­r­i­c­h­g­r­o­w­t­h­e­s­s­e­n­t­i­a­l­f­o­r­g­2­0­r­e­c­o­v­e­r­y­s­a­y­o­e­c­d­a­n­d­i­l­o­.h­t­m­.
8. Richard Wilkinson and Kate Pickett, The Spirit Level (New York: Bloomsbury Press, 2010).
9. Angus Deaton, "What Does the Empirical Evidence Tell Us About the Injustice of Health Inequalities?" Center for Health and Wellbeing, Princeton University, November 2011.


*In the first half of the twentieth century, a number of Western countries, including Britain, France, the Netherlands, and Spain, were colonial powers, exerting control over many colonies in Africa, Asia, and South America. Japan was also a colonial power, ruling South Korea and, at various times, parts of China. Most of the colonies had become independent countries by the 1960s.
*See the definitions of infrastructure and public goods in Chapter 2.
*If you want to look into this further, you can go to the Web site ­w­w­w­.g­d­a­e­.o­r­g­/­m­a­c­r­o­/, which provides figures for all countries for which there are reliable statistics, not just those that are presented in Chapter 0.
*See ­w­w­w­.i­m­f­.o­r­g­/­e­x­t­e­r­n­a­l­/­n­p­/­e­x­r­/­f­a­c­t­s­/­p­r­s­p­.h­t­m­ and ­w­w­w­.w­o­r­l­d­b­a­n­k­.o­r­g­/­e­n­/­t­o­p­i­c­/­p­o­v­e­r­t­y­
*The imprecision is due to three alternative regional divisions used: national, subnational, and individual.
  *"Neoliberal" here refers to market-oriented development theory. It is derived from an older sense of the word "liberal," meaning freeing markets from government controls. This can be confusing since "liberal" in politics today often means using government action to help the poor.
**"Intra-household distribution" refers to the role of women in managing household income and assets. Often control over income and assets remains in the hands of men, while women are required to do most of the household labor.
*A value-added tax, or VAT, is imposed on the net value added in an industry (revenues minus costs of intermediate inputs). The concept of value added was discussed in Chapter 5.
*Both China and India experienced extremely high growth rates of up to 10% per year or more during the decade 2000-2010, although growth rates in both countries have recently slowed somewhat. See ­h­t­t­p­:­/­/­d­a­t­a­.w­o­r­l­d­b­a­n­k­.o­r­g­/­i­n­d­i­c­a­t­o­r­/­N­Y­.G­D­P­.M­K­T­P­.K­D­.Z­G­













 
 
 




18
Growth and Sustainability in the Twenty-First Century




 
 

What will the world be like in 2050 or 2100? Will the world situation be characterized as one of widespread material affluence and social peace? Or will the gap between the "haves" and the "have-nots" be even bigger and the planet afflicted by widespread social conflict and environmental damage? Of course, no one can foresee the future. But we can at least consider how some especially pressing social and environmental challenges will affect the macroeconomics of the future.

1. MACROECONOMIC GOALS: LOOKING FORWARD

As we have seen throughout this text, macroeconomics is, at its base, concerned with human well-being. The goals of macroeconomic institutions and policies are (as described in Chapter 1) the achievement of good living standards; stability and security; and financial, social, and ecological sustainability.
Much of traditional macroeconomics, as we have seen, tends to focus on the stability and growth rate of real GDP. To the extent that growth in GDP leads to growth in well-being, this is a sensible strategy. But as we saw in Chapter 6 on alternative national accounts, GDP does not measure or report on many important issues of well-being such as environmental deterioration, unpaid home production, and inequality in the distribution of wealth and income. GDP rises when there is increased production of goods that are damaging to society or the environment or that simply make up for damage already done. A narrow focus on stability and growth in GDP also ignores changes in the conditions of work, stresses imposed on families, and developments in the social and financial infrastructure of an economy.
Some people believe that continued GDP growth and technological innovation will solve the social and environmental problems of the present and future. Others, however, believe that many of the social problems of today—including environmental degradation, growing inequality, and inadequacies in health care, child care, and education—can be traced to the fact that existing forms of economic growth and development have in some ways worked against "true" or sustainable well-being.
In Chapter 17, we examined concepts of human development, based on a broader perspective suggesting that economic growth alone is not sufficient—though it is often necessary—for fostering and maintaining human well-being. In this chapter, we look at a second challenge to standard economic growth, relating to the impacts of economic growth on the environment and the extent to which finite planetary limits might make unlimited GDP growth infeasible.

2. MACROECONOMICS AND ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY

In Chapter 17, we noted that world economic production has more than tripled since the early 1970s. Further economic growth is clearly desirable in developing countries to improve the well-being of more than a billion people who are now living in desperate poverty. Continued economic growth has been a principal policy objective in industrialized countries.
But as the twenty-first century proceeds, we must consider whether it is possible, or even desirable, to continue along the economic growth trajectory of the twentieth century. Economic growth has been accompanied by an increasing demand for natural resources, as well as increases in waste, pollution, and ecosystem damages. Many ecologists warn us that the current scale of human impact on the natural world is already unsustainable. Yet the ecological implications of a further doubling, quadrupling, or more, of human economic activity is an issue that, to date, has received little attention from macroeconomists.*
In this section, we consider the implications of current environmental issues for economic growth and development. First, we present an overview of some of the most pressing global environmental problems. Then we explore the relationship between economic growth and environmental quality and discuss policies to promote ecologically sustainable development.

2.1 MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES

A number of environmental issues are closely related to economic growth, including:

Global Population

Economic and technological growth since the Industrial Revolution has fostered a dramatic increase in world population. Global population was approximately 1 billion in 1800, increased to 2 billion around 1930 and 3 billion in 1960. In 2000, it increased to 6 billion, and in 2011 it passed 7 billion. Human population growth contributes to increases in many environmental pressures, including those related to food production. Although so far intensification of food production has kept pace with population growth, it has led to significant costs in terms of land degradation, pollution from fertilizers and pesticides, and overtaxing of water supplies.
Global population growth rates are currently declining, and many projections indicate that the human population will peak sometime in the twenty-first century (see Appendix). A stable or declining global population would eventually ease environmental pressures, but a substantial population increase is still predicted in the coming decades. Medium-range projections by the United Nations show a global population of 9.2 billion people in 2050, with almost all future population growth occurring in developing countries.

Resource Depletion

As noted in Chapters 7 and 17, depletion of important renewable and nonrenewable resources has accompanied economic growth. Many of the world's fisheries are in decline due to overfishing. Tropical forests are being lost at a rapid rate. Nearly a billion people live in countries where usable water is in scarce supply and water sources continue to be overdrawn and polluted. Stocks of key mineral resources, such as aluminum and copper, are for the most part not close to exhaustion, but high-quality reserves are being depleted, and recovery of lower-quality reserves tends to involve higher energy and environmental costs.
Probably no other natural resource has been more critical for modern economic growth than fossil fuels. These fuels (oil, coal, and natural gas) currently provide more than 80 percent of global energy supplies. The U.S. Department of Energy projects that global demand for fossil-fuel energy will increase approximately 60 percent between 2006 and 2030. However, many estimates suggest that global production of conventional oil, the most-used energy source, will peak within the next few decades. While "unconventional" sources of oil and gas, such as shale oil and natural gas obtained through hydraulic fracturing or 'Tracking," may expand supplies, these sources are likely to be more expensive and come at higher environmental cost. All of these fuels contribute to CO2 emissions that cause global climate change (discussed in detail below). Given the current dependence on fossil fuels, limitations on their use, for economic or environmental reasons, could challenge both the potential for industrialized countries to maintain their living standards and for developing countries to reduce poverty.

Pollution and Wastes

As discussed in Chapter 6, damage from pollution is not reflected in traditional national accounting measures, even though it clearly reduces welfare. Industrial countries generate the vast majority of the world's pollution and waste. Although rich countries are home to only about one-sixth of the world's population, they generate about two-thirds of global industrial wastes by volume. But pollution also jeopardizes economic development in poorer countries. For example, a 2006 "Green GDP" estimate for China indicated that environmental costs amounted to between 3 percent and 10 percent of China's GDP. A 2007 estimate by the World Bank and China's State Environmental protection Agency put air and water pollution costs alone at 5.8 percent of GDP.1
In some cases, toxic wastes are exported from industrialized countries to low-income countries that need the income they earn as compensation for accepting wastes but are ill equipped to receive and process them. Rapid future development will mean that pollution and waste management problems, both domestic and trade-related, are likely to grow, despite efforts to control them with environmental regulations.

2.2 THE RACE BETWEEN TECHNOLOGY AND RESOURCE DEPLETION

In the history of economic development, when one resource became scarce, another has been found to replace it. Thus, as wood and whale oil became scarce as energy sources, fossil fuels were discovered and developed to take their place. Another example is the development of a variety of plastics that have replaced metal or wood inputs in countless products. Even when resources are abundant, there may be substitutes (or potential substitutes) that can be used more inexpensively. Much of the story of economic growth is associated with productivity gains from being able to produce goods and services with progressively cheaper resources.
Yet there is some debate about possible limits to such a process. Some "technological optimists" believe that human ingenuity is virtually limitless and that humans will always be capable of finding economic substitutes for existing resources, as they grow scarcer. But do substitutes exist for all resources? And are some resources more essential than others?
There is no substitute for potable fresh water, which is absolutely essential for humans and many other species. Even where a resource is not essential and substitutes are conceivable, it may be necessary to contend with the difficulty of obtaining the substitutes and the associated costs in terms of money or energy.
The minerals sector is an example of a significant area in which costs have recently been rising. Mineral prices increased significantly from 2000 to 2012, and growing demand from developing economies suggests that they may continue to rise over the medium to long term.
Copper is one important mineral for which technology had seemed for a long time to be winning the race against resource depletion. Plastic has replaced copper in many uses, such as plumbing, and plastic fiber-optic cables (as well as wireless technologies) have displaced copper wires for long-distance information transmission. Yet global demand for copper continues to grow, and copper prices tripled between 2000 and 2012. Copper in the ground remains in reasonably plentiful supply, but what is left to mine is of lower quality than what has already been taken. This is economically and ecologically important because when ore quality drops, more energy is typically required to extract and refine it. And generally the more energy-intensive the extraction of the mineral is, the more adverse the environmental impacts (e.g., pollution) that are produced.
Another important example is phosphorus, which is a critical input in the fertilizer used in the mass production of food. It has no known substitutes and there are no synthetic ways of creating it. Researchers are therefore focusing on methods of reducing dependence on the element or looking for ways of reusing it, conserving it at the point of use, or recycling it from plant and animal wastes.

2.3 A BIOLOGICAL EXAMPLE: FISH STOCKS

Unlike minerals, fish are a renewable or reproducible resource. Yet renewable does not mean inexhaustible: It is quite possible for us to run out of fish in the wild if we harvest them more rapidly than they are able to reproduce.
Many deep-sea fish (e.g., Atlantic halibut, bluefin tuna, and cod) are seriously depleted. If the danger is recognized early enough, and steps are taken to reduce fishing activity sufficiently in areas where they spawn, fish populations can often recover. Canada imposed an indefinite moratorium on cod fishing in 1992, and the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, passed in the United States in 1996, limited the allowable catch for dozens of species. About half of them are recovering, but many species, including cod and flounder, are still in danger. Many other species around the world suffer from overfishing as well as habitat destruction. According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, 80 percent of the world's marine fish stocks are fully exploited or overexploited.2
Ironically, technological change has contributed to the decline. The introduction of bigger boats, sonar technology for finding fish, and large-scale "drift nets" have all increased depletion rates. Increasing scarcity has raised the market price for most wild-caught fish, generating incentives to expand aquaculture (fish farming). But there are also adverse ecological impacts from aquaculture, especially with the farming of saltwater species, such as shrimp and salmon. Five pounds of wild-caught fish are used as feedstock in the production of each pound of farmed salmon, while shrimp farming has led to widespread destruction of coastal mangrove forests.

Discussion Questions

1. Are you concerned about the future impacts of population growth and resource and environmental impacts? Do you think there should be some limits to population and/or economic growth?
2. Do you consider yourself a "technological optimist"? Do you believe that natural resource constraints represent a serious threat to economic production in the future? If so, which resources do you think we should be most concerned about?

3. CLIMATE CHANGE

The resource and environmental issues discussed above all pose serious problems. But perhaps the primary environmental challenge of the twenty-first century is global climate change. Global climate change combines issues of resource use and environmental impact, and is strongly related to economic growth.

3.1 GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS AND GLOBAL TEMPERATURE CHANGE

Recent research, summarized in a 2007 report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), has virtually eliminated any doubts that human activities are affecting the earth's climate.3 Emissions of various greenhouse gases, particularly CO2, trap heat near the earth's surface, leading not only to a general warming trend but to sea-level rise, ecological disruption, and an increase in severe weather events, such as hurricanes, floods, and droughts.






Figure 18.1 Global Temperature Trends, 1900-2100
Global average temperature is predicted to be between 3 and 7 degrees Fahrenheit warmer in 2100 compared to preindustrial levels.
Greenhouse gases persist for decades or more in the earth's atmosphere. In addition, there is a lag between the time a gas is emitted and the time when its effects are fully realized. Thus, even if annual emissions of greenhouse gases were immediately stabilized at current levels, the concentration of these gases in the atmosphere would continue to rise, with effects such as sea-level rise continuing for centuries. Global emissions of greenhouse gases will eventually need to be reduced significantly—as much as 80 or 90 percent lower than current levels by 2050—if we are to avoid the most dangerous effects of climate change. But, rather than declining, emissions of the major greenhouse gases are rising rapidly, primarily driven by fossil-fuel-based economic growth.
According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, global emissions of CO2 rose by 35 percent between 2000 and 2011. Estimated U.S. emissions actually declined by 6 percent over the same period, partly as a result of the 2007-9 recession and partly due to a shift to less-carbon-intensive natural gas. While U.S. emissions per person remain far higher than those in developing countries such as China and India, rapid growth in these countries accounts for a steady rise in emissions, which can be expected to continue for years to come.
Predicting the precise effects of climate change is subject to substantial uncertainty. The IPCC report summarizes the predictions of various climate change models. They reported a range in which the average global temperature was expected to be between 1.1 and 6.4° C (2.0 ° and 11.5° F) warmer in 2100 compared to preindustrial levels, with the most likely range being between 1.8° C and 4° C (3° F to 7° F). This range of possible temperature increases is shown in Figure 18.1.
The likely effects of a 2° C increase in global average temperature (towards the lower end of the projected range) include:
• A 20-30 percent decrease in water supplies in already vulnerable regions such as southern Africa and the Mediterranean;
• Significant declines in crop yields in tropical regions;
• 40-60 million more people exposed to malaria in Africa;
• As many as 10 million more people affected by coastal flooding each year, with major low-lying areas swamped and coastal cities endangered;
• 15-40 percent of species in danger of extinction.
A report sponsored by the British government in 2006 finds that, under a "business-as-usual" (BAU) scenario, there is at least a 50 percent chance of an average temperature increase of more than 5°C (9°F) by the early twenty-second century. Climate change of this magnitude could lead to catastrophic effects such as the irreversible melting of the Greenland ice sheet, the collapse of the Amazon forest, and flooding of major cities including London and New York (see Box 18.1).
This report specifically examined the economics of climate change. It estimates the costs of climate change in the twenty-first century as between 5 percent and 20 percent of global GDP, while the most severe effects of climate change could be avoided at a cost of approximately 1 percent of GDP. Thus, the report concludes that it appears that the benefits of immediate action to minimize climate change significantly exceed the costs (see Box 18.1).
Although the most dangerous impacts of climate change are not likely to occur for several decades or more, the actions taken in the next few decades will almost surely have a profound effect on those ultimate impacts. Delaying action for even a decade would lead to a greater risk of catastrophic effects. This has significant implications for global equity. The impacts of climate change—including coastal flooding, agricultural yield reductions, spreading of tropical diseases, and water shortages—are poised to fall disproportionately on the developing countries. While the rich countries would, to some extent, be able to adapt to many of the effects of climate change, most developing countries lack the financial and technical resources to do so. The 2007 IPCC report notes that climate change is likely to exacerbate global inequalities and impede economic development in poorer countries.


BOX 18.1 THE STERN REVIEW—THE ECONOMICS OF CLIMATE CHANGE
Published in October 2006, the British government report written by former World Bank chief economist Nicholas Stern presents an urgent case for strong and immediate action to respond to the threat of global climate change. According to this report:

The scientific evidence is now overwhelming: climate change presents very serious global risks, and it demands an urgent global response. ... Under a BAU [business as usual] scenario, the stock of greenhouse gases could more than treble by the end of the century, giving at least a 50 percent risk of exceeding 5°C global average temperature change during the following decades. This would take humans into unknown territory. An illustration of the scale of such an increase is that we are now only around 5°C warmer than in the last ice age. Such changes would transform the physical geography of the world. A radical change in the physical geography of the world must have powerful implications for the human geography—where people live, and how they live their lives.
The evidence gathered by the Review leads to a simple conclusion: the benefits of strong, early action considerably outweigh the costs. The evidence shows that ignoring climate change will eventually damage economic growth. Our actions over the coming few decades could create risks of major disruption to economic and social activity, later in this century and in the next, on a scale similar to those associated with the great wars and the economic depression of the first half of the twentieth century. And it will be difficult or impossible to reverse these changes. Tackling climate change is the pro-growth strategy for the longer term, and it can be done in a way that does not cap the aspirations for growth of rich or poor countries. The earlier effective action is taken, the less costly it will be.
In summary, analyses that take into account the full ranges of both impacts and possible outcomes—that is, that employ the basic economics of risk—suggest that BAU climate change will reduce welfare by an amount equivalent to a reduction in consumption per head of between 5 and 20 percent. Taking account of the increasing scientific evidence of greater risks, of aversion to the possibilities of catastrophe, and of a broader approach to the consequences than implied by narrow output measures, the appropriate estimate is likely to be in the upper part of this range. ... It is still possible to avoid the worst impacts of climate change; but it requires strong and urgent collective action. Delay would be costly and dangerous.

Source: Excerpted from the Stem Review, available at h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­e­b­a­r­c­h­i­v­e­.n­a­t­i­o­n­a­l­a­r­c­h­i­v­e­s­.g­o­v­.u­k­/­2­0­1­3­0­1­2­9­1­1­0­4­0­2­/­ h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­w­w­.h­m­-­t­r­e­a­s­u­r­y­.g­o­v­.u­k­/­s­t­e­r­n­r­e­v­i­e­w­_­s­u­m­m­a­r­y­.h­t­m­ (emphasis added).

3.2 NATIONAL AND GLOBAL RESPONSES TO THE CLIMATE CHALLENGE

Because many modern environmental problems are global in scope, they require a coordinated international response. The challenge of global climate change presents an illustration of how difficult this can be in practice. The Kyoto Protocol, drafted in 1997, committed industrialized countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by an average of 5 percent below their 1990 emissions in time for the period 2008-2012. But it was not until 2005 that enough countries ratified the treaty to enable it to enter into force. The United States, the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases, refused to ratify the treaty on the grounds that it would hurt the U.S. economy and because it does not bind developing countries to any emissions targets. Many of the countries that had ratified the treaty, moreover, did not meet their emissions targets.
International negotiations have tried to draft a "roadmap" for a new treaty to succeed the Kyoto Protocol since it expired in 2012. But although negotiators generally agree that "deep cuts" in greenhouse gas emissions are necessary, they have failed to agree on firm emissions targets or to decide on how to allocate responsibility between developing and industrialized countries.
The best hope for avoiding the worst impacts of climate change is to replace fossil-fuel energy sources with plentiful, less ecologically destructive resources, such as wind and solar power. There is also great potential to reduce energy demand through greater efficiency. Currently, technological progress reduces energy use per unit GDP by about 2 percent per year in the United States and other advanced countries. But combined with an economic growth rate of about 3 percent per year, this still results in about a 1 percent per year increase in energy use. Doubling the rate of energy efficiency gain would mean a 1 percent decrease in energy use per year—making it much easier to achieve carbon emissions reduction targets.
Opportunities for reducing emissions are described in the 2013 Annual Energy Outlook report of the U.S. Energy Information Administration. The Extended Policies case in this report shows that the United States could avoid an increase in greenhouse gas emissions between 2013 and 2040 by continuing a number of current policies, including the production tax credit for wind, geothermal, biomass, and hydroelectric power and the investment tax credit for solar and by updating and strengthening a number of other policies, including the fuel-economy standards for new cars and appliance efficiency standards. These policy extensions and updates would reduce projected greenhouse gas emissions by an estimated 6 percent by 2040.

3.3 THE COST OF RESPONDING VERSUS THE COST OF INACTION

A report from the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, has estimated that $700 billion in public and private investments will be needed each year to shift the global economy away from its dependence on fossil fuels. There is growing interest in the idea of using a tax on carbon-based energy to raise some of these funds. The Tax Policy Center has reported that estimates of income from such a tax in the United States could range from 0.5 percent of the country's GDP (for a tax of $15 per ton of CO2) to 0.8 percent of GDP (for a tax of $31 per ton of CO2). A tax of $31 per ton would translate to an extra 30 cents per gallon of gas. The revenue raised would be about $120 million per year.4 (By comparison, the Swiss economy is performing well even with an effective carbon tax rate of more than $140 per ton.)
Revenues raised by such a tax could be used to fund the transition to renewable energy. In addition a carbon tax would encourage people and businesses to use less energy, with reductions concentrated in the energy sources that produce the most carbon (and therefore would be most heavily taxed): coal first, then petroleum, then natural gas—the latter being only half as carbon-intensive as coal but still a significant contributor to climate change.
The most serious disadvantage to a carbon tax is that it would fall more heavily on the poor. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the poorest fifth of Americans spend 21.4 percent of their income on gas and utilities, while the richest 20 percent spend only 6.8 percent. There are, however, several ways to respond to this, the most straightforward being a direct rebate of some of the tax revenues for those most in need.
Some of the money raised through energy taxes could be used for disaster preparedness and relief. Climate change is already leading to higher cost from natural disasters. The drought of 2012 in the Southern and Western United States, considered by many analysts to be a result of climate change, cost about $35 billion. The same year, Hurricane Sandy was responsible for at least $65 billion in damage. In 2013, severe flooding in Colorado required evacuation of thousands and caused billions in damage. While no single climate event can be definitely linked to climate change, greater flooding, drought, and more intense hurricanes are predicted effects of climate change.
Although a large-scale energy transition away from fossil fuels would have significant costs, they may be quite modest on a macroeconomic scale and should be balanced against the growing costs likely to be caused by climate change, including extreme weather, agricultural output losses, and possible effects of famine, armed conflict, and mass migration if large areas are affected by sea-level rise or desertification. At the same time, looked at from the point of view of Keynesian macroeconomic analysis, the policies and actions suggested for preventing further climate change could bring potentially large economic benefits in terms of employment creation.

Discussion Questions

1. How do you think we should evaluate the economic impacts of climate change? Check the short executive summary of the Stem Review on the Economics of Climate Change (see Box 18.1). Do you agree with the conclusions of the Report?
2. What do you think should be done by the United States in response to global climate change? Can you think of specific policies that would reduce carbon emissions without resulting in significant economic disruption?

4. ECONOMIC GROWTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
4.1 THE ENVIRONMENTAL KUZNETS CURVE HYPOTHESIS

Some researchers have suggested that, in the long run, economic development reduces per capita environmental damages. The logic behind this assertion is that sufficient wealth and technology allow countries to adopt clean production methods and move to a service-based economy. Further, environmental quality is generally considered a "normal good," meaning that people will demand more of it as they become wealthier.
The environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis posits an inverted U-shaped relationship between economic development and environmental damages.* It states that environmental damage per capita increases in the early stages of economic development, reaches a maximum, and then diminishes as a country attains higher levels of income. If the evidence supported this hypothesis, it would imply that economic growth would eventually promote a cleaner environment.






Source: T. Panayotou, "Empirical Tests and Policy Analysis of Environmental Degradation at Different Levels of Development," International Labour Office Working Paper, 1993.
Figure 18.2 Environmental Kuznets Curve for Sulfur Dioxide Emissions
The empirical relationship between sulfur dioxide emissions and the level of economic development in a country supports the EKC hypothesis.
Does this principle really work? The EKC relationship does seem to hold for some pollutants. Figure 18.2 shows the findings of a study that estimated the relationship between per capita sulfur dioxide emissions (the primary cause of "acid rain") and a country's per capita income. Sulfur dioxide emissions per capita appear to peak at an income level of around $5,000 and decline as incomes rise further. Studies of some other pollutants, mostly air pollutants, have also given limited support to the EKC hypothesis.
However, the EKC relationship does not appear to hold for many other environmental problems. Studies of municipal waste and energy use find that environmental impacts generally continue to rise as incomes rise. Perhaps most importantly, CO2 emissions show a positive relationship with average income, as shown by the upward-sloping trend line in Figure 18.3, with no apparent turning point. This means that carbon emissions can be generally expected to increase as economies grow, unless current dependence on fossil-fuel energy is dramatically altered.






Source: World Bank, World Development Indicators Database, 2013.
Figure 18.3 Carbon Dioxide Emissions vs. GDP per Capita, 2009
Carbon dioxide emissions per capita tend to increase with higher levels of economic development in a country.
Thus, contrary to the EKC hypothesis, economic growth appears unlikely to provide a guaranteed path to environmental sustainability. The relationship between growth and the environment is, in reality, more complex. Average income is not the only relevant factor in determining environmental impacts; the distribution of resources also plays a key role. Sustainable development needs to include reducing economic inequalities along with preserving the environment.
Some environmental damage, such as soil erosion and deforestation, may occur because poor people engage in unsustainable practices simply to survive. Programs to eliminate poverty in developing countries can provide people with choices that are less environmentally destructive. Meanwhile, environmental degradation typically hits the poorest people the hardest, because many rely heavily on the natural environment for their subsistence.
Policies that improve the environment can thus also serve to reduce poverty and economic inequality. The objectives of human development and environmental protection are actually interlinked. The promotion of human development in poor countries can improve environmental quality while policies to improve the environment can also reduce economic disparities. This suggests the need for a coordinated policy response that considers the linkages between human development and the environment.

4.2 POLICIES FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

Much of macroeconomic theory and policy is currently oriented toward promoting continuous economic growth. What kind of policies would be required to promote ecological sustainability? How can these policies be designed to such that they also maintain well-being and promote human development, especially in developing countries?
Some ecologically oriented economists view "sustainable growth" as a contradiction in terms. They point out that no system can grow without limit. Yet it seems that some kinds of economic growth are essential. For the large number of people in the world who cannot satisfy their basic needs, for example, an increase in consumption of food, housing, and other goods is clearly required. For those who have already achieved a high level of material consumption, there are possibilities for continued improvements in well-being through expanded educational and cultural services that do not necessarily have a large negative environmental impact. But there is nothing in standard macroeconomics to guarantee that economic growth will be either equitable or environmentally benign. Specific policies for sustainable development are therefore needed.
What might such policies involve? There are numerous possibilities, including:

Green Taxes


"Green" taxes make it more expensive to undertake activities that deplete important natural resources or contribute to environmental degradation. They discourage energy- and materialintensive economic activities, while favoring the provision of services and labor-intensive industries. One example of a green tax, as discussed above, is a tax on the carbon content of energy supplies, favoring renewables and efficiency over carbon-based fuels. All countries have implemented environmentally based taxes to some extent. As shown in Figure 18.4, environmental taxes in industrial countries can range from 3.5 percent to over 10 percent of total tax revenues.
Green taxes are strongly supported by economic theory as a means of internalizing negative externalities such as pollution. When a negative externality such as pollution exists, an unregulated market will result in an inefficient allocation (as discussed in Chapter 2). Because all taxes, in addition to raising revenue, discourage the "taxed" activity, it is economically desirable to discourage "bads" such as environmental pollution and natural resource depletion by placing taxes on them, rather than on positive economic activities like investment and the earning of income.







Source: OECD, OECD/EEA Instruments Database, 2007.
Figure 18.4 Environmentally Based Taxes as a Share of Total Tax Revenue, Select Industrialized Countries, 2006

Environmentally based taxes account for about 10 percent of total tax revenue in Denmark and the Netherlands, but only about 3 percent of total revenue in the United States.
Two common objections to green taxes frequently arise. First, it is likely that green taxes would fall disproportionately on lower-income households. But as noted earlier, a rebate or credit to these households could be implemented to avoid making a green tax regressive. The other criticism is that green taxes are politically unpopular—no one wants higher taxes. Increases in green taxes can be offset, however, by reductions in other taxes (such as income taxes) so that the tax burden on a typical household remains unchanged. Also, households and businesses would have the option to lower the amount of green taxes they pay by undertaking energy conservation measures and other environmentally friendly practices, which is not the case with other income or business taxes.

Eliminating Subsidies


Agricultural and energy subsidies that encourage the overuse of energy, fertilizer, pesticides, and irrigation water could be reduced or eliminated. This would reduce government expenditures, and the money saved could be used to lower taxes or to promote more sustainable agricultural systems that rely on the recycling of nutrients, crop diversification, the use of natural pest controls, and minimizing the use of artificial chemicals and fertilizer. Such systems also tend to be more labor-intensive, so they also have the potential to boost employment.

Recycling and Renewable Energy


Policies such as deposit/refund systems or targeted subsidies can be used to promote greater recycling of materials and the use of renewable energy. Through research and development grants, subsidies, and tax breaks, governments can support the expansion of energy from solar power, wind, and geothermal heat. Strategic public investment in new technologies such as fuel cells and high-efficiency industrial systems can eventually make these technologies cost-competitive.

Tradable Permits

Tradable permit systems (often called "cap-and-trade") can set an overall limit on pollution by offering a limited number of permits allowing the emission of specific quantities and types of pollution. These plans are based on the principle that a process of pollution reduction may be most efficiently achieved by allowing businesses to choose between finding low-cost ways to reduce their emissions and paying to buy permits. After the permits are distributed to firms, they can then buy them from or sell them to other firms. Pollution reduction will occur first where it can be done most economically.
This efficiency characteristic makes tradable permit systems popular among economists. Although environmentalists have sometimes objected, on principle, to the idea of government issuing "permits to pollute," it is recognized that tradable permits have been used successfully in several instances, most notably in reducing sulfur dioxide emissions in the United States. Such permits can also be purchased by environmental groups or private citizens in order to retire them and thus reduce the overall level of pollution. Carbon trading systems apply the same principle to carbon reduction, and have been implemented in Europe, the U.S. Northeast, and California.
Efficient transportation systems can replace energy-intensive automotive transport with high-speed trains, public transit, greater use of bicycles, and redesign of cities and suburbs to minimize transportation needs. In countries such as the United States, where automobile-centered systems are already extensively developed, the use of highly fuel-efficient cars can reduce fuel needs; in some developing countries, automobile dependence might be avoided altogether.

Debt-for-Nature Swaps


Debt-for-nature swaps work by forgiving the debt of developing countries in exchange for agreements to protect nature reserves or pursue environmentally friendly policies. For example, in 2002 the United States canceled $5.5 million in debt owed to it by Peru in return for Peru's agreement to conserve 10 rainforest areas covering more than 27.5 million acres. This innovative form of international fiscal policy was authorized by the Tropical Forest Conservation Act of 1998.

4.3 SUSTAINABILITY AND CONSUMPTION

As discussed earlier, global inequalities currently mean that many people in the world have too little to live on, while others consume at high levels. Some theorists have suggested replacing the goal of ever-increasing consumption with the goal of sufficiency. This idea can be developed at two levels. At the individual level is the question of the amount of consumption that is sufficient to support human well-being. At the macro or global level is the question of what kinds and amounts of consumption can be sustained, by humanity as a whole, without destructive environmental consequences. Note that the second question includes two different issues: the kinds of consumption and the aggregate quantities consumed.
Alan Duming, the author of How Much Is Enough: The Consumer Society and the Future of the Earth, has proposed dividing the global population into three groups classified according to their consumption levels and environmental impacts.5 Table 18.1 presents a similar classification using updated data. We see that energy use, carbon emissions, and vehicle use are all much lower for those in the global lower-income class than in the rest of the world. Although these households are often forced to undertake ecologically unsustainable actions simply to survive, their overall impact on global environmental problems is relatively minor.
The global "middle class" uses more resources than the poor, but its lifestyle is still relatively environmentally sustainable. Those in this class rely primarily on bicycles and public transportation, eat a grain-based diet, and use a moderate amount of energy. Duming suggests that the entire world population could live at this level of affluence without exceeding the ecological capacity of the planet.
The global upper-income class relies on private vehicles and air transportation, eats a diet including daily consumption of meat, and uses a significantly higher amount of energy than the other classes. The rest of the world could not possibly emulate the lifestyle of this class without exceeding the capacity of the global environment.

Table 18.1 Global Population Classification by Income and Environmental Impacts, 2013







Global lower-income
Global middle-income
Global high-income


Population (millions)
817
5,022
 1,135


Average income per capita (U.S. dollars)
571
4,148
39,860


Energy use per capita (kg oil equivalent)
363
1,310
 5,000


Electricity power consumption per capita (kWh)
242
1,823
 9,415


Carbon dioxide emissions per capita (metric tons)
    0.3
      3.5
      11.4


Passenger cars per 1,000 population
 10
   60
  620


Source: World Bank, Little Green Data Book 2013; World Development Indicators 2013.
Each of the three groups defined here needs to approach environmental sustainability with different objectives.
• For the lower-income group, the focus must be on improving material living standards and expanding options while taking advantage of environmentally friendly technologies.
• The challenge for the middle-income group is to keep overall environmental impacts per capita relatively stable by pursuing a development path that avoids a reliance on fossil fuels, disposable products, and ever-increasing levels of material consumption.
• Finally, the high-income group must find a way to reduce environmental impacts per capita through technological improvements, intelligently designed policies, and changes in lifestyle aspirations.

The problem may not be as irresolvable as it appears. In addition to the question of what is possible—that is, ecologically sustainable—we need to ask what is desirable. In rich countries, it has become increasingly important to recognize that "too much" can be just as much of a problem as "too little." Increasing consumption may bring little benefit and can actually be worse for individuals, who may suffer ill health from overeating, sedentary lifestyle and reliance on automobiles, and, according to some social scientists, spiritual malaise from exclusive or excessive attention to material things. At high income levels, other dimensions of human development, such as freedom from violence, closer and more peaceful families and communities, a satisfying work life or volunteer opportunities, cultural activities, and investments in the productive and creative capacities of the next generation may be more important than having more marketed goods and services. To the extent that we trade material consumption for these other objectives, sustainability becomes less of a challenge.
Moreover, a large portion of every country's social and individual well-being depends on the maintenance of homes and families, including care of sick and elderly people, along with other productive activities that take place in homes and communities but are not bought and sold in formal markets (as discussed in Chapters 3 and 6). Many adults today feel squeezed between the demands of conventional, forty hours (or more) per week of paid employment and the time requirements of their families. As we saw in Chapter 7, full-time employment in Europe requires the equivalent of five fewer weeks of work per year, on average, than full-time employment in the United States. Europeans have in effect chosen to translate part of their increased labor productivity into increased leisure, instead of using it all to increase earnings and consumption. As shown in Figure 18.5, there is a tradeoff between leisure time and money earned, with one the opportunity cost for the other; where a country situates itself on the "consumption-possibilities frontier" depends on the culture and the prevailing attitudes toward work.
Economic practices that make people "rich" as consumers but "poor" as family and community members are not consistent with the human development goal of having the freedom to live a valuable life. They are also not ecologically sustainable in the long run, at least if every human on earth aspires to the highest levels of consumption. Fortunately, it is growing increasingly apparent that scaling back in the area of material consumption not only is good for the natural environment but also—at least beyond a certain level of income—can enhance our overall well-being.







Figure 18.5 A Consumption Possibilities Frontier
The diagram illustrates the tradeoff between consumption and leisure time. Europeans on average live at a lower material standard than people in the United States, because they do not work as many hours, hence earn less income. On the plus side, they enjoy more leisure time, which Americans sacrifice in order to be able to consume more.
4.4 SUSTAINABILITY AND INVESTMENT

If an ecological perspective implies limits on consumption, what happens to investment? As we have seen earlier in this book, investment spending has often been crucially important for aggregate demand and employment. Yet additional investments in traditional kinds of plant and equipment, which rely heavily on fossil fuels, may work against environmental sustainability. This dilemma can be resolved only by forms of investment that improve well-being but do not increase what has been called throughput—the use of raw materials and energy as inputs, resulting in the creation of wastes as system outputs. The social and environmental challenges that have been outlined in this chapter suggest the need for large investment expenditures, many of which are not directly related to increasing material consumption. Rather than being a burden or threat, such investment expenditures may be the solution to maintaining employment with limited consumption.

throughput: the flow of raw materials and energy through the economy, leading to outputs of waste

As we saw in Chapter 17, many countries in the past used industrial policies successfully, to push an economy from one phase to another. The United States could not have gone from a mostly agrarian economy to an industrial one without government assistance in developing transportation and communication systems. Japan's government carefully selected a sequence of industries to support, going from low-tech and labor-intensive to high-tech and information-intensive. All of the successful European, Asian, and North American economies have depended on essential support from national investments in education and public health. Many such investments are "public goods" (as discussed in Chapter 2) because, although they provide widespread benefits, it is hard to collect payment from the people who benefit from them; hence, if they are to occur, they must be supported through national action.
A similar set of strategic investments, focused on areas such as alternative energy, public transportation, sustainable agriculture, education, and health services could move countries toward a more environmentally sustainable economy. Such investments contribute to economically and environmentally positive development but may not pay the kind of return that would encourage private companies to undertake them. Yet with such strategic investments in place, the private sector can be relied on for much of the follow-through—much as, in the past, the U.S. government provided interstate highways, while the private sector supplied cars and trucks.
It is also important to remember that, as discussed in Chapter 6, "investments" should really refer to much more than just factories and equipment. Environmental policy is concerned with protecting, or avoiding disinvestment in, the global commons—the oceans, the atmosphere, the world's store of living species, and other aspects of natural and social capital that greatly affect the possibilities and the quality of life for present and future human generations.


BOX 18.2 DISCOUNTING THE FUTURE
In economic theory, future costs and benefits are often evaluated with a technique called discounting. The theory behind discounting is that a dollar today is worth more than a dollar tomorrow—even after correcting for inflation. The discount rate, sometimes referred to as the "time discount rate," is the annual rate at which dollar values are considered to change over time (this is a different, broader use of the term than the Federal Reserve's discount rate offered to member banks, discussed in Chapter 11). Use of a discount rate often depends on the assumption that people of the future will be better off than people today—therefore, a dollar is worth more to us now than it will be to our great-grandchildren, even after accounting for possible inflation. For most commercial and financial calculations, the use of a discount rate makes sense. However, its application to social and environmental costs and benefits is more complicated.
To illustrate the impact of discount rate calculations, at an 8 percent discount rate, $1.00 today becomes worth $1.08 next year and ($1.00) (1.0810) = $2.1 6 ten years from now. Similarly, $ 1.00 to be received ten years from now is worth only ($1.00)/(1.0810) = $0.46 today.
For longer periods, the impact of discounting becomes much more dramatic. The present value of $1,000 fifty years from now is only $87.20 at a 5 percent discount rate, and the value of $1,000 one hundred years from now is only $7.60. At a 1 0 percent discount rate, the value of $1,000 one hundred years from now is only 7 cents! This would mean that, applying a discount rate of 10 percent, it is not worth spending more than 7 cents today to avoid $1,000 worth of damages one hundred years from now. This has led to a serious criticism of the discounting approach. How can we justify a technique that might implicitly consider serious damages to future generations less important than moderate costs today?
Discounting is essential if we are considering the economics of, for example, taking out a mortgage to buy a house or a loan to finance a business investment. The benefits of being able to own and live in the house starting today may well outweigh the future costs of paying interest on the mortgage over the next twenty years. Similarly, the income generated by the business investment can be compared to the annual payments on the loan—if the rate of return on the investment exceeds the discount rate, it brings net benefits.
In such cases, it makes sense to use the commercial discount rate, determined in current markets, to compare present and future costs and benefits. But can we say that a GDP gain today, or in the near future, outweighs major damage in the next generation? How should we evaluate broader environmental impacts that will continue over long periods?
We can try to resolve the problem by defining a social discount rate—a rate that attempts to reflect the appropriate social valuation of future costs and benefits. Estimates of social discount rates vary but are usually significantly lower than commercial discount rates and include a rate of zero. But, of course, private market actors such as corporations will base their decisions on the current market rate of interest, not a social discount rate. Public investments, by contrast, can be based on a judgment that the appropriate social discount rate is lower—which means that the future should be weighted more heavily. This might justify, for example, more investments in energy efficiency and carbon-free energy sources today, to avoid damages from climate change that are likely to occur in future decades.

social discount rate: a discount rate that reflects social rather than market valuation of future costs and benefits; usually lower than the market discount rate



This kind of long-term investment requires a more future-oriented perspective than is used for most business investments. The use of market discount rates (see Box 18.2) tends to limit the planning horizons of most businesses and individuals to about twenty to thirty years. But long-term sustainability demands a generational perspective, because many of the most severe impacts of problems such as global climate change will take decades, or even centuries, to unfold.

Discussion Questions

1. How do you think your environmental impacts compare with those of the average person in the world?
2. Does reducing environmental impacts require sacrifice, or can it be done in ways that increase overall well-being?

5. ARE STABILIZATION AND SUSTAINABILITY IN CONFLICT?

Earlier chapters have emphasized that a high level of aggregate demand is necessary to support a high output level, keeping income levels up and unemployment down. Is this goal in conflict with the goal of environmental sustainability? In some ways, it appears that it is, given the evidence that we have reviewed on how environmental problems increase with higher consumption. But there may be ways to reconcile the goals of higher living standards, full employment, and environmental sustainability. To do so, we have to re-examine some of our assumptions about economic growth.

5.1 WHAT DO WE REALLY WANT FROM EMPLOYMENT?

The macroeconomic models that we have developed starting in Chapter 9 have implicitly assumed that more employment is better. There is no doubt that needing a job and not being able to find one can be very tough on the unemployed. In addition to the lack of income—which can cause severe hardship and poverty for a worker and his or her family—unemployment can also have serious psychological repercussions. People often feel demoralized and depressed when they find that they are not wanted. Studies of the effects on health and mortality of business cycle swings show that suicide rates rise during economic downturns (see Chapter 15, Box 15.1). Clearly, a humane society should want to keep such suffering at a minimum, to the extent possible.
Rather than just thinking about "employment" and "unemployment," perhaps macroeconomists should be thinking more about the quality, types, and intensity of employment that an economy offers and what these mean for people's well-being. Being pushed out of the wage-earning system is clearly injurious to the involuntarily unemployed, and being deprived of sufficient income is very tough on the working poor. But the solution need not mean that everyone should always work 40 or more hours a week.
As discussed in Chapter 8, people also benefit from hours that they spend away from paid employment; this time provides opportunities to do unpaid work, including family care, and also to pursue leisure activities. It may be possible to keep employment levels high while reducing material and energy throughput, if we, as a society, think creatively enough about what sorts of, as well as how much, employment we really want.
The Dutch government, for example, responded to an economic downturn in the 1980s by stabilizing wages and allowing work hours to decline in order to reduce the unemployment rate. The idea, in other words, was to "share" available work hours among more people. New government employees were hired for four instead of five days per week. Other sectors soon followed, and eventually even Dutch banks adopted 80 percent schedules and a four-day workweek. In July 2000, the country passed the Working Hours Adjustment Act, landmark legislation that granted employees the right to reduce their weekly hours (even below 80 percent in many cases) without losing their job or suffering a reduction in hourly pay or employment benefits.6
In the same year, the French government reduced the standard workweek from 39 hours to 35 hours. Both the Dutch and French policies were motivated primarily by the desire to reduce the unemployment rate, but they also served to enhance workers' quality of life by affording them more leisure time. Because more leisure time and lower earnings on average leads to less consumption (and less throughput), both policy initiatives are examples of innovative macroeconomic policy that takes into account both stabilization and sustainability concerns.

5.2 WHAT DO WE REALLY WANT FROM PRODUCTION?

The model that we developed in earlier chapters works only with the level of output, Y, and says nothing about the composition of output. From a sustainability perspective, however, the composition of output makes a very big difference. Some things that we benefit from and enjoy require relatively little use of material and energy inputs. Eating locally grown produce, taking a bike ride with friends, or engaging in educational and cultural activities, for example, puts little stress on the natural environment. Other activities, such as heating and furnishing a very large house, driving an SUV, or maintaining a perfect lawn using chemical fertilizer, have more negative impacts. Shifting away from producing goods and services that are most damaging to ecological systems and toward producing goods and services that are less destructive—or even environmentally beneficial—could allow an economy to maintain consumption, investment, and employment in a less environmentally damaging way.
Another important macroeconomic issue relates to population stabilization. As discussed further in the Appendix to this chapter, the United States and many other countries in the world are already experiencing a growing ratio of retirees to active workers. Many elderly people need extra medical care and personal care. This suggests that while an economy may need to release some workers from high-throughput jobs for sustainability reasons, there will also be an increased demand for workers in medical and social services.
Similarly, while some opportunities for investment would no longer be available in a more sustainable economy, many more would open up. Investments in energy-saving infrastructure for transportation, in wetland restoration, and in conversion of residential and commercial buildings to more environmentally friendly patterns of energy and chemical use, for example, would create additional employment opportunities. While employment might decline in fossilfuel and high-polluting industries, these possibilities for expanded job creation suggest that pursuing sustainability goals need not conflict with the goal of full employment.
The problems of transitioning to a more sustainable macroeconomy should not be minimized. People who build SUVs today, for example, cannot simply start building solar panels tomorrow—changes in human and manufactured capital must take place first. But neither should these problems be enlarged out of proportion. Scientific evidence suggests that a conversion to a less resource-intensive economy is not a matter of if but, rather, a matter of when and how. And the longer the conversion is put off, the more difficult it is likely to be.

5.3 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE LOCAL LEVEL

Sustainable development does not depend only on national policies; it can also be developed from the bottom up, starting at the local level. Important aspects of local sustainability include*:

Democratization of Ownership

About 130 million Americans—40 percent of the population—are members of some form of one-person, one-vote cooperative. A program initiated by the federal government in the 1980s has resulted in about 11,000 employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs), involving 10.3 million people, in virtually every sector, and some are very large and sophisticated. Three million more individuals are involved in worker-owned companies of this kind than are members of unions in the private sector.
In addition, thousands of "social enterprises" use democratized ownership both for profitable production and to achieve a broader social purpose. By far, the most common social enterprise is the Community Development Corporation (CDC), numbering nearly 5,000 in U.S. cities. For the most part, CDCs serve as low-income housing developers and incubators for small businesses.
Another form of democratized ownership involves a growing number of "land trusts"— essentially nonprofit corporations that own housing and promote both conservation and low- and moderate-income housing. Democratized ownership also takes the form of publicly run services and enterprises in local communities. More than two thousand publicly owned electric utilities are in operation, providing electricity at lower cost to the consumer. About 25 percent of electricity in the United States is supplied by locally owned public utilities and cooperatives.
In the financial sector, co-ops take the form of credit unions—essentially democratized, one-person, one-vote banks. More than 95 million Americans are involved; assets total approximately $1 trillion. Following the financial failures of 2008, campaigns to "move your money" shifted hundreds of millions, if not billions of dollars from Wall Street and large banks to credit unions and smaller banks.

"Greening" Communities

In many cases, worker-owned companies have emphasized "green" design. In Kansas City, Missouri, a municipal "Green Impact Zone" has brought together public and private resources to transform a decaying neighborhood into a sustainable urban community. The effort includes school improvements, weatherization, job training and placement programs, business development (initially targeted at improving energy efficiency), renewable energy and water conservation programs, installation of a smart grid by Kansas City Power and Light, and new programs to develop housing on abandoned lots.
In Austin, Texas, another green municipal development initiative is working to build a regional economy that emphasizes green business leadership, clean technology, new jobs, and expanding opportunity. The city supports local companies that "green" their operations, and aims to make the city's operations completely carbon-neutral (i.e., with net zero carbon emissions) by 2020—including reducing greenhouse gas emissions by switching to renewable energy, replacing inefficient lighting, and replacing vehicle fleets, plus conservation programs covering water, air quality, waste reduction and recycling, and green gardening.
These examples suggest that a different economic model of local development can combine democratization and ecological sustainability. It is worth considering whether such initiatives can be "scaled up" to the macroeconomic level, a question that we address in the next section.

5.4 MACROECONOMIC POLICIES FOR STABILIZATION AND SUSTAINABILITY

In Chapter 10, we saw how government spending and taxing policies can contribute to stabilization, and in Chapters 11 and 12, we looked at issues of money and credit. A society committed to both stabilization and sustainability could find ways to use these standard macroeconomic tools to work toward both goals.
Some economic policies aimed at promoting sustainability might actually represent a return to well-known Keynesian-style policies but with a new ecological twist—a strong emphasis on government and private investment in green technologies and a tax structure that shifts the tax burden from income, labor, and capital to the use of fossil fuels and resources.
As discussed in Chapter 13, the stimulus plan proposed by the Obama administration in 2009 and adopted by Congress was a classic Keynesian expansionary policy. About 10 percent of the stimulus specifically targeted environmental objectives (see Box 18.3). Such "green Keynesian" policies could be widely adopted and expanded to promote the transition to a more sustainable economic system.
Some ecologically oriented economists have suggested that, rather than growing indefinitely on an exponential path—say of 4 percent GDP growth per year—national and global economic systems must follow what is called a logistic pattern, in which growth is eventually limited, at least in terms of resource consumption. This would lead to what is called a steady-state economy, in which population and economic output are stabilized (see Figure 18.6).

steady-state economy: an economy with no increase in population, or in the rate of use of raw materials and energy








Figure 18.6 Growth Reaching a Steady-State
After starting with an exponential growth pattern, an economy adapting to a steady-state reduces its rate of growth in what is called a logistical pattern, approaching a maximum level at which economic activity stabilizes.

BOX 18.3 "GREEN" KEYNESIAN POUCHS IN THE UNITED STATES
The $787 billion stimulus package adopted by the U.S. Congress in 2009 to promote recovery from the 2007-9 recession contained about $71 billion for "green" investments, plus $20 billion in "green" tax incentives, including:
• Energy efficiency in Federal buildings and Department of Defense facilities—$8.7 billion
• Smart-grid infrastructure investment—$11 billion
• Energy and conservation grants to state and local governments—$6.3 billion
• Weatherization assistance—$5 billion
• Energy efficiency and renewable energy research—$2.5 billion
• Advanced battery manufacturing—$2 billion
• Loan guarantees for wind and solar projects—$6 billion
• Public transit and high-speed rail—$1 7.7 billion
• Environmental cleanup—$14.6 billion
• Environmental research—$6.6 billion
The double benefit of such policies is that they promote employment and also advance a transition to a more environmentally sustainable economy. It is easily possible to envision much larger programs of this nature. For example, the stimulus program included $5 billion for weatherization programs. A major nationwide program for energy efficiency retrofit in houses and commercial buildings could easily be ten times as large. The stimulus program temporarily quadrupled U.S. spending on energy and environmental research and development; a permanent increase of this magnitude would have enormous long-term benefits in promoting a transition to efficiency and renewables.
Source: Jonathan M. Harris, "Green Keynesianismml: Beyond Standard Growth Paradigms," in Robert B. Richardson ed., Building a Green Economy: Perspectives from Ecological Economics (East Lansing, MI: Michigan State University Press, 2013).


These environmental limits on growth would apply to resource and energy consumption; at the same time, activities that do not involve resource consumption, which are environmentally neutral or environmentally friendly, could continue to grow. Such activities could include services, arts, communication, and education. After basic needs are met and reasonable levels of consumption achieved, the concept of sustainable development implies that economic development should be increasingly oriented toward this kind of inherently "sustainable" activities.
One model of a transition to a steady-state economy has been presented by the Canadian economist Peter Victor. An economic model called "LOWGROW," when applied to the Canadian economy, models "socio-eco-environmental" paths that offer attractive social and environmental outcomes without requiring economic growth.7 In the scenario presented in Figure 18.7, the Canadian government is assumed to introduce a tax on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, creating incentives to switch from high GHG sources of energy to lower ones, making energy in general more expensive and encouraging conservation and efficiency. The revenues from the GHG tax are used to reduce other taxes, so that the net effect on revenues is zero.







Source: Adapted from Peter Victor, Managing Without Growth: Slower by Deisgn, not Disaster. Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar, 2008, p. 182.
Figure 18.7 A No-Growth Scenario for the Canadian Economy
Even though projected GDP/capita stops growing in this macroeconomic model, wellbeing continues to increase, with declining unemployment, poverty, and debt, and improved environmental conditions.

In this scenario, GDP per capita stabilizes after 2025, and GHG emissions decrease by 22 percent by 2035. Poverty levels as well as unemployment decrease significantly, and fiscal balance is reached, with a steady decrease in the debt to GDP ratio. A shorter workweek allows for full employment, with less growth in material consumption but more spending on health care and education. Such models show that slower growth leading to no growth can be consistent with full employment, virtual elimination of poverty, more leisure, considerable reduction in GHG emissions, and fiscal balance.

Discussion Questions

1. Cutting the length of the standard full-time workweek could be one way to keep people employed while cutting down on the "throughput" of materials and energy. Can you think of other policies that might also have this effect?
2. Do you think that an economic system can prosper without growth? Can we distinguish among growth in GDP, growth in employment, and growth in well-being? To what extent do these necessarily go together, and to what extent can improvements in employment and well-being be separated from GDP growth?

6. CONCLUDING THOUGHTS

Throughout the twentieth century, the main objective of macroeconomics was steady, strong economic growth. Considering the challenges that we face in the twenty-first century, macroeconomics itself will need to adapt to new realities. Employment, price stability, and GDP growth will continue to be issues of great importance—not as ends in themselves, however, but as the means to the broader goals of human development and sustainability. Keeping the ultimate well-being goals in mind, macroeconomics must look beyond the experience of the past and ask new questions.
Afundamental question confronting macroeconomics in the twenty-first century is how the majority of people in the world, currently at relatively low standards of living, can improve their well-being. The issues of "human development" discussed in Chapter 17 involve a combination of traditional economic growth and new approaches more oriented toward dealing with problems of poverty, inequality, and ecological sustainability.
Economic analysis needs to take into account the need for technologies that can provide energy and materials for human consumption in ways that are ecologically sound, and that help to remedy past damages (Box 18.4). The transition to a more sustainable economy will have economic costs, but also significant benefits, such as increased employment and improved quality of life. Another set of essential questions relates to how macroeconomics can be reformed to take into account the distant future. A first step in this direction must be recognizing that in important areas it is inappropriate to discount the future (see Box 18.2). When our great-great-grandchildren are alive, their lives and well-being will be as important to them as ours are to us. (This perspective, though often neglected in economics, is not new and was emphasized by John Maynard Keynes in the 1930s—see Box 18.5.)


BOX 18.4 TECHNOLOGIES FOR A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY
Technological progress can reduce the need for resource inputs and mitigate or eliminate environmental impacts. For a new technology to be adopted in the marketplace, it must be cost-effective. Recent developments have encouraged hope that some environmentally sound technologies are, or may soon become, competitive with more energy and resource-intensive and fossil-fuel based technologies.
• Renewable power sources have steadily declined in cost. Land-based wind power is now fully competitive with coal and nuclear power (Ailworth, 2013). While solar and offshore wind power remain more expensive than conventional power, their costs have declined also. Technologies such as solar roof tiles make it possible for buildings to generate much or all of their own power, thus adding to the asset value of the building.
• The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy estimates that only 14 percent of energy used in the U.S. economy was converted to useful work, leaving enormous potential for efficiency improvement. Their website WWW. aceee.org lists technologies and policies that can achieve much greater energy efficiency.
• Engineers at Lockheed Martin are creating a better way to desalinate water to meet the growing global demand for potable water by using filters embedded with sheets of graphene, which are 500 times thinner than others, taking much less energy to push water through them to remove salt.
• Rentricity is a New York-based company that uses water pressure in municipal pipes to create electricity. Using this otherwise untapped resource for energy also reduces costs for water utility companies.
• The Disappearing Packaging project includes printing packaging information on the surface of products using ink that washes off, tear-off tea bags and laundry detergent pods (eliminating the need for outer packaging), and a garbage bag that does double duty as packaging. The goal is a dramatic reduction in the 140 billion pounds of packaging that are dumped as waste every year in the United States.
Sources: Erin Ailworth, "Massachusetts Utilities Go for Wind Power," Boston Globe, September 23, 2013; John A. Laitner, "Linking Energy Efficiency to Economic Productivity," American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­w­w­.a­c­e­e­e­.o­r­g­/­r­e­s­e­a­r­c­h­-­r­e­p­o­r­t­/­e­l­3­f­; Rachel Feltman, "Lockheed's Better, Faster Way to Desalinate Water," Popular Mechanics March 14, 2013; Rentricity and Disappearing Package examples (and others) from w­w­w­.d­m­a­s­s­.n­e­t­.


The macroeconomics of the twenty-first century must be truly global. The social problems of poverty reduction, as well as major environmental problems such as global climate change, can be partly addressed at the national level, but the roles of international trade and global institutions are critical. Our earlier analyses of national income, fiscal and monetary policy, unemployment and inflation, and other macroeconomic issues, remain relevant, but must be placed in the context of global developmental and environmental challenges.

Discussion Questions

1. Are you optimistic or pessimistic about the future when it comes to reducing global inequalities? Do you believe that the world will be less or more unequal in fifty years? What about environmental problems—do you think they will grow better or worse in your lifetime?
2. Do you agree with Keynes's belief that industrialized countries will soon reach a point where needs will be "satisfied in the sense that we prefer to devote our further energies to noneconomic purposes"? Do you think that we are any closer to this point than 1930, when Keynes wrote his essay? Do you see any evidence that this is starting to occur?


BOX 18.5 ECONOMIC POSSIBIUNES FOR OUR GRANDCHILDREN
What can we reasonably expect the level of our economic life to be a hundred years hence? What are the economic possibilities for our grandchildren? John Maynard Keynes thought that:

a point may soon be reached, much sooner perhaps than we are all of us aware of, when these needs are satisfied in the sense that we prefer to devote our further energies to non-economic purposes. ... I draw the conclusion that, assuming no important wars and no important increase in population, the economic problem may be solved, or be at least within sight of solution, within a hundred years. This means that the economic problem is not—if we look into the future—the permanent problem of the human race.
Thus for the first time since his creation man will be faced with his real, his permanent problem—how to use his freedom from pressing economic cares, how to occupy the leisure, which science and compound interest will have won for him, to live wisely and agreeably and well.
When the accumulation of wealth is no longer of high social importance, there will be great changes in the code of morals. ... The love of money as a possession—as distinguished from the love of money as a means to the enjoyments and realities of life—will be recognized for what it is, a somewhat disgusting morbidity, one of those semicriminal, semi-pathological propensities which one hands over with a shudder to the specialists in mental disease. All kinds of social customs and economic practices, affecting the distribution of wealth and of economic rewards and penalties, which we now maintain at all costs, however distasteful and unjust they may be in themselves, because they are tremendously useful in promoting the accumulation of capital, we shall then be free, at last, to discard.
Of course there will still be many people with intense, unsatisfied purposiveness who will blindly pursue wealth—unless they can find some plausible substitute. But the rest of us will no longer be under any obligation to applaud and encourage them.

Source: John Maynard Keynes, "Economic Possibilities for Our Grandchildren," Essays in Persuasion. New York: Classic House Books, 2009 [original publication 1930].


REVIEW QUESTIONS
 1. What are some of the environmental issues related to economic growth?
 2. What are some of the projected effects of future climate change?
 3. What is the environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis? What is the evidence regarding this hypothesis?
 4. What are "green" taxes?
 5. What are tradable permit systems?
 6. What is a debt-for-nature swap?
 7. What is the idea of sufficiency?
 8. How do environmental impacts differ across the three global income classes?
 9. What are some examples of local sustainability?
10. What are "green Keynesian" policies? Give some examples.
11. What is a steady-state economy?

EXERCISES
1. Issues of environmental sustainability can sometimes be a bit abstract. This exercise is designed then to an individual level. Start at h­t­t­p­:­/­/­w­w­w­. ­m­y­f­o­o­t­p­r­i­n­t­.o­r­g­/­ and familiarize yourself with the notion of "ecological footprints," then take the quiz to discover what your personal footprint looks like. What did you learn that was new information to you? What specifically can you do about this new information?
2. Begin at the website of the Global Footprints Network (www.footprintnetwork.org) and locate the "Footprint for Nations" under Footprint Basics. Access (or download) the 2010 Data Tables (in Excel format) and familiarize yourself with these 2007 data to complete the following:
a. What was the per capita ecological footprint of consumption for the United States?
b. What was the per capita biocapacity in the United States?
c. Explain the meaning of the two numbers you just located. What are the implications?
d. Search through the database to locate the nations that had a larger footprint than the United States in 2007. Identify these nations and their footprints.
e. Study the income and continent category summaries in the database. What conclusions can you draw from these summaries? Explain your answer.
3. Match each concept in Column A with a definition or example in Column B:








Column A

Column B


a.
"Green" taxes
1.
Opportunity for developing countries to protect nature reserves or pursue environmentally friendly policies


b.
Tradable permit systems
2.
An inverted U-shaped relationship between economic development and environmental damages


c.
Debt-for-nature swaps
3.
A situation where population and the use of raw materials and energy have stabilized


d.
Throughput
4.
Based on the principle that a process of pollution reduction may be most efficiently achieved if businesses have choices


e.
Social discount rate
5.
Designed to discourage pollution and natural resource depletion by making them more expensive


f.
Environmental Kuznets Curve
6.
Reflects social rather than market valuation of future costs and benefits;


g.
Steady-state economy
7.
The flow of raw materials and energy into the economic system, and the flow of wastes from the system




NOTES
1. World Bank and State Environmental Protection Agency, People's Republic of China, Cost of Pollution in China. Washington D.C.: World Bank, 2007.
2. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Review of the State of World Marine Fishery Resources. Rome, Italy: FAO, 2012.
3. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis. Cambridge, UK, and New York: Cambridge University Press, 2007.
4. Samuel Brown, William G. Gale, and Fernando Saltiel, Carbon Taxes as Part of the Fiscal Solution. Urban Institute and Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center, h­t­t­p­:­/­/­t­a­x­p­o­l­i­c­y­c­e­n­t­e­r­.o­r­g­/­
5. Alan Durning, How Much Is Enough: The Consumer Society and the Future of the Earth. New York: Norton, 1992.
6. See http://blogs.worldwatch.org/sustainableprosperity/the-80-percent-solution/
7.Peter Victor, Managing Without Growth: Slower by Design, not Disaster. Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar, 2008.

APPENDIX: DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGES

One of the important issues in the area of human development and environmental sustainability is the question of how many people we need to be concerned about. In 1700, the human population was about 600 million. In 1927, it was 2 billion. Currently, more than 7 billion people live on this planet. Will national and global populations continue to grow, level off, or even shrink? What are the macroeconomic challenges presented by likely demographic changes in the coming century?
The relationship between demographic and economic issues is multifaceted. On the one hand, growth in the size of economies is often associated with population growth, because a growing population means more workers and hence greater ability to produce. On the other hand, human well-being can be endangered when population growth outpaces available resources, including environmental resources. If the production of I needed goods and services cannot keep pace with population, lower standards of living can result. In addition to the question of population size, issues about the composition of a population, when considered according to characteristics such as age, can also be important in explaining economic change. After introducing some basic concepts in demography (the study of populations), this appendix examines the macroeconomic challenges posed by continued growth in global populations and the dramatic aging of populations in many countries.

A.1 BASIC DEMOGRAPHIC TERMS AND HISTORY

Although the terms "birthrate" and "fertility rate" may seem as if they should mean the same thing, in the field of demography they have different meanings. The birthrate is the annual number of births per 1,000 people in a population. The fertility rate, refers to the average number of births per woman of reproductive age in a population. The birthrate in any country will depend on two things: first, the proportion of people in the country who are women of reproductive age, and, second, the rate of fertility among these women. Similarly, the death rate is the annual number of deaths per 1,000 people, while a mortality rate refers to deaths within a specific group.

birthrate: the annual number of births per 1,000 population
fertility rate: the average number of births per woman of reproductive age
death rate: the annual number of deaths per 1,000 population
mortality rate: the average number of deaths among a specific group

If the fertility rate is equal to what is called the replacement fertility rate, then the next generation will be the same size as the current one—women will, on average, produce just enough children to replace themselves and one other adult. Currently, the replacement fertility rate for industrialized countries is about 2.1 children per woman. (It is slightly higher than 2 because slightly more males than females are born, and some female children will die before reaching reproductive age.) In countries with higher mortality rates or larger ratios of men to women, the replacement fertility rate is somewhat higher.

replacement fertility rate: the fertility rate required for each generation to be replaced by a subsequent generation of the same size

It might seem that a country with fertility rates that are exactly equal to the replacement rate should have a stable population. However, this is not necessarily so, due to a phenomenon called population momentum. Recall that the birthrate depends not only on the fertility rate but also on the size of the childbearing population. Suppose that a country has relatively few older people and large numbers of people of childbearing age. Its population will continue to grow even with a replacement fertility rate because the birthrate will be high (reflecting the size of the childbearing group), while the death rate will be low (because only a small proportion of the population will be reaching the end of life). Only when birthrates and death rates are equal does a population stabilize.

population momentum: the trend in population size that results from its age profile, in particular the number of women who are of childbearing age or younger

In the past two hundred to three hundred years, the industrialized countries have experienced a demographic transition from a combination of high birthrates and death rates to a combination of low birthrates and death rates. But this transition has not been smooth. Table 18.2 outlines the four—or perhaps five—stages of demographic transition.

demographic transition: the change over time from a combination of high birth and death rates to a combination of low birth and death rates

In the first stage, women spend a great deal of time and effort in bearing and raising children, at much risk to their own health, only to see many of their children die young. Thus moving away from the first stage is an important goal of human development. Populations in the third and fourth stage have moved past the highest birth and death rates, making a higher quality of life possible.
Although birth and death rates are crucially important for explaining population trends in any country, for some countries the net migration rate is also important. The net migration rate is the number of people gained by migration (calculated as the number of people who move into an area minus the number of people who moved out of the area) over a year, usually expressed per 1,000 people.

net migration rate: the net gain in population from migration, per 1,000 population


Table 18.2 Stages of Demographic Transition




First Stage
Both birth and death rates are high. On average, the number of children that survive in each family is just enough to keep the population stable or growing very slowly.


Second Stage
Death rates are reduced, while birthrates stay high, so parents are typically survived by significantly more than the two children required to replace them. From the eighteenth to the twentieth centuries, this second stage developed in industrializing countries due to the nutritional advances that followed increased agricultural productivity, and (especially after about 1850) better medical care and sanitation.


Third Stage
Birthrates start declining, but are still higher than death rates. The increased availability of contraception and improvements in female education contribute to this stage. In the third stage, fertility rates are initially above replacement level but will eventually drop to or possibly below replacement level. Population growth slows down, though it continues to grow because of the number of women of childbearing age.


Fourth Stage
Birthrates and death rates equalize at a low rate. Population growth is zero—but the population is considerably larger than it was when the process began.


Fifth Stage
Birthrates are lower than death rates. When the demographic transition was first conceptualized, the process was expected to stop at the fourth stage. In fact, however, some countries may move fairly rapidly from above- to below-replacement birthrates, passing through the fourth stage of equal birth and death rates. Population actually declines.




A.2 GLOBAL POPULATION PATTERNS AND POLICIES

The industrialized countries are generally in the third or fourth stage of the demographic transition. The fertility rate in the United States is near 2.1, while most other industrialized countries have fertility rates well below 2. Italy was one of the first countries to be recognized as having a below-replacement birthrate, entering the third stage in about 1960. Its population, nevertheless, continued to increase, from 50 million to about 57 million now (due to population momentum). Given current trends, Italy's fifth stage is about to begin; unless fertility rates rebound, the population is predicted to sink to 54 million in 2025 and 38 million in 2050—a 33 percent decline from the peak. Germany and Japan are other countries where population decline has just begun. Government policies in such countries now often seek to increase births (see Box 18.6).
Throughout most of the world, populations are still growing. Many governments and international agencies working in poorer countries have tried to bring down fertility rates, in order to ease the stress that a quickly growing population puts on resources and productive capacities. These programs have often been successful, at least to a degree, and some population policies simultaneously serve other human development ends.


BOX 18.6 SHRINKING ITALY
Although many environmentalists fret about overpopulation, Italians are fretting over the opposite. Despite the stereotype of its massive Catholic clans, Italy actually has one of the lowest birthrates in the world, a population set to shrink by a third by 2050, and the world's highest percentage of population aged 65 or older (21 percent in 2013). The country wants babies. Badly. [In 2004] the Italian government offered a $1,300 one-time payment to couples who had a second child. The rural village of Laviano, fearful of disappearing altogether, is offering $14,000 for every baby produced. Studies show, however, that while cash payments may accelerate breeding schedules, they don't persuade tot-averse citizens to procreate. Some activists say what's really needed is more public-policy support for working mothers. If serious steps aren't taken, says Franca Biglio, mayor of Marsaglia (population 400), "Our bella Italia will become a deserted wilderness."
Source: Tracy Wilkinson, "Mayor of Shrinking Italian Town Pays Women to Give Birth," Los Angeles Times, February 13, 2005; Population Resource Bureau, World Population Data Sheet 2013. w­w­w­.p­r­b­.o­r­g­.


Increasing women's access to health services and education has often played a crucial role, not only delivering knowledge about family planning but also giving women the power to play a greater role in household decisions. Other policies, such as China's long-time policy of penalizing families with more than one child, are more coercive. Forced sterilizations, forced abortions, and infanticide (especially of girls, in cultures that prize boys) are the darker side of a compulsory approach to population control.
Population trends in China and India are especially noteworthy, because together they are home to nearly 40 percent of the world's population. Even though China has put downward pressure on population with its one-child policy and had a fertility rate estimated at 1.64 in 2010, its population is still growing due to population momentum. The UN projections suggest that its population will continue to grow until 2030, peaking at 1.45 billion. India currently has a smaller population than China, and its fertility rate has fallen by half since the 1960s. But with a current fertility rate of 2.73, India is expected to displace China as the world's most populous country within the next 50 years. Populations are also still growing in most middle-income countries, though their fertility rates vary, some above and others below replacement.
Sub-Saharan Africa has had some of the world's highest fertility rates in modern times—as many as seven children per woman in some countries. Tragically, however, the HIV/AIDS pandemic has drastically increased mortality rates in many of these countries. The population story in the Russian Federation is also rather grim. Suffering from the special conditions of a poorly managed transition from socialism to a market economy, it has experienced both high death rates and low birthrates. Its population, which reached a high of 148 million in 1990, had fallen to 143 million by 2013 (although birth rates have recently started to rise).
On the global scale, projections about population made by the United Nations Population Division forecast world population rising from its current level of 7 billion to 9 billion by 2050. Most of the additional people will live in the less industrialized parts of the world. The projections assume that life expectancy will increase except where a population is affected by HIV/AIDS.
The UN projections, however, do not take into account the consequences of environmental degradation. Whether the resources of the world will be able to continue to support such a growing population remains to be seen. If population ceases to grow in this century, will it be because of individual choices and human development-oriented policies, such as increasing people's power to control their family size? Or because of coercive polices or high death rates due to flood, famine, and disease? Macroeconomic policies concerning resource use, development, and international economic relations hold part of the key to these important questions.

A.3 THE ISSUE OF AGING POPULATIONS

To those who have been concerned about the ecological, economic, and social impacts of rapid population growth or excessively high population density, stabilizing populations are good news. But there are also significant threats and challenges inherent in the fourth and fifth stages of the demographic transition. The most obvious problems arise from the fact that rapidly falling birthrates lead to changes in the age structure of a population.
A convenient way to visualize the age structure of a population is to chart the numbers of men and women in different age categories, as shown in Figure 18.8 for the case of the United States. Such figures are sometimes called "population pyramids," because in populations with sizable, steady birthrates and regular, steady death rates among the elderly, they take on the triangular shape shown in Figure 18.8(a), representing the U.S. population in 1900.
Although fertility rates fell in the United States in the twentieth century, this fall was not steady. Fertility was particularly low during the Great Depression and then rebounded in part after World War II. People born between 1946 and 1964 are thus said to belong to the "baby boom" generation. Then, after the "baby boom" came the "baby bust" and a transition to a substantially lower fertility rate. As a result, the "pyramid" by 2000 did not look so triangular anymore. At the turn of the twenty-first century, a high proportion of people were in their prime working years, with relatively small numbers of the elderly and children, as shown in Figure 18.8 (b).
As the bulge created by middle-aged baby boomers moves farther up the pyramid over the coming decades, the proportion of the population in retirement years will rise. (The first baby boomers turned 65 in 2011.) Government projections suggest that the age structure of the U.S. population will look like Figure 18.8(c) in 2040—much more like a rectangle than a triangle.







Source: Wan Wan He, Manisha Sengupta, Victoria A. Velkoff, and Kimberly A. DeBarros, U.S. Census Bureau, Current Population Reports, P23-209, "65+ in the United States: 2005," U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC, 2005.
Figure 18.8 Population by Age and Sex, United States, 1900, 2000, and 2040 (projected)
In 1900, the "population pyramid" shows a small elderly population, a larger middle-aged population, and an even larger population of children. By 2000, falling birth rates made the middle tiers of the "pyramid" bulge outward. The proportion of older people in the population is forecast to be much higher in future decades.






Source: United Nations, World Population Prospects: The 2006 Revision, Population Database. Figure based on mediumvariant projections.
Figure 18.9 Old-Age Dependency Ratios, 1950-2050
Countries with sharp declines in birth rates can expect to have a rising ratio of older people to working-age people over the next several decades.

Other countries that have experienced a "baby bust" will face a similarly top-heavy age structure. This means that there will be fewer people of working age to support people who have retired. The old-age dependency ratio is often defined as the number of people age 65 and over for each hundred people age 15-64. Figure 18.9 shows the projected rises in the old-age dependency ratio for three of the countries that we have discussed: China, Italy, and the United States. In Italy, for example, the number of older people per 100 working-age persons is projected to rise from about 30 now to nearly 70 in 2050.

old-age dependency ratio: the number of retirees relative to the number of active workers

Such a changing age structure has a number of implications for national macroeconomics:
• First, each future worker will have considerably more retired people dependent on his or her services. The needs of the elderly for health and social services may lead to a further sectoral shift toward service-sector employment. In some countries, the need for workers may be filled, in part, by increased immigration.
• Second, there are implications for savings rates. With more people drawing down their retirement savings and fewer people in the process of building up their savings in preparation for retirement, one can expect national savings to be depressed. This may boost consumption and aggregate demand but may also cause a lack of loanable funds needed for investment purposes.
• Third, there are implications for government budgets. An aging population means fewer people paying taxes, at the same time that more people become reliant on public retirement programs and publicly provided social services and medical care. Such strains on public finances may lead to higher taxes or lower benefits or cuts in other areas.
In countries such as the United States, which has a long history of retirement support, the effect may be felt primarily through strains in public budgets—as current controversies over the future of Social Security and the financing of prescription drugs for the elderly already demonstrate. The aging of the population may be felt even more acutely in China, where pensions, medical care, and other support for the elderly are looming as possibly the leading social crisis.

A.4 DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGES AHEAD

The population pyramids shown in Figure 18.8 can be used, with a little assistance from your imagination, to illustrate another, very important point. Figure 18.8(a) showed the United States in 1900; it can also serve as a generalized picture of any country that has a growing population impelled by fertility rates above replacement. More than half the world's population—about 3.5 billion people—fit this picture. At the same time, Figure 18.8(c) is a reasonably good picture of the squared-off "pyramids" that will, in the foreseeable future, characterize nearly all the rich countries of the world: Western Europe, Japan, and a few other highly industrialized countries.
As the developing countries gradually stabilize, their population "pyramids" will fill out just as those for the United States did over the past century, representing the additional 2 billion people in the UN's population projections for 2050. These population images and the underlying realities, including growing inequalities of living standards, will be of great global significance for at least the next 50 years.
Although there is no certainty that inequalities between rich and poor will diminish in the foreseeable future, by midcentury there will be some important factors to add to the situation just described. China's population (as noted earlier) will have begun to decline by 2050. It also seems likely that India's declining fertility rate will not stop when it reaches 2.1, but will continue to fall, so that sometime in the second half of the twenty-first century India will join China in a new category of countries that, even if not yet rich, have nevertheless reversed the long growth trend of the second stage of the demographic transition.
With China and India, and a number of other countries as well, eventually joining the list of countries with below-replacement fertility, it seems likely that within this century we will see a stabilization of the global human population. It is also possible that, beyond stabilization, the shrinking of populations will continue in the richer countries and spread to others as well. In terms of resource demands, pollution generation, and pressure on the earth's ecological capacity, stabilization of population is desirable. However, significant changes will be required in how people conceptualize and pursue their goals if a shift toward smaller populations is to be felt as positive rather than severely negative.
Macroeconomic theory has a significant role to play in helping to understand and plan for these changes, including the need to revise expectations, behaviors, policies, and theories to assist populations in adapting to a changing age profile. This has potentially large implications for medical care and other services, GDP, policy, and culture. One important challenge is discovering how the elderly can be more of a resource than a drain; this is desirable from an economic point of view as well as in terms of the psychological well-being (sense of meaning and purpose in life) of the elderly.
An overriding concern in the first half of the twenty-first century must be the need to provide food, energy, education, and productive work for a likely sizable increase in the number of people on earth—with virtually all of that increase occurring in areas where economic as well as social, cultural, and political systems are already hard pressed to adapt to past and present population growth.
The record of the past three hundred years is one of astonishing achievement, in which the total human population has multiplied more than tenfold, with more than half of those now alive enjoying a level of material consumption that would have been considered great riches in any previous era. But the number now living in extreme poverty is greater than the entire human population at the beginning of the demographic transition. And the natural capital on which humanity can draw is now significantly degraded. The moral of the demographic story is sobering: It is the need to find ways to provide better lives for more people, with limited natural resources.



* At a GDP growth rate of 3 percent, a doubling of GDP takes about 24 years. A quadrupling would take 48 years.
* This hypothesis was not devised by Simon Kuznets but is similar to his hypothesis, discussed in Chapter 17, that inequality first increases, then decreases with growing national wealth.
* Many of the examples cited are drawn from Gar Alperovitz, What Then Must We Do? (White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green, 2013).













 
 
 

Glossary

 


 
 
abundance: resources are abundant to the extent that they exist in plentiful supply for meeting various goals (2)
accelerator principle: the idea that high GDP growth leads to increasing investment, and low or negative GDP growth leads to declining investment (12)
accommodating monetary policy: loose or expansionary monetary policy intended to counteract recessionary tendencies in the economy (12)
administrative capitalismml: a national system characterized by private corporate ownership and a substantial reliance on public administration (as well as exchange) as a mode of coordination (17)
administrative socialismml: a national system in which state ownership predominates and activity is coordinated primarily by public administration (command) (17)
aggregate demand (AD) the total demand for all goods and services in a national economy. In a simple model without government or foreign trade, what households and firms intend to spend on consumption and investment: AD = C + II (1, 9)
appropriation (of federal funds): Congressional approval of funds for a particular purpose (10)
assets: property owned by an individual or company (1)
austerity: a policy of deficit cutting that reduces public expenditures or raises taxes to balance the budget (16)
automatic stabilizers: tax and spending institutions that tend to increase government revenues and lower government spending during economic expansions but lower revenues and raise government spending during economic recessions (10)
balance of payments (BOP) account: the national account that tracks inflows and outflows arising from international trade, earnings, transfers, and transactions in assets (14)
balance of payments crisis: when a country gets precariously close to running out of foreign exchange and is therefore unable to purchase imports or service its existing debt (14)
balanced budget multiplier: the impact on equilibrium output of simultaneous increases of equal size in government spending and taxes (10)
bank reserves: funds not lent out or invested by a private bank but kept as vault cash or on deposit at the Federal Reserve (11)
barter: exchange of goods, services, or assets directly for other goods, services, or assets, without the use of money (11)
base year (in the constant-dollar method of estimating GDP): the year whose prices are chosen for evaluating production in all years. Normally real and nominal GDP are equal only in the base year (5)
basic neoclassical (traditional microeconomic) model: a model that portrays the economy as a collection of profit-maximizing firms and utility-maximizing households interacting in perfectly competitive markets (2)
behavioral equation: in contrast to an accounting identity, a behavioral equation reflects a theory about the behavior of one or more economic agents or sectors. The variables in the equation may or may not be observable (9)
bilateral development assistance: aid (or loans) given by one country to another to promote development (17)
birthrate: the annual number of births per 1,000 population (18, Appendix)
bond: a financial instrument that pays a fixed amount every year (the coupon amount), as well as to repaying the amount of principal (the face value) on a particular date (the maturity date) (12)
Bretton Woods system: a system of fixed exchange rates established after World War II, lasting until 1972 (14)
budget deficit: an excess of total government outlays over total government tax revenues (10)
budget surplus: an excess of total government tax revenues over total government outlays (10)
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA): the agency in the United States in charge of compiling and publishing the national accounts (5)
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS): In the United States, the government agency that compiles and publishes employment and unemployment statistics (8)
business sphere: firms that produce goods and services for profitable sale (3)
business (trade) cycle: recurrent fluctuations in the level of national production, with alternating periods of recession and boom (1)
capabilities: the opportunities that people have to pursue important aspects of well-being, such as being healthy and having access to education (17)
capital account (in the balance of payments account): the account that tracks flows arising from international transactions in assets (14)
capital controls: the regulation or taxation of international transactions involving assets (14)
capital flight: rapid movement of capital assets out of a country (14)
capital gain: an increase in the value of an asset over time (3)
capital income: rents, profits, and interest (3)
capital intensive: a process or procedure that makes use of more capital relative to other inputs such as labor (17)
capital stock: a quantity of any resource that is valued for its potential economic contributions (3)
ceteris paribus: a Latin phrase meaning "other things equal" or "all else constant" (2)
chain-type quantity index: an index comparing real production in the current year to the reference year, calculated using a series of year-to-year Fisher quantity indexes (5, Appendix)
change in demand: a shift of the demand curve in response to some determinant other than the item's price (4)
change in quantity demanded: movement along a demand curve in response to a price change (4)
change in quantity supplied: movement along a supply curve in response to a price change (4)
change in supply: a shift of the supply curve in response to some determinant other than the item's price (4)
classical economics: the school of economics, originating in the eighteenth century, that stressed issues of growth and distribution, based on an image of smoothly functioning markets (1)
closed economy: an economy with no foreign sector (5)
collateralized debt obligation: an investment product that packages together numerous assets including mortgage-backed securities (15)
collective investment vehicle or pooled fund: an investment vehicle that pools investments from many different sources, making investment decisions for them all as a group (11)
commodity money: a good used as money that is also valuable in itself (11)
complementary good: a good that is used along with another good (4)
consumer durable goods: consumer purchases that are expected to last longer than three years. These are generally items of equipment, such as vehicles and appliances, used by households to produce goods and services for their own use (5)
consumer price index (CPI): an index measuring changes in the prices of goods and services bought by households (5)
consumption: the final use of a good or service to satisfy current wants (3)
contractionary fiscal policy: reductions in government spending or transfer payments or increases in taxes, leading to a lower level of economic activity (10)
contractionary monetary policy: the use of monetary policy tools to limit the money supply, raise interest rates, and encourage a leveling off or reduction in economic activity (12)
convergence (in reference to economic growth): the idea that underlying economic forces will cause poorer countries and regions to "catch up" with richer ones (17)
convergence criteria: the requirements that EU member countries must satisfy as a condition of participating in the eurozone (16)
core sphere: households, families, and communities (3)
countercyclical policy: fiscal policy in which taxes are lowered and expenditure is raised when the economy is weak, and the opposite occurs when the economy is strong (10)
credit default swap: a security that is effectively an insurance policy against defaults related to MBSs and CDOs (15)
credit rationing: when banks deny loans to some potential borrowers, in the interest of maintaining their own profitability (12)
crowding in: the process in which government spending leads to more favorable expectations for the economy, thereby inducing investment (10)
crowding out: a reduction in the availability of private capital resulting from federal government borrowing to finance budget deficits (10)
currency appreciation: when a currency becomes more valuable, for example, when increased demand for a country's exports causes an increase in demand for its currency (14)
currency depreciation: when a currency becomes less valuable, for example, due to a decrease in demand for a country's exports or an increase in its demand for imports (14)
current account (in the balance of payments account): the national account that tracks inflows and outflows arising from international trade, earnings, and transfers (14)
cyclical deficit (surplus): the portion of the deficit (or surplus) that is caused by fluctuations in the business cycle (10)
cyclical unemployment: unemployment caused by a drop in aggregate demand (8)
damage-cost approach: assigning a monetary value to an environmental service that is equal to the actual damage done when the service is withdrawn (6)
death rate: the annual number of deaths per 1,000 population (18, Appendix)
debt ceiling: a congressionally mandated limit on the size of the gross federal debt (16)
debt held by the public: the gross federal debt minus the debt owed to other government accounts and also minus the portion that is held by the Federal Reserve (16)
defensive expenditures: money spent to counteract economic activities that have caused harm to human or environmental health (6)
deficit ceiling: a congressionally mandated limit on the size of the federal budget deficit (16)
deficit spending: government spending in excess of tax revenues collected (10)
deflation: when the aggregate price level falls (11)
demand curve: a curve indicating the quantities that buyers are ready to purchase at various prices (4)
demographic transition: the change over time from a combination of high birth and death rates to a combination of low birth and death rates (18, Appendix)
dependency needs: the need to receive care, shelter, or food from others when one is unable to provide these for oneself (3)
depreciation: a decrease in the quantity or quality of a stock of capital (3, 5)
devaluation: lowering an exchange rate within a fixed exchange rate system (14)
discount rate: the interest rate at which banks can borrow reserves at the Fed discount window (12)
discouraged workers: people who want employment but have given up looking because they believe that there are no jobs available for them (8)
discretionary fiscal policy: changes in government spending and taxation resulting from deliberate policy decisions (10)
disposable income: income remaining for consumption or saving after subtracting taxes and adding transfer payments (10)
distribution: the allocation of products and resources among people (3)
division of labor: an approach to production in which a process is broken down into smaller tasks, with each worker assigned only one or a few tasks (1)
domestic content requirement: laws requiring traded goods to contain a certain percentage of goods produced by domestic companies (14)
dynamic analysis: analysis that takes into account the passage of time (2)
economic actor (economic agent): an individual, group, or organization that is involved in economic activities (1)
economic development: the process of moving from a situation of poverty and deprivation to a situation of increased production and plenty, through investments and changes in the organization of work (1)
economic growth: increases in the level of marketed production in a country or region (1)
economic liability: anything that one economic actor owes to another (11)
economics: the study of how people manage their resources to meet their needs and enhance their well-being (1)
economies of scale: benefits that occur when the long run average cost of production falls as the size of the enterprise increases (15)
efficiency: the use of resources in a way that does not waste any inputs. Inputs are used in such a way that they yield the highest possible value of output, or a given output is produced using the lowest possible value of inputs (2)
efficiency wage theory: the theory that an employer can motivate workers to put forth more effort by paying them somewhat more than they could get elsewhere (8)
empirical investigation: observation and recording of the specific phenomena of concern (2)
employed person (Bureau of Labor Statistics household survey definition): a person who did any work for pay or profit during the week before he or she is surveyed by the BLS or who worked for fifteen hours or more in a family business (8)
environmentally adjusted net domestic product (EDP): GDP less depreciation of both manufactured and natural capital (6)
equilibriumml: a situation of rest, in which there are no forces that create change (4)
excess reserves: the portion of bank reserves that banks are permitted to lend to their customers (11)
exchange: trading one thing for another (3)
exchange rate: the number of units of one currency that can be exchanged for one unit of another currency (14)
exchange value: value that corresponds to the value of goods or services for which the item can be exchanged (11)
expansionary fiscal policy: the use of government spending, transfer payments, or tax cuts to stimulate a higher level of economic activity (10)
expansionary monetary policy: the use of monetary policy tools to increase the money supply, lower interest rates, and stimulate a higher level of economic activity (12)
expected real interest rate: the nominal interest rate minus expected inflation, re = i − πe (12, Appendix)
explicit contract: a formal, often written, agreement that states the terms of exchange and may be enforceable through a legal system (2)
external debt: the portion of the gross federal debt that is owed to foreign individuals or groups (16)
externalities: side effects or unintended consequences, either positive or negative, that affect persons or entities such as the environment that are not among the economic actors directly involved in the economic activity that caused the effect (2)
factors of production: the essential inputs for economic activity, including labor, capital, and natural resources (17)
federal funds rate: the interest rate determined in the private market for overnight loans of reserves among banks (12)
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC): the committee that oversees open market operations. It is composed of the Fed Board of Governors and 5 of the 12 regional Fed presidents (12)
fertility rate: the average number of births per woman of reproductive age (18, Appendix)
fiat money: a medium of exchange that is used as money because a government says it has value, and that is accepted by the people using it (11)
final good: a good that is ready for use, needing no further processing (5)
financial assets: a variety of holdings in which wealth can be invested with an expectation of future return (7)
financial capital: funds of purchasing power available to facilitate economic activity (3)
financial institution: Any institution that collects money and holds it as financial assets (7)
financial intermediary: an institution such as a bank, savings and loan association, or life insurance company that accepts funds from savers and makes loans to borrowers (11)
financialization: a process in which the financial sector of the economy is increasingly able to generate and circulate profits that are not closely related to the real economy (7)
fiscal policy: government spending and tax policy, involving the manipulation of levels of government spending and taxation to raise or lower the level of aggregate demand (1, 10)
Fisher quantity index: an index that measures production in one year relative to an adjacent year by using an average of the ratios that would be found by using first one year, and then the other, as the source of prices at which production is valued (5, Appendix)
fixed assets: equipment owned by businesses and governments; structures; residences; and software (5)
fixed exchange rate system: a system in which currencies are traded at fixed ratios (14)
flexible (floating) exchange rate system: a system in which exchange rates are determined by the forces of supply and demand (14)
flow: something whose quantity can be measured over a period of time (3)
foreign direct investment (FDI): investment in a business in a foreign country (14)
foreign exchange: the class of currencies that is broadly acceptable by foreigners in commercial or investment transactions. Generally limited to three currencies—the dollar, the euro, and the yen (14)
foreign exchange market intervention: an action by central banks to buy or sell foreign exchange reserves in order to keep exchange rates at desired levels (14)
foreign trade zone: a designated area of a country within which foreign-owned manufacturers can operate free of many taxes, tariffs, and regulations (14)
fractional reserve system: a banking system in which banks are required to keep only a fraction of the total value of their deposits on reserve (11)
free riders: people who seek to enjoy the benefit of a good without paying for it (2)
frictional unemployment: unemployment that arises as people are in transition between jobs (8)
"full-employment output" (F*): For modeling purposes, a level of output that is assumed to correspond to a case of no excessive or burdensome unemployment, but the likely existence of at least some transitory unemployment (9)
GDP deflator (implicit price deflator): a price index created by dividing nominal GDP by real GDP (5, Appendix)
Gini ratio (or Gini coefficient): a measure of inequality, based on the Lorenz curve, that goes from 0 (perfect equality) to 1 (complete inequality). Greater inequality shows up as a larger area between the curved line and the diagonal (3)
global economy: the system of economic rules, norms, and interactions by which economic actors and actions in different parts of the world are connected to one another (1)
government bond: an interest-bearing security constituting a promise to pay at a specified future time (10)
government outlays: total government expenditures, including spending on goods and services and transfer payments (10)
government spending (G): the component of GDP that represents spending on goods and services by federal, state and local governments (10)
gross domestic product (GDP) (BEA definition): a measure of the total market value of final goods and services newly produced within a country's borders over a period of time (usually one year) (5)
gross federal debt: total amount owed by the federal government to all claimants, including foreigners, the public in the United States, and other government accounts (16)
gross investment: all flows into the capital stock over a period of time (3, 5)
hedge fund: a type of pooled fund that often engages in highly speculative investments and to which access is generally restricted to wealthy clients (11)
historical investigation: study of past events (2)
home equity loan: a loan that permits a borrower to offer his or her home (or their equity stake in it) as collateral in case of failure to repay the loan (15)
human capital: people's capacity for work and their individual knowledge and skills (3)
human development: an approach to development that stresses the provision of basic needs such as food, shelter, and health care (17)
identity (accounting identity): an equation in which the two sides are equal by definition (5)
implicit contract: an informal agreement about the terms of exchange, based on verbal discussions and on common norms, traditions, and expectations (2)
import substitution: the policy of subsidizing domestic producers to make products that can be used in place of imported goods (14)
imputation: a procedure in which values are assigned for a category of products, usually using values of related products or inputs (5)
index number: a figure that measures the change in magnitude of a variable, such as a quantity or price, compared to another period (5)
industrial policy: a set of government policies designed to enhance a country's ability to compete globally (17)
Industrial Revolution: a process of social, technological, and economic change, beginning in Western Europe in the eighteenth-century, that developed and applied new methods of production and work organization resulting in a great increase in output per worker (17)
infant industry: an industry that is not yet globally competitive, but receives government support with the expectation that it may become so (17)
inflation: a rise in the general level of prices (1)
informal sphere: made up of businesses operating outside government oversight and regulation. In less industrialized countries, it may constitute the majority of economic activity (3)
in-kind transfers: transfers of goods or services (3)
inputs: resources that go into production (3)
institutions: ways of structuring interactions between individuals and groups, including both formally constituted establishments and patterns of organization embodied in customs, habits, and laws (2)
insurance company: a company that pays to cover all or part of the cost of specific risks against which individuals and companies chose to insure themselves (11)
intermediate good: a good that will undergo further processing (5)
internal debt: the portion of the gross federal debt that is owed to individuals or groups within the country (16)
International Monetary Fund (IMF): an international agency charged with overseeing international finance, including exchange rates, international payments, and balance of payments management (14)
intrinsic value: value related to the tangible or physical properties of the object (11)
inventories: stocks of raw materials or manufactured goods held until they can be used or sold (5)
investment: actions taken to increase the quantity or quality of a resource now, in order to make benefits possible in the future (3)
Keynesian economics: the school of thought, named after John Maynard Keynes, that argued for the active use of fiscal policy to keep aggregate demand high and employment rates up (1)
Kuznets curve hypothesis: the theory that economic inequality first increases during the initial stages of economic development but then eventually decreases with further economic growth (17)
labor force (BLS definition): people who are employed or unemployed (8)
labor force participation (LFP) rate: the percentage of potential workers either with a job or actively seeking a job or the labor force as a percentage of the civilian noninstitutional population (8)
labor income: payment to workers, including wages, salaries, and fringe benefits (3)
labor intensive: a process or procedure that makes use of more labor relative to other inputs such as capital (17)
labor productivity: the market value of the output that results from a given amount of labor (1, 8).
laissez-faire capitalismml: a national system characterized by private corporate ownership and a great reliance on exchange as a mode of coordination (with relatively little coordination by public administration) (17)
laissez-faire economy: an economy with little government regulation (1)
leverage: the use of debt to increase the potential rate of return of one's investment (at greater risk) (11)
liquidity: the ease of use of an asset as a medium of exchange (11)
liquidity trap: a situation in which interest rates are so low that the central bank finds it impossible to reduce them further (12)
living standards growth: improvements in people's diet, housing, medical care, education, working conditions, and access to transportation, communication, entertainment, and other amenities (1)
Lorenz curve: a line used to portray an income distribution, constructed on a graph by having percentiles of households on the horizontal axis and the cumulative percentage of income on the vertical axis (3)
M1: a measure of the money supply that includes currency, checkable deposits, and travelers checks (11)
M2: a measure of the money supply that includes all of M1 plus savings deposits, small certificates of deposit, and retail money market funds (11)
macroeconomics: the study of how economic activities at all levels create a national (and global) economic environment (1)
macroeconomy: an economic system whose boundaries are normally understood to be the boundaries of a country (1)
maintenance-cost approach: assigning a monetary value to an environmental service that is equal to what it would cost to maintain the same standard of services using an alternative method (6)
manufactured capital: physical assets generated by applying human productive activities to natural capital (3)
manufacturing productivity: an index of the value of the goods produced per hour of labor in the manufacturing sector (7)
marginal propensity to consume: the number of additional dollars of consumption for every additional dollar of income (typically a fraction between zero and one) (9)
marginal propensity to save: the number of additional dollars saved for each additional dollar of income (typically a fraction between zero and one) (9)
marginally attached workers: people who want employment and have looked for work in the past 12 months but not in the past 4 weeks (8)
market (first meaning): a physical place or web location where there is an expectation of finding both buyers and sellers for the same product or service (2)
market (second meaning): an institution that brings buyers and sellers into communication with each other, structuring and coordinating their actions (2)
market (third meaning): a phrase that people often use to mean an abstract situation of pure exchange or a global system of exchange relationships (2)
market disequilibriumml: a situation of either shortage or surplus (4)
market failure: a situation in which markets yield inefficient or inappropriate outcomes (2)
market power: the ability to control, or significantly affect, the terms and conditions of the exchanges in which one participates (2)
market socialismml: a national system in which state ownership predominates but much economic activity is coordinated through markets (17)
market-clearing equilibriumml: a situation in which quantity supplied equals quantity demanded (4)
maximum capacity output: the level of output an economy would produce if every resource in the economy were fully utilized (13)
means-tested programs: programs designed to transfer income to recipients based on need (3)
menu costs: the costs to a supplier of changing prices listed on order forms, brochures, menus, and the like (4)
microeconomics: the study of the economic activities and interactions of individuals, households, businesses, and other groups at the subnational level (1)
migration controls: restrictions on the flow of people into and out of a country (14)
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs): A set of goals declared by the United Nations in 2000, emphasizing eradication of extreme poverty; promotion of education, gender equity, and health; environmental sustainability; and partnership between rich and poor countries (17)
model: an analytical tool that highlights some aspects of reality while ignoring others (2)
monetarismml: a theory associated with Milton Friedman, which claims that macroeconomic objectives are best met by having the money supply grow at a steady rate (see also monetarist economics) (12)
monetarist economics: the school of economic thought that focused on the effects of monetary policy and argued that governments should aim for steadiness in the money supply rather than play an active role (1)
monetary base (or high-powered money): the sum of total currency plus bank reserves (12)
monetary neutrality: the idea that changes in the money supply may affect only prices, while leaving output unchanged (12)
monetary policy: the use of tools controlled by the government, such as banking regulations and the issuance of currency, to affect the levels of money supply, interest rates, and credit (1, 11)
monetizing the debt/monetizing the deficit: when a central bank buys government debt as it is issued (equivalent to "running the printing presses." In the United States, the purchase of new debt from the Treasury by the Federal Reserve) (12, 16)
money multiplier: as the ratio of the money supply to the monetary base, it tells by how much the money supply will change for a given change in high-powered money (12)
money supply rule: committing to letting the money supply grow at a fixed rate per year (12)
moral hazard: the creation of perverse incentives that encourage excessive risk taking because of protections against losses from that risk (15)
mortality rate: the average number of deaths among a specific group (18, Appendix)
mortgage broker: an agent who assists in identifying a lender for prospective homeowners looking to borrow money for their purchase (11)
mortgage-backed security (MBS): a security composed of a bundle of many home mortgages issued by independent banks (15)
multilateral development assistance: aid or loans provided with the announced intention of promoting development by the World Bank, regional development banks, or UN agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) (17)
national accounting conventions: habits or agreements, adopted by government agencies in order to make national accounts as standardized and comparable across different countries and periods as possible (5)
national income (NI): a measure of all domestic incomes earned in production (5)
National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA): a set of statistics compiled by the BEA concerning production, income, spending, prices, and employment (5)
natural capital: physical assets provided by nature (3)
negative (or inverse) relationship: the relationship between two variables if an increase in one variable is associated with an decrease in the other variable (or vice versa) (2)
neoclassical synthesis: A combination of classical and Keynesian perspectives (13, Appendix)
net exports: the value of exports less the value of imports (5)
net investment: gross investment minus an adjustment for depreciation of the capital stock (3, 5)
net migration rate: the net gain in population from migration, per 1,000 population (18, Appendix)
net national product (NNP): a measure of national production in excess of that needed to replace worn-out manufactured capital, calculated by subtracting depreciation from GDP (5)
net taxes: taxes minus transfer payments (10)
New Keynesian macroeconomics: a school of thought that bases its analysis on micro-level market behavior, but which justifies activist macroeconomic policies by assuming that markets have "imperfections" that can create or prolong recessions (13, Appendix)
nominal (current dollar) GDP: gross domestic product expressed in terms of current prices (5)
nonbank financial institution: a financial institution that performs a number of services similar to those offered by banks but that is not a licensed bank and is not subject to banking regulations (11)
nonrenewable resource: a resource that cannot be reproduced on a human time-scale, so that its stock diminishes with use over time (3)
non-tariff barriers to trade: use of licensing or other requirements to limit the volume of trade (14)
normative questions: questions about how things should be (1)
"not in the labor force" (Bureau of Labor Statistics definition): the classification given to people who are neither "employed" nor "unemployed" (8)
off-budget expenditures: government-funded programs that are exempted from the normal budgeting process because the taxes that fund them cannot be used for budgetary items that are subject to congressional appropriations (10)
official reserve account: the account reflecting the foreign exchange market operations of a country's central bank (14)
Okun's "law": an empirical inverse relationship between the unemployment rate and real GDP growth (9)
old-age dependency ratio: the number of retirees relative to the number of active workers (18, Appendix)
on-budget expenditures: all federal expenditures that rely on general tax revenue subject to congressional approval each year (10)
open economy: an economy with a foreign sector (5)
open market operations: sales or purchases of government bonds by the Fed (12)
opportunity cost: the value of the best alternative that is forgone when a choice is made (2)
opportunity-cost method (for estimating the value of household production): valuing hours at the amount that the unpaid worker could have earned at a paid job (6)
output sectors: divisions of a macroeconomy based on what is being produced (7)
outputs: the results of production (3)
pension fund: a fund with the exclusive purpose of paying retirement benefits to employees (11)
perfectly competitive market: a market in which there are many buyers and sellers, all units of the good are identical, and there is free entry and exit and perfect information (4)
physical infrastructure: the equipment, buildings, physical communication lines, roads, and other tangible structures that provide the foundation for economic activity (2)
population momentumml: the trend in population size that results from its age profile, in particular the number of women who are of childbearing age or younger. (18, Appendix)
portfolio investment: the purchase of financial assets such as stocks and bonds; in international finance, investment in stocks or bonds of a foreign country (11, 14)
positive (or direct) relationship: the relationship between two variables if an increase in one variable is associated with an increase in the other variable (2)
positive questions: questions about how things are (1)
post-Keynesian macroeconomics: a school of thought that stresses the importance of history and uncertainty in determining macroeconomic outcomes (13, Appendix)
poverty line: the income threshold below which members of a population are classified as poor (17)
precautionary principle: the principle that we should err on the side of caution when dealing with natural systems or human health, especially when major health or environmental damage could result (1)
price elasticity: a measure of the sensitivity or responsiveness of quantity supplied or demanded to changes in price (4)
price elasticity of demand: a measure of the responsiveness of quantity demanded to changes in price (4)
price elasticity of supply: a measure of the responsiveness of quantity supplied to changes in price (4)
primary sector: the sector of the economy that involves the harvesting and extraction of natural resources and simple processing of these raw materials into products that are generally sold to manufacturers as inputs (7)
prime rate: the interest rate that banks charge their most creditworthy commercial borrowers (12)
private property: ownership of assets by nongovernment economic actors (2)
procyclical policy: fiscal policy in which taxes are lowered and expenditure is raised when the economy is strong, and the opposite is done when the economy is weak (10)
production: the conversion of resources to goods and services (3)
production-possibilities frontier (PPF): a curve showing the maximum amounts of two outputs that society could produce from given resources, over a given time period (2)
progressive income tax: a tax in which a larger share of income is collected from those with higher incomes (3)
proportional income tax: a tax in which the same share of income is collected from households, irrespective of income level (3)
public debt: the gross federal debt minus the debt owed to other government accounts such as Social Security and Medicare (16)
public goods: goods for which (1) use by one person does not diminish usefulness to others, and (2) it would be difficult to exclude anyone from benefiting (2)
public-purpose sphere: governments and other local, national, and international organizations established for a public purpose beyond individual or family self-interest and not operating with the goal of making a profit (3)
purchasing power parity (PPP) adjustments: adjustments to international income statistics to take into account the differences in the cost of living across countries (14)
purchasing power parity (PPP): the theory that exchange rates should reflect differences in purchasing power among countries (14)
quantitative easing (QE): the purchase of financial assets including long-term bonds by the Fed, creating more monetary reserves and expanding the money supply (12)
quantity adjustments: a response by suppliers in which they react to unexpectedly low sales of their good primarily by reducing production levels rather than by reducing the price and to unexpectedly high sales by increasing production rather than raising the price (4)
quantity equation: M × V = P × Y, where M is the money supply, V is the velocity of money, P is the price level, and Y is real output (12)
quantity theory of money: the theory that money supply is directly related to nominal GDP, according to the equation 
quantity index: an index measuring changes in levels of quantities produced (5)
rational expectations theory: the theory that that people's expectations about Federal Reserve policy cause predictable monetary policies to be ineffective in changing output levels (13, Appendix)
real business cycle theory: the theory that changes in employment levels are caused by change in technological capacities or people's preferences concerning work (13, Appendix)
real exchange rate: the exchange rate between two currencies, adjusted for inflation in each country (14)
real GDP: a measure of gross domestic product that seeks to reflect the actual value of goods and services produced, by removing the effect of changes in prices (5)
real interest rate: nominal interest rate minus inflation, r = i − π (12, Appendix)
real money supply: the nominal money supply divided by the general price level (as measured by a price index), expressed as M/P (13)
real wealth effect: the tendency of consumers to increase or decrease their consumption based on their perceived level of wealth (13)
recession: a downturn in economic activity, usually defined as lasting for two consecutive calendar quarters or more, now "officially" determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research (1, 8)
regressive income tax: a tax in which a larger share of income is collected from poorer households (3)
regulation: setting standards or laws to govern behavior (3)
renewable resource: a resource that regenerates itself through short-term processes (3)
rent: payments for the use of any capital asset (3)
replacement-cost method (for estimating the value of household production): valuing hours at the amount it would be necessary to pay someone to do the work (6)
replacement fertility rate: the fertility rate required for each generation to be replaced by a subsequent generation of the same size. (18, Appendix)
required reserves: the portion of bank reserves that banks must keep on reserve (11)
resource maintenance: the management of capital stocks so that their productivity is sustained or improved (3)
restorative development: economic progress that restores economic, financial, social, or ecological systems that have been degraded and are no longer adequately supportive of human well-being in the present and the future (1)
restorative socioeconomic system: a system in which successful efforts are made to restore social, environmental, manufactured or human capital that has deteriorated (3)
revaluation: raising an exchange rate within a fixed exchange rate system (14)
rule of 72: a shorthand calculation that states that dividing 72 by an annual growth rate yields approximately the number of years it will take for an amount to double (5)
satellite accounts: additional or parallel accounting systems that provide measures of social and environmental factors in physical terms, without necessarily including monetary valuation (6)
saving: refraining from consumption in the current period (3)
Say's Law: the classical belief that "supply creates its own demand" (1)
scarcity: resources are scarce to the extent that they are not sufficient to allow all goals to be accomplished at once (2)
secondary sector: the sector of the economy that involves converting the outputs of the primary sector into products suitable for use or consumption. It includes manufacturing, construction, and utilities (7)
securities broker: an agent responsible for finding a buyer for sellers of different securities, thereby offering enhanced liquidity to the seller (11)
self-correcting market: a market that automatically adjusts to any imbalances between sellers (supply) and buyers (demand) (4)
shortage: a situation in which the quantity that buyers wish to buy at the stated price is greater than the quantity that sellers are willing to sell at that price (4)
skill-biased technical change: the theory that relative wage gains will be the greatest for those workers that who possess the education and skills to use modern technologies (8)
social capital: the institutions and the stock of trust, mutual understanding, shared values, and socially held knowledge that facilitates the social coordination of economic activity (3)
social discount rate: a discount rate that reflects social rather than market valuation of future costs and benefits; usually lower than the market discount rate (18)
social insurance programs: programs designed to transfer income to recipients if and when certain events (like retirement or disability) occur (3)
sovereign debt: government debt, especially debt denominated in a currency that the government does not control (16)
specialization: in production, a system of organization in which each worker performs only one type of task(1)
speculation: buying and selling assets with the expectation of profiting from appreciation or depreciation in their value (4)
speculative bubble: the situation that occurs when mutually reinforcing investor optimism raises the value of an asset far above what can be justified by fundamental value (4)
stagflation: a combination of rising inflation and economic stagnation (13)
static analysis: analysis that does not take into account the passage of time (2)
steady-state economy: an economy with no increase in population, or in the rate of use of raw materials and energy (18)
"sticky wage" theories: theories about why wages stay at above-equilibrium levels, despite the existence of a labor surplus (8)
stock: something whose quantity can be measured at a point in time (3)
stock-flow diagramml: an illustration of how stocks can be changed, over time, by flows (3)
structural deficit (surplus): the portion of the deficit (or surplus) that results from tax and spending policy dictated by the president and Congress at their discretion (10)
structural unemployment: unemployment that arises because people's skills, experience, education, or location do not match what employers need (8)
subjective well-being: a measure of welfare based on survey questions asking people about their own degree of life satisfaction (6)
subprime mortgage: a mortgage given to someone with poor credit (4, 15)
substitutability: the possibility of using one resource instead of another (3)
substitute good: a good that can be used in place of another (4)
supply curve: a curve indicating the quantities that sellers are willing to supply at various prices (4)
supply shock: a change in the productive capacity of an economy (13)
supply-side economics: an economic theory that emphasizes policies to stimulate production, such as lower taxes. The theory predicts that such incentives stimulate greater economic effort, saving, and investment, thereby increasing overall economic output and tax revenues (10)
surplus: a situation in which the quantity that sellers wish to sell at the stated price is greater than the quantity that buyers will buy at that price (4)
sustainable socioeconomic system: a system in which the overall quality and quantity of the resource base required for sustaining life and well-being do not erode (3)
tariffs: taxes on imports or exports (12)
tax multiplier: the impact of a change in a lump sum tax on economic equilibrium, expressed mathematically as  (10)
technological progress: the development of new products and new, more efficient, methods of production (2)
technological unemployment: unemployment caused by reduced demand for workers because technology has increased the productivity of those who have jobs, effectively reducing the demand for workers (8)
terms of trade: the price of exports relative to imports (17)
tertiary sector: the sector of the economy that involves the provision of services rather than of tangible goods (7)
theoretical investigation: analysis based in abstract thought (2)
theory of market adjustment: the theory that market forces will tend to make shortages and surpluses disappear (4)
three major macroeconomic goals: the achievement of good living standards, stability and security, and environmental sustainability (1)
throughput: the flow of raw materials and energy through the economy, leading to outputs of waste (18)
time lags: the time that elapses between the formulation of an economic policy and its actual effects on the economy (10)
time-series data: observations of how a numerical variable changes over time (2)
"too big to fail": when a company grows so large that its failure would cause widespread economic harm in terms of lost jobs and diminished asset values (15)
total factor productivity: a measure of the productivity of all factors of production. It represents contributions to output from all sources, not just quantities of manufactured capital and labor (17)
trade account (part of the current account): the portion of the current account that tracks inflows and outflows arising exclusively from international trade in goods and services (14)
trade ban: a law preventing the import or export of goods or services (14)
trade deficit: an excess of imports over exports, causing net exports to be negative (14)
trade quota: a restriction on the quantity of a good that can be imported or exported (14)
trade-related subsidies: payments given by governments to producers to encourage more production, either for export or as a substitute for imports (14)
transaction costs: the costs of arranging economic activities (2)
transfer: the giving of something with nothing specific expected in return (3)
transfer payments: payments by government to individuals or firms, including Social Security payments, unemployment compensation, interest payments, and subsidies (10)
underemployment: working fewer hours than desired or at a job that does not match one's skills (8)
unemployed person (BLS definition): a person who is not employed but who is actively seeking a job and is immediately available for work (8)
unemployment rate: the percentage of the labor force made up of people who do not have paid jobs but are immediately available and actively looking for paid jobs (8)
unemployment: a situation in which people seek a paying job, but cannot obtain one (1)
utility: the level of usefulness or satisfaction gained from a particular activity such as consumption of a good or service (2)
value-added: the value of what a producer sells, less the value of the intermediate inputs it uses, except labor. This is equal to the wages paid out by the producer plus its profits (5)
velocity of money: the number of times that a dollar would have to change hands during a year to support nominal GDP, calculated as V = (P × Y)/M (12)
virtuous cycles (in development): self-reinforcing patterns of high savings, investment, productivity growth, and economic expansion (17)
wage and price controls: government regulations setting limits on wages and prices or on the rates at which they are permitted to increase (13)
wage-price spiral: when high demand for labor and other resources creates upward pressure on wages, which in turn leads to upward pressure on prices and, as a result, further upward pressure on wages (13)
wage-productivity gap: the gap between the growth of labor productivity and the growth of hourly labor compensation (8)
Washington Consensus: Specific economic policy prescriptions used by the IMF and World Bank with a goal of helping developing countries to avoid crisis and maintain stability. They include openness to trade and investment (liberalization), privatization, budget austerity, and deregulation (14)
waste products: outputs that are not used either for consumption or in a further production process (3)
well-being: a term used to describe the overall quality of life (1)
World Bank: an international agency charged with promoting economic development, through loans and other programs (14)
World Trade Organization (WTO): An international organization that conducts negotiations aimed at lowering trade barriers, and mediates trade disputes between countries (14)














 
 
 

Index

 


 
 

Note: Italicized locators indicate figures.

A

Abe, Shinzo, 253, 285
absolute poverty, 16, 16
abundance, 45
accelerator principle, 276-277
accommodating monetary policy, 278
accounting identity, 111, 207, 208
administrative capitalism, 398
administrative socialism, 398
aggregate demand, 201-224
AS/AD model, 298-306
and business cycle, 201-205
defined, 35, 193, 207
and government spending, 229-230
increasing, 35
and inflation, 292-294, 293, 294
Keynesian model of, 212-224
and macroeconomic modeling, 205-212
and monetary policy, 277-278, 278
money and, 250
and taxes, 241
aggregate demand curve, 292-294
aggregate demand schedule, 217-220, 220
aggregate supply, 298-306
aggregate supply curve, capacity and, 294-298, 295, 297
agriculture, 155-157
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), 242
American Time Use Study (ATUS), 142
appreciation, currency, 325
appropriation, 236
AS/AD model, 298-306
economic growth in, 386, 386
and expansion of 1990s, 304-306, 305
and inflation in 1980s, 303, 303, 304
and overheated economy in 1960s, 300-301, 301
and recession of 2007-2009, 298-300, 299, 300
and stagflation of 1970s, 301-302, 302
Ashworth, Paul, 109
assets, 26
of banks, 258
bartering, 251
financial, 166, 167, 264, 316
fixed, 106, 107
value of, 170
assumptions, in modeling, 206
austerity, 374-376
automatic stabilizers, 238-240
automobile manufacturing, 161-162
average annual hours worked, 10, 10

B

balance of payments, 327, 327-330, 328
balance of payments (BOP) account, 327
balance of payments crisis, 333
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act), 373-374
balanced budget multiplier, 233-234
Bank Indonesia, 330
bank reserves, 258, 270
Banking Act of 1933 (Glass-Steagall Act), 259, 260, 352
banking system (U.S.), 257-261
and aversion of future crises, 360-361
bank runs (bank panics), 35, 36, 252
bank types, 258-259
Federal Reserve banks, 269
and financial crisis, 351-354, 352
money created by banks, 259-261
private banks, 257-258
barter, 251
base year, 117
basic neoclassical (traditional microeconomic) model, 51-52, 52
behavioral equation, 207-208
Bernanke, Ben, 281, 300
Better Life Index (BLI), 136-137, 148-149
Biglio, Franca, 437
bilateral development assistance, 396
birthrate, 436
Blinder, Alan, 242
bond prices, interest rates and, 288-290, 289, 290
Bowles, Erskine, 379
Bretton Woods system, 333, 335
bubbles. See speculative bubbles
budgetary reform (U.S.), 378-381
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), 105, 107, 109, 113, 128-129, 238
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), 118, 142, 180
Bush, George H.W., 367
Bush, George W., 367, 374
business sector, 106
and leakages, 208, 209
and product approach to GDP, 110, 112
and spending approach to GDP, 112-113
business sphere, 79-80, 153
business (trade) cycle, 30, 201-205, 202-204

C

California Public Employees Retirement System (CalPERS), 263
cap-and-trade, 423-424
capacity, aggregate supply curve and, 294-298, 295, 297
capital, 61-62
capital account (in BOP account), 328
capital controls, 316, 333
capital flight, 329
capital gain, 75
capital income, 68
capital intensive, 395
capital stocks, 61, 62, 106-107
capitalism, 398
carbon dioxide emissions per capita, 22, 22
Card, David, 191
causation, 41-43
central banks, 257, 259, 269, 284, 316. See also Federal Reserve (Fed)
CEO compensation, 74, 354-354
ceteris paribus, 44, 85
chained-dollar method, 118, 118
change in demand, 90
change in quantity demanded, 89
change in quantity supplied, 87
change in supply, 87
checking accounts, 256
Chicago Board of Trade, 51
Chrysler, 162
classical economics, 34
and AS/AD model, 306, 306-307
development of, 34-35
employment/unemployment in, 190-192, 191
Keynesian economics synthesized with, 36-37
leakages in, 209-212, 210, 211
long-run nature of, 36
markets in, 84, 85
monetary theory, 283
climate change, 38, 38, 67, 416-420, 417
Clinton, Bill, 367
closed economy, 113, 315, 321-322
Cobb, John, Jr., 133
collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), 346
collective investment vehicles (CIVs), 262
command economy, 397-398
commercial banks, 258, 259
Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress (Sarkozy Commission), 130-132
commodity money, 254
complementary goods, 90-91
Congressional Budget Office (CBO), 380-381
constant-dollar method, 116-118
constant-weight method, 119-120
construction industry, 160, 160
consumer durable goods, 107, 108
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 359
consumer price index (CPI), 118-120
consumer spending, 213, 253
consumption, 63-64
in The General Theory, 212-216, 215
investment vs., 63
sustainability and, 424-425, 426
contractionary fiscal policy, 235, 285
contractionary monetary policy, 278
contracts, 54
convergence (in economic growth), 392
convergence criteria, 375
cooperatives, 79-80
core sphere, 76-77, 153
corporate incentives, 354-355
corporations, 79
correlation, 41-43
countercyclical policy, 238
credit cards, 256
credit default swaps (CDSs), 346
credit rationing, 281-282
credit unions, 258, 259, 430
crowding in, 244-245
crowding out, 243-245, 244
currency appreciation, 325
currency depreciation, 325, 331, 332
currency(-ies)
exchange rates, 324, 324-327, 325
Fed's authorization to produce, 270
issuing, 36
purchasing power parity, 323-324
U.S., 255
value of, 251
See also money
current account (in BOP account), 327
current dollar (nominal) GDP, 116, 118
cyclical deficit (or surplus), 239
cyclical unemployment, 187

D

Daly, Herman, 133
damage-cost approach, 148
debt, 121
and education costs, 173
and financial sustainability, 32
foreign, default on, 337
and GDP, 133
government, 8, 8, 68-69, 363, 368
personal, 25
public, 368
relative to GDP, 168, 169
sovereign, 375
types of, 367-369, 369
See also national debt (U.S.)
debt ceiling, 373-374
debt-for-nature swaps, 424
debt held by the public, 368
decentralized markets, 57
decision making, individual, 53
defensive expenditures, 132-133
deficit ceiling, 373
deficit spending, 238
deficits
and ARRA, 242
in fiscal policy, 237-238, 239
and national debt, 363-365
projected (U.S.), 377-378
in U.S. history, 366
deflation, 252-253
demand
aggregate (See aggregate demand)
change in, 90, 90-91, 91
and economic growth, 397
price elasticity of, 94-96, 95
shifts in, 93-94, 94
theory of, 88-91
See also supply and demand
demand curve, 89, 89, 275, 292-294
demand schedule, 89
democratized ownership, 429-430
demographic challenges, 435-441
demographic transition, 436, 437
Demos, 139
dependency needs, 69
depreciation, 65, 107
currency, 325, 331, 332
investment and, 65-66
deregulation, bank, 351-354
devaluation, 333-334
direct public provision, 78
direct relationship (graphing), 43
discount rate, 273, 427
discouraged workers, 183
discretionary fiscal policy, 240-243
disequilibrium, 93
disposable income, 232
dissaving, 214n.
distribution, 63, 68-75
income, 70, 73-75, 405
labor and capital incomes, 68
measuring inequality of, 70-72
transfers and taxes, 68-70
wealth inequality, 75
division of labor, 34
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, 358-360
dollar market value, 110
Domar, Evsey, 367
domestic content requirement, 316
dot-com bubble, 304, 344, 345
Dunkelberg, Bill, 212
durable goods industries, 161
Durning, Alan, 424
Dutch tulip frenzy, 264
dynamic analysis, 57

E

eBay, 84, 85
ecological sustainability, 422-424
as macroeconomic goal, 32-33
in the twenty-first century, 413-416
economic activity(-ies), 61-81
business-sphere, 79-80
consumption, 63-64
core-sphere, 76-77
distribution, 63, 68-75
informal-sphere, 80
production, 62-63
public-purpose sphere, 77-79
resource maintenance, 61-62, 64-68
social and environmental contexts of, 80-81, 81
spheres of, 75-76
economic actors (economic agents), 26, 51
economic development, 28
and economic growth, 384-389
and economic systems, 397-399
and human development, 410
and poverty, 399-404
and questions of what, how, and for whom, 37
and within-country inequality, 405-409
economic growth, 28, 115
across countries, 389-394, 390, 392-394
as cause of problems, 32
and changes in poverty rates, 400
and economic development, 384-389
environmental factors in, 420-427
fossil-fuel based, 37-38, 38
and inequality, 405-408
and monetary policy, 273
sources of, 395-397
standard theory of, 385-387, 386
in the twenty-first century, 413-414
world, 390
economic liability, 257
Economic Recovery Act of 1981 (ERA), 366-367
economic structure (U.S.), 152-174
output sectors, 152-154, 177-178, 178
primary sector, 154-159
secondary sector, 159-164
tertiary sector, 164-173
See also individual sectors
economic tradeoffs, 45-50
abundance and scarcity, 45
over time, 48-50
societal production-possibilities frontier, 45-47
and technological progress, 48-50
economic well-being, measures of, 148-149. See also well-being measures
economies of scale, 353
economy
closed, 113
global (See global economy)
and government debt, 363-364
open, 113
education services, 173, 438
educational performance, 19, 19
efficiency, 46-47
efficiency wage theory, 192
Eisenhower, Dwight D., 48
Eisner, Robert, 141
Ellison, Larry, 354
empirical investigation, 41-43
employed person, BLS definition of, 180
employment
across service industries, 165
and environmental sustainability, 428
following Great Recession, 205
labor force participation, 184-185, 185
in manufacturing, 162, 163
official figures on, 180, 180-181, 183-184
Say's Law for, 34-35
theories of, 190-196
See also unemployment
energy system (U.S.), 157-159, 158
energy taxes, 420
environment
and economic growth, 420-427
major twenty-first century issues for, 414-415
See also ecological sustainability
environmental accounting, 143-148
environmental context (of economic activity), 81
environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis, 420-422, 421
environmental services, 144
environmentally adjusted net domestic product (EDP), 145
equilibrium, 92, 220
euro, 334, 335
European Central Bank (ECB), 257, 269, 335, 376
excess reserves, 261
exchange, 63, 253-254
exchange rates, 323-327, 324, 325
flexible vs. fixed systems, 332-334
and purchasing power parity, 323-324
exchange value, 255
expansionary fiscal policy, 235, 240, 299
expansionary monetary policy, 278, 285
expansions, 30, 304-306, 305
expected real interest rate, 291
experimental economics, 44
explicit contract, 54
exports
and economic growth, 397
policy tools related to, 315-316
of services, 165
U.S., 1960-2012, 328
See also international trade
external debt, 368
externalities, 55-56

F

factors of production, 387
federal budget
balanced budget debate, 373-374
budgetary reform, 378-381
and fiscal policy, 236-243
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), 269, 350
federal funds rate, 274, 280, 344, 345
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), 270, 285, 286
Federal Reserve (Fed), 257, 258, 268-286
complications and controversies for, 284-286
and inflation control, 282-284
and interest rates, 274-278
and investment, 2000-2012, 278-282
and monetary policy, 269-274
and stimulus program, 305
Federal Reserve notes, 255
fertility rate, 436-439
fiat money, 255
final good, 108
final goods and services (GDP component), 108
finance, 176n., 261-266
financialization and financial bubbles, 264-265
functions of, 261-257
international, 265-266 (See also international finance)
nonbank financial institutions, 262-264
in tertiary sector, 166-171, 167, 168
financial assets, 166, 167, 264, 316
financial bubbles, 264-265
financial capital, 61-63, 396-397
financial crisis (2007-2008), 205, 314, 343-361
economic impacts of, 347-350
and housing bubble, 343-346, 344, 345
remedies and aversion of future crises, 356-361
and subprime mortgage crisis, 346-347
underlying causes of, 350-356
financial institutions, 166, 167
international, 335-337
nonbank, 262-264
U.S. banking system, 257-261
financial intermediary, 257
Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (FSMA), 352
financial sustainability, 31-33
financialization, 168-171
and financial bubbles, 264-265
and financial crisis of 2007, 205
"fiscal cliff," 374
fiscal policy, 36, 229-246
applying, 246
automatic stabilizers, 238-240
and aversion of financial crises, 357, 358
crowding out and crowding in, 243-245
deficits and surpluses, 237-238
discretionary, 240-243
expansionary and contractionary, 235
and federal budget, 236-243
multiplier effects in, 245, 247-249
in open economy, 330-331
role of, 229-234
fish stocks, 416
fixed assets, 106, 107
fixed exchange rate system, 332-334
Fleurbaey/Gaulier Indicator, 140
flexible (floating) exchange rate system, 332, 333
flow(s), 64-65
of foreign exchange payments, 327, 327-330, 328
with government spending and taxes, 234
international, 314
stocks vs., 64-65, 65
food system (U.S.), 155-156, 156
Ford, Henry, 161
foreign aid, 17, 17
foreign capital, economic growth and, 396-397
foreign direct investment (FDI), 328
foreign exchange, 326, 332-334, 334
foreign exchange market, 324, 324, 325
foreign exchange market intervention, 333-334, 334
foreign sector
and income approach to GDP, 114
in national accounting, 106
and spending approach to GDP, 112, 113
See also global economy
foreign trade zone, 316
fossil-fuel based economic growth, 37-38, 38
fracking, 159
fractional reserve system, 260
free riders, 55
frictional unemployment, 186
Friedman, Milton, 36, 283-284
full-employment output, 204, 295, 296

G

General Electric, 164
General Motors, 162
General Theory, The (Keynes), 212-224
aggregate demand schedule in, 217-220, 220
consumption in, 212-216, 215
investment in, 216-217, 217
movement to equilibrium in, 220
multiplier in, 222-224, 227-228
persistent unemployment in, 221, 221-222, 222
unintended investment in, 218-220, 219
General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money, The (Keynes), 34
Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI), 133-135, 135, 136
Gini ratio (Gini coefficient), 11, 72, 72
global economy, 25-26, 314-337
economic linkages among countries, 314-315
and international finance, 323-330
international financial institutions, 335-337
macroeconomics in open economy, 330-335
major policy tools, 315-318
trade balance, 318-323
global population, 414, 437-438
globalization
and financial crisis, 350, 355-356
technology and, 304-306, 305
goals of macroeconomics, 26-33
living standards growth, 27-30
stability and security, 30-31
sustainability, 31-33
gold standard, 255
goods, bartering, 251
government
and nonprofits, 78-79
and spending approach to GDP, 113-114
government bonds, 236, 363-364, 369-370, 370
government debt
deficits vs., 363
as measure of well-being, 8, 8
transfers from, 68-69
types of, 368
See also national debt (U.S.)
government outlays, 236
government sector, 106
fixed asset investment by, 107
and product approach to GDP, 110-112
and spending approach to GDP, 112
government spending
changes in, 230
defined, 230
post-World War II, 36
role of, 229-231
and taxes, 234
See also fiscal policy
Graghi, Mario, 335
graphing, 42, 42-43, 43, 215
Great Depression, 35, 36
deflation during, 252
Great Recession compared to, 349-350
impact of, 204, 205, 205
and national accounting, 105
persistent unemployment in, 321
and spending on social programs, 366
Great Recession (2007-2009), 201
and AS/AD model, 298-300, 300
government response to, 229
Great Depression compared to, 349-350
and housing prices, 99
impact of, 205
and monetary policy, 280
recovery from, 407
responses to, 308
and small business loans, 212
and unemployment benefits, 186, 189
unemployment during, 187-189, 188, 348
Green, Richard, 99
green design/development, 430
green investment, 431
green taxes, 422-423, 423, 431
greenhouse gas emissions, 22, 22, 38, 43, 416-419, 417
Greenspan, Alan, 344
gross domestic product (GDP), 108-115
2012 increase in, 113
economic growth measured by, 28
financial assets related to, 264
and financial sustainability, 32
global growth in, 1960 to 2010, 28
and greenhouse gas emissions, 43
gross national product vs., 105n.
growth rates for, 115-116
as indicator of economic growth, 385-386, 386
limitations of, 127 (See also well-being measures)
national debt as percentage of, 364, 369, 373
nominal, 116, 118
nominal vs. real, 116
per capita (See per capita GDP)
real (See real GDP)
and recessions, 201-202, 202
and state/local government
spending, 238
in United States, 1800-2010, 31
gross federal debt, 368
gross investment, 65, 107
Gross National Happiness (GNH), 140
gross national product (GNP), 105n.
gross private domestic investment, 112, 113
gross saving, 122
growth
economic growth (See economic growth)
GDP, 115-116, 120-121 (See also economic growth)

H

Hamilton, Alexander, 366
Happy Planet Index (HPI), 138-139
Harrod, Roy, 367
Harrod-Domar model, 367
health care services, 171, 171-172, 438
hedge funds, 262-263
high-powered money, 270
historical investigation, 44
home equity loans, 348
Hoover, Herbert, 105
hours worked, 10, 10
household production measures, 140-143
household spending, 120
households and institutions sector, 106
consumer durables investment in, 108
leakages from, 208
and product approach to GDP, 111, 112
and spending approach to GDP, 112
housing bubble, 99, 264, 305, 343-347, 344, 345
housing starts (in the U.S.), 160, 160
How Much Is Enough (Durning), 424
human capital, 61, 391
human development, 402
demographic challenges for, 435-441
and economic development, 410
and Millennium Development Goals, 402-404
Human Development Index (HDI), 137-138, 138
human needs, income distribution and, 57-58
human services, 171-173
hyperinflation, 251-252

I

identity (accounting identity), 111, 207, 208
implicit contract, 54
import substitution, 316
imports
policy tools related to, 315-316
of services, 165
U.S., 1960-2012, 328
See also international trade
imputation, 110-111
in-kind transfers, 63
incarceration (in the U.S.), 181
income
capital, 68
and consumer spending, 213
disposable, 232
distribution of, 57-58, 70
as flow variable, 254
labor, 68
and life expectancy, 409, 409
received as wages, 193
U.S. distribution of, 407
income approach (to GDP), 109
income inequality (Gini coefficient), 74-75, 405
following financial crisis, 349
and GDP, 133
as measure of well-being, 15, 15
over time, 73
in the U.S., 73, 73-75
income taxes, 233, 301
index number, 118
Index of Social Health of the United States, 139
Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare (ISEW), 133
industrial policy, 396
Industrial Revolution, 387
industrial sector. See secondary (industrial) sector
inequality
and economic growth, 405-408
and financial crisis, 351
Gini ratio for, 72, 72
income (See income inequality)
measuring, 70-72
recent studies of, 408-409
wealth, 75, 349, 407
within-country, 405-409
infant industry, 396
inflation
in 1970s U.S., 37
and aggregate demand, 292-294, 293, 294
and aggregate supply, 295-297
and AS/AD model, 298-306
defined, 25
disruption caused by, 252
Fed's control of, 282-284
and fiscal policy, 235
hyperinflation, 251-252
as measure of well-being, 12, 12
and monetary policy, 285
and recessions, 202-203, 203
inflation rates, price indexes and, 118-120
informal sphere, 80
information, access to, 57
infrastructure, 54, 66
Input-Output Accounts (BEA), 110
inputs, 62
instability, market, 97-99
institutions, 50-51
and economic growth, 397
private nonmarket, 68
required for markets, 53-55
insurance company, 263
intellectual property products, 113
intellectual property trades, 315
interest rates, 290-291
and bond prices, 288-290, 289, 290
Fed's influence on, 274-278
and government borrowing, 369-370, 370
and housing bubble, 344, 346-347
and investment, 276-277, 277
intermediate good, 108
internal debt, 368
international finance, 265-266, 323-330
balance of payments, 327, 327-330, 328
currency exchange rates, 324, 324-327, 325
patterns of, 316-318, 317, 318
purchasing power parity, 323-324
international financial institutions, 335-337
International Monetary Fund (IMF), 330n., 335-337, 367, 396
international trade
growth in, 317
in intellectual property, 315
major policies related to, 315-316
patterns of, 316-318, 317, 318
in services, 165
Internet users, as measure, 18, 18
intrinsic value, 254
inventories, 106-107, 218-220, 219
inverse relationship (graphing), 42
investment, 62
consumption vs., 63
and depreciation, 65-66
and economic growth, 395-396
and Fed policy, 278-282, 279, 280
and GDP, 121-122
in The General Theory, 216-220, 217, 219
green, 431
and interest rates, 276-277, 277
and international trade/finance, 320-323
national accounting conventions for, 107-108
sustainability and, 426-427
investment banks, 259
Iwata, Kikuo, 285

J

Johnson, Lyndon, 301

K

Kaptur, Marcy, 260
Key National Indicators System, 129n.
Keynes, John Maynard, 37, 192, 193, 433, 434
on aggregate demand, 35
on crowding out, 244-245
and liquidity trap, 281
on persistent unemployment, 221-222
on recessions, 205
Keynesian economics
on aggregate demand, 35-36
classical economics synthesized with, 36-37
defined, 36
The General Theory in, 212-224
and market instability, 307-308
markets in, 84-85
monetary policy in, 36
short-run nature of, 37
on wages, 192, 193
Krueger, Alan, 191
Krugman, Paul, 300, 406
Kumano, Hideo, 253
Kuroda, Haruhiko, 285
Kuznets, Simon, 105, 127, 141, 406
Kuznets curve hypothesis, 406
Kyoto Protocol, 419

L

labor force, 181, 184, 185
labor force participation (LFP), 184-185, 185
labor income, 68
labor intensive, 395
labor markets, 190-193, 191
labor productivity, 9, 9, 28, 193, 194
laissez-faire capitalism, 398
laissez-faire economy, 34
leakages, 208, 208-212, 210-211, 319, 319-320
Lee, Barbara, 354
leisure, consumption and, 426
leverage, 169, 262
life expectancy, 20, 20, 409, 409
liquidity, 254
liquidity trap, 281-282
living standards growth, 27
as goal of macroeconomics, 27-30
and sustainability, 32
local air quality, 23, 23
long-run interest rate, 290
long-run macroeconomic issues, 25, 36
Lorenz curve, 70-72, 71
LOWGROW model, 431, 432

M

M1, 256
M2, 256
M3, 256
macroeconomic measurement, 105-122
economic well-being measures, 148-149
environmental factors measures, 143-148
GDP growth rates, 115-116
gross domestic product, 108-115
growth and growth rates, 120-121
household production measures, 140-143
national accounting, 105-108
national income accounting, 127-130
nominal vs. real GDP, 116
price indexes and inflation rates, 118-120
real GDP calculation, 116-118
savings, investment, and trade, 121-122
well-being and GDP, 130-133
well-being measures, 133-140
macroeconomic modeling
aggregate demand, 205-212
leakages in, 208, 208-212, 210-211
output, income, and aggregate
demand in, 206-208, 207
simplifying assumptions in, 206
macroeconomics, 24-26, 33-38
goals of, 26-33
historical development of, 34-37
for the twenty-first century (See twenty-first century macroeconomics)
macroeconomy, 25
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery
Conservation and Management
Act of 1992, 416
maintenance-cost approach, 148
Malthus, Thomas, 34
manufactured capital, 61
manufacturing, 160-164, 163
manufacturing productivity, 163
marginal propensity to consume, 213
marginal propensity to save, 213-214
marginally attached workers, 183
market (institution), 51
market (location, place), 50
"the market" (idealized), 51
market adjustment
real-world, 96-100
theory of, 91-96
market-clearing equilibrium, 92
market disequilibrium, 93
market failure, 58
market instability, 97-99, 307-308
market power, 56-67
market socialism, 398
market value, in GDP, 108
markets, 50-58, 84-85
advantages of, 52-53
basic neoclassical model of, 51-52, 52
classical view of, 84, 85
dynamics of, 96-100
institutional requirements of, 53-55
Keynesian view of, 84-85
limitations of, 55-58
market-clearing equilibrium, 92, 92
meaning of, 50-51
perfectly competitive, 85
standard model of, 96-97
Marx, Karl, 34
maximum capacity output, 295
McAfee, Andres, 196
means-tested programs, 69
Measure of America, 139
Measure of Economic Welfare, 133n.
measurement. See macroeconomic measurement
measures, of money, 255-257
Medicare, 69, 236
medium run, expected inflation in, 296, 297
Meltzer, Allan, 308
menu costs, 97, 252
Merkel, Angela, 376
microeconomics, 24-25
Microsoft, 96
migration controls, 316
Mill, John Stuart, 34
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 48, 402-404
model, 44. See also macroeconomic
modeling; specific models
monetarism, 36, 283
monetarist economics, 36
monetary base, 270, 272
Monetary History of the United States, A (Friedman and Schwartz), 283
monetary neutrality, 283
monetary policy, 36, 269-274
and aggregate demand, 294
and aversion of financial crises, 357, 358
impact of, 250
and investment, 278-282, 279, 280
and liquidity trap, 281-282
in open economy, 331-332
See also Federal Reserve (the Fed)
monetizing the debt, 370-371
monetizing the deficit, 284
money
and aggregate demand, 250
and banking system, 257-261
deflation, 252-253
and finance, 261-266
hyperinflation, 251-252
measures of, 255-257
roles of, 253-254
as social institution, 54-55
as stock variable, 254
types of, 254-255
See also currency(-ies)
money multiplier, 272
money supply, 255-256, 260, 270-272
money supply rule, 283
moral hazard, 353
mortality rate, 436
mortgage-backed securities (MBSs), 345-346
mortgage brokers, 263-264
Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI), 400-402
multilateral development assistance, 396
multiplier
balanced budget, 233-234
and fiscal policy, 231, 245
in Keynesian economics, 222-224, 227-228
money, 272
tax, 232-233, 247-249
and trade balance, 320, 339
mutual funds, 262

N

national accounting, 105-108
capital stock conventions, 106-107
investment conventions, 107-108
sector conventions, 106 (See also individual sectors)
national accounting conventions, 106-108
National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), 187, 201
national debt (EU), 374-376
national debt (U.S.), 363-382
and deficits, 363-365
and federal government borrowing, 369-371, 370
historical perspective on, 366-367
holdings of, 365
ownership of, 371-372, 371-373
as percentage of GDP, 364, 369, 373
political economy of, 371-373, 371-376
and projected deficit/policy
responses, 377-382
and types of debt, 367-369, 369
national income (NI), 114, 193
national income accounting, 127-130
National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA), 105, 109, 141, 153, 154
natural capital, 61
natural resources, 66-67
depletion of, 414-415
for economic activity, 81
and economic growth, 395
functions of, 144
as primary productive sector, 154-159
technology and depletion of, 415-416
and wages, 195-196
See also primary (natural resources) sector; resource maintenance
negative relationship (graphing), 42
neoclassical synthesis, 312
net domestic product (NDP), 122, 144-146
net exports, 113
net investment, 65, 107
net migration rate, 436
net national savings, 7, 7
net saving, 122
net taxes, 234
new classical economics, 310-311
New Deal, 240
new economics foundation (London), 138
New Keynesian macroeconomics, 312
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), 170
Nixon, Richard, 255
nominal (current dollar) GDP, 116, 118
nominal interest rate, 290
nonbank financial institutions, 262-264
nonrenewable resource, 66
non-tariff barriers to trade, 316
Nordhaus, William, 133n.
normative questions, 26
"not in the labor force," 181

O

Obama, Barack, 164, 299, 367, 374
Obamacare, 172
Occupy Wall Street movement, 74
ocean-level rise, 67
off-budget expenditures, 236
official reserve account, 329, 330
offshoring, 163, 164
Ogallala Aquifer, 157
oil price shock (1970s), 302, 302
Okun's "law," 202
old-age dependency ratio, 440, 440
on-budget expenditures, 236
open economy, 113, 315, 322, 330-335
open market operations, 269-271
opportunity cost, 46, 48
opportunity-cost method (for value of household production), 143
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), 136
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), 302
output sectors, 152-154, 177-178, 178
primary sector, 154-159
secondary (industrial) sector, 159-164
tertiary (service) sector, 164-173
See also individual sectors
outputs, 62
composition of, 428-429
maximum capacity, 295

P

partnerships, 79
part-time work, 183, 196
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, 172
PAYGO policy, 367
pension fund, 263
per capita GDP, 5, 5, 29, 29, 131, 131-132, 392-394, 392-394, 421
perfectly competitive markets, 56, 85
personal debt, macroeconomic conditions affecting, 25
Phillips curve, 301
physical infrastructure, 54
Piketty, Thomas, 407
Pohl, Karl Otto, 302
political economy, of the national debt, 371-373, 371-376
pollution, 415
pooled fund, 262
population
aging of, 438-440, 439, 440
global, 414, 437-438
by income and environmental impacts, 425
of Italy, 437
population momentum, 436
portfolio investment, 261-262, 328
positive questions, 26
positive relationship (graphing), 43
post-Keynesian macroeconomics, 312-313
poverty, 399-404
absolute, 16, 16
and GDP growth, 399-400
and human development, 402-404
and ideas of economic development, 37
and labor productivity, 28-29
Multidimensional Poverty Index, 400-402
worldwide, 28
poverty line, 399, 400
precautionary principle, 33
predatory lending, 359
price adjustments. See market adjustment
price elasticity, 94
price elasticity of demand, 94-96, 95
price elasticity of supply, 96
price indexes, inflation rates and, 118-120
primary (natural resources) sector, 153-159
energy system, 157-159, 158
food system, 155-156, 156
industries in, 153
share of economic production, 178
value added by, 155
water, 156, 157
prime rate, 275, 276
private banks, 257-259
private nonmarket institutions, 68
private property, 53
procyclical policy, 238
producer price index (PPI), 120
production, 62-63
and environmental sustainability, 428-429
financial capital in, 62-63, 63
fluctuations in, 30
global per capital, 29, 29
household, 140-143
intellectual property products, 113
nonmarketed, 68
and poverty, 28-29
trade-offs over time, 48-50, 49
See also labor productivity
production (product) approach (to GDP), 109-112
production-maintenance frontier, 49
production-possibilities frontier (PPF), 45-47, 46, 49, 386
profit orientation, 80
progressive income tax, 69
proportional income tax, 69, 233
proprietorships, 79
public debt, 368
public finance, 262
public goods, 55, 77
public-purpose sphere, 77-79, 153
purchasing power parity (PPP), 323-324
purchasing power parity (PPP) adjustments, 324

Q

quantitative easing (QE), 280
quantity adjustments, 97
quantity equation, 282-283
quantity theory of money, 283, 286

R

rational expectations theory, 311
Reagan, Ronald, 366, 367, 374
real business cycle theory, 311
real exchange rate, 326
real GDP, 116
2012 decline in, 109
calculation of, 116-118
in Latin American countries, 389, 389
nominal GDP vs., 116, 118
and recessions, 202, 202
real interest rate, 290-291
real money supply, 293
real wealth effect, 293
recent growth rate of GDP per capita, 6, 6
recessions, 25, 30, 187
in business cycle, 201-203, 202, 203
in early 2000s, 305
and unemployment, 185
See also Great Recession (2007-2009)
recycling, 423
reference year (GDP), 118
Regional Quality of Development Index (Italy), 140
regressive income tax, 69
regulation, 78, 79
renewable energy, 168, 423
renewable resource, 66
replacement-cost method (for value of household production), 143
replacement fertility rate, 436
required reserves, 260, 272-273
re-shoring, 164
resource maintenance, 61-62, 64-68
cost of, 66
as externality, 56
investment and depreciation, 65-66
investments in, 62
renewable and nonrenewable resources, 66-67
stocks vs. flows, 64-65
sustainability, 67
restorative development, 33
restorative socioeconomic system, 67
retail banks, 258, 259
retail services, 165-166, 166
revaluation, 333, 335
Rickards, James, 260
Ricardo, David, 34
Riegle-Neal Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, 352
Roosevelt, Franklin, 105, 350
Rostow, W.W., 388
rule of 72, 120-121
Ryan, Paul, 260

S

Saez, Emmanuel, 407
sales taxes, 69
Sarkozy, Nicolas, 130
satellite accounts, 128-129
saving(s), 63-64
and economic growth, 395-396
and GDP, 121-122
and interest rates, 210, 211, 216
and international trade/finance, 320-323
net national, 7, 7
net vs. gross, 122
spending down, 121
savings accounts, 256
savings and loan banks, 258, 259
Say, Jean-Baptiste, 34-35
Say's Law, 34-35
scarcity, 45, 46
Schwartz, Anna Jacobson, 283-284
sea-level rise, 67
secondary (industrial) sector, 153, 159-164
construction and housing, 160, 160
manufacturing, 160-164, 163
share of economic production, 178
value added by, 155
securities broker, 263
security, as goal of macroeconomics, 30-31
self-correcting market, 85
Sen, Amartya, 130, 400
Services
bartering, 251
in GDP, 108
See also tertiary (service) sector
short run, expected inflation in, 296
short-run interest rate, 290
short-run macroeconomic issues, 25, 37
shortage, 92, 92-93
Simpson, Alan, 379
Simpson-Bowles Plan, 379-380
sink functions, 144
skill-biased technical change, 194-195
small business loans, 212
Smith, Adam, 34, 153
social capital, 61
social context (of economic activity), 81
social discount rate, 427
social insurance programs, 69
Social Security, 69, 236, 371, 382
social sustainability, 31-33
socioeconomic systems, 67
SolarWorld, 164
Sorkin, Andrew, 260
sovereign debt, 375
specialization, 34
speculation, 98, 262
speculative bubbles, 98, 98-99
dot-com, 304, 344, 345
financial, 264-265
housing, 99, 264, 305, 343-347, 344, 345
stock market, 98, 98
spending approach (to GDP), 109, 112-114, 121-122
stability, as goal of macroeconomics, 30-31
stabilization, in the twenty-first century, 428-432
stagflation, 301-302, 302
standard of living
growth in (See living standards growth)
well-being vs., 179n.
Starbucks, 95
static analysis, 57
steady-state economy, 430-432, 431, 432
Stern, Nicholas, 418
"sticky wage" theories, 192-193
Stiglitz, Joseph, 130, 406
stimulus program, 229, 242, 281, 299, 305, 308
stock-flow diagram, 65, 65
stock market bubble (1999-2000), 98, 98
stock markets, financialization and, 170-171
stocks, 64-67, 65
structural deficit (or surplus), 241, 242
structural unemployment, 186-187
subjective well-being (SWB), 130-132
and GDP per capita, 131
as measure of well-being, 21, 21
subprime borrowers, 346
subprime mortgages, 98, 99, 280, 346-347
subsidies, eliminating, 423
substitutability, 67
substitute goods, 90
supply
aggregate, 298-306
change in, 87, 87-88, 88
price elasticity of, 96
shifts in, 93, 93-94
theory of, 85-88
supply and demand, 84-100
demand theory, 88-91
dynamics of real-world markets, 96-100
market adjustment theory, 91-96
markets, 84-85
supply theory, 85-88
supply curve, 86, 86-87, 274, 275, 294-298
supply schedule, 86
supply shocks, 297, 297-298
supply-side economics, 243, 366-367
surplus, 92, 92, 93, 237-238
sustainability
and consumption, 424-425, 426
demographic challenges for, 435-441
ecological, 32-33, 413-416, 422-424
financial, 31-33
as goal of macroeconomics, 31-33
and investment, 426-427
at local level, 429-430
social, 31-33
and stabilization, 428-432
sustainable growth, 422-424
sustainable socioeconomic system, 67
Swonk, Diane, 183

T

tariffs, 315-316
tax multiplier, 232-233, 247-249
taxes, 69-70, 231-234
and aggregate demand, 241
and CEO compensation, 354
energy, 420
expansionary/contractionary effects of, 235
and government spending, 234
green, 422-423, 423, 431
income, 233, 301
income tax surcharge, 301
Social Security and Medicare, 236
tax cuts, 241, 243
total tax revenue, well-being and, 13, 13
See also fiscal policy
technological progress, 48
economic tradeoffs with, 48-50, 49
and income inequality, 74
and standard of living, 32
and sustainability, 433
technological unemployment, 194
technology
and dot-com bubble, 304, 344, 345
and economic output, 387
environmentally-sound, 433
and globalization, 304-306, 305
and resource depletion, 415-416
and wages, 194-195
terms of trade, 397
tertiary (service) sector, 153, 164-173
education, 173
finance and financialization, 166-171, 167, 168
health services, 171, 171-172
human services, 171-173
in overall macro context, 175-177, 176
retail services, 165-166, 166
share of economic production, 177, 178
value added by, 155
textiles manufacturing, 160-161, 166
theoretical investigation, 44
theory of market adjustment, 91-96
thought experiments, 44
"three basic economic questions," 29-30
throughput, 426
time lags, 241
and fiscal policy, 241
and monetary policy, 285, 286
time-series data, 41
Tobin, James, 133n., 361
"too big to fail," 353
Toporowski, Jan, 169n.
total factor productivity, 387
total tax revenue, 13, 13
toxic wastes, 415
tradable permit systems, 423-424
trade account (in current account), 327
Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002, 187
trade balance, 318-323
and circular flow, 319, 319-320
and GDP, 121-122
as measure of well-being, 14, 14
and multiplier effect, 320
and savings, investment, and net borrowing, 320-323
trade ban, 315
trade cycle, 30
trade deficit, 318
trade policies, 315-316
trade quota, 315
trade-related subsidies, 316
traditional microeconomic model, 51
transaction costs, 56
transfer (term), 63
transfer payments, 232, 233, 235
transfers, 68-69
Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), 353
trust, social institutions of, 53-54
tulipomania, 264
twenty-first century macroeconomics, 37-38, 413-434
and climate change, 416-420
ecological sustainability, 413-416
environment and economic growth, 420-427
goals of, 413
stabilization and sustainability, 428-432

U

UN development approach, 404
UN Millennium Development Goals, 48, 402-404
underemployment, 183-184
unemployed person (BLS definition), 181
unemployment, 25, 185-190
average duration of, 188, 188
cost of, 348
in Europe, 376
following financial crisis, 347-349
in Great Recession, 299, 348
in Keynesian economics, 36, 221, 221-222, 222
official figures on, 180, 180-181
patterns of, 187-189
and stress, 30
theories of, 190-196
types of, 185-187
unemployment benefits, 186, 189
unemployment rate, 42, 43, 182, 188, 190
average duration of, 188, 188
BLS calculation of, 182-184
and GDP growth rate, 43
as measure of well-being, 11, 11
and real GDP growth rate, 42
and recessions, 203, 203
unintended investment, 218-220, 219
unions, 74
utility, 51

V

value-added, 110
in finance, insurance, and real estate, 167
from middlemen, 176
value-added approach (to GDP), 110
velocity of money, 282
Victor, Peter, 431
virtuous cycles (in development), 391
Volcker, Paul, 303

W

wage and price controls, 295
wage-price spiral, 295
wage-productivity gap, 193, 194
wages
and natural resources, 195-196
pay gap, 407
and technology, 194-195
theories of, 190-196
Walmart, 166
Walsleben, Kenneth, 212
Warren, Elizabeth, 260
Washington Consensus, 336, 389, 404
waste products, 62, 415
water supplies (in the U.S.), 156, 157
wealth, 254
wealth inequality, 75
following financial crisis, 349
in recovery from Great Recession, 407
Wealth of Nations, The (Smith), 34
weighted average, in CPI calculation, 119
well-being, 27
elements of, 27
and GDP, 130-133
standard of living vs., 179n.
subjective, 21, 21, 130-132
well-being measures, 3-17, 133-140
absolute poverty, 16, 16
average annual hours worked, 10, 10
Better Life Index, 136-137
carbon dioxide emissions per capita, 22, 22
economic, 148-149
educational performance, 19, 19
foreign aid, 17, 17
and GDP, 130-133
GDP per capita, 5, 5
Genuine Progress Indicator, 133-135, 135, 136
government debt, 8, 8
Happy Planet Index, 138-139
Human Development Index, 137-138
income inequality, 15, 15
Index of Social Health of the United States, 139
inflation, 12, 12
Internet users, 18, 18
labor productivity, 9, 9
life expectancy, 20, 20
local air quality, 23, 23
Measure of America, 139
net national savings, 7, 7
recent growth rate of GDP per
capita, 6, 6
for specific nations, 139-140
subjective well-being, 21, 21
total tax revenue, 13, 13
trade balance, 14, 14
unemployment rate, 11, 11
Wolff, Guntram, 376
work
BLS employment survey, 180-181
future of, 196
See also employment
World Bank, 335, 336, 367
World War II, 240, 295, 366

Z

Zandi, Mark, 242
Zhu Guangyao, 147















 
 
 

About the Authors

 


 
 

Neva R. Goodwin (PhD, Boston University) is co-director of the Global Development and Environment Institute (GDAE) at Tufts University.
Jonathan M. Harris (Ph.D., Boston University) is director of the Theory and Education Project at GDAE.
Julie A. Nelson (Ph.D., University of Wisconsin, Madison) is Professor of Economics at the University of Massachusetts Boston and Senior Research Fellow at GDAE.
Brian Roach (Ph.D, University of California, Davis) is Senior Research Associate at GDAE.
Mariano Torras (Ph.D., University of Massachusetts, Amherst) is Professor of Economics at Adelphi University and Senior Research Fellow at GDAE.
Contributor James Devine (Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley) is Professor of Economics at Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles.







