



Table of Contents
This book does not contain formal chapters per se; the book is divided into learning segments listed below. 

Mastering Hypnotic Language - Further Confessions of a Rogue Hypnotist

1. Welcome to book 2 in your rapid hypnosis mastery!
2. The language of hypnosis and trance.     
3. Words beginning with RE are hypnotic. 
4. PMR: (Progressive Muscle Relaxation) and why it works.
5. Conscious and unconscious dissociation.
6. Colour feelings.
7. Hidden code hypnosis.
8. More hypnotic language: the power of negations.
9. Reverse speech and the unconscious.
10. The Advanced hypnotic mind model.
11. Temporal and spatial predicates: language in time and space.
12. Utilising utilisation.
13. Have you ever...
14. Get to the point: I need specifics!
15. Assumptions in trance.  
16. Nominalise this: hypnotic concepts.
17. Non specified comparatives.  
18. Non specified verbs, people and things. 
19. Hyperbolic words.
20. Hypnotic poetry: assonance and alliteration.
21. Some more languaging. 
22. Associational networks. 
23. Ambiguity and confusion. 
24. Adverbs to tell people what to think and feel.   
25. Not now but soon! How to construct deepeners. 
26. Embedded commands hypnotic induction. 
27. Embeds that induce trance.  
28. Describing a state revivifies it.  
29. Your 1st bonus: Symbolic deepeners.  
30. Your new language power! 
31. Appendix 1: PMR script.  
32. Appendix 2: Conscious and Unconscious Dissociation script.  
33. Appendix 3: The Silly Hypnotic Deepener.  
34. Appendix 4: 1st Bonus: The Symbolic Deepener script.   
35. Appendix 5: 2nd Bonus Deepener - The Unicorn Deepener.     









Mastering  hypnotic language 
Further  confessions of a Rogue Hypnotist
By  the Rogue Hypnotist 










Disclaimer:  the Rogue Hypnotist accepts no legal liability for the use or misuse  of the information contained in this book. People who are not  qualified professionals use the information at their own risk. This  book is intended for entertainment and educational purposes only.  Only the hypnosis scripts, deepeners contained within are for your  personal or public use copyright free. They may not be resold.









Welcome  to book 2 in your rapid hypnosis mastery!
First  off folks, if you haven't yet bought book 1: 'How to hypnotise  anyone,' I suggest you do. It will give you all the basics for the  foundation of your hypnotic success. However this book stands on its  own too. It is slightly longer than the first: I'm giving you even  more goodies! This second book focuses on more advanced hypnotic  techniques and gives you a broader model of the mind with regards to  hypnosis: primarily it is about 'hypnotic language.' Much  so-called hypnotic language is of no use to anyone! This book gives  you the stuff that works. 
If you read book 1 you'll be 99% ahead of the competition. It gives you a method, a  formula, a set of repeatable principles (this is the basis of  scientific research by the way) that pretty much allow you to  hypnotise everyone. Now we are taking it 'up' a level. I want you  to have so much skill with your hypnotic language that you can make  it up all by yourself. 
All  the things I will teach you work. I use them in private practise. If  you haven't read my first book let me tell you why you should read  this book (apologies if you've read book 1!) I am a professional  clinical hypnotherapist and psychotherapist and an Advanced Master  Practitioner of NLP. I know what I am talking about. I have studied  this subject for over 20 years now. I have helped crack addicts,  depressives, smokers, people who have been left in 'untreatable'  agony by incompetent surgeons who have butchered them, armies of  weight loss clients, stressed police officers on the brink of a  nervous breakdown and more! I am very  successful with clients. They get what they pay for. They leave with  a big smile on their face. It usually takes me one session to help  99.9% of clients. 
I'm  going to let you in on the 'language patterns' that work as  opposed to all the junk out there that will never work in reality.  99% of what is taught on courses is expensive, time-wasting garbage! Lots  of hypnosis teachers are teaching students that if they talk like a  weirdo they'll get anything they want in life. If you believe that  even I can't help you! If you talk like a lot of NLP and conversational hypnosis gurus  suggest you'll end up sounding like a freak. You need to talk as  normally as you can; especially in hypnotherapy, remember: no  one likes mind bending language. In  fact no one wants their mind bent at all! The purpose of 'therapy,'  of hypnosis is to help people achieve freedom! Freedom from problems  that have tormented them and most importantly: freedom of mind! 
I'll  teach you how the brain/nervous system processes words. I'll teach  you how to be even more 'artfully vague' and how to be very  specific. They are two sides of the same coin: one will help you  hypnotise others easily, the other will allow you to ask just the  right questions to get all the information you need in order to help  your clients or unravel potential B-S from many differing sources  that seek to influence you covertly. 
I'll  also teach you how to use even more tricks of the trade:  observations, experiences, theories and approaches to hypnotise  anyone; which embedded commands actually create trance and hypnosis  and how to construct deepeners that work every time: I'll give you  THE 100% fail safe formula for next to nothing. We'll touch on  cultural and marketing hypnosis and more advanced knowledge of how  all humans are and can be influenced. Including you! This is a more  advanced book than book 1 but just as simple to learn. You'll find  it easy. 
By  the end of this book, even if you are not a qualified hypnotherapist  you will know more about hypnosis and how the human mind really works  than 99% of all doctors, 'therapists,' quacks of any persuasion  and other 'mental health care professionals'. And what's more  unlike them I am not charging you an arm and a leg to learn things to  help others. 
Some  of my clients have described me as a 'miracle worker.' I am not,  I have simply worked out through laborious trial and error what works  and what doesn't. You're learning curve is about to be seriously  shortened. 
Ok  that's enough waffling let's get you started, time to learn how  to use hypnotic language with complete precision. The training wheels  will be coming off a bit more than in book 1 and you will be expected  to analyse this stuff without me holding your hand so much. But I  have provided some great original scripts that will, I hope  really  help you. Again: when you know the principles you won't need me. I  don't want you to be dependent on me or anyone else to have  hypnotic mastery. A chimp could do this stuff! 









The  language of hypnosis and trance.
There  are innumerable myths about supposed 'language patterns' that  that will make someone your 'hypno slave' etc. Fortunately they  are a load of old rubbish. However: hypnosis  requires precise language use if you are to become very skilled in  its use. I will start to lay out some specific 'language patterns' that  when used as a small part of a large whole will help to add up to  your hypno success. 
A.	   The  more the more: 'The  more you relax the more deeply you will go.'
This  is a 'single bind pattern.' That is you are not giving someone a  choice. The formula is: the more you do x, the more you do y. There  is no real reason why you would, it is a false cause and effect chain  but in the 'trance logic' of hypnosis it just seems more  plausible. Here are some more examples...
''The  more you listen  to my voice the more you'll learn what you need to.'
'The  more you pay  attention to that feeling of relaxation in your torso, the more you'll be aware as it spreads down your  legs. '
'The  more you enter  this state the more wonderful you'll feel.' 
B.	   The  deeper you go the better you feel and the better you feel the deeper  you can go: That  is the phrase, very simple, very hypnotic. Feel free to use it during  trance induction; it is a favourite of stage hypnotists. Sometimes  I'll say,
'And  the golden rule of hypnosis is, the deeper you go the more wonderful  you'll feel and the more wonderful you feel, the deeper you can go,  nooowww...!'
C.    Now....
Now  is a very powerful word in hypnosis. You tag it on the end of  sentences following a suggestion and it acts as a simple command for  the subconscious to do what you just suggested, now.
'In  this relaxed state called trance you will learn all you need to  learn, now.'
'You  can feel confident in situations that used to bother you, now.' 
'You  have billions of brain cells that can be utilised in many ways that  will surprise and delight you, now.'
The  beauty of using the word now is that it is so conversational, no one  knows it's a command it just sounds like part of a sentence and you  can use it as a run on to another, I'll show you...
'Imagine  the type of exercise you'd really enjoy, the type that would help  you easily and effortlessly  lose weight, now, there are so many ways of being active, so many ways to be  more active and won't it be interesting discovering which one you'll enjoy  most?' 
You  might want to throw in a micro-second pause between the rest of the  sentence and now - just a beat will do. 
D.     This,  that, these, those: This  is a simple but effective one.
This  and these are associative words. That and those are dissociative words.  Let me show you...
'This  feeling will remain with you.' 
'These  changes will manifest in your life, automatically, without effort.' 
Notice  how these two words make it sound like you the change is connected to you or the listener. Use these when you want a client to keep a particular change or when you want them to experience something  from their point of view - this and these facilitate subjectivity  in trance. Now, the others... 
'That  old pattern of the past is no longer relevant and doesn't bother  you in any way, shape or form.' 
'Those  former ways of being were right for a younger you but as we mature we  find some habits that just no longer suit us and we find better ways  instead.' 
I  have used these two words to dissociate or disconnect the client from  the behaviours they want changed. A  good way to become a really good hypnotist is to really start to  think about the precise meanings and implications to the words that  you use. Those  and that create objectivity of mind or what you might call  'distance.' 
D.	   All  the way down: One of the best and simplest phrases for deepening trance is to say... 
'You  can go all the way doooowwwn.' 
'Downward'  is suggestive of going deeper into hypnosis. 
More  language tricks. Next it's...
E.	   That's  right! You  could probably induce a trance just by saying, 'That's right,'  whenever anyone manifested 'trance behaviour,' that is the  physiological signs of hypnosis and trance. It's a reward for the  client following suggestions, an operant conditioning technique: like  a verbal pat on the back. When you see a client go deeper into trance  use it. If they don't use it, 'That's  right, only do what you want to do.' 'That's  it'  is an alternative. It's like saying good boy or good girl to a  child. You can also say, 'Good!'  'Per-fect!' 'Fantastic!'  Always be  encouraging throughout a hypnosis session. Examples...
While  entering trance someone's face twitches - you say - 'That's  right.'
While  entering trance someone lets out a sigh - 'That's  right.'
While  entering trance a person's head rolls to one side - 'That's  right.'
Now,  when you notice 'the moment of hypnotic surrender,' when they let  go into trance fully (see book 1) you definitely say, 'That's  right!'
Simple,  powerful. 
F.	     Each  and both of you.
This  odd 'phraselet' means your 'conscious and unconscious selves.'  It is mildly disorienting, ambiguous and vague. Perfect for hypnosis  in other words. Usage includes...
'Each  and both of you can benefit.' 
'You  can feel confident in all areas of your life, each and both of you,  now...'
'Each  and both of you can listen and learn, really learn.' 
G.	    And  now: How  much more dramatic could you get!? And now tonight's star is...'And  now!'  grabs your attention: which is inherently hypnotic. 
'And  now as you begin to enter  a state of deep hypnosis.'
'And  now you will notice many amazing changes upon waking, and don't be  too surprised if you feel really good for no particular reason, now...'
H.          In  a moment: this  seemingly innocuous phrase is probably THE most important, most  hypnotic thing you can say to ANYONE. That's why I saved it for last. So why is it just so hypnotic?  Before I tell you let me give you its variants. You nearly always  want more than one option, to stave off boredom if nothing else. 
'In  a few seconds...'
'When  I say...'
'Not  now but in a moment...'
'Soon...'
'Soon,  very soon...'
'In  a couple of moments...'
What  do they all have in common? Time delay, time lag. Because  nothing is wanted of the person right  now  the analytical guard is down. There is no immediate perception of a threat. It also primes the  subconscious to prepare to  respond when you give the cue. I learnt this by studying top stage  hypnotists; before they do any sketch or elicit hypnotic phenomena  like hands glued together they set it up with this phrase one way or  another. It's perfect to begin deepener's with. We'll get to  that in a bit. Ok, that's enough of that for now. 









Words  beginning with RE are hypnotic.
I  have no idea why! Sorry. RE is an instruction to do something that  you've done before. 
Let  me show you with the word:
Re-lax - word origin Latin. 
Old  French - RE = back to original place; again, anew, once more. A  sense of undoing. 
Lax  = soften, loosen (originally referring to digestion hence -  laxatives!)
RE  Latin derivation = again, back, anew, against. 
This  is why hypnotherapy  is re-associative,  (more on this in book 3 'Powerful Hypnosis,') a command to relax  in effect says - go back to before you were tense. Hints of age  regression in that simple word? 
Some  examples follow...
Realise...you  know more than you know, you know...
Recognise...your  potential to move past those worries that used to bother you...
Revivify...a  pleasant feeling, now... (Revivification is easy with hypnosis -  feelings, resources, memories - you name it.) 
Reconnect to...your  ability to relax deeply, very deeply...
Resource....after  resource is already available to you inside...
Re-associate...to  good moods, times and places you felt good...
Re-organise...already  existing subconscious structures. 
Research...research  is looking for something that has already been found. If research  were involved in originality it would be called 'search.' 
Remember...probably  one of the most hypnotic words available. If you say, 
'Remember  a happy time,'
the  listener, reader is instantly thrown into a light trance just to  remember one. Remember  when you want to hypnotise someone you turn their attention inward. See my first book, 'How to hypnotise anyone,' for a full  explanation of this principle. 
Interestingly  a 're-volution'   is going back to something that already was. The so-called 'sexual  revolution' is a good one: it actually means going back to the pre  Christian sexual attitudes - thus: neo-pagan sexuality. Oh words,  such misunderstood things! A revolution is in fact a return to a past  'Golden Age.' Beginning to see how little of 'English' and  its real roots we are taught at school? 









PMR:  (Progressive Muscle Relaxation) and why it works. 
Lots  of NLPers and hypnotists poo-poo poor old PMR, that is 'Progressive  Muscle Relaxation'. This is the technique whereby just getting a  client to focus on the body, specifically the major muscle groups and  then suggesting that those same muscles relax deeply produces a very  deep and profound state of hypnosis. It can often send someone into  real sleep especially if they are really tired or stressed! That's  fine. They'll probably grunt themselves awake at some point. 
Yes  there are other ways to get someone into trance but avoiding a  technique for some arbitrary reason is retarded. It reminds me of my  old English teacher who would never let us use the word 'got.' He  had got some kind of 'got fixation.' Apparently he considered it  bad English. Often with modern English the Latin words are regarded  as 'proper' and the Old Saxon words, the short and to the point  ones are regarded as crude and uncouth. This was a product of the  Norman Conquest of the English. The Normans spoke Old French and Old  Norse, although their origins go back to Finland. 
I  had another teacher, an art teacher who regarded black as not being a  colour (good grief!) and so he wouldn't let us use the black paint  and we had to mix it from a special formula that only he knew. So if  you wanted to paint a seagull, which is grey and you couldn't  remember the secret formula you were f...fed up! It's the same with  PMR: it is a technique that works! So why not use it? 
Remember  one of the golden rules of the mind is: where the mind leads the body  follows and where the body leads the mind follows. When you physically relax the body with just your words - you might  call it a 'mind massage' the mind calms down too. 
As  a hypnotist/hypnotherapist you will be meeting people who are  incredibly tense and NEED to know how to relax: they have forgotten  how to relax. They are so habitually tense that they think the  tension is relaxation! PMR will also calm down emotional arousal  which is essential so that clients can see beyond their old 'black  and white' (actually 'locked in' fight or flight) stressed  brain thinking. For example a depressed brain is a stressed brain.  Below is a script for inducing hypnosis PMR style. If you haven't  read book 1 - use a command/downward inflexion on the embedded  commands which are highlighted. I've spiced the script up a bit for  you...
PMR  script. 
'Ok  just close your eyes...
and  just pay attention to your breathing...
in  and out... (time  this on the in and out breath - thereby 'pacing' the client's  reality.) 
That's  right...
You  don't have to change your breathing at all...
just  notice it...
Draw  all of your attention to your breathing...
as  you relax  deeply...
Now,
just  focus your attention on the top of your head...
your  scalp...
Imagine  you simply relax
all  the muscles in the top of your head...
relax your forehead...
calming...yourself...down...
all  the way down...
Good...
And  now...
your  eyes...
your  temples...
relaxing...
Your  ears can relax...
the  back of your head too,
supported  by that pillow/cushion... 
so  comfortable...
Again  relax all  the tiny muscles
around  your eyelids...
All  of them
can  just let  go,
relax  and unwind, now...
The  muscles between your eye brows
can  soften,
smooth  out...
take  a rest.
And  even the nose can relax,
tension  can accumulate around the nose
but  it can melt away now too...
and  who knows, (phonetic  ambiguity: nose/knows.)
how  the nose
knows  how to relax?
but  it does...
And  female rabbits are known as does/doze... (confusion:  non sequitur - 'doze' = command - sleep!)
And  you can
effortlessly...
allow  this feeling of 
pure  relaxation
to  spread down your neck...
That's  right...
so  wonderfully relaxed,
peace  increasing...
inside...your  mind...
because...
as your  body relaxes,
your  mind relaxes...
does  it not?
Time  to just slow...things...down... (Anxiety is associated with speed. Suggest the opposite. 'Down'  also suggestive of going down into hypnosis.)
down  to your shoulders...
Just  let those shoulders... 
relax  comfortably.
Don't  have to do anything...
for  a while... 
The  back muscles,
releasing  past tension.
That  old...
tension  just melts away...
so  pleasant...
that  calming, soothing, restful sensation
spreading...
all  the way down
your  lower back
increasing  serenity, (single  word command)
relaxing,
smoothing  out certain things...
almost  as though,
someone  you love deeply
is  massaging 
all  that old tightness you had away.
Your  chest and tummy muscles...
feeling  so soft,
so  wonderful.
That  feeling can spread 
to  where it needs to go.
Just  getting rid of any 
unnecessary  tension, 
in  the past...now. 
And  down to your
waste/waist  area, (phonetic ambiguity) 
feeling 
tranquillity,  now...
And  what's the most wonderful thing
about  kindness and love;
for  yourself too? (Whispered)
Letting  those big thigh muscles
relax  so pleasantly,
that  chair comfortably supporting...
your  hamstrings muscles too.
Your  arms can relax:
the  deltoids,
biceps,
triceps,
the  forearms...
all  the way down
to  your hands,
your  palms relaxing...
each  finger and thumb...
so  comfort-able...
Aware  of the feeling
of  your interlaced/touching fingers,
the  feeling of your jeans...(whatever  they are wearing) 
any  textures...
the  different feelings, 
in  both hands.
One  hand might feel slightly lighter,
And  the other slighter warmer... (truism  - this is often the case.)
And  I don't know which hand is the right hand
And  which one is left. (Phonetic  ambiguity/double meaning for left and right.)
Perhaps...
your  calves can 
relax  next...
your  shins,
your  Achilles tendons...
down  to your ankles,
top  of your feet,
aware  of the feeling of the shoes/socks  etc.  (if they are wearing any) on  those feet...
your  toes too...
each  toe relaxing,
one...
by...
one... (suggestive of counting down)
and  your sole/soul... (phonetic  ambiguity suggestive of 'deep rooted' relaxation) 
deeply  relaxed.
Your  entire mind and body 
deeply  relaxed, now.
Now  I just want for a moment...
to  speak to... 
you're  unconscious (ambiguity  - your/you're)
I'd  like to thank that part...
that  was and is protecting you...
looking  out for you...
that  was making you
too  worried,
stressed,
overly  tense...
back  then.
But  now I would like,
the  sympathetic part of the nervous system;
that's  the part that takes care 
of  the arousal phase of the 'fight or flight' response
to  calm  down, now...
to  allow the parasympathetic phase,
of  the nervous system;
that  is the calming  down phase...
to  begin to predominate, now...
Only  responding to real danger,
when  needed.
The  old overly tense and stressed pattern,
is  unnecessary, now...
That's  right.' 
You  can continue with therapeutic suggestion or just begin an awakening  process. Up to you. Remember  most people want and need relief from stress and tension: PMR can  help. 









Conscious  and unconscious dissociation. 
In  order you get hypnosis you can use the following technique: the aim?  To get the conscious mind and the unconscious to dissociate. You do  this by talking about what consciousness does and what the  unconscious does. It is done very vaguely as you'll see. Whether  hypnosis is just dissociation is another matter, I don't think it  is. I use this method as a deepener once I've already gotten  someone in a nice light hypnotic state.
Conscious  and Unconscious dissociation script. 
'As  a part of you listens another part becomes more and more immersed in  this process...
Maybe  one part wants to follow what is happening, while another in fact  knows without effort and simply absorbs things...
Perhaps  a part may be concentrated on some ideas yet at the same time another  can continue on its journey into the inner world of experiences... 
A  part can doubt and question and another can accept positive change  and experience is possible, can understand with more and more trust...
Maybe  some part wants to observe and be alert whereas another uncovers its  own creative potentials and deeply desires to try something new...
One  part may try to exert too much control over everything with its  learnt bias, while another deeper part of you is free to imagine some  things you desire and put into practise...
A  part is preoccupied by the moment as another simply finds it easy to  go down stream and act on certain things that please it most...' 
Remember  you can learn this by heart if you want but working off of scripts is  fine: it doesn't make you a 'scripnotist' whatever that means.  Dr. Milton Erickson did it sometimes and he invented modern  hypnotherapy single-handedly. I think that spending hours of your  lifetime learning hypnosis scripts is a TOTALLY unproductive waste of  time. I have a life; I am not a hypno-nerd or hypno-obsessive. You  learn through repetition anyway not memorisation. The way you learn a  script is through muscle memory, that is the muscles of the mouth,  tongue etc. (the organs of articulation) 'remember.' 
As  I hope you noticed all comments to 'consciousness' occurred first  - the left hand side of the text and the unconscious was addressed  on the right hand side. Incidentally these mirror the hemispheres of  the brain which supposedly predominate for each part, left being  logical and right intuitive. The hemispheres of the brain are  actually much more complicated and the brain/nervous system is a  giant interactive neural network. People with physical brain damage  have started using parts of the left or right side of the brain to  carry out the task of the former hemisphere which was impaired: no  one knows anything! Although 'Neuroscience' claims it is mapping  the brain I think the human brain is like an internal cosmos: too  vast and grand for the puny human mind to ever fully understand.  Thank goodness!









Colour  feelings.
What  the heck are 'colour feelings' I hear you ask?! Simple: the human  brain associates/encodes feelings with colours. Why? Who knows? Red  usually with anger, passion. We hear it in clichés: 'He was red  with anger!' Blue for coolness, calmness, depression/sadness: 'I  felt blue.' She was green with envy: it's all in our language  fabric. Jealousy: ...'tis the green eyed monster that doth mock the  meat it feeds upon.' Depressed people often refer to the depression  they feel as 'The black cloud,' Winston Churchill referred to it  as his, 'Black dog.' Boys like blue, girls like pink. The  colour yellow makes people more suggestible. Blues and greens tend to be soothing. Red's, oranges tend to be  associated with aggressive, energetic feelings. Now how is this of  any use to a hypnotist? 
During  an induction, quite near the beginning, instead of progressively  relaxing the muscles I ask someone to,
'Imagine  a colour that makes you feel very relaxed...now allow that feeling,  that colour feeling (ambiguous/confusing) to spread from the top of  your head all the way down to the tips of your toes. ' 
You  can see this in my basic hypnotic script in 'How to hypnotise  anyone,' my first book. I am explaining it thoroughly now. When you  understand the theory you will be able to find other applications. It  can be used to reduce injury pain, control IBS (Irritable Bowel) gut  pain, elicit emotions and cause a woman to orgasm. 
A  woman once told me she felt anxious in social situations, which  people call being 'shy.' I asked her where the fear was located. She looked confused (she wasn't used to  thinking that way - her attention became focused); she pointed to  her solar plexus (feelings are often said to emanate from this point,  who knows why??!) I then asked - what  colour is the fear? (again confused look); she said red. I asked what would  the opposite feeling be. She said blue. In hypnosis I told her to,
'Imagine  that (that  - dissociative)  red feeling in the solar plexus changing to blue, this (this-  associative)  blue feeling, these (these  - associative)  feelings of calmness and wonderful confidence, now. And they can  spread all through your mind and body, making you feel  wonderful, now...' 
It  was of course only part of what I did to help her. I asked afterwards  how the solar plexus area felt, had that old feeling gone? She said  it had and she felt much better. Aren't we weird?! The way the  brain, nervous system actually  works seems bizarre because it is the opposite of what we are told.  No one knows nothing - as Shakespeare once wrote.
I  once had a man who said he felt empty and hollow in the solar plexus  area as a result of his cruel, abusive upbringing: I used colour  feelings in this case too. 
You  can take any feeling, turn it into a colour and spread it through  someone's body: confidence and happiness are two good states to  play with. 









Hidden  code hypnosis.
What  I call 'hidden code hypnosis' is really a way of bypassing  consciousness and directing a therapeutic suggestion to the  subconscious/unconscious. I do this by hiding it, like a hidden code  within a larger sentence. I break the suggestion up and disperse it  one word at a time in between a piece of writing/speech. Let me show  you. Note: in order for hidden code hypnosis to work you must make  subtle use of pauses and embedded command tonality - that is a  falling tone. 
Notice  I am actually delivering two suggestions: a longer overt one and a  shorter 'covert' one. Multiple  communications which the subconscious can easily process.
'You have many abilities of which you have been consciously unaware...and  you can discover  them because the other mind knows more than you know, you know, so  you can really stop and find out that the ability to be using your natural capacity to feel good without drugs, free and healthy, even - in control, all right, now.  Recognise this hidden truth at some level haven't you? For many things can change and your behaviour can change appropriately so that you own these changes and it's the unconscious or  subconscious that secretly does all the work for you for its own  reasons without the other knowing or needing to know.' 
The  hidden hypnotic code is (obviously):'You  can stop using drugs now for your own unconscious reasons.'   By the way that on its own 'un-coded' would work. 
Aha!  But there is also a third message to the unconscious! Did you spot  it? It is about half way through, the sentence: 'Recognise  this hidden truth at some level haven't you?'   The  hidden truth being - the hidden hypnotic code. 
If I use this I add it in quite early in a session after a basic  induction and one deepener. You can encode any message:
You  feel confident.
You  have self-belief.
Scratch  your nose. 
Do  something different. 
You  can also use this technique in normal conversation without any  hypnosis, the unconscious will still pick up the message and it will  act upon quite frequently. 









More  hypnotic language: the power of negations. 
The  prime purpose of negation is to attract resistance and so diffuse it. Negations are sneaky ways of delivering suggestions that don't seem  like suggestions. Some good examples follow...the first is probably  the best, derived from Dr. Milton Erickson's work. It implies  choice. 
A.           You  don't have to...
'You  don't have to relax.'
'You  don't have to pay any attention to what I'm saying.'
'You  don't have to feel  growing comfort.' 
'You  don't have to go  into trance until you want to.' 
B.   	Don't...
This  brings me to the: 'Don't think of pink elephants principle!' In  order to NOT think of pink elephants you have to think of pink  elephants.
'Don't  relax too deeply...yet.'
'Don't  make any changes you don't want to.'
'Don't  relax  your breathing...'
'Don't  notice where you feel most peaceful...'
C.	   Never.  (A don't variant.) 
'Never  imagine pleasant scenes.'
'Never  feel very good until you're ready.' 
'Never  fall into a deep hypnotic sleep till you know it's what you want to  do.'
These  sorts of language patterns can be used well with so-called 'polarity  responders' or contrarians if you prefer. Certain people like to be  contradictory, it's in their nature, perhaps they are natural  rebels who knows but if you want to get children like that to do  something you can say things like,
'I  bet you could never eat all your dinner up.'
They  will guzzle it all while looking at you thinking, 'I'll show  you!' 
D.   	It's  not necessary...
'It's  not necessary to try to remember consciously...'  (The implication? Forget!) 
'It's  not necessary to learn consciously...'  (Implication? Learn unconsciously!)
'It's  really not necessary to stop  smoking today...only  when you're  ready, now...'
Note:  much suggestion work can be done through implication. Normal  conversations use implication often. All the hypnotic patterns in  this book occur naturally but you are becoming aware of them so that  you can use them to help people. I will cover implication in detail  thoroughly in book 3. 
Negations  can inoculate against resistance because they don't seem to be  suggesting anything. The client has no need to resist; you already  did it for them. If that makes sense? Remember  your attitude should be, I don't want any power and authority over  anyone anyway, when you think like that people don't resist. They see you as an  ally, which you are. 
E.	   You  shouldn't...couldn't...wouldn't. 
'You  shouldn't go inside and remember a happy time, but you could...' 
'You  couldn't make just the right shifts unconsciously until you were  ready anyway.'
'You  wouldn't want to become  deeply hypnotised without becoming aware of your most comfortable big toe.' 
F.	   Tag  questions. 
'You  already know how to relax  deeply, do you not?
When  you tag a question on the end you hide the command/suggestion.
'All  these changes have occurred without your conscious mind knowing how,  haven't you?'  (The past predicate '...haven't' is non-grammatical and so,  confusing and it is a suggestion - '...haven't you?' suggests  change has already occurred.) 
For  God's sake don't be a total twerp and talk like this in real life -  you'll sound weird or pretentious or both! 
'You've  learnt some new habits and you will, will you not? Will you not?
Again  we create confusion but this time with a future temporal predicate  'will' which doubly suggests the new habit will be acted on...you  just aren't stating it explicitly. As the client doesn't  consciously know what the hell you are on about he won't resist.
'It's  easy to learn hypnosis, is it not?'
Notice  the hidden command - It is easy to learn hypnosis - the tag  question on the end hides it. A bit like an embedded command. 
To  learn the patterns in this book you might want to write down five  examples of your own to train your brain to use this type of  hypno-speak. Writing things down helps clarify thought. The trick  with all this stuff is that it adds variety to your repertoire. You  have a bigger tool box to draw from. Don't overdo these things in  practise use them subtly, deftly. When  you think of hypnotic language think precision. Know your intent and  use your new languaging skills to achieve it. 









Reverse  speech and the unconscious. 
As  a hypnotist it is a good idea to learn as much as you can about the  nature of the subconscious mind and what it is capable of: what its  true nature is. In the last few years I have learnt something quite  startling about this part of our selves. When we speak we communicate  with others in forward speech. Subconscious slips ('Freudian  slips'), ideomotor signals may give away the truth of what we  really think BUT we also reveal ourselves through 'backward  speech.' What do I mean? Record someone speaking. Play it backwards  - reverse it and listen out for what the subconscious is revealing  in reverse. It takes skill to be able to identify real 'reverse  speech' from things that sound as if they might be actual  subconscious communications. It is most illuminating to do so with  the speech of politicians and people of that ilk. You might be  surprised as to how the reverse speech reveals something totally  contradictory to what the forward speech claims. Be careful doing  this with friends and relatives - you might discover something it's  best not knowing! Don't violate loved ones privacy. No hypnosis  teachers will teach you about this stuff. The weird and whacky world  of the subconscious! So let's continue in this vein. 









The  'Advanced' hypnotic mind model. 
In  order to build a body of knowledge you must seek truth. If you let conscious sets and biases (social programing) get in the  way of this, you will be a much less effective  hypnotist/hypnotherapist than you could be. Remember the truth may  wholly contradict what you thought was true. 
A  bit of speculation on my part follows.
Note:  all layers can be programmed with unhelpful, unrealistic beliefs. 
The  Conscious Mind - Predominantly analytical part, programmed with 'conscious sets'  - biases and beliefs. Concentrates on one thing at a time or becomes  stressed and overloaded rapidly. Powerful ability to focus,  potentially clever but not necessarily wise, potentially deeply  analytical: looks out for others attempts to influence you in ways  that could be harmful to you. Academic training focuses at accessing  this level. The intellect is but the tip of an iceberg of giant  proportions. Intellect is not the same as intelligence. This part  consciously plans things and checks that the strategies employed  work. Only likes to focus on one thing at a time - otherwise it  gets stressed, especially men's conscious minds. Women can pay  attention to multiple things. This is biological - men focus  intently in the hunt, women need a multiple focus to protect a group  of children. That said both sexes prefer to deal with one thing at a  time. 
The  subconscious layers protect consciousness. The deeper layers will  only 'let through' to consciousness that which they think the  surface level can handle safely. The conscious self also represents  the social mask, the persona that we want others to see. Affected by  logical language unless you are a woman. The so-called 'left brain.'  Like a precocious child who thinks he knows it all. The good thing  about it is that is very curious and eager to learn. 
One  of the functions of consciousness is to justify on-going behaviour:  that is to make excuses, to 'rationalise.' If  you hypnotise someone to get angry at someone else for no good  reason, just because the hypnotist suggested it and the hypnotised  person is asked why they are angry, they will justify their anger! Even though it wasn't their idea. This has huge ramifications  regarding whether our thoughts are our own! Think about it. 
One  of the prime functions of consciousness is to 'think critically,'  this faculty is strongly present from early childhood; however is can  be crushed if what children experience is repeatedly contradicted by  parents, teachers and other 'authority figures.' Why? The child's  need for approval and attention, support and survival override the  intelligence and function of the critical faculty and the child  instead  begins to 'parrot' those who have power over it in order  to 'fit in' and be a 'good boy/girl.' Totalitarian political  cults have always known this and used it to their advantage. 
If  this form of anti-reality conditioning continues unabated, over time  the child develops a 'pseudo self' the real self, still present  yet unconscious remains unfulfilled and unrealised. An example being  - doing a job to please parents against one's own deeply held  desire to do something else entirely etc. In many ways this must lead  in a great many people to a form of mild 'multiple personality;'  so the conscious self, presented to the world may not be the real  self at all but rather a pale shadow of what it could have been. The  conscious self is also forced into various 'roles' and  subgroupings of behaviours that are present only in specific  scenarios. Once these roles: student, employee etc. are habituated  they will become unconscious and so seem normal, and again constitute  a mild 'multiple personality.' This of course doesn't mean  anyone should be naively, even dangerously honest! 
Note 1: All deeper levels are benevolent. The following levels only want to  help a person; they never intentionally cause an individual harm.  Remember: Freud was a sick, crazy b%$£*^d! 
Note 2: all layers from now on require a different language to communicate  with; they are 'non-logical', 'non-linear': they have their  own 'logic'. Speaking logically to them is like speaking English  to a French person. Although there are similarities they just ain't  gonna understand you. 
The  Preconscious Mind: a  threshold just below consciousness, home of tip of the tongue  phenomena. The place where things go just before entering  consciousness, perhaps a final checking stop. The 'Google' of  mind; the conscious seeks info (memories etc.) and the preconscious  'google' searches for it, placing filters on access to  information: the filters are beliefs - the ideas/things people  'believe' to be true. Neuroscience has revealed that people's  brain's think thoughts before consciousness knows about them - so  they are? Preconscious! 
The  Subconscious Mind: probably  deals with everyday habits, learnt skills that have become automatic  (driving, painting, public speaking etc.) everyday emotions and  bodily functions. Runs many if not all mind-body systems  automatically - digestion, sweating etc. Fight or flight response  most probably here - actually the muscle priming response. Most  hypnotic change probably  occurs here. Deeply  affected by emotive language and vague trance/hypnotic language. Affected by poetry. Like a vast factory or untiring workhorse -  remember those cartoons with little men in lab coats running the  brain/body?  It keeps you alive. Many people have suggested that the  subconscious is another word for the body. There is probably much  truth in this. 'Parts' in part's work therapy are probably  located here. This will be explored more fully in book 3. Unlike  consciousness, the subconscious can do many thing at once -  so-called 'multi-tasking.' Dreadful word combo. 
The  Unconscious Mind: the almost deepest levels of the psyche. Affected by symbols and in  charge of dreaming. Discharges all anxiety and emotional rumination  that accumulates during the day: this keeps you sane. Symbols  can dramatically program the human psyche and de-condition it too -  with regards to the latter only as long as the symbols are  subjectively generated. Powerfully affects conscious behaviour in ways not fully known.  Contains unconscious beliefs and awareness that may well be in  conflict with conscious beliefs. Deep levels of healing occur here:  probably in sleep - the home of the 'placebo response.' Can be  programmed through song/music so that certain behaviours manifest as  a result. The deeper levels of the mind know more about a person than  consciousness does. They can process multiple tasks at once. Capable  of solving problems without conscious help. Source of all creativity, insights and ideas, the location of all  'instinctive templates' that seek expression, satisfaction in  real life. Source of wisdom. A vast ocean of possibilities and  potentials lurks here. Perhaps as yet untapped? 
The  'Superconscious' Mind: I have added this term in here as a possible alternative to  subconscious and unconscious. It  suggests a part that is aware of a great deal more than consciousness  - it is 'hyper aware.'   This is the place of reverse speech perhaps which has been touched  on. Although consciousness lies (lies are a protective and deceptive mechanism) the deeper layers know the truth and always seem  to want to express it even by 'sideways' methods. Think about it  this way: your brain is bombarded by billions of bits of data - it  processes vast amounts of information moment to moment. So it is  aware of more than consciousness knows. That is why you can induce  trance through overload and redirection of attention to things  normally outside awareness in the normal waking state. 
The  Core: the ultimate core of who you truly are: the place beyond your name;  it contains your true sense of self, your deep identity. It knows  everything you do and really think and why you really  do it. It seems some hypnotherapists call this the 'Hidden  Observer,' 'The Wiser You/Self.') This part is split in MPD/DID  (Multiple Personality disorder/Dissociative Identity Disorder,)  through horrendous abuse. If you want to talk to deeper structures  say something like
'I'm  now talking to the deepest part of who you truly are.'







The  Soul.
There  may be a deeper level still that religions call 'the soul.' The  nature of spirit is far beyond the confines of this book and the  knowledge of this writer. 
In  reality most of these parts do not actually exist, they are  simplistic names for a complex symphony of processes. The brain is it  seems much like an orchestra composed of many parts with their own  functions. Instead of going down my model goes inward to the core. Like onion layers. 
Some  hypnotherapists believe that the subconscious can't tell the  difference between reality and something imagined. Not true. It seems  it may be the amygdala that can't tell the difference, although  that too may be just a theory. You can always tell the amygdala to  calm down. And just in case that part isn't involved you can say,
'Can  the part  that was overreacting in that way it was calm  down.
When  consciousness gets out of rapport with the deeper layers problems  will ensue.  No ifs or buts! Clients have been ignoring signals from deeper levels or they  wouldn't be your clients. Unfulfilled needs are not being met and  unhealthy habits have gotten out of hand. A simple example is a  weight loss client who ignores the signal that they are full and  carries on eating. Ignore  subconscious signals at your peril. 
Note:  in  hypnosis we 'feed' the conscious to the sub-conscious minds.  Temporarily. 









Temporal  and spatial predicates: language in time and space. 
When  creating suggestions make sure you use space-time precisely. What do  I mean? Hopefully the word use is obvious! 
'Before you relax deeply I just want to say...'
'After this session you'll awaken with all changes made, feeling fantastic  with the knowledge that this is so...'
'That  old problem you once  had, in the past...'
'Imagine  a future you  in a certain situation behaving confidently...'
'That  smoking behaviour you used to  do is no longer true about you in any way shape or form...'
'That  problem that you had no  longer bothers you...'
'You  haven't got the change you want yet.'
'Up  until now you have been eating portions that were too big...'
'When  you can see beyond this problem imagine all the ways your life has improved...'
Temporary is a good word ('temp' = time) suggests things won't last. Like  problems. Passing is another goody. 
'That  problem was just a temporary companion, wasn't it?'
'All  suffering passes...'
Words  ending in 'd' 
Many  words that end in 'd'  put things (problems) in the past. They are suggestive that the  desired change has already happened. 
'You  don't have to do those things you once did.'
'You  have changed in all the ways you wanted.'
'You  have learned a great many things, have you not?'
So  linguistically put your client's problems in the past - their  brain will follow suit. Make sure they can see progress in the future, with your words. They  should be able to visualise a problem free future - also known as  mental rehearsal. I often say something like,
'That  problem no  longer bothers you in any way, shape or form, and this is so,'
as  a summation. 
And  spatial predicates...
'Now  you have put that problem behind you...'
'You  have moved forward from  where you were temporarily...'
'Bad'  (unwanted) things behind, good things ahead - linguistically. These  are just a few examples that can help. Think of your own. 
Up  and down...
'Deeper...'
'All  the way down...'
'Falling  into the wonderful oblivion of trance...'
We  induce trance through the language of downward movement...We  wake up remember...but, you  can also intensify feelings and experience in hypnosis by suggesting  someone go 'higher.' You  can intensify experience in trance by making the imagined reality  seem vividly real - like virtual reality. You can say, 
'I  want you to imagine that what is happening is vividly lifelike and  real and the  higher you go into this hypnotic state, the higher your most pleasurable feelings will increase...' 
(This  is really a variation of the more the more pattern.)
'The  higher you go the more your awareness, your sensations, your feelings, the  vividness of your experience only increases and expands.'
This  is not the same as so-called 'Hyperempiria' which doesn't  exist. In the next book: how to construct a 'heightener!' 
Remember  when happy we say we felt high,  good moods go UP! 'He is going up in the world!' I suggest you could use 'higher'  suggestions  to heighten good feelings. I occasionally use it with misery guts and  junkies. All  humans are born with all the natural uppers and downers they need. No external aids required. 
Living  the high life...high on the hog...highlight...on  the up! Geddit? 
And  finally... 
In  working with internal images that bother a client by causing anxiety  you can say,
'Take  that image that bothered you, drain the colour out, make it black and white, push  it away into the distance till it disappears completely...'
As  you can see both temporal and spatial predicates are involved. NLP  greatly exaggerates the usefulness of so-called sub modality work.  Again this will be discussed in a later book. 









Utilising  utilisation.
In  hypnosis 'utilisation' means using whatever the client or  environment offers you, you turn to your advantage: it is a reframe. Whatever  someone offers you is to be used or effortlessly transformed. 
It  seemed whenever I got hypnosis clients my old next door  neighbours would bring  out a chainsaw to cut their hedge or  were turning their nice gardens  into sterile driveways (because it's fashionable!) This involved  equipment that sounds like a plane taking off. Could be a teenager  drives by playing loud music. Do not despair!
Don't  fight, don't panic: use it, whatever it is, however seemingly  improbable it is that anyone could be relaxed/hypnotised because of  it - trust me, they can. Babies can sleep anywhere, no matter what  the noise. People can concentrate on anything fascinating even if the  environment is busy (I originally wrote busty!) or noisy. 
A  client comes in. You start hypnosis and they start giggling! So you  say,
'That's  great: it is a bit funny isn't it? Me speaking in a funny  hypno-voice; but the more you laugh, the more you relax, laughing  makes you relax, laughter is an unconscious response...etc.'
Accept  their response and use it. Just today a woman said she was excited  and wanted to laugh, I simply said,
'Yeah  that's normal, it is funny, I'll be putting on a funny voice in a  minute, it is silly, the whole situation is ridiculous when you think  about it.'
Not  a titter. 
You  are hypnotising someone, your stupid neighbour starts cutting their  lawn with a whining lawnmower or a great big fleet of a tanker lorry  drives by outside so that the earth shakes! So you say,
'And  as that lorry drives by, as it goes off into the distance you go  deeper and deeper, that's right...'
'No  sounds bother you in any way, shape or form; they just take you  deeper...'
If  a client awakes to answer a mobile phone or get comfy, just say,
'That's  right just make yourself more comfy/sure answer the phone...'
When  they finished you say, (they'll apologise...)
'Not  to worry, close your eyes and know that when you awaken from trance  it's easier to go deeper than before...all the way down.'
In  this example you are using 'fractionation' (I'll show you how  in another book though it is entirely surplus to requirements); the  idea that putting someone under and waking them up and putting them  under and waking them up takes them deeper. It does and here you are  utilising the fact that the twit left their phone on (and they will  trust me!) They have done you a favour! Things  won't always go to plan, that's life: stay calm and just think:  how can I use this? How can I turn this cockup to my advantage? This is a good use of  reframing. What if everything they do only made it easier to  hypnotise them? That's a good belief to operate from and 99% of the  time it's true. 
If  someone, it will be a man, tries to resist say,
'That's  right you are so powerful, like a superhero, imagine yourself as your  favourite superhero fighting against a villain, imagine all the  amazing powers you'd have! Perhaps you are flying through the sky!'
As  soon as they start visualising, you got 'em.









Have  you ever...
Although  I have given you lots: I want you to get your money's worth, the  simple fact is: you  don't need to use ANY 'language pattern' to get trance or  hypnosis. But  'have you ever' is a good one. How do you use it? Well, firstly  what does it do? It really says 'remember or re-access an  experience, resource, emotion etc..'
'Have  you ever relaxed on a beach?'
This  seemingly innocent remark actually asks the brain to do this: find a  memory of sitting on a beach in a relaxed state of mind and body. By  accessing a relaxing memory the person will access a bit of the  relaxation. The  memory and emotions are associated.
'Have  you ever felt confident?'
Everyone  feels confident some  of the time, in certain situations. Even people with phobias are  troubled by varying degrees of phobic response. But where am I  sending them? To access confidence. I am directionalising the brain.  I am starting the re-associative process. Hypnotherapy  re-associates the brain to helpful resources that hitherto the client  couldn't access in a certain situation in a waking state. More on this in my next book. 
'Have  you ever been in love?' 
Ask  a woman this and unless she is severely emotionally repressed she  will re-access that feeling of love instantly. Be careful using this,  not really therapeutically appropriate unless there is some real  purpose to asking it. 
That's  an easy one to remember. Next!









Get  to the point: I need specifics!
In  order to cut the B-S you need people to be specific. Specific  language is the opposite of hypnotic language. It wakes you up and  connects to real things instead of abstractions and generalisations that  literally do hypnotise people including the speaker. This has been known far longer than  the development of NLP, which often claims to have reinvented the  wheel. 
'I  eat healthily...' says a weight loss client. 
'Really  what do you eat? Can you outline your daily meals for me?'
'I  eat cakes, biscuits blah, blah...' 
That  honestly happens. Clients and people in general like to lie, fib a  bit, give half-truths - it's actually a way of not facing up to  reality, rarely its ignorance. It's your job to - gently, wisely  - to get the specifics in order to help people. You also need to  get specific if an authority figure like a politician is speaking.  They are all well trained in neuro-linguistics and psycho-linguistics  as are their speechwriters and PR people. You can tell when people  like politicians, CEO's, celebrities are lying or dissembling when  they are being vague. Honesty is never vague: it is blunt,  spontaneous, often brutal like a child. Deception is slow paced -  the person is thinking of what to say, how it will be received,  choosing words very carefully. If in doubt ask: 
'What  do you mean by that specifically? 
Remember:  specifics are grounded in reality. Vagueness is the airy-fairy  language of hypnosis. Some examples follow...left hand side is vague statement, right is  the question asking for detail. Highlights identify where vagueness  lurks. 
'I  don't like that  food.' 'Which food?'  - Food type  unspecified. 
'I  smoke too much.' 'How  many do you smoke?'  - Actual quantity unspecified. 
'I  lack confidence.'
'When/in  what situations do you lack confidence exactly?'  - Triggers for nerves unclear.
You  need detail, detail, detail. Especially when doing hypnotherapy;  these interview questions will help you narrow down what you must  target to effect change during hypnosis. 
Words  to get specifics...
Clarify,  specify/specifically, exactly, precisely. 
'Can  you clarify x?'
'What  specifically happened?'
'What  did she say exactly?'
'Precisely what age were you when you first took cocaine?'
Be  careful with asking for specifics: some people want their privacy,  respect that and DO NOT interrogate! Unless you desire to be  friendless. Try... 
Softening  openers...
Can  I ask...?
May  I ask..?
I'm  a bit unsure can you explain...?
Oh  by the way, clients will often say,
'I  bet you think I'm crazy/weird/abnormal/disgusting?' 
or  words to that effect. Just reassure them that they are not, their  problem is normal and common. They often seek that reassurance.  Problems  are normal responses to stress and unmet needs - they are just bad  long term responses. Don't say,
'I've  never heard that before! You are  bloody weird!' 
I  once had a woman tell me that she saw a psychic who told her she had  'terrible problems' because she was murderer in a past life. I  looked at her paused and said in a funny tone,
'...O-K...'
This  made her laugh and we moved on. 
When  searching for specifics you are doing it because? Something is left  out. You cannot complete the picture without supplying your  experience to fill the gaps. In other words - the client/speaker  has hypnotised you! How do you know what you  imagine they meant is what they meant? You don't. Again be careful  with this - never invasive. Interestingly I heard of a man who got  a girl to dump her boyfriend using the NLP Meta Model: the pattern  whereby you learn to ask for specifics. Obviously her boyfriend  wasn't so great on close inspection! You are gathering just the  right info and no more to help someone. Don't be nosey! People have  a right and need to privacy and vagueness. I once asked a woman if  anything but cigarettes helped her relax. She went into trance and  clearly imagined having sex with her ex-boyfriend. After having  enjoyed this (her facial expression dummy!) she replied -
'Um...no...'  I knew she was fibbing. 
'That  girl is so pretty!' 'Which one?'   - Person unspecified.
'That  took ages to do!'  'What did?'  - Verb - action - unspecified.
'I  saw that film ages ago!' 'When exactly?'  - Time unspecified. 
'He's  a total d*%k!' 'Why is he a d*%k precisely?'   - Reason unspecified.
However  never ask clients to justify what they think and feel to you. Again: 
when  asking for specifics you are looking for what is missing. Your friends to gather info are:
Who? - The  person is missing. 
What?  -  The object, animal, action, quality etc. is missing
Why? - The reasons are missing. (NLP teaches people to never  ask 'why' questions of clients. This is so stupid as to not even  warrant a response; sometimes why  is exactly what needs to be asked. Like all 'rules' in this field  you are better off breaking them. They are like bizarre little  doctrines to limit your ability to help others. Just don't ask  things like: 'And why do you take drugs when they are so bad for  you?' You may privately judge your clients but professionally  never! You can still focus on solutions and ask why.)
Which? - The  object, animal, action, quality etc. is missing
When? -  The time/duration is missing. 
Where? -  The location is missing. 
How? -  The mechanics, the skillset, the strategy is missing. 
A  question of status. 
These  are just examples. We all do these things from time to time anyway in  normal life. Remember  the person asking questions is usually in a position of a higher  social status. Think of the Queen of England on her rounds,
'And  who are you?'
A  policeman asks,
'Where  were you on the night of the 25th?' 
A  doctor,
'Where  does it hurt exactly?'
You  can assume complete control over a brief interaction by asking tons  of questions. You are demanding information. I once did this to an annoying sales person on the phone. Again:  don't expect to make friends that way though, friendship follows a  share and ask pattern. You reveal, I reveal. An authority figure asks  and reveals nothing usually. Have  you noticed how we feel compelled to answer questions? You don't  have to. There is no rule to say you must. However we are conditioned  from early childhood to feel an inner urge to answer. Sales people  use this against you. 
Some  clients do ask me personal questions and I nearly always answer them.  It makes them feel more comfortable around you, humanises the  situation too. I seek to work equal to equal. 
There  is always a point  in an interview when I work out exactly what I need  to do to help a client. Many hypnotists do away with this part. I  find it vital. How can you help someone you know nothing about? -  It's all so impersonal. You use the information gathering stage to  work out who your client is and how to help them. The unique person  in front of you. Hypnosis session must never be generic, although no  doubt people with similar problems will require similar  interventions. The interview stage is when you get rapport naturally  with a client/hypnotee. You get to show your personality to them so  that, as one of my clients said, 'I get a good vibe from you.'  This also produces the expectation that the therapy will work.  Expectation is your ally. Therapy  is not fast food. I'll go through my standard questions I ask clients in full detail  in book 3: 'Powerful Hypnosis!' 









Assumptions  in trance. 
Let's  talk about presuppositions. Again an awareness of presuppositions far  predated NLP. What  is a presupposition? Anything that is assumed, anything that is  pre-supposed, taken for granted as being so. Let's take the innocuous sentence...
'I  am writing this book.'
What  does this statement assume? 


That  	there is an individual (me!). 

That  	he is writing. 

And  	that he is writing a book.  	Let's try another.

So  we assume someone/something is doing something (verb/action) for some  purpose. 
'The  cat sat on the rat.'
So  we assume a cat, a rat and that the cat sat on the rat. Now, how do  we make use of this in trance?
'Everyone  goes into trance sooner or later.' 
'Eventually  we all rest and drift  into a daydream do we not?'
What  is presupposed? That you will go into trance! Not if but when.  Both are truisms: see book 1 'How to hypnotise anyone,' to  understand truisms fully. 
'How  soon will your trance deepen?' 
We  assume that trance already exists and can only deepen. 
'How  much deeper into trance can you really go?'
Assumption:  you're already in trance but how deep can you  really go? It suggests you don't yet know how deep you can go, in other  words you can go a whole lot deeper Mr! It also assumes discovery:  discovery  is hypnotic! As is curiosity. 
'And  where will that feeling of comfort spread to next?'
Assumes  comfort already exists, to whatever degree (they have to feel a  degree  of  comfort right? Even in the big toe, who knows!?); comfort  is a sign of trance, and that it will spread. It's just a more precise way of using  words. Words are your tools to achieve objectives. People with a  wider vocabulary have a richer mental life, can think and communicate  clearly and can experience reality with more depth. Don't believe  me?
'The  sky is blue.'
'The  sky was a soft Septembral blue. The cool autumn clouds caressed its  surface like people sleeping on lilos (US: air matress).'
Now  that's too flowery for ordinary speech and a bit pretentious but  how much more involved do you feel? Hypnotists should have some  knowledge of word history. The word confidence comes from the Latin:  the prefix - 'con' (meaning 'with emphasis'), version of  'com' and 'fidere' (meaning faith) - so confidence  literally means 'having faith in oneself.' Think  about the meaning of words. Know that the meaning of words changes over time. Those who have  never befriended the dictionary before may need to do so. A 100 year  old dictionary may seem a foreign language - original definitions  are deliberately altered. Read amply: fiction and non-fiction. Have a  wide range of interests. You must become an interesting person. By  the way a good therapist will have a grasp of current affairs,  history and approaching trends; if you don't you will be  a-historical, out of touch and unable to understand why people are  coming to see you in the first place. Drug addiction was not a  'pandemic' fifty years ago: you need to know why it is now. 
By  the way good therapists need a full, rich life outside of work.  Again: if you want, write out a few examples of these language  patterns to train your noggin (brain) how to do it. It's easy I  promise: once you start practising the subconscious will start to do  it all automatically so you won't even have to think about it.  You'll start being vague or specific unconsciously: you won't  even know you're doing it half the time. Just  being aware of presuppositions will protect you from manipulation. News reader's (anchors) use them constantly to mould public  opinion. Ask yourself: what is being assumed? Is that assumption  evidentially based? Am I being led to perceive things a certain way? Who benefits  from me or you assuming this interpretation of events is true? And  who losses out? 
Remember  that silly saying:
'Never  assume anything; it makes an ass out of u and me.' 
A  few more hypnotic assumptions...
'Will  your right or left hand feel heavy or light?' 
Presupposes  a hand will feel something. Also a double bind (either or choice).
'Before  you go  into trance and make some amazing changes I'd like you to get comfy...'
This  obviously assumes you will go into a trance! 'Before you' is  similar to the 'in a moment' pattern; it primes expectations. 









'Nominalise'  this: hypnotic concepts. 
NLP  bases its linguistics theories on Chomsky's work. Chomsky's work  has been thoroughly disproven but reification also known as  nominalisation predated him anyway. What is nominalisation? Taking a  verb (action) or adjective (descriptive word) and turning it into an  abstract, (static) noun. For example...
'Relax,'  (verb) becomes relaxation (a concept).
Something  concrete is turned into an abstraction. If it's not a thing it's  a nominalisation...Which itself is a nominalisation - the verb -  to nominalise - abstracted/turned into a concept. 
Adding  a 'tion' from Latin 'sion' on the end of a word does this. 
'Aggression,'  concept form. Reality - 'He hit me in the face!'
'Religion,'  concept form. A very brief word for a whole host of things -  ritual, prayer, fasting! Concepts help us be brief. 
'Indoctrination,'  is the nominalised form of 'to indoctrinate.' 
'Digestion,'  - to digest food, ideas.
'Suggestion,'  - to suggest something. 
'Information,'-  to inform. What information? 
Note:  nominalisations are very hypnotic. Concepts are vague, not agreed  upon; they are open to interpretation, that's the point:  take...
'Democracy.'
Now  that means a lot of different things depending on who you ask. 
'Hypnosis'  and 'trance' are both nominalisations for highly complex  processes. As is 'sleep,' a short word for something so very  complex. Sleep is the best nerve tonic ever!  Make sure your clients  sleep is good, if not fix it. 
'Knowing,'  'understandings,' 'learnings' - good hypnotic words. 
'Relationships,'  'experiences,' and 'processes,' are very hypnotic too, as is  'awareness's.' Sprinkle your hypno-babble liberally with such  gibberish. Remember you are not trying to clarify, you are trying to  hypnotise! Nominalisations are used in every day speech for the sake  of brevity: we can't explain all details, we'd get nothing done.  Speech  is a shorthand for experience. 
Here's  some more...
'Wealth.'
'Health.'
'Attitudes.'
'Beliefs.'
'Perceptions.'
'Persuasion.'  - to persuade. 
'Self-esteem.'  (A mythology - see book 3.)
'Confidence.'
'Fear.'
'Joy.'
'Love.'
'Happiness.'
'Experiential.' 
'Wellness.'
'Disease.'
Remember  the golden rule of nominalisations:  if it can't be placed into a wheel barrow or on a shelf it's  probably a nominalisation. It has no sensory referents.
As  a hypnotist nominalisations are perhaps your best friend. 









Non  specified comparatives. 
More...
Better...
Best...
Bigger...
Faster...
Sexier...
Worst...
Fewer...
Most...
Widest...
Longest...
Less...
A  minority/majority...
Improved...
Outstanding  value! 
Excellent! 
Useless/rubbish/incompetent... 
Larger  numbers...
Oldest...
Youngest...
Deepest...
Lighter...
Brighter...
Progress...
With  non-specified comparatives a judgement is missing. According to whom?  According to whose standard and criteria? Compared to what/to whom?









Non  specified verbs, people and things. 
The  following vague wordage can be useful to the hypno-dweeb...
Certain...feelings,  people, places etc. - never specified which ones. 
Some...feelings,  times, people, events - as above!
Changes...amazing  changes, change you can believe in, change now etc. - what changes  did you have in mind Charley?
Places/situations/environment...Which  places? Which situations? Leave it up to them! 
Emotions/feelings/sensations...feelings  can change, feel positive emotions! That sensation in your hand. 
Behaviours...alter  certain behaviours, find healthier behaviours. 
Perceptions...can  alter, can they not? 
One/person/he/she/someone/anyone/some  people...a  person can change, one can feel good. (Which person? Well your  subconscious thinks YOU dummy! Remember the subconscious processes  all possible meanings/interpretations. But I never directly said you  did I!?)
Appropriate...this  is a good fail safe word. 
'Make  the appropriate changes.'
If  you asked a woman in hypnosis to feel amazing feelings she might,  conceivably orgasm! Be careful what you say,
'Feel  a wonderful feeling that's appropriate to your changing  experience.' 
'Changing  experience' is beautifully ambiguous if I may say so myself.  Multiple level communication there. 
Advertising  uses such words, not just the ones in this section: all of them, to  manipulate your thoughts and actions, as do cults, religions,  atheists and political groups: anyone with an agenda. 









Hyperbolic  words.
Some  words are suggestive of extreme generalisation, a good thing for a  hypnotist to know about...real  change occurs when it generalises throughout a system.
'All people feel good sometimes...'
'Most things in nature are beautiful...perhaps you'll notice the  captivating colours of the clouds at sunset?'
'Everywhere,  throughout your life you feel confident...' 
'Anyone can learn something new...can they not?' 
'Everyone has good points about them.'
&
'I  look for the good in everyone'...these  last two commonly held beliefs can be deeply dangerous. Stalin,  Lenin, Mao, Hitler, Son of Sam and other infamous serial killers had  good points? Be careful what you suggest. 
I  like to use the truism,
'All suffering  passes...'  with  clients, if I deem it appropriate. 
These  sorts of all or nothing thinking can be the basis for depression.  However some are also powerful 'meta-beliefs' on which hang the  branches of potentially useful, helpful, truly life-affirming and healthy responses. 









Hypnotic  poetry: assonance and alliteration. 
Hypnotic  poetry is hypnotising. 
Assonance = vowels sound similar. 
Alliteration = consonants sound similar (the Anglo-Saxons preferred highly  alliterative verse). Examples of tongue twisters are...
'Peter  piper picked a peck of pickled pepper'   (Alliterative.)
'Nanny  nudged Nicola'   (Both.)
'How  much wood, could a wood chuck chuck, if a wood chuck could chuck  wood?' (Both.)
'Hear  the mellow wedding bells & try to light the fire.'    (Assonance.) 
As  a by the by, tongue twisters can help with clarity of speech but  don't overdo it. 
If  you can weave a bit of the old alliteration or assonance into the  hypno-babble it can make it sound nice for you clients. Don't worry  about it too much, just something to bear in mind. Ooh hypnotic  ambiguity: bear/bare! Just knowing about these things can help you  weave language with a more hypnotic rhythm and cadence. Reading good  poetry will make your languaging better. 









Some  more languaging. 
More  hypno-phrases follow...
'To  the point where...'
Americans  especially like using this phrase in conversation. It is a pseudo  connector phase, a false linkage saying essentially,
'X  will lead to Y.'
Who  says it will? In hypnosis people tend not to question such things.  They are too overloaded. Talking quickly and emotionally will also  overload people too as the Methodist Wesley knew only too well.  Beware! I digress, anyway... 
'You  can relax  in trance to the point where nothing else seems important for a while, you know  that feeling?'
'Allow  a wave of comfort to spread from head to toe to the point where you feel  blissful.' 
'It's  funny how some people enter  trance to the point where going even deeper just seems the right thing to  do.'
What's  it like when...
This  is a command to re-member/re-experience something. 
'What's  it like when you relax?'
'What's  it like when you daydream?'
'What's  it like when you feel  very attractive?'
'What's  it like when you have  total self-belief, now?
Perceive...
Often  used in media reports. Used to undermine and cast doubt upon. The  implication of the word perceive is that reality is plastic, nothing  is real, everyone's point of view is valid. Don't you ever believe it! By the way anyone who says there is no  such thing as absolute truth is making a statement about absolute  truth.  Examples,
'Some  people perceive that crime is rising.'
'Some  people perceive the President doesn't seem as powerful as he once  did.'
'You  perceive x,y,z.'
In  hypnosis you can say...
'With  new perspectives feeling can change.'
'As  new facts come to light our perception can alter, can't it?'
'Three  people witnessing the same event will perceive it quite differently.'
'Some  perspectives are more helpful than others.'
You  get the idea. These are reframes. You can use this word like any word  in a useful fashion or not. When people are told their valid  perceptions of reality are insane or just not true when they actually  are, this is known as 'gaslighting' from the film of the same  name. It is a form of mental torture and used in psychological  warfare. 
New...
Since  the end of the so-called Middle Ages the word New has been associated with 'good,' 'progressive.' But is it?  Good and progressive according to whom? The 'New' has led to the  destruction of many time-honoured traditions and norms. 
New  washing powder! 
New  Labour!
 New Deal! 
New  this, new that. 
New  Year New You! 
The  New Age (which is ancient paganism???!) 
This  tiny three letter word has an almost magical power over human minds.  It shouldn't. However as a hypnotist you may well find some use for  it. After I have almost completed all therapeutic changes I sometimes  say,
'Look  at that new you in the mirror with all the confidence, self-worth and  self-belief you desire, the you you always really are and were deep  inside etc...'
I  then ask them to step into their 'new self' and to feel how it  feels. 
Power...
Why  is it always implied that something is good because it's powerful?
'Learn  powerful techniques!'
'Zitto  has the power to kill all acne!'
'Powerfully  increase your success with women!'
'Knowledge  is power.'
'She  was a powerful woman.' 
'A  powerfully intoxicating aroma. 
As  a hypnotist stop taking words for granted: like a writer they are  your bread and butter. Don't  be afraid to invent words and word combos or deliberately use bad  grammar. 
'Power  play!'
'Powerful  changes!'
'Power  to heal...blah, blah...' 
'The  power of your subconscious mind.'
'Empowered!'  One of the worst words in human history. Meaningless twaddle loved by  con men and B-S artists everywhere. Self-help gurus will lull dopey  and desperate folk with siren promises of 'unlimited power.'  Thankfully humans are incapable of having unlimited power.
Just...
Means  only do  this,  don't  do anything but...it  focuses and narrows options - 
'...just  relax...'
'Just  in time.'
'Just  focus on your little finger.' 
Only...
Another  option of the above...
'Only  pleasant feeling take you deeper.'
Both  these seemingly small words are potentially highly hypnotic as they  can be used to narrow the attention. 
Yet...
Temporal  predicate...
'You  don't feel good YET.' 
'You  haven't changed YET.' 
'You  haven't seen the yeti, YET.' 
Implication?  It will happen. It is about to. Seems very innocent too. 
'I  know you haven't relaxed all the way down yet.'  (But you will!) 
Similar  to but...one  train of thought is interrupted and attention is redirected. 
But
Whatever  went before is totally negated. 
'You  felt bad BUT things change, feelings change.' 
'You  said x,y,z BUT a,b,c can also happen.'
'Tension  can make you feel bad BUT we all relax sooner or later...' 
If...
A  word of possibilities. Highly hypnotic as in 'what if' used to  stimulate the imagination and in worrying. 
'If you relax deeply you can feel better.' 
'If you change today what will the benefits be?' 
'If you exercise how much better will you feel.' 
Wonder...
An  indirect command to DAYDREAM! 
'I  wonder how your unconscious will solve that problem?' 
'You  can wonder...in trance.'
We  'wonder and wander' in our minds when we drift into dolly  daydreams. 
Ponder...
An  indirect command to go inside and daydream, gently reflect on things.  Real  meditation is when we simply and pleasantly follow a train of  thought. That is, when we ponder things. A good form of relaxed rumination; in  order to do it we - go inside. 
'As  you ponder the change you want and it can be secret change...'
'Ponder,  really ponder...'
'Pondering  upon where you'd like this personal process to go...'
So  and so said...
The  infamous 'quotes  pattern'   it should be called 'expertise hijacking' or the 'sneaky  influence' pattern. You can also use it to dissociate something  from yourself by attributing it to another even though you said it.
'Dr  Bumstew said 'relaxing deeply is good.' 
Speed  seduction 'hypnotists' say things like, 
'...This  man walked up to her and said, 'imagine the two of us having wild  sex!' 
You  put the thought you want the person to think into someone else's  mouth. 
'Dr  Milton Erickson, the great hypnotist said...my voice can go with you,  like the sound of the breeze in the trees.' 
We  often do this in normal conversation to sound authoritative: we  repeat what we read in a newspaper, we quote from a statistical  'factoid' etc. All  hypnosis uses normal and everyday conversational patterns. The  less hypnosis seems like hypnosis the better. Tobacco companies used  to use this principle to advertise cigarettes, a quack and no doubt  outrageously paid 'Doctor' in a white lab coat smokes a cigarette  and says, 'Hmmm good healthy tobacco,' while smiling. 
Or...
'Or  you got it, or you ain't!' as Zero Mostel said. OR = double bind.  The illusion of choice. 
'Do  you want to go into trance now or  later?'   (Either way you're going down!) 
'Is  your left foot or  right  hand most relaxed now?'  (Presupposes relaxation too. This also produces a 'split' in  consciousness. Focusing on two things at once produces overload -  trance is the only escape!) 
'Do  you want to tidy your room before or  after lunch?' 
'Will  you vote left or  right wing in the election?'  Notice  only two choices - a duad - one up on a one party state. Hmmm? 









Associational  networks.
The  human mind works via association. You can hypnotise just by getting  people to re-associate or associate to something hypnotic. I almost  always say in a first hypnosis session something as simple as,
'You  can follow your own associate processes to these words can you not?  Like the word 'comfort'  and  follow where it leads you...'
Let's  break this seemingly innocent little remark down. 
'You  can follow...' (The beginning of an indirect suggestion: 'follow'  what?)
'...your  own associative  processes to these words... (The key words here are: 'associate processes'  - what does this mean? Haven't a clue!)
'...can  you not?' (Tag question: a negation softener for the above command.  The whole statement above is also a truism so is not rejected. It is  a fact that we do follow trains of thought triggered by certain words  - and when we do we enter trance!)
'Like  the word comfort and follow where it leads you.' (Here you suggest  and you are only a hypnotist and it's only a suggestion that the  listener 'follow' their train of associations for the words  'comfort.' Trance is comfortable number one and two what will the  mind search for? Feelings, memories, other words, ideas, concepts  associated with that word. If you said 'knife' a whole lot of  other associations would be elicited. I am sure few would be good.  Remember: hypnosis is an amplifying state as I said in book one, 'How  to hypnotise anyone,' - be careful where you send the brain!) 
In  book 3: 'Powerful Hypnosis,' I will teach you how to do 'trance  hijacking.'









Ambiguity  and confusion. 
English  is a very ambiguous language. That it has many words that that have  multiple meanings, it has many words that mean one thing. Why? Modern  English is actually composed of three or four languages: Old English  (the pre Norman Conquest Germanic dialect), Norman French and Latin.  There's also some Old Norse in there but that again is a Germanic  tongue. A valley in southern England is a dale in the North. 
Now  ambiguity is hypnotic. Why? When things are ambiguous and open to  interpretation the meaning is unclear, our old hypnotic friend  vagueness again, and the  brain searches for all possible meanings at an unconscious level. 
Examples:
'Hear/here...'   - 'you  can hear my voice, here and now...'
A  confusing way of saying, 'Listen.' Here and hear??? Brain goes on  search for meaning - mini trance established. The person has to 'go  inside' to make sense of what you said. NLP calls this a  'transderivational search.' I call it a 'search for meaning.'  Also if a person hears a generalised statement such as, 
'A  person can learn,'
The  person's mind will at one level think it means them, that they are the person being referred to - known as a 'lack of a  referential indices.' 
Remember  the subconscious mind can and does process all possible meanings. So  how can we put these principles to any use. By the way it is possible  to make a sentence have many possible permutation and meanings. A  statement could have up to four or five possible interpretations. So  beware of sales people and politicians (just another type of sales  person) who might say things like,
'And  so you, like  me, are probably thinking what's the best choice...' 
An  ambiguous hidden command: LIKE ME!!! Politicians use this one all the  time: listen out for it. Multiple meanings - 'like me' as in  have the same point of view and LIKE ME I'm nice! Scumbags! 
How  about,
'By  now, you might be wondering which product is best for your needs...'
Hold  on let's rewind that nugget...
'BUY  NOW...you might...' A covert command to BUY THE PRODUCT NOW!
Another  one they use is,
'...and  by and by,'
Seemingly  innocent, actually a command to BUY!!! By and BUY! Geddit!? Devious,  devious secondary psychopaths out there folks. No morals. 
Another  one for hypnosis...
'Entrance/in  trance...now.' 
Another  favourite of politicians is the word, 'Look!' They will say,
'Look.  The opposition is saying this because blah, blah, lie, blah, lie.' 
Now  what did they do? They just gave you a command to LOOK at them. That  is fixate your attention on them. Prime Ministers, Presidents and  politicians use this a lot. Beware of charmers with dead, shark like  eyes. 
In  hypnosis I use this phrase...
'You  can notice words, and you can notice noticing words, and as you  notice noticing words you can relax...'
This  is a confusing way of saying: 'listen and relax.' The ambiguity  produces trance. The  confused conscious brain is so overloaded with potential meanings it  'escapes' into a trance state. I sometimes use this for activating amnesia so that a person's  conscious mind doesn't interfere and try to analyse everything  afterwards,
'You  can forget to remember, what you can remember to forget!'
Or
'You  don't have to remember. The important thing is to have certain  experiences naturally recorded in your mind. Their presence has been  and will be of service to you. It's nice to though that they are  there, unconsciously, now...' 
Analysis  of above
'You  don't have to remember...'  ('You  don't have' to pattern - what am I saying by implication?  FORGET!) 
'...the  important thing...'  (Implication: it's not important to remember) 
'...is  to have certain experiences...'  (Which ones? By the way trust that the person's subconscious will  derive the right meaning for them. It knows more than you or they -  consciously - do.) 
'...naturally  recorded in your mind. Their presence has been and will be of service  to you...'   ('Naturally recorded' implies - you learnt it all easily and  it's already there. 'Has been/will be': temporal  predicates/also mildly confusing - past and future covered very  quickly.) 
'...It's  nice to know they are there, unconsciously.'  (If you are unconscious of something you are unaware of it; like when  you FORGET! And also that it is NOW automatic.) 
'...now.'  (Command: do it all right now please Mr. Subconscious or whatever you  are!) 
Hopefully  you are now learning how this can be used by you, don't overdo it:  prolonged confusion is unpleasant, a little bit is fine and matches  the natural experience of learning new things when we often feel a  bit confused; and most importantly you are now aware of how powerful people will use this stuff against you and yours. If  you are aware you can notice it consciously - so it won't program  you surreptitiously. 
The  fails person. 
As  an amusing story I thought I'd just tell you how a dumb sales  person tried to use NLP on me. I can't even remember what the twit  was selling but he immediately started asking me...
'Is  this something you agree with?'
'Do  you like x,'
'Is  it ok to y?'
He  was asking me questions unrelated to his product to establish a 'yes  set.'
An  example would be,
'Do  you like nice things?
Well  who the f%$* doesn't!??
Anyway  as he did this I failed to answer any of his questions just saying,
'Dunno...'
'You  don't know?!' he replied. 
My  responses agitated him a bit: the sales techniques weren't working!  He started flipping a chart with pictures as you'd find in a  children's picture book (hypnotic  age  regression),  beside the pictures were simple sentences saying, 
'Imagine having this product...' 
He  was talking while showing these picture/slogan things on a flip  chart/booklet ('Imagine' is a hypnotic word -see book 1, talking  and flipping the chart - trying to overload consciousness, pictorial  suggestions offered to peripheral vision: outside of foveal awareness  or 'central vision' and thus subliminal.)
Ok  I'd had enough of the dopey monkey by this point and said,
'Are  you trying to use a yes set on me?'
He  froze. I had interrupted his pattern. He had no response available  and went into a startled trance: you know the deer in headlight type. 
'I,  er, what?' he stuttered.
'I  am a Master Hypnotist (I'm not!)," I said ominously, 'Don't  ever try to use that crap on me again. People like me invented that  s%*t! Go and try that with someone else...'
I  looked at him smiling and knowingly, as though looking at a  subordinate, or a naughty child. He smiled nervously, mumbled  something stupid and left. You see the emperor never has any clothes. 
Sales  people are by and large pond scum: I like to play with them. If they  ask you lots of questions ask tons back and dominate the  conversation. Often they will call you 'friend,' 'mate'  'buddy.' These people have no friends, they want your hard earned  cash, they enjoy manipulating people! Now YOU can do it to them. 









Adverbs  to tell people what to think and feel. 
Use  'ly' ending adverbs in hypnosis. How many times have you heard  some lying lowlife of a politician say something like, 
'I  fundamentally disagree with the Right Honourable prat opposite...'
'Are  you seriously suggesting that the best economic policy is to sell water to fish?' 
Many  a politician and corporate bosses favourite nominalisation is,
'I  passionately believe...(insert  mad idea)!' 
The  key words here are: passionately and believe.  As if believing something to be true and being passionate  about it was a justification for anything! You are free of course to  passionately believe anything: you may well believe you are the  Cheese god of Mars; however what happened to important things like  evidence, logic and proof? And if you were passionate about something  wouldn't it be self-evident? Hitler passionately believed many  insane things: was he therefore right? 
'I  honestly did  not go to kinky sex parties at the tax payer's expense...' 
(Whichever  lying two-faced politician you like might say something like this  eventually; usually anti-corruption 'Tsars').
Adverbs  modify verbs, action words; they give us its quality. 
'Happily,  undemocratically, theoretically , wonderfully, jokingly, deceptively  etc...'
These  adverbs are used to tell people how to think,  feel  and will about  something and so direct what they should do. 
You  can use it in hypnosis like this,
'You  can go deeply into  trance...'   (How do you go into trance? Deeply of course!)
'You  can feel deliciously relaxed... (Relax = verb, what do you want your client to do, relax,  how so? Deliciously of course! The adverb modifies the verb - it  tells you how to do the verb. What does deliciously mean in reality?  Let the person's subconscious fill in the gaps. One person's idea  of delicious is not another's. Also note that 'delicious' is a  sensual word. I will cover 'sensual hypnotic language' in book  3.)
'You  can delightfully make just the right changes and it can be secret change.' 
Don't  make 'change' difficult or unpleasant make it a happy shift!









Not  now but soon! How to construct 'deepeners.' 
The  formula for constructing a deepener is this:
1.	Tell  someone you are going to do something soon. Not right now but in just  a short time ahead.
2.	Tell  them that when you say or do a trigger activity or phrase that their  hypnotic trance will deepen. 
3.	Ask  them if that's ok rhetorically. That is, assume it is. 
4.	Go  ahead and activate the trigger.
Remember  the varieties of the most hypnotic sentence...
'Not  now but soon...not now but in a moment...not yet but soon...in a few  seconds...before I/you...'
The  Silly Hypnotic Deepener. 
'In  a few moments not just yet
I'll  say the names of three fruits 
and  with the sound of each word 
you  can go 50 times deeper into trance and hypnosis. 
You  ready? Ok? (Don't wait for a response.)
Banana...deeper...and  deeper...50 times deeper...
Apple...even  deeper than that...50 times deeper into...
your  own state of hypnosis and trance...
and  one more for luck...
Pineapple! 
Deeper  and deeper still,
all  the way down
into 
deep,  hypnotic...
SLEEP!'
What  the trigger is doesn't matter. You set up an expectation that something will happen on the trigger, the subconscious  automatically does the rest. The  power of expectation will be dealt with thoroughly in book 3. 
You  could click your fingers. Tap their knee/shoulder. You could fart on  cue! You can say go 5, 10, 15, 100 times deeper - what does that  even mean? It's all nonsense. 
To  deepen hypnotic trance you can also get people to imagine that they  are going upward,  down,  through or into something. You can get people to imagine going to a special place and falling  asleep. News programmes often draw people in as do TV shows and films  by the camera travelling along, known as 'dollying' away from the  screen as though pulling you deeper into the imaginary world. That's  a deepener dummy! Sky TV in England does it right at the beginning of  the program just after commercial breaks. 
You  can really get creative with deepeners. See the appendix for your  special personal use copyright free bonus: 'The Unicorn Deepener.' 









Embedded  commands hypnotic induction. 
In  this example I am using embedded commands to induce trance. Notice  I am talking about the experience of hypnosis. By so doing the  listener makes sense of what I say by experiencing it. Easy. 
Oh  I will give you another way to deliver embeds successfully. You can  lower your tonality - the command tone at the end of a sentence,  and you can whisper the command (book 1 covers this in detail) AND  you  can turn your head either up or down or left or right as you say the  embed! The subconscious will notice on what words you turn your head  and act on them. Subtle  and sneaky. Many examples of hypnotic language are covered in this  induction. See if you can spot them yourself. Be thorough in your  analysis. 
The  Embedded Command induction. 
(Remember  to use your relaxed hypnotic tone from book 1.)
'Ok  just close your eyes and
listen  at some level...
the  thing about hypnosis is that
you  don't have to relax  deeply to do it...
some  people pay attention to their breathing...
some  people notice bodily sensations they usually ignore
others  find as they go  into a trance
that  it's just like when
you're  daydreaming.
So  the thing is I don't know how
you  experience hypnosis
everyone  is different.
We  all have different responses. 
You  might think that it's going to be like
a  stage hypnotist's show where he says sleep!
And  the person can instantly 
fall  into a very deep...hypnotic trance,
but  trance isn't like that
some  people go  into trance 
while  driving down a motorway
they  travel five miles and ponder how  they got there...
Because  they knew how to drive.
That  is you're  unconscious knew
and  so your mind was free to wonder...
and  wander...
It's  not even necessary to 
experience  feelings of comfort
to  enter  this state.
It's  like when you watch TV
and  what you are watching is so interesting that
you  become fascinated
by  the imaginary reality of the story you are watching.
And  we experience  hypnosis
when  we feel utterly absorbed
by  an enjoyable activity.
It  happens, does it not?
Did  you ever feel  an intense state of fascination 
about  something captivating? 
We  all do, from time to time, now.
So  you see trance is something everyone has experienced...
there  are times when you have become  totally absorbed, are there not?
In  trance things just seem to slow...right...down...
as  a person goes deeper and deeper inside
into  that trance of their unconscious mind...
Even  your perception of time can alter, now...
A  woman told me her hypnotic experience was one
in  which she did indeed feel  very calm
that  she went on a journey
into  the world of her imagination
as  we do when we dream...
and  learn,  really learn.
And  as she did that 
she  sat still and quiet 
as  I watched from the outside...
The  changes in her breathing
the  way the pulse on her foot had
slowed  ...right down...
Those  changes are standard
in  trance.
I  said 'go  inside'
and  I don't even know what that means
but
it  was as though she took a nice rest
And  did she drift  in a reverie?
Who  knows?
We  all have our own way
as  I said
of  experiencing hypnosis.
But  I know this...
we  all go  into a profoundly deep state of hypnosis
when  the time is right, now. 
This  is your chance to feel  entranced. 
Trance  is the learning state in which
you  learn effortlessly.
That  state we've all experienced
where  we could focus  intently
on  what had captivated our attention
so  that we can ignore  things that aren't important 
just  for a while...
It's  nice to know everyone has that ability,
is  it not?'
Awakening...
(In  an energised voice!)
And  now you have completed your journey...
You  can on my count of 1-3 return to full waking consciousness 
feeling  great...
And  1 - aware of your body, environment and noises...
And  2 - feeling almost wide  awake...
unnecessary  relaxation leaving your body...
All  doubts and negativity washed away...
feeling  re-energised and good...
And  as soon as you are ready...
You  can open your eyes on 3...
Fully  back to full waking consciousness,
Feeling  alert!









Embeds  that induce trance. 
You  can put embedded commands into any conversation: I advise you don't. Milton Erickson had a secretary with recurring migraines take  dictation for him. As he dictated the letter he placed embedded  commands in the text and the woman's headache vanished. He also  used embedded commands with patients in mental health wards: he  mimicked their insane word salad and he embedded commands for good  health within them. Patients recovered. The following can be put in  ANY conversation...always use with good intention and caution. 
'Calm  down.' 
'Feel  good.'
'Relax.'
'Notice  x.' (Body  part, feeling, images etc.)
'Rest.'
'Drift.'
'Become  absorbed.'
'Focus  inwardly.'
'Relax  deeply.'
'Relax  deeper.'
'Relax  comfortably.'
'Enter  hypnosis.'
'Go  into trance.'
'Go  inside.'
'Peace.'
'Gently.'
'Softly.'
'Quietly.'
'Be  still.'
'Relax  very deeply.'
'Start  relaxing...'
'You  are so calm/relaxed.'
'Unwind.'
'Feel  comfort.'
'Feel  calm.'
'Feel  relaxed.'
'You  become hypnotised.'
'You  drift into a trance.'
'You  fall into hypnosis.'
'You  drift off.'
'Go  into a pleasant relaxed trance.'
'Experience  trance.'
'Breathing  calmly.'
'Feeling  so relaxed.'
'Rest  very deeply.'
'Draw  your attention/focus to x.' ('X'  being whatever you like.)
'Begin  to relax.'
'Relax  even deeper.'
'Relax  without effort.'
'Automatically  relax.'
'Spontaneously  relax.'
'Calm.'
'Release  that tension.'
'Feel  tranquil.'
'Feel  so comfortable.'
'Rest  soundly.'
'You're  drifting down.'
'Breathe  comfortably.'
'Slow...right...down.'
'Let  go.'
'Feel  growing/spreading relaxation.'
'Calming.'
'Soothing.'
'Relaxing.'  (suffix 'ing' = a process that is occurring now.)
'X  can increase.' ('X'  being calm, comfort, relaxation.)
'Notice  certain things changing.' 
'Become  aware of that pleasant feeling/sensation.'
'Become  fascinated.'
'Become  mesmerised.'
'Be  mesmerised.'
'Have  you ever been mesmerised by something?'
'Pay  attention to x.' ('X'  being your voice, feet, whatever.)
'You're  unconscious.'
'In  trance.'
'Feel  fascination.'
'Become  enthralled.'
To  practise write down some paragraphs in which you have embedded little  phraselets like the ones above. Better still make up your own. The  principles are obvious are they not? 









Describing  a state revivifies it. 
What  does state x feel like? Imagine you have a big juicy lemon in front  of you. Look at it glistening and gleaming, a beautiful spanking  yellow. It looks so juicy and moist. You slice it in half. The lemony  juices roll out. The fruit sparkles in the sunlight: you take a big  juicy bite! 
And  perhaps you salivated reading that? Words  alone can evoke powerful psychophysiological responses. They  can stir the emotions: think of Churchill's rousing war speeches.  'We shall fight them on the beeches...we shall never surrender!'  He had obviously studied the ancient art of rhetoric. 
Describing  trance and hypnosis can and will evoke it. No formal induction is needed - you just sound like you're having  a normal conversation. Some examples of what you could do follow... 







Driving  trance. 
'Have  you ever been driving along a motorway/freeway and before you knew it  you had completely zoned out and gone into a daydream? So you'd  travelled 5 miles or so on autopilot. Because you know how to drive -  you're  unconscious did it for you, leaving you free to wander  off mentally.  Funny isn't it?'







Reading  trance. 
'What's  it like when you're reading a book and it's so interesting that  you become  completely absorbed in it? So you just completely ignore  your surroundings. You just become  so fascinated by the characters, the imaginary landscape, all the exciting events  and you feel emotions intensely in that state, don't you. You see  when you're reading in that absorbed way - you're  in hypnosis...now. And your sense of time passing too changes doesn't it. Focusing on  the words generates pictures in your mind, compelling pictures that  captivate you for a while.' 







TV  trance. 
'Do  you know that you can go  into trance watching TV? As long as you are really into the program. It's not  like going  into hypnosis where your attention is focused inside. It's an external state of  focus. You become  so absorbed by the TV, the characters, maybe you find one really attractive and  can't take your eyes off them. You become  very relaxed and still too. Maybe the photography or spectacle of the movie is so incredible  that you forget  what's going on around you for a while. You ever feel  that? Now, I'm like that when I watch Star Wars. What films make you enter  that state?'







Conversational  trance. 
'We've  all had conversations in which become  totally absorbed, haven't we? Maybe someone is really funny or interesting or very  attractive and we listen  to every word, we ignore  everything else...sometimes  it's what the person is talking about that can mesmerise someone,  sometimes it's a quality of their voice, a certain cadence, an  attractive quality, maybe the resonance that can really allow you to  focus  in and relax while listening.'
I'm  laying it on thick to illustrate a point. You can be more subtle if  you wish. 
You  could describe playing golf and going into the zone, sex, anything in  which you become very absorbed - it's very easy to do. You just  need to practise. If  you want someone to feel a state - say joy - describe it vividly  - a time it happened to you...when you do this skilfully the  listener will experience it too. Don't be afraid to be flowery, somewhat. Notice what I compare the  feeling to - this is a metaphor, which is hypnotic. 
'I  remember a time when I passed an audition to get into drama school I  was so happy afterwards, I knew it was a moment that would change my  life. I felt this lovely warm glow in my head, a kind of lightness, a  soft tingle, it felt like a nice warm sun inside me...making me feel  good.'
Over  the top I know. By doing this you are also triggering associations to  what you are saying in their past experience. This is one way humans bond. 







Or  relaxation. 
'Your  muscles just let  go don't they, gradually all the tension eases away. You just rest maybe lying down or sitting. Sometimes you get a soft sweet feeling  in your muscles too. You might drift  off into a daydream. Before you know it your whole body can feel  very calm and deeply relaxed...we've  all experienced that.' 
Interestingly  when women see men they are attracted too they feel a set of feelings  inside. Often these are tingles or butterflies. If  you talk about something you evoke it.  Then  you can change it into a colour or symbol - intensify it or move it  about. Odd isn't it??









Your  1st  bonus: Symbolic deepeners. 
This  is a nice alternative to the PMR or an addition to it. It  allows the person to use their own symbolism  to relax the muscles. You can also use it to elicit pleasurable feelings. Now why on earth  would you do that!? Deep hypnosis is assumed but it would work in  light trance too. Let's also assume the feeling I am referring to  is relaxation. It can be anything! Remember  symbols are very powerful; more powerful than you know. They affect  the deepest instincts, templates and archetypes of the 'unconscious  mind.'
The  Symbolic Deepener script. 
(Hypnosis  is assumed.)
'Be  aware of this feeling,
this  relaxation you're feeling. Now... 
Imagine...
if  it were to form your symbol of deep relaxation... 
in  your mind. 
See  it there...
Wherever  there is? 
Get  to know that symbol,
Where  is it?
How  big is it?
Really  know it. 
Now,  take your symbol
and  let it have a colour...
if  you haven't already. 
A  colour that represents this amazing feeling...
Now, 
when  you're ready...
just  let that colourful symbol...
liquefy,  dissolve into some part of you...
taking  this feeling with it...
this  deep, healing relaxation...
spreading
into
some  part of your body...
Enjoy  these wonderful feelings as they soak into
are  absorbed by that place...
Very  deeply so...
Now,  move it somewhere else 
it  would do you good...
As  you do,
these  good feelings
and  more...
only  increase in intensity...
Feel  them intensify!
That's  right...
so  that pleasurable feeling
only  increases.
Maybe  it pulsates
or  throbs nicely 
or  maybe it moves in waves
or  twirls
or  circulates...
or  radiates
from  that place...
outward
and  inward...
I  don't know...
It's  your experience...
And  again...
let  your colourful symbol 
liquefy,  dissolve into 
another  part of your deserving body...
Just  the right place...
You  know where is best...
As  it melts,
these  good feelings can increase...
double,
triple,
quadruple...
if  you like,
if  you're  unconscious is willing...
Now  take this lovely healing feeling...
and
allow  it to 
feel  even more pleasant 
as  you notice it travel
somewhere  else,
wherever  you need it...
taking  the feelings with it
into  another part of you...
bathing  your 
mind-body  system
with  wonderful feelings...
And  so, 
the  more intense 
this  blissful feeling does become
the  more you enjoy it...
with  each breath
the  feeling only gets better,
healing  you
in  some mysterious way...
taking  you 
deeper  and deeper into
deep  hypnotic - SLEEP!
Let  that colourful symbol
liquefy,  dissolve into some other 
part  of your mind...
your  body...
soothing,
healing,
refreshing
each  and both of you, now...
Let  that feeling
spread  into every part of
that  body right now...
I'll  be quiet for 30 seconds
And  in that time
and  you have all the time
you  need in trance...
to  do this...
that's  right...
Experiencing  all
these  wonderful feelings...
let  them double,
triple  in intensity,
quadruple  in intensity...
until  you have moved it down 
along,
up, 
throughout,
your  increasingly peaceful mind and body...
Let  that colourful symbol
liquefy
become  absorbed
by  all the parts of you...
that  need,
deserve,
can  have these wonderful feelings,
now... 
That's  it...
Feel  this process occurring in the pause/pores...
(Be  quiet for 30 seconds as they do it.)









Your  new language power!
Now  you have learned many things about the power of language and your  improving ability to use it, have you not? You will have many more  choices of how to construct your own hypnotic inductions now. But  there is more! 
In  my next book I will teach you more hypnosis secrets, I promise I'll  give you many more options of how to hypnotise people and send them  into pleasurable oblivion which will give you real flexibility and  we'll start to delve into what to do once someone is hypnotised! I  will start to give you my own powerful techniques for doing  hypnotherapy: the interventions, how to construct suggestions, what  subconscious rejection is, the reasons why hypnotists have any  clients at all...you see I have so much knowledge to share, about  hypnosis and how the mind really works, what the placebo effect  really is, maybe I'll talk about the difference between men and  women's brains, perhaps about how carefully calculated manipulation  is carried out by 'influential groups' in society using NLP,  hypnotic principles, powerful psychological conditioning techniques  and more against you and yours (oops I've said too much!), if  you're good...all done in the same fun, informal way of course. 
I've  just decided in book 3 I will teach you at least two bonus modules...
How  to pass any personality test with flying colours.
How  to do 'psychic' cold reading. 
The  first two books have already given you a very thorough understanding  of hypnosis, by reading them you are ahead of the pack so if you've  enjoyed the ride so far join me for more hypnotic whistleblowing in  book 3 - 'Powerful Hypnosis!' Are you ready for level 3 my  Padawan apprentice!???! 
Wishing  you every success...and you will succeed. 
Don't  forget your 'Unicorn Deepener' bonus awaits at the end of the  appendices!









Appendix  1: PMR script. 
'Ok  just close your eyes...
and  just pay attention to your breathing...
in  and out... (time this on the in and out breath - thereby 'pacing'  the client's reality.) 
That's  right...
You  don't have to change your breathing at all...
Just  notice it...
Draw  all of your attention to your breathing...
as  you relax  deeply...
Now,
just  focus your attention on the top of your head...
your  scalp...
Imagine  you simply relax
all  the muscles in the top of your head...
Relax  your forehead...
Calming...yourself...down...
all  the way down...
Good...
And  now...
Your  eyes...
Your  temples...
Relaxing...
Your  ears can relax...
the  back of your head too,
supported  by that pillow/cushion... 
so  comfortable...
Again  relax  all the tiny muscles
around  your eyelids...
all  of them
can  just let  go,
relax  and unwind, now...
The  muscles between your eye brows
can  soften,
smooth  out...
take  a rest.
And  even the nose can relax,
tension can accumulate around the nose
but  it can  melt away now too...
And  who knows, (phonetic ambiguity: nose/knows.)
how  the nose
knows  how to relax?
But  it does...
And  female rabbits are known as does/doze...  (confusion: non sequitur - 'doze' = command - sleep!)
And  you can
effortlessly...
allow  this feeling of 
pure  relaxation
to  spread down your neck...
That's  right...
so  wonderfully relaxed,
peace  increasing...
inside...your  mind...
because...
as  your  body relaxes,
your  mind relaxes...
does  it not?
Time  to just slow...things...down... (Anxiety is associated with speed. Suggest the opposite. Down also  suggestive of going down into hypnosis.)
down  to your shoulders...
Just  let those shoulders... 
relax  comfortably.
Don't  have to do anything...
for  a while... 
The  back muscles,
releasing  past tension.
That  old...
tension  just melts away...
so  pleasant...
that  calming, soothing, restful sensation
spreading...
all  the way down
your  lower back
increasing  serenity, (single word command)
relaxing,
smoothing  out certain things...
almost  as though,
someone  you love deeply
is  massaging 
all  that old tightness you had away.
Your  chest and tummy muscles...
feeling  so soft,
so  wonderful.
That  feeling can spread 
to  where it needs to go.
Just  getting rid of any 
unnecessary  tension, 
in  the past...now. 
And  down to your
waste/waist  area, (phonetic ambiguity) 
feeling 
tranquillity,  now...
And  what's the most wonderful thing
about  kindness and love;
for  yourself too? (Whispered)
Letting  those big thigh muscles
relax  so pleasantly,
that  chair comfortably supporting...
your  hamstrings muscles too.
Your  arms can relax.
The  deltoids,
biceps,
triceps,
the  forearms...
all  the way down
to  your hands,
your  palms relaxing...
each  finger and thumb...
so  comfort-able...
Aware  of the feeling
of  your interlaced fingers,
the  feeling of your jeans...(whatever they are wearing) 
any  textures...
the  different feelings, 
in  both hands.
One  hand might feel slightly lighter,
and  the other slighter warmer... (truism - this is often the case.)
And  I don't know which hand is the right hand...
and  which one is left. (Phonetic ambiguity/double meaning for left and  right.)
Perhaps...
your  calves can 
relax  next...
your  shins,
your  Achilles tendons...
down  to your ankles,
top  of your feet,
aware  of the feeling of the shoes/socks etc. (if they are wearing any) on  those feet...
your  toes too...
each  toe relaxing,
one...
by...
one...
And  your sole/soul... (phonetic ambiguity suggestive of 'deep rooted'  relaxation) 
deeply  relaxed.
Your  entire mind and body 
deeply  relaxed, now.
Now  I just want for a moment...
to  speak to... 
you're  unconscious   (ambiguity - your/you're)
I'd  like to thank that part...
that  was and is protecting you...
looking  out for you...
that  was making you
too  worried,
stressed,
overly  tense...
back  then.
But  now I would like,
the  sympathetic part of the nervous system;
that's  the part that takes care 
of  the arousal phase of the 'fight or flight' response
to  calm  down, now...
to  allow the parasympathetic phase,
of  the nervous system;
that  is the calming  down phase...
to  begin to predominate, now...
Only  responding to real danger,
when  needed.
The  old overly tense and stressed pattern,
is  unnecessary, now...
That's  right.'









Appendix  2: Conscious and Unconscious Dissociation script. 
'As  a part of you listens another part becomes more and more immersed in  this process...
Maybe  one part wants to follow what is happening, while another in fact  knows without effort and simply absorbs things...
Perhaps  a part may be concentrated on some ideas yet at the same time another  can continue on its journey into the inner world of experiences... 
A  part can doubt and question and another can accept positive change  and experience is possible, can understand with more and more trust...
Maybe  some part wants to observe and be alert whereas another uncovers its  own creative potentials and deeply desires to try something new...
One  part may try to exert too much control over everything with its  learnt bias, while another deeper part of you is free to imagine some  things you desire and put into practise...
A  part is preoccupied by the moment as another simply finds it easy to  go down stream and act on certain things that please it most...'









Appendix  3: The Silly Hypnotic Deepener. 
In  a few moments not just yet
I'll  say the names of three fruits 
and  with the sound of each word 
you  can go 50 times deeper into trance and hypnosis. 
You  ready? Ok? (Don't wait for a response.)
Banana...deeper...and  deeper...50 times deeper...
Apple...even  deeper than that...50 times deeper into
your  own state of hypnosis and trance...
And  one more for luck...
Pineapple! 
Deeper  and deeper still,
all  the way down
into... 
deep,  hypnotic...
SLEEP!









Appendix  4: 1st  Bonus: The Symbolic Deepener. 
'Be  aware of this feeling,
this  relaxation you're feeling. Now... 
Imagine...
if  it were to form your symbol of deep relaxation... 
in  your mind. 
See  it there...
Wherever  there is? 
Get  to know that symbol...
Where  is it?
How  big is it?
Really  know it. 
Now,  take your symbol
and  let it have a colour...
if  you haven't already. 
A  colour that represents this amazing feeling...
Now, 
When  you're ready...
just  let that colourful symbol...
liquefy,  dissolve into some part of you...
taking  this feeling with it...
this  deep, healing relaxation...
spreading
into
some  part of your body...
Enjoy  these wonderful feelings as they soak into,
are  absorbed by that place...
Very  deeply so...
Now,  move it somewhere else 
it  would do you good...
As  you do,
these  good feelings
and  more...
only  increase in intensity...
Feel  them intensify!
That's  right...
so  that pleasurable feeling
only  increases.
Maybe  it pulsates
or  throbs nicely 
or  maybe it moves in waves
or  twirls
or  circulates...
or  radiates
from  that place...
outward
and  inward...
I  don't know...
It's  your experience...
And  again...
let  your colourful symbol 
liquefy,  dissolve into 
another  part of your deserving body...
Just  the right place...
Move  it there...
you  know where is best...
As  it melts,
these  good feelings can increase...
double,
triple,
quadruple...
if  you like,
if  you're unconscious is willing...
Now  take this lovely healing feeling...
and
allow  it to 
feel  even more pleasant 
as  you notice it travel
somewhere  else,
wherever  you need it...
taking  the feelings with it
into  another part of you...
bathing  your 
mind-body  system
with  wonderful feelings...
And  so, 
the  more intense 
this  blissful feeling does become
the  more you enjoy it...
with  each breath
the  feeling only gets better,
healing  you
in  some mysterious way...
taking  you 
deeper  and deeper into
deep  hypnotic - SLEEP!
Let  that colourful symbol
liquefy,  dissolve into some other 
part  of your mind...
your  body...
soothing,
healing,
refreshing
each  and both of you, now...
Move  it where it needs to go.
Let  that feeling
spread  into every part of
that  body right now...
I'll  be quiet for 30 seconds
And  in that time
And  you have all the time
you  need in trance...
to  do this...
that's  right...
experiencing  all
these  wonderful feelings...
let  them double,
triple  in intensity,
quadruple  in intensity...
until  you have moved it down 
along,
up, 
throughout,
your  increasingly peaceful mind and body...
Let  that colourful symbol
liquefy 
become  absorbed
by  all the parts of you...
that  need,
deserve,
can  have these wonderful feelings,
now... 
That's  it...
Feel  this process occurring in the pause/pores...
(Be  quiet for 30 seconds.)









Appendix  5: 2nd  Bonus Deepener - The Unicorn Deepener. 
(Hypnosis  is assumed - I usually use this on a second or third session -  you can however you it whenever you wish and adapt it for all  purposes even stage hypnosis. The purpose of the script is to get the  'dreaming mind' to function/take over - this is the part that  causes hypnotic change to become real.)
'Imagine  a flying unicorn of great beauty
and  only positive intention...
A  guide,
a  helper...
or  some other benevolent dream being...
from  the land of myth and legend...
from  the most creative part
of  who you truly, deeply are...
that  will allow you to 
travel  all the  way down
into  the deepest and most profound levels
of  deep hypnosis and deep trance
that  it is possible for you to go to today.
And  you're  unconscious knows just where that is...
On  the count of '3-2-1  SLEEP!'
you  will travel down
with  this guides assistance
and  inner journeying
into  dreams and deep,
profound...
hypnotic  ...
SLEEP!
SLEEP!
Deeper  down with each number I count down...
and  on 1
you  will be as deep as it is possible
for  you to go today -
deeply  hypnotised,
deeply  entranced...
in  deep  hypnotic SLEEP!
Sleep,  peace in deep sleep!
Floating,  flying, drifting into dreams...
and  an entranced sleep,
down  you go with your guide,
your  guardian
that  takes you down to exactly where you need to go...
On  '3!
Passing  down through to the deepest
and  most truly profound levels
of  hypnosis and trance 
where  anything realistic, positive and healthy
can  be made manifest,
to  the place inside where all 
amazing  change occurs, 
a  place where you believe 
the  change you desire can happen.
Deeper  and deeper down now,
2...even  deeper down, now...
almost  at the deepest levels of your mind,
perhaps  THE deepest,
where  all powerful and positive change
can  only happen for you...
deeper  and deeper down now,
all  the way down
to  truly a DEEPER MAGIC
in  your mind,
an  ancient wisdom resides there...
that  allow all the deep 
sub-conscious/unconscious  change 
you  desire...
to  be made real 
in  just the right way
for  you...
1  SLEEP!' 
You  are there and here...
here  and now  ...
in  just the right place...
for  deep hypnosis,
deep  trance,
learning  in hypnotic sleep
without  effort...
a  place where these words,
these  ideas can become
your  beliefs 
and  your beliefs become your thoughts now...
the  very deepest levels of hypnosis
and  trance
that  you can experience,
NOOOOOW!
(Throw  in a 'That's right!' if you feel so inclined.) 







Again  you have done well young Padawan: soon the hypnotic mastery you  desire will be yours! 
The  Rogue hypnotist signing off...for now...
 

















