





















FOREWORD
In the spring of 1975 I sent Cormac McCarthy a letter in care of a post office box in El Paso, Texas. His wife in Maryville, Tennessee, and his editor at Random House were protective of his whereabouts, but they both assured me that, wherever he was, he picked up his mail every six weeks or so. At the time I was a documentary filmmaker on sabbatical (thanks to a fellowship from a journalism foundation) with money to spend (thanks to a public television series entitled "Visions") looking for a screenwriter. Not just any screenwriter. A great screenwriter. I had already spoken to Eudora Welty (I was young and shameless).
McCarthy's first three novels (The Orchard Keeper, Outer Dark, and Child of God) had been published to the requisite number of glowing reviews describing the author as "Faulknerian" (the southern novelist's proverbial kiss of death). Sales had been fitful at best. Certainly Hollywood had not been beating a path to this particular P.O. Box in El Paso before me. Child of God, the oddest of a wonderfully odd lot, had been the one that struck me. It was easily the most cinematic, but not in the conventional sense of the term. It had a rigor about it, a way of not taking the easy, "novelistic" route. By never presuming an author's license to enter the mind of his protagonist, McCarthy had been able to insure the almost complete inscrutability of his subject and subject matter, while at the same time thoroughly investigating it. Here was "negative capability" of a very high order. I was hooked.
And so when a few weeks later I received a reply from this most inscrutable of writers suggesting we meet and talk about my ideas for the film, I became convinced that it was meant to be, and so it was. We were, at least in one sense, perfectly matched: he had never even seen, much less written a screenplay, and I had never directed a fiction film, only documentaries. The treatment or story of the film, insofar as one existed, was based on nothing more than a few paragraphs in the footnotes to a 1928 biography of a famous industrialist of the pre-Civil War South. Our first meeting ended with an agreement to reconvene in Tennessee, then drive southeast through North and South Carolina, making our way to Graniteville, where the actual events of the story took place. It would be a kind of research trip, or at least an excuse for a research trip. It would last a few weeks, and then with a few more weeks of work back in Maryville at the typewriter, we would have our screenplay. It would be that simple.
In fact it took almost exactly a year. For me a wonderful itinerant year on the road, with the deafening roar of the textile mills of South Carolina giving way to the tiny plop of a perfectly ripened tomato outside Cormac's living room window in Tennessee. For Cormac McCarthy, at least from my vantage point, it was a year of pure alchemy, much of it spent translating what could have been a dry academic expose into a strange and haunting tale of impotence, rage, and ultimately violence among two generations of owners and workers, fathers and sons, during the rise and fall of one of America's most bizarre utopian industrial experiments.
The resulting two-hour film, The Gardener's Son, was made in 16mm for $200,000, broadcast on PBS in 1976, shown at the Berlin and Edinburgh Film Festivals, nominated for two Emmy Awards, and was my education as a film director. Twenty years have passed, and Cormac McCarthy is now an old friend and godfather to my daughter Remy and, in many ways, to all the films I've made since.
—RICHARD PEARCE
APRIL 29, 1996







CAST OF CHARACTERS
In Order of Appearance
OLD TIMEKEEPER      Soft spoken.
YOUNG MAN      Neatly dressed, well spoken. Under his manner a hint of truculence.
JAMES GREGG      Son of the founder of the mill. Age about 30.
THE STOCKHOLDERS      Men in frock coats.
MARTHA MCEVOY      The older daughter, age 14.
MRS MCEVOY      The mother.
MR MCEVOY      The father, a gardener from the mills.
MARYELLEN MCEVOY      The younger sister.
DR PERCEVAL      Tall and perhaps somewhat cadaverous. He dresses formally and is given to quoting from the classics.
DAPHNE      Mrs Gregg's black servant.
MRS GREGG
MR GREGG      A ghost lying in the bed.
ROBERT MCEVOY      The son, age 17.
WILLIS (Dr Perceval's Man)      A tall and stout black, dedicated to the doctor.
THE SPEAKER (at Mr Gregg's funeral)      Perhaps one of the stockholders.
TIMEKEEPER  (Captain Giles)      A younger version of the old timekeeper at the opening of the film.
RAGGED MAN      A thin and shifty-eyed hillbilly. Could be played by the doctor (Perceval) in rags.
FIRST BLACK      A quiet spoken middle-aged man.
SECOND BLACK (Odell)      Younger and less guarded.
OLD WOMEN (at the wake)      Small and tight-mouthed and disapproving. These three women are dressed in mourning, are somewhat witchlike.
OLD MAN (at greenhouse)      Small, neat looking, and quietly efficient.
CLEITUS (Mrs Gregg's manservant)      A dignified black, perhaps in his sixties.
PINKY      A man about forty, big and stout and somewhat florid.
FIRST MAN      A man about forty.
SECOND MAN      Smaller and older.
THIRD MAN      Quiet and enigmatic. Not without humor. All are dressed in overalls, some with jackets, perhaps with caps.
OVERSEER      Perhaps in shirt sleeves. He is a few years younger than Patrick McEvoy.
WORKER
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY      Reads the charges in a sort of cadenced monotone, not unlike an amateur reading of poetry or like a preacher.
OC JORDAN      A country lawyer.
CONSTABLE      A man much like the overseer in the mill.
MR WIGGINS      The newspaper accounts are ambiguously worded, but he appears to have been black. He is a prosecutor for the defense.
DR CAMPBELL      A dignified witness, a gentleman perhaps in his forties.
STARK SIMS      Apparently not too bright a fourteen-year-old, but with his own sense of dignity.
WJ WHIPPER      A black yankee lawyer with a great deal of presence about him, an air almost of arrogance.
JUDGE MAHER      A thin faced man who could pass for a shop clerk or almost anything else. He reads the death sentence without dramatics or flair but with a reasonable sense of the solemnity of the occasion.
FOREMAN
PHOTOGRAPHER      He should not appear obsequious. He is good-natured, perhaps clumsy with his equipment.
VIRGIL      A good old country boy, laconic, solicitous of McEvoy.
THE PRIEST
FIRST AND SECOND JAILERS      A pair who take their duties very seriously.
SHERIFF      A clean-cut type, inclined to be avuncular toward McEvoy, not without kindness.
MR CLEMENTS      A tidy professional at his work.
THE WHITTLER IN THE HALLWAY      A thoughtful, rather sad old man, perhaps in his seventies. Perhaps wearing spectacles.
THE WOMAN AT THE DESK IN THE HOSPITAL
THE ORDERLY
OLD MARTHA MCEVOY      A thin white-haired and ghostlike old lady whose eyes suggest a liveliness that is childlike but not quite mad.







THE GARDENER'S SON








CONTENTS
Foreword
Cast of Characters
The Gardener's Son
About the Author
Also by Cormac McCarthy
Credits
Copyright
About the Publisher







Interior. Old office of the Graniteville cotton mill. Daylight through dusty windows. An old desk. Boxes and crates standing about on the floor.
TIMEKEEPER (os)      God knows what all is in here. I'd watch where I put my hands. That was the . . . I dont know what that was.

Sounds of footsteps. A door opening.

TIMEKEEPER (os)      Old papers and stuff. What aint eat up.

Sounds of boxes or papers. The old man coughs.

TIMEKEEPER (os)      In yonder is where it happened.

Sounds of footsteps. The old man enters the room. A young man is behind him, only partly visible beyond the door.

TIMEKEEPER (os)      That was his desk yonder.

The old man carries a ring of keys and he jingles these against his leg. He turns to look back at the young man, who has apparently asked him a question.

TIMEKEEPER      Oh yes. I remember him. I was just a kid. My daddy was supervisor and we went to the funeral over in Augusta. The wind blowed my brother Earl's hat in the street and a horse stepped in it.

The voices fade out as the credits come on.

TIMEKEEPER       . . . Come to the door right where you're standin.

The young man enters the room. He looks about and crosses to the window. The old man jingles the keys in the palm of his hand.

TIMEKEEPER      Used to be wells in the streets. You went out in the street and drawed your water. They'd burn sulphur in the streets of a summer gainst the malaria.

The young man turns at the window toward the timekeeper.

TIMEKEEPER      Some people claim that James Gregg had run over the boy with his buggy and caused him to lose his leg but that was never so. He broke it fallin off the gravel train. It was James's Daddy founded the mill. The old man they say was just a pistol. James was of a different cut. He was all right, but the blood runs thin.

The boy turns at the window and looks at the old man.


TIMEKEEPER      I'd better mind what I say. No offense.


The boy comes from the window and thumbs through dusty papers in a box.

YOUNG MAN      I guess if you hire these people you have to take the consequences.
TIMEKEEPER (smiling)      No offense.
YOUNG MAN      No.
TIMEKEEPER      You wont find it here.
YOUNG MAN      What wont I find?
TIMEKEEPER      They're just boxes of records. There's some old pitcher albums here somewheres. Mill used to keep.

The young man shuffles through a box, idly looking at papers that turn up.

TIMEKEEPER      They aint the thing. Old papers or pitchers. You copy somethin down dont mean you have it. You just have the record. Times past are fugitive. They caint be kept in no box.
End Credits
Series of old still shots of the town of Graniteville and of the people. These are to have the look of old sepia photographs and may look stiff or posed. They comprise an overture to the story to follow, being shots of the characters in the film in situations from the film itself, so that they sketch the story out in miniature to the last shot of an old wooden coffin being loaded into a mule-drawn wagon and a shot of the town.
Freeze frame of the town, the rows of houses. Animate into action. A wagon comes up a street through the mud. Seated in three sets of spring seats are seven or eight stockholders of the Graniteville Company Mill and the son of the mill's founder who is named James Gregg.
James Gregg is pointing out various features of the mill village. The stockholders nod solemnly.
They pass a young girl standing in the mud waiting for the wagon to pass. James Gregg tips his hat to her. He turns and winks at the stockholder next to him. The girl looks away shyly. She crosses the street behind them. Coming along in the distance is a buggy and she waits to see who it is. As it passes she sees the arriving Dr Perceval driven by his black man. She watches them pass and then turns and runs up the street. She comes to the last of a row of houses and enters.
Interior. The house, a front room, very dark. She goes through to the kitchen where her mother is at the stove and a younger sister, Maryellen, is sitting at the kitchen table with her spelling book.
MARTHA      I seen him. The doctor. He's here.
MRS MCEVOY      Lord save us, he aint to the house is he?
MARTHA      No. He was headin towards Kalmia.

Mrs McEvoy is flustered. She looks around at the state of her house. She pats at her hair distractedly.

MRS MCEVOY      He might could be here any time. Was it just now you seen him?
MARTHA      Yes Mam. You reckon he's gone to the Greggs?
MRS MCEVOY      Yes. Run out back and tell your daddy.
MARYELLEN      You want me to go in and tell Bobby?
MRS MCEVOY      No I dont want no such thing.

Martha goes out back door into a vegetable garden where Mr McEvoy is pulling up the dead stalks of corn and stacking them. She calls across the garden.

MARTHA      That there doctor is a comin. Mama said to tell you.
MR MCEVOY      He aint here is he?
MARTHA      He's gone on towards Greggs. He might could be here any time.
MR MCEVOY      Well dont get everbody stirred up.
MARTHA      Mama said not to tell Bobby.
MR MCEVOY      Well maybe his leg is caused him to go deaf and he aint heard you yet.

Exterior. Evening. The doctor's carriage arriving at the house of William Gregg. A boy comes to take the horses in hand.
Interior. The doctor in the hallway of the house handing off his coat and hat to the servant Daphne. His bag sits on the floor. Mrs Gregg comes down the stairway and greets him.

MRS GREGG      Good evening Dr Perceval. Thank you for coming.
DR PERCEVAL      Not at all. How is your husband?
MRS GREGG      I'm afraid he's much the same.

The doctor frowns and mutters.

MRS GREGG      You didnt come by yourself?
DR PERCEVAL      Yes. That is, my man is with me.
MRS GREGG (to Daphne)      Tell Cleitus to go and take the doctor's man to the kitchen.
DR PERCEVAL      Thank you.

The servant takes the doctor's things away. The doctor takes up his satchel and nods toward the stairs.
They ascend the stairs.
Interior. Door opening in the bedroom of William Gregg.
The old man is lying on his back and he appears to be all but dead. Mrs Gregg enters followed by the doctor. She lights a lamp. The doctor sets his bag on the bed and takes the lamp and holds it up and lifts the old man's eyelids each and peers at his eyes. He sets the lamp down and takes a stethoscope from his bag and pulls back the counterpane and listens to the old man's chest.

DR PERCEVAL      Does he know you?
MRS GREGG       Sometimes.
DR PERCEVAL      Yes.
MRS GREGG      I'm afraid they grow less frequent.

Dr Perceval folds the covers back and takes the stethoscope from his ears.

DR PERCEVAL      He always had the constitution of an ox.
MRS GREGG      I always ask you and you always say no. But is there any chance . . . of a reversal?

The doctor turns and looks at her.

DR PERCEVAL      I'm sorry, Mrs Gregg.

Mrs Gregg nods her head.

DR PERCEVAL      He's beyond my or any man's practice.
MRS GREGG      I prayed to God to take him. Is that wrong?
DR PERCEVAL      No. That's not wrong.
MRS GREGG      He hated sickness.
DR PERCEVAL      I guess he despised any kind of idleness.
MRS GREGG      Yes. Wouldnt tolerate it.

The doctor folds his stethoscope into his bag.

DR PERCEVAL      What about that boy in the village?
MRS GREGG      Did you want to see him this evening?
DR PERCEVAL      Your note said it was urgent.
MRS GREGG      That is what was relayed to me. I havent seen the boy myself.
DR PERCEVAL      Then I'll not stay upon the order of my going.
MRS GREGG      Let me get my things.
DR PERCEVAL      It's a bad night out.
MRS GREGG      It's a bad night for them.
DR PERCEVAL      Yes, of course.
MRS GREGG      Have you had your supper?
DR PERCEVAL      No, I'll not be taking any. A clear head wants an empty stomach. People eat too damned much anyway.

Interior. McEvoy kitchen. The family is seated at the table. A kerosene lamp is lit and they have just finished their supper. There is a knock at the front door and Martha leaves the table and goes along the hall to the door to open it. Dr Perceval and Mrs Gregg are standing in the door and she admits them and they follow her to the kitchen. When the doctor and Mrs Gregg enter the kitchen Mr McEvoy rises, Mrs McEvoy pushes at her chair and struggles to her feet.

MRS GREGG      Mr McEvoy this is Dr Perceval.

Mr McEvoy extends his hand. The doctor gives it a perfunctory shake. They nod mutely at each other.

MRS MCEVOY      Lord Mrs Gregg you ort not to of come. What with the trouble in your own house. Martha, put the kettle on.
MRS GREGG       Please dont trouble yourself Mrs McEvoy. I only came to see about the boy.
MRS MCEVOYY      Well we appreciate that.
DR PERCEVAL      Where is the boy?
MR MCEVOY      I'll show him, Mama.

He leaves the room, looking after at the doctor for him to follow. The doctor shifts his bag from one hand to the other and leaves the kitchen.
Mrs McEvoy comes around the table toward Mrs Gregg.

MRS MCEVOY      Let me take your coat, Mrs Gregg.
MRS GREGG       Thank you.

Mrs McEvoy takes her coat, helping her out of it.

MRS MCEVOY      Just get ye a chair.
MRS GREGG       Thank you.

Mrs Gregg sits in the chair nearest the hallway door. Maryellen McEvoy is seated next to her and looks up at her with wide eyes. The table is littered with dishes. Martha is standing by the stove watching her. Mrs McEvoy takes the coat and hangs it from a nail in the back door. She turns and looks back at the table and she goes to the stove and pokes up the fire.

MRS MCEVOY (to Martha)      Scoot girl.

Martha moves to one side. She does not take her eyes from Mrs Gregg.

MRS GREGG       Is this all of your family, Mrs McEvoy?
MRS MCEVOY      Yes Mam.
MRS GREGG  (to Maryellen)      What is your name?
MARYELLEN      Maryellen.
MRS GREGG       Yes.

She turns to Martha.

MRS GREGG       And Martha.
MARTHA      Yes Mam.
MRS GREGG       Please dont bother with anything, Mrs McEvoy.

Mrs McEvoy comes to the table, wiping her hands on her apron. She takes a chair. Silence.
Mr McEvoy enters the room. He smiles somewhat nervously.

MR MCEVOY      We sure do appreciate this, Mrs Gregg. That boy . . . I dont know. He aint goin to be no easy patient.
MRS GREGG       It's going to be very difficult for him.

Mrs McEvoy looks at her in alarm.

MRS GREGG       Dr Perceval is an excellent man. We must put our confidence and trust in him.

Mr McEvoy is standing in the doorway. He crosses his hands, holding them in front of him, and bows his head. Mrs McEvoy looks down.

MCEVOY (os)      No, damn you! No!

Mrs McEvoy looks up in alarm. Mr McEvoy turns and looks back down the hall. Mrs Gregg rises. The doctor enters the kitchen. He is somewhat embarrassed, but determined. He smiles.

DR PERCEVAL      I'm afraid he's not taking it at all well. But there's nothing for it. May I have a glass of water please.
MR MCEVOY      Big sister, get the doctor a drink of water.

Martha crosses the kitchen to where the pail and dipper stand on the sideboard.

MR MCEVOY      Might it not mend?
DR PERCEVAL      I'm sorry, McEvoy.
MRS GREGG       Is the operation unavoidable Doctor?

Dr Perceval takes the glass of water and drinks and lowers the glass and looks at Mrs Gregg.

DR PERCEVAL      If he's to live.

Mrs McEvoy begins to sob.

DR PERCEVAL      Badly in sepsis, Madam. Badly.
MRS GREGG        Yes.
MRS MCEVOY      It might could mend.
DR PERCEVAL      Mrs McEvoy, it could not mend. Not in this world. It is beset with rot. Who can say why? Germs have their flyways, like migratory fowl. Winging unseen through the night. The boy's leg must come off if his life is to be saved. I'm sorry to be so blunt but you people will not seem to understand.
MRS GREGG       And the boy? How will you . . .
DR PERCEVAL      There's nothing for it, I'm afraid. Once my man has administered the chloroform . . .

Mrs Gregg turns to Mr McEvoy.

MRS GREGG       Where is he?
DR PERCEVAL      Mrs Gregg, I dont think he'll listen. He swore at me.
MRS GREGG       He'll not at me.

Mrs Gregg turns to Martha McEvoy.

MRS GREGG       Take me to your brother's room.

Martha leads Mrs Gregg along the hall. She opens the door. Mrs Gregg enters. The boy looks up at her from a small bed. He is pale and angry. She goes directly to the bed and sits down on it. She removes her hat, withdrawing the pins. She lays it by. She looks down at the boy.

MRS GREGG       Robert.

She regards him. He does not answer.

MRS GREGG       Robert, what Dr Perceval says is true. You must have the operation.
MCEVOY      I'd rather to be dead.
MRS GREGG        Life is a precious gift from God. No one has the right . . .
MCEVOY      It's up to him.

She looks at him. She does not understand what he means.

MCEVOY      If God put the rot in it then let it rot off.
MRS GREGG        You dont know what you say. Think of your parents. I lost a son in the war. I know what it is. I'd have wanted him back with no legs.

He does not answer.

MRS GREGG       God does not ask that all the flowers in his garden be perfect. He has a special love for the ones . . .

She does not finish.

MCEVOY      Ones are crippled.

Mrs Gregg looks up at him. She looks down the bed to the shape of his legs under the covers.

MRS GREGG       Have you looked at it?
MCEVOY      Looked at what?
MRS GREGG       Your leg. Have you seen it?
MCEVOY      No. I aint seen it. What do I want to see it for?

His answer is touched with a rising fear and suspicion.

MRS GREGG       Let me see it.
MCEVOY      No.
MRS GREGG       Why not?
MCEVOY      You caint see it. It's in a cast.
MRS GREGG       No it's not. That's a lie. Let me see it.

Robert McEvoy is very much afraid. He shakes his head rapidly from side to side. She takes hold of the bedlinen on the far side of the bed and pulls it back. He half raises up in the bed to stop her.

MCEVOY      No.

She jerks away the covers. He struggles. Her hat is crushed. His legs lie revealed. The injured one is loosely swathed in bandage through which discolored stains have seeped and his whole lower leg and foot are perfectly black. She turns her head aside at the odor. He falls back sobbing. She recovers him and puts her hand to his face.

MRS GREGG       I know it's very hard. I know. I'll stay with you.

The kitchen. The doctor and the family waiting. Mrs Gregg enters. The two men rise.

MRS GREGG       Doctor Perceval, I think you may fetch in your assistant now.
DR PERCEVAL      Thank you. Thank you very much. Did you want to be driven home?
MRS GREGG       No. I'll stay. I promised the boy.

The doctor starts for the door.

MRS GREGG       Perhaps Martha would help you with your things. Would you like to help the doctor, Martha?

Martha shrinks. She shakes her head.

DR PERCEVAL      Perfectly all right. Willis and I can manage.
MRS GREGG       You dont anticipate any complications?

Dr Perceval pauses at the door and turns to look at her.
DR PERCEVAL      We have every confidence of success, Mam. During the late war I removed over one thousand limbs. I was called in on the most difficult cases. . . .


Interior. Inside door of McEvoy's room. The door opens and the doctor enters, leaving his assistant Willis framed in the doorway. The assistant is a huge and solemn black. They begin setting up their equipment, the black fitting the pump for the carbolic spray. Mrs Gregg comes to the door. The doctor and his man are donning butcher's aprons. McEvoy turns his face to the wall. The doctor's assistant approaches him with a bottle of chloroform and a pad. He dampens the pad and claps it over the boy's mouth and nose. The boy struggles and flails. The doctor helps to hold him and after a while he is still. Mrs Gregg's face is a curious expression of concern touched with a morbid curiosity. The doctor lays out his surgical instruments and they glitter in the lamplight as he places them in an enameled pan of dilute carbolic acid.
Interior. Martha McEvoy is standing in the kitchen door at the end of the hall. The door to McEvoy's room opens and the black emerges and goes down the hall with the boy's leg wrapped in a sheet under his arm. Mrs Gregg comes from the room and sees the girl standing there. They stare at each other.
Exterior. Day. A church bell tolling. Mrs Gregg in mourning is helped into her carriage by her son James and they set out behind the horsedrawn hearse up the dirt street through the middle of the town. The way is lined with townspeople. They pass the McEvoy house where McEvoy watches from a window. He looks pale and wasted and he watches the funeral with no expression at all.
Exterior. The Graniteville cemetery. The body of William Gregg lies in its casket beside a new dug grave. Flowers surround. People are taking their places and whispering and a large man in a black suit is standing by with his hands crossed at his waist waiting to begin. When all are settled he addresses the crowd:
SPEAKER      Friends. Neighbors. We are gathered together here today at a most solemn and sad occasion. The man whose earthly remains lie here, and whose spirit we commend to a just God, has been a guiding force in the lives of nearly every one of us.
William Gregg was all his life an example of the virtue of hard work. He was himself born in indigent circumstances and was thrown upon his own resources at an early age. By force of his own character, by the habits of energy and industry and perseverance, he acquired for himself a fair share of the world's wealth and some of its honors. But the crowning glory of his life and the true benefactors of his labors are here in the community which he established.
There are many among us today who can remember what life held in the way of promise before this man came among us. Too many of us were raised in hunger and poverty to ever forget. To see what he has wrought, the neat homes, the churches and schools, the gardens and the lovely grounds and last but not least the massive factory structure with its beautiful and perfect machinery, these things seem created almost by magic.
Mr Gregg was not the millionaire that common rumor made him. He was too good a citizen not to have lost heavily in the great disaster which has befallen our land. When a man works as he did for the common good the results of his labor will not be found in hoarded wealth, but in that increased prosperity and usefulness of those among whom he lived, which shall continue to bear fruit for generations after the first laborer himself has passed away.


Exterior. Dawn. The town, row of houses coming to life, lamps being lit, the windows projected onto the near dark in yellow squares, roosters crowing. A dog yaps. Doors open and shut. People's voices. The mill bell tolls. People are moving through the streets. Young girls, small children.
Interior. The mill. A man goes along the aisles of machinery lighting lamps with a long torch. The great wheel that turns the spindles stirs sluggishly, the belts slither and turn, the overhead shafts begin to revolve, the spindles turn. Young girls and children are taking their place at their machines. Close up of Martha McEvoy. Two young boys roughhouse at their tasks. McEvoy comes down the long row through pools of lamplight and enters the office door at the end of the mill. He has a crude crutch but he moves with grace and agility. He shuts the door and goes through into the office of the timekeeper who sits at his desk with a green eyeshade and gaitered sleeves and sorts papers and sips coffee from a huge porcelain mug. When he sees McEvoy he swivels about in his chair and regards him. McEvoy leans on his crutch and looks at the timekeeper with a sort of disinterested malignity, something other than disdain.

TIMEKEEPER      Well I reckon you're the boy.

Robert McEvoy doesnt answer.

TIMEKEEPER      McEvoy. That it? McEvoy?
ROBERT      That's it.

The timekeeper raises an eyebrow.

TIMEKEEPER      That's it?

McEvoy doesnt answer.

TIMEKEEPER      Did they not learn you to sir at your home?
ROBERT      Sir.
TIMEKEEPER      If Mr Gregg was to hear that he'd flop in his grave like a fish, God rest his soul. Good manners are never out of place. What he used to say. Well. Tell you what. You can start in by cleanin this here place up some. Right yonder through that door and on the right is a closet and you'll find a broom in it if I'm not bad mistaken. We'd best get the heaviest dirt out fore cotton starts to volunteer in here.

He starts to turn back to his desk, then turns and looks at the boy again.

TIMEKEEPER      Can you . . . I mean, you can manage a broom all right caint ye? I never thought about . . .
ROBERT      I can do anything anybody else can.

The timekeeper watches him swing through and out the door.
Interior. James Gregg's office. He looks up to see the new office boy go past his door. After a while he rises and goes out to the outer office. There is a confrontation taking place between the timekeeper and a ragged man at the door.

TIMEKEEPER      I dont care what they told you. We are not takin on any hands.
RAGGED MAN      Well they done paid our fare down here on the train to go to work.
TIMEKEEPER      Your friends and neighbors did. Took up a contribution.
RAGGED MAN      Yessir.
TIMEKEEPER      They wont get up no purse to get you back though, will they?
RAGGED MAN      I dont know.
TIMEKEEPER      Well I do.
RAGGED MAN      We never allowed we'd be goin back. They said we could come down here and go to work—put the youngerns to work. And the girls. Said we'd get a sealed house and a garden patch.
JAMES GREGG      How many of you are there?
RAGGED MAN      Well now, there's at least eighteen hands. They aint but two of them youngerns under twelve year old. Some of them is slight for they age but I guarantee em to turn in a day's work.
JAMES GREGG       How many fares?
RAGGED MAN      Fares?
JAMES GREGG      We'll need to know how many half fares and how many whole.
RAGGED MAN      We was paid our fares come down here.
JAMES GREGG      How many all together?
RAGGED MAN      They was twenty-six of us come down.
TIMEKEEPER      In one family?
RAGGED MAN      Lord God no, not in no one family. They aint but five in my family. They's three families of us. Some of us is cross kin.

James Gregg goes past the man to the door and looks out. Standing along the edge of the road are a band of filthy and ragged people with bales of bedding and sorry household effects, nearly all barefooted, some appearing to be albinos, a couple of emaciated hound dogs, a few crates of chickens. They are staring hungrily toward the office.

JAMES GREGG      Mr Giles.
TIMEKEEPER      Yessir.
JAMES GREGG      Find out how many fares are here and make arrangements for their tickets back to wherever the hell they came from.
TIMEKEEPER      It's a damned outrage, Cap'n Gregg.
JAMES GREGG      Well what would you do with them?
TIMEKEEPER      I know. But it's still a damned outrage.
JAMES GREGG      Send up to the church and see if they can find them some dinner.
RAGGED MAN      We aint even had no breakfast.
JAMES GREGG      And get them out of here on the afternoon train.

McEvoy is sweeping the floor behind them. He has left his crutch and he alternately leans on the broom to hop forward and sweep with the broom while standing on one leg.

RAGGED MAN      Cap'n you sure you aint got no place for us? We come a long way to be turned back. I mean, they showed us a dodger, said to come on.
JAMES GREGG      The last bill we put out was four years ago. Mr Giles.
TIMEKEEPER      Mrs Cornish will go crazy when she sees this lot. She said the last time she wouldnt put up with it no more.
JAMES GREGG      That's what she said the time before. Tell her some of God's seed has fallen on barren ground.
TIMEKEEPER      Let's go.

The timekeeper and the ragged man go out. James Gregg watches them, then shakes his head and turns and goes back into his office past McEvoy, not looking at him. McEvoy sweeps to the door and stands leaning on the broom watching the procession of derelicts wend up the road.
Evening. Exterior of factory. Factory bell tolls the end of the day. The sound of the machinery grinds to a halt and some workers appear at the door.
Interior. The office. Martha McEvoy enters and looks about the office for Bobby. She looks into James Gregg's office and he looks up from his desk and sees her.

JAMES GREGG      Can I help you?

Martha turns. She is somewhat flustered.

MARTHA      I was a huntin my brother.
JAMES GREGG      Your brother?
MARTHA      Yessir.
JAMES GREGG      Well come in. I mean, I dont have him, but we can talk about it.
MARTHA      Well, if he aint here . . .
JAMES GREGG      Come on in. I wont bite. At least not hard.

Martha comes into the office. She stands nervously on the far side of the desk.

JAMES GREGG      Where do they keep you hid at? I dont believe I've seen you before.
MARTHA      I just work in the spinnin room.
JAMES GREGG      And what is your name?
MARTHA      Martha.
JAMES GREGG      Well Martha, you a . . . How old are you?
MARTHA      Fourteen.
JAMES GREGG      Fourteen. You got a boyfriend?
MARTHA      No sir.
JAMES GREGG      Dont have a boyfriend?
MARTHA      No sir.
JAMES GREGG      Well I dont know why not.

Martha is nervous, but she gives a sort of toss of her head to clear her hair from her face. James Gregg smiles.

JAMES GREGG      Maybe you're just too feisty for these young boys.
MARTHA      I aint feisty.
JAMES GREGG      Well now I dont know. I bet you'd be just a handful.
MARTHA      A handful of what?

Gregg half chuckles to himself.

JAMES GREGG      Well now I'd be afraid to say.

Martha looks down in embarrassment. James watches her.

JAMES GREGG      You dont smoke cigars do you?

Martha looks up.

MARTHA      Do what?
JAMES GREGG      Smoke cigars. You a cigar smoker?

She looks confused, until she sees a trace of a smile at his mouth. She smiles. He has taken a cigar from his vest pocket.

MARTHA      No.
JAMES GREGG      Ah.
MARTHA (quickly)      But I'll take one to my daddy if you're passin em out.

James Gregg raises one eyebrow and nods in a sort of congratulatory way, somewhat surprised.

JAMES GREGG      Well.

He rises from his chair and holds forth the cigar. She must come forward to take it and she does so. She takes the cigar. He watches her.

JAMES GREGG      Yes, Miss Martha, I'd say you would be a handful.
MARTHA      I dont know nothin about that.
JAMES GREGG      Dont know nothin about that.
MARTHA      No.
JAMES GREGG      Well, I'll tell you what.

He takes from his pocket several coins and selects a ten dollar gold piece. She watches him.

JAMES GREGG      Tell you what, Martha. I bet you do know something.

He drops the ten dollar piece on the desk between them. She looks down at the coin.

JAMES GREGG      Would you like to have that?

Martha looks at the coin on the desk. James looks at her. She looks at the coin and the full implication of the money strikes her and she looks at James Gregg with an expression partly of disdain but mostly she is just afraid. When he sees this he almost reaches to take back the coin, almost rises from his chair, but she has turned and fled from the office.

JAMES GREGG      Hey. Wait a minute. Listen.

Interior. McEvoy kitchen. Evening. Lamplight and supper table. Mrs McEvoy sets bowls of food to the table and the four of them bend their heads.

MR MCEVOY      For what we are about to receive Lord make us truly thankful. Amen.

All raise their heads save Mrs McEvoy and in a minute she raises hers.

MR MCEVOY      I hope you aint prayin for him to get to supper this evenin. You'll vex the Lord.
MRS MCEVOY      I was just prayin.
MR MCEVOY      Martha darlin would you be so good as to pass the meat fore the flies blow it.

Martha passes the bowl.

MARYELLEN      Mama where's Bobby at tonight?
MR MCEVOY      Gone to run crazy in the woods like a Indian. If you all aint hungry just pass it all up this way.
MARTHA      Is he still goin to work of a mornin?
MR MCEVOY      So they tell me.

He helps himself to beans, to cornbread. They are at passing the bowls up the table and around. Mr McEvoy pauses and stares off down the table.

MR MCEVOY      I dont understand that boy. Dont understand nothin about him. Some of the things he says. They make sense, but they sound . . . I dont know what all goes on in his head.
MARTHA      What things that he says?

Mr McEvoy is eating now.

MARTHA      Daddy?
MR MCEVOY      Just the things he says.
MARTHA      Like what?
MR MCEVOY      Stuff he says. Like here a few evenins ago little sister piped up, said: I wisht we lived in a better house. And he just looked at her and he said: That wouldnt make you no better from what you are. I dont know what to make of him.
MARYELLEN      When can we go back to our other house, Daddy?
MRS MCEVOY      Why Maryellen what in the world.
MR MCEVOY      Hush and eat your supper little sister. They aint no other house.
MARYELLEN      Bobby says we used to have a cow.
MR MCEVOY      And it was like pullin teeth to get him to milk it.
MARTHA      Bobby says they's caves all in under Graniteville. Where Indians has been.
MR MCEVOY      Well maybe he's took to livin down there in em. Maybe there's still Indians hid out down there. Him and the heathen can rage together.
MRS MCEVOY      Bobby is not no heathen.
MR MCEVOY      Never said he was. He's just got kindly infidel ways.
MARTHA      What's infidel ways?
MRS MCEVOY      Bobby is not no infidel.
MARYELLEN      What's a heathen?
MARTHA      It's a person that dont go to church.
MARYELLEN      Is Bobby a heathen? Daddy?
MR MCEVOY      No. Eat your supper. He aint no heathen. He's just got a troubled heart and they dont nobody know why.

Interior. Daytime. Greenhouse. The factory bell rings in the distance. Mr McEvoy is potting his plants, tending the flowers in the greenhouse. The timekeeper Mr Giles comes to the door and enters. Mr McEvoy turns to look at him as he enters.

MR MCEVOY      Mornin Mr Giles.
GILES      Mornin. Mornin.

Giles looks about the greenhouse. Mr McEvoy continues at his work.

GILES      You got a good warm place to work in.
MR MCEVOY      When the sun shines.
GILES      I just stopped by on the way to the house. I wanted to ask ye about Bobby.

Mr McEvoy does not look up.

GILES      Is he quit his job?
MR MCEVOY      I reckon he is.
GILES      Did he give any reason?
MR MCEVOY      No sir. He never explained hisself to me.
GILES      Well, I just wanted to tell ye we got to take on another boy.
MR MCEVOY      If you do you do.
GILES      You know he aint supposed to stay on at company house if he aint employed by the company. Old as he is.

Silence.

GILES      I mean it's company policy.
MR MCEVOY      Yessir.
GILES      He can do what he wants. Aint nobody goin to put a gun to his head to make him work. But them that choose to toil not neither do they spin has got to berth elsewheres.
MR MCEVOY      Well, you dont need to bother yourself about Bobby.
GILES      Well he's been somethin of a bother to us.
MR MCEVOY      I said you dont need to bother yourself about him.
GILES      Why is that?
MR MCEVOY      He's gone is why.
GILES      Where's he gone to?
MR MCEVOY      He never said.

Exterior. Two years later. Evening. Train arriving at the outskirts of Graniteville. A solitary figure riding the last boxcar. The train slows. Robert McEvoy sits atop the boxcar with his crutch and a tattered carpetbag. He surveys the countryside. He is chewing tobacco and he squints and leans and spits over the edge of the car roof. He is older and harder looking and he wears a scar. As the train grinds to a halt he takes up his bag and moves along the roof to the ladder and lowers himself down to the ground and sets off along a narrow road through the winter woods. In the distance the mill bell tolls.
At the top of a hill he meets two blacks seated by the side of the road taking their dinner from pails. They are dressed in rags of overalls. McEvoy stands before them and looks down at them. Behind them is a lane leading into the graveyard and the tombstones rise out of the winter grass and weeds. They look up at McEvoy.

FIRST BLACK      You wants to take dinner with us you gots to ast. I aint goin to ast you. You liable to shoot me.
MCEVOY      What are you all doin up here?
SECOND BLACK      We takin our dinner. When that bell ring down there for folks to quit and take they dinner it ring for us too.

The first black waits for him to finish, then answers McEvoy's question.

FIRST BLACK      We diggin a grave. I dont like to eat my dinner in there. He dont care. But I does.
SECOND BLACK      Them folks in there dont care. No more'n you would.
FIRST BLACK      Everbody that aint got a say so, dont mean they dont care. In this life or out of it.

He looks up at McEvoy.

FIRST BLACK      Is you new to these parts?
MCEVOY      Whose grave you diggin?
SECOND BLACK      Some old woman that died.
FIRST BLACK      A lady in the town. Dont know her name. She aint got no kinfolk buried here.

A wind blows dead leaves over the road. McEvoy raises up and looks past the seated blacks toward the stones.

SECOND BLACK      Her husband give us two dollar. We supposed to get paid from Mr Evans but he said not to take his money and he give us two dollar.
MCEVOY      You dont know her name?
FIRST BLACK      No suh.
SECOND BLACK      He was up here most of the mornin . . .

First black looks at the second nervously, and at McEvoy.

SECOND BLACK      Went all around takin up the old dead flowers off folks' graves . . .
FIRST BLACK      Odell . . .
SECOND BLACK      Said folks ought not to bring flowers if they wasnt fixin to come back.

McEvoy stares down at the blacks. They look nervous. He hobbles past them down the little lane into the graveyard. They watch him go with wide eyes. In a few minutes he returns. He has their pick and shovel under his arm and he drops these in the road in front of them.

MCEVOY      You all eat your dinner and get back on down to wherever you started from. That woman's not to be buried up here. She dont belong to the mill.
SECOND BLACK      We gots to work to suit the man what pays us. You dont want that grave dug you see him.
FIRST BLACK      Hush Odell.

McEvoy leans toward the second black.

MCEVOY      You get your shit and get gone. I see you up here again diggin I'll blow a hole in your black ass.
SECOND BLACK      Yessuh. I didnt mean nothin by it. I was just doin like I was told . . .
FIRST BLACK      Will you hush now, Odell? Will you?

McEvoy steps back and the two gather up their pails and their half eaten dinners and scrabble up the picks and shovels and start off down the road half sideways, nervously watching McEvoy.

FIRST BLACK      I knowed when I seen you you was trouble.

They turn and go on down the road, arguing among themselves. McEvoy watches them go.
Interior. Afternoon. The McEvoy house. The mirrors in the house are covered with cloths and in the front room is a dark wood coffin trestled up on sawhorses wrapped in black crepe. The coffin is open and there is a lighted candle on a table and there are three old ladies in black mourning. Two are sitting in chairs and the third is arranging flowers in a vase. Robert McEvoy appears in the door and they all turn to look at him. He ignores them and comes into the parlor and goes to the coffin and looks down at his dead mother. The woman arranging the flowers has stopped and watches him. The other two turn and whisper and the first one looks at McEvoy with disapproval and rises and goes to the door and shuts it. At the sound of the door shutting McEvoy turns and looks at the old woman.

MCEVOY      Where's the old man?

No one answers.

MCEVOY      Where's Martha?

They regard him nervously and he turns and goes on through the house, looking in rooms.

MCEVOY       Hey.

He returns to the front room. He looks at the old women.

MCEVOY      You all get out. I dont know you.
OLD WOMAN      We caint leave. We was paid to set up with her.
MCEVOY      I want you out.

The old women regard each other. The two seated are nervous, are ready to rise and leave. The one standing sets her jaw. When McEvoy sees her he flies into a rage. He hobbles to the door and flings it open and screams at them.

MCEVOY      Get out! Out, damn it!

The two seated ones rise and scurry past and out the door. The other takes a last look at the coffin and giving McEvoy a hard look she goes past him. Outside she turns as if she'd say something to him but he slams the door in her face. The wind from the door sets the candle guttering. McEvoy goes to the casket and looks down. He takes the coffin lid up from behind the box and fits it over the top of the coffin and then he leans on the coffin and lets his head fall forward onto his clasped fists.
Interior. The McEvoy parlor. Darkness outside, the only light the candle which is now burned down low. McEvoy is sitting in one of the chairs with his hands folded in his lap. The door opens and Martha enters. She comes forward and kneels in front of him.

MARTHA      Bobby?
MCEVOY      When did she die?
MARTHA      Yesterday. Early of a mornin.

There is a long moment of silence.

MARTHA      You got the letter?

McEvoy takes a crumpled letter from his shirtpocket. He smooths it absently and looks at it.

MARTHA      I know you come quick as you could.

He looks down at her. He looks at the letter.

MCEVOY      I wish you hated this place like I do.

He shakes his head.

MARTHA      Did you want me to fix you some supper?

He shakes his head no.

MCEVOY      She was supposed to been took back up home.
MARTHA      It's all right.
MCEVOY      No it aint.
MARTHA      It's done been arranged. Bobby. For her here.
MCEVOY      She aint going to be buried here.
MARTHA      What do you aim to do?
MCEVOY      He's got the money. He could of took her up there on the train.
MARTHA      He caint stand it. Bobby. He's just tore up . . .
MCEVOY      Where's he at?
MARTHA      We went up there last year. Me and Mama. We seen our old place up at Pickens and we went to Greenville and I seen Captain, Bobby. He was harnessed to a wagon in the street and he knowed me, Bobby. And we was up there three days . . .
MCEVOY      Where's he at?
MARTHA      I dont know. I sent Maryellen up to Clabo's. He wouldnt have her buried today he said give Aunt Fern and them time to get down here but they aint comin. Bobby. I know they aint. I prayed ever day for you to get my letter. From the time she first took sick . . .
MCEVOY      When trouble once finds a house it stays on. You caint get shed of it.
MARTHA      Dont be that way Bobby.
MCEVOY      What way am I?

She looks down. She doesnt answer.

MCEVOY      You dont know how I am. You dont know me.
MARTHA      You're still my brother.
MCEVOY      The good book says all men are brothers but it dont seem to cut no ice, does it?

Exterior. Early evening. The greenhouse that Mr McEvoy used to tend. Weeds grow by the greenhouse wall and a number of panes are stoved and broken. McEvoy approaches the greenhouse and pushes in the door. It creaks back on its hinges. Lizards scuttle dryly in the late sun. Inside are withered pottings. He enters and pokes about. While he is there an old man comes to the door and looks in.

OLD MAN      Who's that?

McEvoy turns. The late sun throws shadows of dead weeds across him. The old man is squinting in at the door.

OLD MAN      Who's there? Come on out.

McEvoy comes to the door and faces the old man. The old man looks down at his leg and his crutch.

OLD MAN      Ah. It's you.
MCEVOY      I was looking for my father.
OLD MAN      Ye'll not find him here.
MCEVOY      Where would I find him?
OLD MAN      Got to keep these boys out of here. They've broke some more of these lights. See them there lights? Busted em out.
MCEVOY      What's it used for?
OLD MAN      How's that?
MCEVOY      What's it used for. The greenhouse. There's nothing growing in here.
OLD MAN      Well. Uh. Hmph. Dont have to be used. Aint no sign to tear it up just cause it aint used no more. Rock it plumb out. See here?

He pokes with one finger at some rocks lying among the dead and wilted boxes.

OLD MAN      Just cause a thing aint used is no need to beat it to death with rocks.
MCEVOY      I was looking for my father. He's the gardener.
OLD MAN      I know who he is. But he aint the gardener. Not no more he aint. You see any gardens?
MCEVOY      No.
OLD MAN      Not big on gardens here no more. Gardens is always the first thing to go.
MCEVOY      Where you reckon I might find him at?
OLD MAN      I always knowed him for a sober man. Day's work done why would he not be home?
MCEVOY      He's not at home.

The old man nods his head reflectively.

OLD MAN      Back years ago of a winter day if it was sunshiny I'd come out here at dinner time and take my dinner here. It would be warm in here and you could smell stuff growin. I'd get a crate and set on it and take my dinner and just set here. It was an awful pleasant place. Your daddy would come by sometimes and see me settin in there but he'd just go on. He never would say nothin. Then here back last fall one evenin I was makin my rounds and I thought I seen a light down here. I come in and held my lannern up and there set your daddy. He was just a settin there in the dark. I ast him was he all right and he said yes. Said he just wanted to get out of the house for a while.
MCEVOY      I got to get on.
OLD MAN      You wasnt wrong to of come here. Trouble sends folks back to places where they've knowed better times. He might could of gone up to Kalmia to the orchard. I seen him up there a time or two.

Exterior. The orchard. Night, a wind blowing the old dead trees about and clouds scudding. McEvoy hobbles down the rows calling out.

MCEVOY      Hey! Old man. Hey old man.

He comes from a distance against the sky and the blowing trees, the barren limbs creaking.

MCEVOY      Hey. It's me.

The black who drives the carriage for Mrs Gregg is standing at the end of the lane with a lantern. McEvoy approaches him.

CLEITUS      Hey.
MCEVOY      I'm a huntin my old man.
CLEITUS      Hush. What Miz Gregg hear you out here?
MCEVOY      Is he not up here?
CLEITUS      Aint nobody up here in this old orchard. Why dont you go on home?
MCEVOY      He's not there.
CLEITUS      He be there after a while. Go on now.
MCEVOY      Where would you be?
CLEITUS      That aint for me to say.
MCEVOY      Where would you be?
CLEITUS      Night my Ella died I went to a cardhouse and got drunk. I laid in my own vomit. That's what I thought of the hand of the Lord. Lay dead drunk in ye own vomit like a dog. I aint proud of it, but I give up lyin same as I done drinkin.
MCEVOY      What did it get ye?
CLEITUS      What get me?
MCEVOY      What did it get ye? To quit drinkin and lyin.
CLEITUS      It aint what it got me. It's what it got me from.
MCEVOY      And what was that?
CLEITUS      Death. I seen his face. I know where he uses. How he loves the unready.
MCEVOY      He loves us all.

McEvoy starts off down out of the orchard. The black holds the lantern up.

CLEITUS (calling after)      I know your heart is full. Dont spend your grief amongst fools. You listen to this old nigger. You hear?

Interior. Night. Lamplight, an old barn used as a doggery for drinkers and cardplayers. In the background are six or eight men seated about a spread army blanket playing tong. To one side in the background is a circular enclosure nailed up of boards about two feet in height and twenty feet in diameter. There are a number of dead chickens about and a cat is feeding on the head of one of them. In the foreground is a stove glowing red, four men seated about it in old bottomless chairs or on crates. A large man named Pinky is in charge and from time to time he will go to the game to take a house cut. The players bid and talk. The men about the stove pass a jar of white whiskey around and pass after it a peeled raw potato from which they take bites to chase the whiskey.
Exterior. The barn in the dark with the slats lit and McEvoy hobbling toward it through the windy weeds until he reaches the door and pushes against it. A chain rattles. He raps at the door.
Interior. Barn. Pinky rising to go to the door. He undoes the chain and opens the door and McEvoy is standing there.

PINKY      Well looky here.

The men at the stove are looking at the door to see who is here. McEvoy enters. He pauses to wipe his nose on his sleeve and he looks about. Pinky rechains the door behind him.

PINKY      Thought you'd quit these parts, young buddy.

Pinky is coming back toward the stove. McEvoy is standing somewhat uneasily to one side.

MCEVOY      My mama died.
PINKY      Well honey I didnt know that. Come here and set and get ye a drink. I'm sorry to hear that.
MCEVOY      I thought the old man might of come up here.
PINKY      Pat?

Pinky shakes his head. McEvoy looks to the other men about the stove but they look down, look dubious.

FIRST MAN      Get ye a chair there. Get over here and warm.

McEvoy looks about. There is a peachcrate to one side. He looks at the men gathered about the stove. Pinky opens the stove door and hefts a chunk of wood through and spits after it and clanks the door shut and wiping his mouth on his sleeve looks toward McEvoy, squinting.

PINKY      Come up son. Aint no need to be a stranger.

McEvoy hobbles over to the crate and gets it and sets it by the stove and leans his crutches back and sits and rubs his hands together at the warmth. The men watch him and he watches the stove.

FIRST MAN      Give that man a drink of whiskey, Ed.

The whiskey is passed to McEvoy and he holds it up to the light of the lamp and gives it a shake to check the bead and unscrews the lid and tilts it and takes a drink. He lowers the jar and looks at the men and swallows and blows. He takes the knife and potato offered him and slices off a piece and eats it and replaces the jar lid and passes the jar and the potato back.
The second man leans forward and looks at McEvoy, somewhat suspiciously, as if he doesnt expect the truth.

SECOND MAN      What all did she die of?
MCEVOY      Malaria fever.
SECOND MAN      Funny time of year to die of that.
MCEVOY      She took sick back two months ago. I come quick as I heard but she died fore I got here.
PINKY      When did she die, honey?
MCEVOY      Yesterday mornin.
FIRST MAN      Well leastways ye got here for the buryin. They aint buried her have they?

McEvoy shakes his head no. He sits slumped, he is weary.

PINKY      Here Ed, let's see a little of that muleshoe.

He takes the jar and unscrews the cap and drinks and hands the jar to McEvoy.

PINKY      Here, honey. Get ye a drink. Ed, let's see that tater here.

McEvoy takes the jar and drinks and passes it back.

PINKY      You all are all about growed aint ye? I mean, they aint no babies at home.
MCEVOY      Maryellen's the least'n. She's eleven.
PINKY      It's hard when they leave youngerns. A man caint raise em. My sister died left five and the oldest'n not started school. We had to hunt homes for em. They done all right. But it was hard.
FIRST MAN      You tell your daddy we was sorry as we could be.
PINKY      A finer son of a bitch never wore shoe leather. Let's have a little old drink Ed.

The jar is passed around.

FIRST MAN      You back to stay are ye?
MCEVOY      I dont know.
FIRST MAN      Reckon you seen a right smart of the world since you left out of here.
MCEVOY      Some.
PINKY      It's kindly slack times here. Reckon it is everwheres.
FIRST MAN      You reckon to get on at the mill?
MCEVOY      I aint lost nothin down there.
PINKY      I hear ye. Only way to get ahead down there is to get your wife knocked up by the boss. Give ye a little leverage.
SECOND MAN      Talkin about people dyin . . .
MCEVOY      I better get on, I reckon.
SECOND MAN      Talkin about people dyin they found another old boy dead in the woods down towards Vaucluse. Speculate the niggers got him.
MCEVOY      I best get on. I got to hunt the old man.

McEvoy does not rise nor move.

FIRST MAN      Most likely he'd been at church this evenin wouldnt he? Wife dead and all.
PINKY      Aint no Catholic church in Graniteville.
FIRST MAN      Well now that is right. I forgot about him bein Catholic.
PINKY      You wont find him carryin on in no Amen corner. Will ye son?

McEvoy shakes his head no. He looks toward the tong game.

MCEVOY      I better get on and hunt him.
PINKY      Just jump in that tong game there why dont ye? Get ye feet wet.
MCEVOY      I aint never played.
FIRST MAN      Lord, dont let em hear that. They'll be over here a courtin ye.
SECOND MAN      Had his throat cut, they said. Reckoned it to of been the niggers.

Second man spits against the stove.

FIRST MAN      Where'd that jug get to?

The third man, who has not spoken, reaches down alongside the crate where he is sitting and fetches up the jar and holds it to the light and passes it on. They drink. Pinky takes the potato with the knife stuck in it and cuts the remaining piece in two and passes one slice to McEvoy and eats the other and takes a new potato from the bib of his overalls and falls to peeling it. He shakes his head slowly.

PINKY      Lord dont they hate whiskey over to that mill.
FIRST MAN      They hate for you to drink it. That aint sayin they wont take a drink they own selves.
PINKY      The old man would by god not take one.
FIRST MAN      No. You right about that.
PINKY      I guarangoddamntee ye.
FIRST MAN      What about James?
PINKY      That son of a bitch will take a drink.

The jar comes around to the second man. He takes it and shakes his head.

SECOND MAN      Never thought I'd live to see the day. Niggers runnin crazy killin folks. Right in ye own county.

He drinks.

PINKY      Dont get him started on the niggers, for God's sake.

Second man slices potato and eats and passes the jar on to the third man. Third man takes jar.

THIRD MAN      Thing about James. He never did want to put the jam on the lower shelf where the little man could get some.
FIRST MAN      Get ye a little old drink there, Housecat.
THIRD MAN      They's plenty of rhubarb all around the farm. And another little drink wont do us any harm.

Exterior. Night. McEvoy drunk staggering through a field.
McEvoy on a narrow country road, reeling along on his crutch. He pauses to rest, leaning against a barn. He listens to the silence. A few dogs bark in the distance. He goes on. There is a horse leaning over a fence and he and the horse look at each other and McEvoy moves on.
McEvoy hobbling up the road to Graniteville. He has passed a few houses and now several dogs have come into the road behind him and circle to pick up his scent and howl. They are seen by the light of a lamp in the window and their hackles are up and they howl after McEvoy who wobbles on into the darkness.
Exterior. Dawn, sound of the mill bell. People shuffling through the semi-darkness toward the mill. The mill coming to life.
Dawn, light coming on in an old abandoned shed. McEvoy waking. Sound of the second mill bell. McEvoy standing disheveled in the light from the window while the bell tolls. When it is done he puts his cap on and takes up his crutch.
Exterior. Mill. The stockholders arriving at the mill.
Interior. Mill. Patrick McEvoy comes down the aisle and takes his place at his machine. The other workers watch him. He looks haggard and somewhat grim. The overseer comes to him and puts his hand on his shoulder.

OVERSEER      Pat, we didnt need for you to come in today.

McEvoy is doggedly setting up his machine.

OVERSEER      Did you know your boy was back?
MR MCEVOY      I heard he was. I aint seen him.
OVERSEER      He was up at the cemetery yesterday where they was preparin your missus' restin place and he come up there and run the . . . run the niggers off with a pistol. Told em not to dig no more that she wasnt to be buried there.

Patrick looks up at the man and goes back to his work.

OVERSEER      I just wanted to tell ye. I wish you could see him and talk to him fore he gets hisself in trouble.
MR MCEVOY      I dont know where to hunt him at. He went to the house they said and he run everbody off up there. I dont know what to tell ye.

McEvoy on the road toward the mill. The mill against the sky in the background. McEvoy pauses, then he goes on again.
Interior. Mill office boardroom. The boardroom is laid out for a banquet with long tables and china. James Gregg looks over the boardroom. He checks the watch in his waistcoat and he takes a cigar from his pocket and bites off the end and lights it.
Interior. Mill. McEvoy clumping down the aisle past the machinery and the workers. They watch him but he doesnt watch back.
Interior. Mill office. James Gregg entering his office and looking through papers at his desk. The sound of the mill machinery is muted in these office scenes and very loud in the mill scenes.
McEvoy enters the mill office. There is no one about. He goes across the office and enters the boardroom. The room is empty, the long tables set for a ghost banquet. There is a keg of beer tapped and he takes a glass from the sideboard and fills it and wanders on into James Gregg's office and sits at the desk and sips the beer. A door opens in an outer room and there are voices. McEvoy rises from the desk and James Gregg enters the room. McEvoy is standing in front of the desk. Gregg goes past him to his place behind the desk. The grips of the revolver in McEvoy's belt are visible.

GREGG      Did you want to see me?
MCEVOY      I was huntin my father.
GREGG      Your father.
MCEVOY      He was the gardener.
GREGG      I know who he was.
MCEVOY      No you dont.
GREGG      What do you mean I dont?
MCEVOY      You might know his name is all.
GREGG      You didnt come in here looking for him.
MCEVOY      Where've you got him workin at?
GREGG      He works in the mill. This company is in the textile business. We have stockholders to answer to. We're not in the flower business.
MCEVOY      Shit.
GREGG      What did you say?
MCEVOY      You heard me.
GREGG      What do you want, McEvoy?
MCEVOY      I dont want a damn thing from you.
GREGG      You better clear out. We dont need your kind here.
MCEVOY      What do you mean my kind?
GREGG      You better leave.
MCEVOY      What do you mean my kind?
GREGG       People who dont want to work. You had your chance here.
MCEVOY       Chance's ass.
GREGG       Why did Mr Giles let you go?
MCEVOY       Mr Giles didnt let me go. I left my own damn self. He says different he's a liar.
GREGG       My recollection is that you were turned off for stealing.
MCEVOY       That's a damned lie.

Interior. Mill. Patrick McEvoy standing in the aisle watching the side of spindles he is doffing. Another worker comes by and they stop to talk.

WORKER       I thought that boy of yourn swore he'd never set foot in this mill again.
MR MCEVOY       He did.
WORKER       Well he just now went down through there.

Patrick looks toward where the man is pointing. The blank look on his face is gradually replaced by a dawning sense of impending doom. He turns and goes down the aisle.
Interior. Mill office.

GREGG       You better get out McEvoy.
MCEVOY       I aint done yet. You think you can say anything you want about people and they just have to put up with it.
GREGG       I think you're crazy is what I think. What did you come here for? What were you doing in my office?
MCEVOY       You think people dont know what you are?
GREGG       By god I believe you were in here looking for something to steal.
MCEVOY       You're a damned liar.
GREGG       You call me a liar?
MCEVOY       I didnt stutter.

Gregg pushes back his chair and rises from it. He looks at McEvoy standing there, disheveled and ragged, on crutches, and he gives him a cynical smile.

GREGG      What do you want? Money?
MCEVOY       I dont want a damned thing from you.

Gregg reaches into his coat pocket and brings forth some coins. He selects a ten dollar gold piece and flips it onto the desk in front of McEvoy.

GREGG       Take it and get out.

McEvoy stares at the gold piece. When he looks up his eyes are filled with hatred. Gregg looks at McEvoy and then he looks at the coin and then he looks at McEvoy again. Then his face drains. He jerks suddenly at the top drawer of his desk. McEvoy snatches the pistol from his belt.

MCEVOY       Dont.

Gregg scrabbles in the desk drawer for his pistol and McEvoy fires. Gregg is knocked back sitting in his chair. He reaches again for the drawer and McEvoy fires again. Gregg reels in the chair. He puts a hand to his side and rises.

GREGG       You raggedyassed crippled son of a bitch.

Gregg lurches toward the safe in the corner of the room.
Interior. Office outside James Gregg's door. Mr Giles running to see what has occurred. McEvoy swings past him on his crutch and makes for the outside door.

MR GILES       You wretched boy, what have you done?

Gregg lurches from his office bleeding at the mouth and holding a small derringer pistol.

MR GILES       Captain Gregg. Good god, captain.

Gregg pauses, his eyes swimming.

GREGG       Mr Giles, he's murdered me.

Gregg stumbles on a few steps until he can see out the door and there he raises the pistol in both hands and fires at McEvoy in the street. McEvoy turns. He is standing in the street holding the pistol in one hand. Gregg is standing in the doorway, swaying, holding his pistol at his waist in both hands and looking down at McEvoy. There is a frozen moment and then McEvoy's face turns anguished and he raises the pistol and cocks it and levels it at Gregg. He hesitates for just a moment. Then he fires. Gregg collapses in the doorway. McEvoy's father has stopped a few yards down the street from where his son is holding the pistol. The clatter of machinery in the background suddenly comes to a halt. There is an immense silence. Figures appear at the door of the mill. They are all watching Mr McEvoy as he approaches his son. He is walking very straight and dignified and he is crying. He holds out his hand for the pistol. McEvoy is breathing hard. His face changes from hatred to anguish. The father holds out his hand for the pistol. McEvoy turns the pistol on his father for a moment. The older man takes yet another step toward his son. He is almost close enough now to put his arm around his son. He is crying quietly. McEvoy lowers his head. He hands the pistol to his father. They stand there, the boy looking down at the ground and the father looking at the boy, holding the revolver clumsily by the barrel.
Exterior. The Gregg home. Mrs Gregg is in her garden, bonneted, cutting back the dry winter shrubs. She raises up. She listens to the silence. She looks toward the mill. She takes off her bonnet and starts for the house, calling for the boy and telling him to get the carriage.
Exterior. Mill. Silence. There are faces at the windows and figures standing in the doorways. Six or eight members of the board of directors come down the steps from the mill office with James Gregg on a litter improvised from the balustrade dividing the inner and outer office and ease him into the bed of a springwagon. They are furtive and they regard the mill and the watching workers fearfully. Two of the members climb into the bed of the wagon to attend him and the horse starts off at almost a walk with the other members following like mourners at a wake. Gregg is alive. He looks at the faces at the mill and they look back with a variety of expressions, from apathy to mild interest to genuine sorrow. The mill blurs away. The train whistle blows.
Exterior. Mrs Gregg's carriage coming along the road. She is sitting very erect, worried but stoic. The black driver is worried and urges the horses along.
Exterior. Mill. Silence. Mrs Gregg's carriage comes into view with the horses still at a smart trot and stops in the road before the mill office. She climbs down from the carriage and crosses the open space and enters the office. The workers watch her go. The train whistle calls in the farther distance. The horses whinny and stamp. In a few moments she comes to the door. Her face is stunned. She looks down the front of the mill to all the faces that are watching her. They stare back. She comes down the stairs. She stumbles toward the carriage. A man appears at the mill office door but he doesnt know what to do. Mrs Gregg crosses to her carriage. All watch her. Her face is crumpled with grief.

MRS GREGG        Dear God please dont take him. Please God dont take him.

Interior. Aiken County courthouse. There are nine black and three white jurors. The blacks wear light-colored clothes, the whites dark-colored. There are two black lawyers and one white lawyer for both the prosecution and the defense. Sheriff and judge are white. The prosecuting attorney, Mr P L Wiggins (black), reads the indictment to the jury. McEvoy sits with his lawyers.

PROS. ATTORNEY       That Robert McEvoy, not having the fear of God before his eyes, but being moved and seduced by the instigation of the devil on the twentieth day of April in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy six with force of arms at Graniteville in the county and state aforesaid in and upon one James J Gregg in the peace of God and of this state then and there being, did make an assault and that he, the said Robert McEvoy, a certain pistol of the value of five dollars, then and there loaded with gunpowder, and divers leaden balls, which pistol he the said Robert McEvoy then and there had and held to, against, and upon the said James J Gregg, then and there feloniously willfully and of his malice aforethought did shoot and discharge and that he the said Robert McEvoy with the leaden balls aforesaid out of the pistol aforesaid then and there by force of the gunpowder shot and sent forth at aforesaid the said James J Gregg in and upon the chest and in and upon the left side of the abdomen of him the said James J Gregg, then and there feloniously willfully and of his malice aforethought did strike penetrate and wound, giving unto the said James J Gregg, then and there with the leaden balls as aforesaid sent forth out of the pistol aforesaid, divers mortal wounds of the depth of six inches and of the breadth of two inches each, of which said mortal wounds he the said James J Gregg, from the twentieth day of April in the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy six until the twenty first of April in the year last aforesaid at Augusta in the county of Richmond in the state of Georgia did languish and languishing did die. And so the jurors aforesaid upon their oaths aforesaid do say that the said Robert McEvoy the said James J Gregg in manner and form as aforesaid feloniously and willfully and of his malice aforethought did kill and murder, against the form of the Act of the General Assembly of this state and against the peace and dignity of the state of South Carolina.

Interior. Courthouse hallway. Day. A press of people in the hallway. Mr McEvoy comes along with Robert's attorney O C Jordan. Jordan has a briefcase in his hand and he is talking to the dazed father of the defendant.

JORDAN      Chin up McEvoy, chin up. The boy has every confidence in us and we want you to feel the same.
MR MCEVOY      They're tryin to hang him.
JORDAN      Tut tut, McEvoy. Tut tut. Far from being hanged we have every expectation of getting him off scot free.
MR MCEVOY      I dont see why Bobby caint testify for hisself.

Jordan tucks the briefcase up under his arm and smiles at some of the people who are edging along the crowded hall past him.

JORDAN      Worst mistake in the world, McEvoy. Worst mistake in the world. We wont get anywhere in an attempt to blacken the Gregg name. People dont want that. We've agreed with Mrs Gregg to call no female witnesses and I dont have to tell you that we have exacted every consideration from the family in exchange. Her anxiety to protect the family is one of the things most in our favor.

He nods and smiles to a man passing.

JORDAN      Doctor.

He turns back to Mr McEvoy.

JORDAN      All the law dont go on in the courts, McEvoy. And I'm sure I dont have to tell you that.

At the end of the hallway they are stopped by a constable.

CONSTABLE      Mr McEvoy.

Mr McEvoy and Jordan halt.

CONSTABLE      Mr McEvoy you got to see to your affairs at home, sir. Your wife . . .

Jordan looks at Mr McEvoy.

CONSTABLE      I dont want to have to get a court order, but those people are entitled to some consideration. They can detect her four houses down. I hate to be so forward, but they're your neighbors. Not to mention your christian duty . . .
MR MCEVOY      I'll tend to it.
CONSTABLE      I know you've had all this trouble . . .

Mr McEvoy fidgets with his cap and then suddenly puts one hand to his face. Jordan nods to the Constable that everything will be taken care of and takes Mr McEvoy by the arm and they go out the door past the crowds.
Interior. Aiken County courthouse. Prosecutor Wiggins is listening with his head bowed like a confessor, nodding sagely, hand at his mouth. On the witness stand is Captain Giles.

CAPTAIN GILES      No sir. He fired the last shot from the door. I saw Captain Gregg cross the room towards the safe. I accosted McEvoy and he said that he'd shoot any man that drew a pistol on him. He run out the door and Captain Gregg came to the door and fired once after him and then there was another shot from the street and Captain Gregg collapsed.
MR WIGGINS      Captain Giles, did you see a pistol in Captain Gregg's hand when you first saw him in his office after McEvoy fired?
CAPTAIN GILES      No sir, I did not. I believe he must of got it from the safe. Dont know that Captain Gregg was in the habit of going armed.

Interior. Courtroom. Dr Campbell on witness stand.

DR CAMPBELL      He asked me what I thought of his condition and I told him, James, I said, you know gunshot wounds in the abdomen are very uncertain, and he said: If you say so, I will die certain. Then I asked him if he meant his statement about the shooting to be a dying declaration and he said yes, said he did. He said he had two policies of life insurance and he wanted to show that he hadnt started the difficulty. I was present on the train when his declaration was read back to him. He was in pain and very weak but he was able to sign it under oath.

Robert McEvoy at table with his lawyers is chewing tobacco. He leans and spits carefully into a spitoon at his feet and continues chewing.
Interior. Courtroom. Stark Sims (office boy) on stand.

JORDAN       Who do you work for, son?
STARK SIMS      I work for Mr Giles. I dont know who was there fore me. I do what he tells me. Otherwise I'd get turned off.
JORDAN      And what are your duties?
STARK SIMS       I go for the mail when the train comes. I bring the freight bills. Eat my meals at home.
JORDAN      And you saw Robert McEvoy shoot Captain Gregg.
STARK SIMS      Yes sir. Just like I done told it. I'd done eat. I'd been back about twenty minutes.
JORDAN      And when the shooting started you just stood there? You didnt take cover?
STARK SIMS      They wasnt nobody shootin at me.
JORDAN      I see. Thank you.

WJ Whipper (black counsel for the defense) rises.

WHIPPER      I'd like to examine the witness if I may.

Jordan looks at him with surprise, gives a slight bow, not quite disdainful, and relinquishes the platform to Whipper.

WHIPPER      Master Sims, did you also run errands for Captain Gregg?
STARK SIMS      Yessir. For him and Captain Giles both.
WHIPPER       Did Captain Gregg ever give you messages to take to any of the girls in the mill?

Counselor Jordan, sitting at his table, raises his eyebrows. The prosecutor looks toward Jordan.

STARK SIMS      Yessir.
WHIPPER      And what did those messages say?
STARK SIMS      I dont know.
WHIPPER      You dont know.
STARK SIMS      No. Sir.
WHIPPER      Were the notes sealed?
STARK SIMS      No sir.
WHIPPER      And you never looked at them? Never even peeked at one of them?
STARK SIMS      No sir. Wouldnt of done me no good to.
WHIPPER      And why is that?
STARK SIMS      I caint read.

There is a long silence. Whipper looks from Sims to the prosecutor to the table where McEvoy sits with his lawyers and to the jury. All look back with no expression at all.
Interior. Oil-lamp lit kitchen in a negro shack. The kitchen is the temporary law office of Mr Whipper and there are lawbooks in a cabinet behind him and books open on the table and legal pads and a quill and inkcruse. Mr Whipper's black face is lightly beaded with sweat and he speaks to the man across the table from him, who is Mr McEvoy.

WHIPPER      Mr Jordan says that your son wont hang. What do you want me to tell you?
MR MCEVOY      I dont know. I caint be satisfied in my mind. I got no friends to tell me right. Folks turn their head in the street. I know my boy done wrong. But he aint like they're tryin to make him out. If my boy were a Gregg he'd not even be tried.
WHIPPER      If your son were black he'd not be tried.
MR MCEVOY      If they was to send him to the penitentiary that would be hard. But if they was to hang him. I dont believe I could live with that. My boy is no better and no worse than most any boy in this town. I know he must of had some reason to do what he done. If you'd just let him get up there and tell it hisself.
WHIPPER      That's not possible.
MR MCEVOY      Why aint it?
WHIPPER      He's full of wild accusations. Slander. That wont help him now. I tried.
MR MCEVOY      You tried what?
WHIPPER      There's nothing to be done about that. Best let sleeping dogs lie.
MR MCEVOY      If I just had some sign . . .

Mr McEvoy looks at Whipper as if to read some reassurance.

WHIPPER      A lawyer aint a priest. Nor a doctor. Law's more vagrant than sickness or sin. We make our case. We'd be fools to say what a dozen other fools might think of it.
MR MCEVOY      Mr Jordan said that all the law dont go on in the courtroom.
WHIPPER      Ahh.
MR MCEVOY      They say God is just. I reckon if he wasnt there'd be no justice.
WHIPPER      If men were no more just than God there'd be no peace in this world. Everwhere I look I see men trying to set right the inequities that God's left them with.
MR MCEVOY      I caint accept that.
WHIPPER      Look around you, man. We've all seen murderers carouse in the streets while the righteous go to the scaffold.
MR MCEVOY      It might be that the righteous have sins that are hid.
WHIPPER      Yes. Seven times seven I believe is the just man's daily lot. I tried a law case in Beaufort a few months back. In the course of the proceedings I turned to the court and I said: Is there anybody here who believes in justice? Would you raise your hand?

Whipper laughs quietly to himself.

MR MCEVOY      Did anyone?
WHIPPER      Oh yes. There were in the courtroom at that time seven or eight of the most notorious scoundrels in the state and every man-jack of them raised his hand. Just them. Even the judge busted out laughing.
MR MCEVOY      We come here nine year ago. We tried to stay on at home after the war but they wasnt no way. I wanted the children to have somethin. If I could have foresaw my life as it's become. I would rather to of been dead than this.
WHIPPER      They say that God sends no man a burden greater than what he can bear.
MR MCEVOY      Ay. Nor much less, neither.
WHIPPER      No man's lot is so bad he cant look at a neighbor's who's not worse.
MR MCEVOY      Where is he? Where is that neighbor?

Interior. Night. Oil lamps, Aiken County courthouse.

JUDGE      Mr Steedman, has the jury reached a verdict?
FOREMAN      The jury has, your honor.

The bailiff takes a paper from the foreman of the jury and carries it to the judge. The judge takes the paper. He unfolds it. He reads it and folds it back.

JUDGE      Robert McEvoy, hold up thy hand.

McEvoy raises his hand.

JUDGE      Put it down. Thou wast heretofore indicted for that thou didst willfully and feloniously and of thy malice aforethought kill and murder James J Gregg, against the peace and dignity of the state of South Carolina. Now thou hast been found guilty of that murder . . .

McEvoy has stopped chewing tobacco.

JUDGE      . . . by a jury of thy peers and I do solemnly demand that thou show cause, if any thou hast, why execution of the judgement established by law for the state should not be passed upon thee.

McEvoy does not answer.

JUDGE      He saith nothing. It is considered by the court and pronounced as the judgement of the law that the said Robert McEvoy be taken to the place whence he last came and there be kept in close and safe custody until Friday the thirtieth day of June next, and that on said Friday between the hours of ten in the forenoon and four in the afternoon he be taken to the place of legal execution in this county and there be hanged by the neck until his body be dead and may God have mercy on his soul.

Exterior. Night. Street in Graniteville where the McEvoys live. There are lamps lit in the houses and people at the windows look out to see what the dogs are barking at. Patrick McEvoy is coming slowly up the street. He comes from pool to pool of lamplight where it falls into the street and various voices call out after him.

VOICE FIRST WOMAN      You better see to your business.
VOICE FIRST MAN      We got to have some relief up here, McEvoy.
VOICE FIRST WOMAN      You better do somethin about this.
VOICE SECOND MAN (to himself or others)      It's an outrage is what it is. A damned outrage.

Mr McEvoy passes on to his own house and mounts the steps. The house is in darkness and he lights a lamp and goes to the parlor where the bier is trestled up. The flowers have withered and died and dead candle stubs sit in pools of grease. As he enters with the lamp a cat leaps from the bier and scrabbles off through the house with a low squall. Mr McEvoy goes down the hallway through the kitchen and out into the yard, holding the lamp before him. He sets the lamp down on a stump used for splitting kindling. There is a hatchet stuck in the stump. He goes to the wood pile and commences carrying armloads of kindling, then stovewood, then logs, to the center of the yard. He piles the wood up into a great heap and he takes the lamp and takes off his cap and uses it to grip the hot lampchimney and removes the chimney and throws it to one side and kneels with the lamp and lights the pile of wood at the bottom. When it is going he returns to the house.
Interior. McEvoy parlor. The unchimneyed lamp flame now gutters and flares and leaves a trail of black smoke and Mr McEvoy makes his way to the bier and stands looking down at it for a few moments. He sets the lamp in the floor and lifts one end of the casket and kicks the sawhorse from under it and lowers it to the floor. Then he does the same with the other end of the casket. Then he takes up the rope handle in the end of the coffin and, stooping, he commences to drag the coffin across the floor toward the door.
Interior. The Gregg house. Mrs Gregg is in widow's black. She walks slowly down the long hall of the house and at the end she turns and faces the drawing room. She stands there a moment and then she enters. As she enters Martha McEvoy rises from a chair. Mrs Gregg moves past her and turns and stands and looks at Martha.

MRS GREGG       I would have thought it would be your father would come.
MARTHA      Bobby wouldnt let him.
MRS GREGG       So he sent you.
MARTHA      No Mam. I wasnt sent. I come for my own self.
MRS GREGG       It's out of my hands. I cant do anything for you.
MARTHA      Yes Mam. I just come . . .
MRS GREGG       I always intended well toward your brother. I am a christian woman. But he has put to perdition all the hopes of this family. James was the last male heir. All my late husband's . . . The directors will take over the mill now. There are always these strangers waiting for those who cannot set their house in order.
MARTHA      Mrs Gregg, I know what people said about James . . .

Mrs Gregg smiles in a superior and somewhat cynical way.

MRS GREGG       Yes. My people learned to live with slander a long time ago. With envy and with ingratitude. Purity of blood is a trust to those possessed of it. The Bible tells us. At one time there were giants in the earth . . .
MARTHA      Mrs Gregg . . .
MRS GREGG       No, I'm sorry. There was a family here. A community of people working together, joined in a common enterprise. But my husband . . . My family's bond to this community was of the spirit, not of the flesh.
MARTHA      Mrs Gregg . . .
MRS GREGG       It's the ingratitude that is worst. I suppose I never understood that to an ingrate a generous person is a fool. When we first came here I took one look and I was ready to go back to Charleston. My husband convinced me . . . I came to love it here . . . to love these people . . .

Martha is crying now. She has understood little of all this.

MARTHA      Mrs Gregg, I just wanted you to know that your son never done nothin to me. I just come to say I was sorry. I know they aint nothin I can do and they caint nobody bring him back but I wanted to come and tell you that, and to say I was sorry. Somebody had to.

She turns and goes past Mrs Gregg toward the door. Mrs Gregg looks after her, realizing now that Martha has not come to beg for Bobby but to console her, Mrs Gregg. As she reaches the hall and is turning toward the door Mrs Gregg calls to her.

MRS GREGG       Miss McEvoy.

Martha turns at the hallway.

MRS GREGG       Come here. Please.

Martha comes back into the room. She is crying but she does not dab at her eyes or attempt to conceal her tears. As she approaches Mrs Gregg, the older woman takes her by the elbow and steers her toward a chair.

MRS GREGG       Please. Sit down.

Mrs Gregg goes to a table and takes up a bell and rings it and puts it down again and comes and takes a chair opposite Martha. She studies Martha, who is sitting looking down. She takes a handkerchief from her sleeve and hands it to Martha, who at first will not take it.

MRS GREGG       Wipe your face.

Martha takes the handkerchief and does as she is told. A maid enters the room.

MAID      Yes Mam.
MRS GREGG       Daphne, we'll have some tea please.
MAID      Yes Mam.

The maid exits. Mrs Gregg has turned to study Martha who is dabbing at her eyes. Mrs Gregg looks at her as if seeing one of these people for the first time. Her shoes, her dress.

MRS GREGG       My husband put a great deal of store in the people who worked for him. A great deal of trust . . .
MARTHA      He was always decent to us.
MRS GREGG       I've tried to understand. It's so hard to know what God must mean by this.
MARTHA      Yes Mam.

They sit in silence a moment. Martha folds the handkerchief.

MARTHA      I'll laundry this and bring it back.
MRS GREGG       I look at you and I try to see some sign. Try to see something in your face. These things must have beginnings somewhere. Be put in motion at some point . . . But when I look at you I see nothing. I can see nothing in you to do with death and murder.

The maid comes into the room and sets down a tray on the table between them. There is a teapot and cups and a plate of sliced cakes and other things.

MAID      Did you want me to make the service Mam?
MRS GREGG       No thank you, Daphne. That's fine.

The maid exits. Mrs Gregg turns back to Martha.

MARTHA      Them lawyers wouldnt let him tell his part.

Mrs Gregg is watching her. Martha raises her face to look at her.

MARTHA      They said it would go better if he'd not testify.
MRS GREGG       We have to put ourselves in the hands of those who know best.
MARTHA      I felt like he wanted to do the right thing.
MRS GREGG       Yes.
MARTHA      I know that he felt worst of all about you . . .
MRS GREGG       I cant hate him. We must have failed him somewhere. But I've had to put my feelings aside.
MARTHA      Yes mam. I caint help but think it was just a mistake of some kind. If they'd of got me up there I thought about it and I wonder what I would of said. I mean if they ast me. I'd of maybe had to tell em about that gold piece and it would of sounded worse than what it was. I mean, he never meant nothin by it. He done that with . . . I mean he would do stuff like that, you know, just in fun?

Mrs Gregg's face darkens and she draws slightly back from Martha.

MRS GREGG       Do what?
MARTHA      Well, you know. Like offer ye money. It didnt mean nothin. Bobby could not have knowed nothin about it. You know I wouldnt of told him hotheaded as he was.
MRS GREGG (softly, cynically, with surprise)      Oh you are a little darling, arent you?

Martha leans toward her.

MARTHA      Mam, it will just kill Daddy. I know I dont have no right to ast nothin of you. But Daddy just swore by Mr Gregg. Your husband . . .

Mrs Gregg rises from her chair.

MRS GREGG       My son was right about you people. I wouldnt listen to him. He used to make fun of my husband's idealism and I wouldnt listen to it. I wouldnt hear it.

Martha rises from her chair. She is not listening. Her face is anguished and she is prepared now to launch a plea for clemency.

MARTHA      I wouldnt ast nothin for myself. Not for him even. Mrs Gregg. Much as he loved his boy I believe your husband would of wanted you to do somethin . . .
MRS GREGG       The poor and the downtrodden. He was so cynical.
MARTHA      They'd just as well put that rope around Daddy's neck when they get done. Mrs. Gregg.

Mrs Gregg has turned and taken up the bell. She rings it vigorously as if to drown out the pleas of the supplicant. Her eyes are almost shut.

MARTHA      I meant not to ast nothin of ye. But afore God . . .

Mrs Gregg rings the bell again. The maid appears in the doorway, eyes wide at the urgency of the bell.

MRS GREGG       Daphne, the young lady will be leaving now. Will you show her out?
MAID      Yes Mam.

The maid comes forward and takes Martha by the elbow.

MARTHA      I dont blame you Mam.
MRS GREGG       Please leave.

Martha turns to the door. She stops and looks back a final time at Mrs Gregg.

MARTHA       God bless you Mam.

Mrs Gregg turns from her and puts her hands over her ears.
Interior. The photographer's shop. Day. A flash of powder from the photographer's lights and then McEvoy's portrait staring straight ahead. Then the photographer moving behind his shroud, coming out and attending to his camera. McEvoy sitting in front of a painted backdrop of the period perhaps with Greek columns. He wears a stiff new suit and his hair is cut. In the corner of the shop sits a guard with a rifle across his knees. The photographer comes forward.

PHOTOGRAPHER      Now, Mr McEvoy just turn slightly sideways here. Yes. That's it. No, look toward the camera. That's the way. We'll take a three-quarter view. Sit up straight now.

The photographer takes his camera back several paces.

MCEVOY      Will my leg show?
PHOTOGRAPHER      No no. Not at all. This will just be from about the waist up.

The photographer ducks under his shroud again and the flashpowder explodes. McEvoy sits stiffly even after the picture is taken. The photographer comes forward.

PHOTOGRAPHER       I think that should do it now, Mr McEvoy.

McEvoy rises and takes up his crutch and the guard rises with his rifle.

PHOTOGRAPHER       Will you, eh . . . Will you be wanting to see these? I mean, should I just have them sent directly to the family?
MCEVOY      Yeah. Sure. I dont need to see em.
PHOTOGRAPHER      Well fine. I would like to ask you . . . Well I'd like to ask if you had any objection to me makin some copies. Like maybe make some copies of one of the pictures . . .

McEvoy has taken a step toward the door, the guard behind him. He turns and squints at the photographer.

MCEVOY      What for?
PHOTOGRAPHER      Well, to have them. I thought maybe to print some, you know . . .
MCEVOY      To sell.
PHOTOGRAPHER      Well I thought perhaps your family might could use the money.

McEvoy turns to the guard.

MCEVOY      What do you think, Virgil?
GUARD      Well, I dont know Bob. Just whatever you think.

The guard has looked down. McEvoy turns back to the photographer.

PHOTOGRAPHER      I would be willing to share any . . . anything realized—on, say, a fifty fifty basis . . .
MCEVOY      I'll tell ye what I think. Virgil. I think we better go.
GUARD      Sure Bob.

The guard glances at the photographer and comes past McEvoy and holds the door for him. McEvoy goes out. At the door he stops and looks back in at the photographer.

MCEVOY      I dont give a big rat's ass. If people are dumb enough to buy em. Dont you let my family know where the money come from. Virgil, you see about it for me, will ye?
GUARD      Sure will, Bob.

Exterior. Main street. Day. McEvoy and the guard go up the street together. People watch covertly from doors or windows. McEvoy blinks in the sunlight and looks about. He sees a man he knows crossing to a store building. The man glances his way and looks away again as if he hadnt seen him. McEvoy calls to him.

MCEVOY      Mornin, Louis.

The man goes on into the store.

MCEVOY      Go on then, you son of a bitch. If you dont know me.

McEvoy turns to look at the guard walking beside him but his eye goes past him to see Martha coming up the street. She is hurrying and when she sees him look at her she slows but she comes toward them. He turns and goes on but she falls in behind them and follows and he looks over his shoulder at her and finally he looks at the guard and the guard looks at her following them and nods to McEvoy and he turns in the street and Martha comes up to him while the guard stands off a few paces and cuts himself a chew of twist. Martha stands in front of McEvoy with a face almost in tears.

MARTHA      Bobby.

McEvoy stands somewhat stiffly. She makes little plucking motions in the air at his chest as if she would touch him.

MARTHA      Bobby . . .
MCEVOY      Go home little sister.
MARTHA      Tell me what to do, Bobby.
MCEVOY      Go home.
MARTHA      I keep havin this dream and I dream that you got let off and I was so happy and then I wake up and it aint so. I caint quit cryin all the time.
MCEVOY      They lied to me. They all said I'd . . . I was never born to be hung. I could of been somebody.
MARTHA      Bobby . . .
MCEVOY      Other men has prospered by their mistakes.
MARTHA      Bobby.
MCEVOY      I know he insulted you. The people in this town know what he was. They didnt want to hear it. They was not soul one would stand up and . . .
MARTHA      Bobby.
MCEVOY      I'd of gone to the penitentiary.
MARTHA      Bobby.
MCEVOY      I caint stop thinking about it is all. I just caint seem to quit thinkin about it all the time. Like you wake up sometimes of the mornin and for a minute you feel good and then you see where you are.
MARTHA      I'd of told em anything, Bobby. I swear it. They wouldnt let me. I'd of told em any kind of lie. I wouldnt care. I'd of swore it on ten Bibles if it sent my soul to hell forever and ever I wouldnt care.
MCEVOY      It's all right.
MARTHA      I swear it, Bobby. Bobby.
MCEVOY      Dont talk like that. It's all right. I want you to forget all this. Find the best man . . . you find the best man in the world. Dont take no culls. And you make him be good to you. If he dont . . . And you have a good life. Little sister. The best that anybody ever had in this damned world. Now go on home.

He turns and goes on. He is almost crying. She is slumped and sobbing brokenly, standing there in the street.
Interior. McEvoy's cell. He is dressed in his suit and he is sitting on a box holding a bouquet of flowers. In the corner of the cell the priest Father Heidenkamp is standing in his robe reading silently to himself.
Exterior. Jail. Mr McEvoy arrives and bangs at the door. He is half addled with grief. He is admitted but the jailer shakes his head no. Another jailer is brought into the room.

FIRST JAILER      I done told him. You tell him. Look at him.
SECOND JAILER      Mr McEvoy, you better just go on home. You're not in no condition to help your son.

Mr McEvoy looks from one to the other of them in disbelief.

MR MCEVOY      You got to let me see him.
FIRST JAILER      You're drunk.
MR MCEVOY       I'm not.
FIRST JAILER      You caint see him.
MR MCEVOY      Why not?
FIRST JAILER      You're drunk.
SECOND JAILER      You'd better go along now. Dont let your son see you like this.
MR MCEVOY      I swear to God. I've not had a drink . . .
SECOND JAILER      Tommy, if he wont go peaceably you'll have to take him out. We caint have this here. This is a sacred time.
FIRST JAILER      Let's go.

He takes Mr McEvoy by the arm and escorts him to the door.

MR MCEVOY      Please . . .

Jailer opens the door and eases Mr McEvoy outside and shuts the door. Mr McEvoy raises his hand as if he'd bang on the door but then he merely touches the door and lets his forehead fall against it.
Exterior. Jail. Two men arrive on a wagon in front of the doors and one climbs down and taps at the door with the butt of his whip. The door opens and the jailer looks out. The teamster nods toward the wagon and they talk and the jailer nods and the teamster goes back to the wagon and the two teamsters slide a black wooden coffin off the tailboard and carry it in.
Interior. McEvoy's cell. The cell door opens and the sheriff and a deputy enter.

SHERIFF      Bob.

McEvoy raises his head and stares at the sheriff without expression.

SHERIFF      Are you ready, son?

McEvoy stands, rather quickly, taking up his crutch. He is still holding the flowers.

MCEVOY      Yes. I'm ready.

The jailer comes forward and removes the irons from his wrists.
Exterior. Jail. A crowd of some thirty people at the door. The church bell clock strikes twelve. The door opens and the people enter.
Interior. The jail corridor. McEvoy supported by the priest and by his crutch. They enter the execution chamber, a small room with one window. The rope hangs from an overhead beam which has been bored to receive it. There is a trapdoor cut in the floor. McEvoy looks about at the faces of the spectators. They watch him with interest. He steps onto the platform and turns. The deputy is standing by respectfully with a long white robe over one arm. Now he comes forward and he and the priest help McEvoy into the robe, McEvoy cooperating and serious, like a priest being dressed for a sacrament. The hangman, Mr Clements, stands by. He is dressed neatly in a suit. The robe is fitted and smoothed and McEvoy hands by his crutch to the priest who steps from the platform.

SHERIFF       Bob, did you want to say anything?

McEvoy quickly shakes his head no. The deputy steps forward and binds his hands behind him and Mr Clements comes forward and adjusts the noose about his neck and steps back again and stands with his hands folded in front of him. The sheriff steps forward and pulls a black hood over his head and steps back. McEvoy is standing on one leg. The sheriff looks at the spectators, then he looks to Mr Clements and nods. McEvoy, under the hood, clears his throat. Mr Clements pulls the rope and the trap opens and McEvoy starts down through the floor.
Interior. The room below. The trap doors slam open with a crash, the blocks crash to the floor and the body of McEvoy hurtles down into the room. Dr Perceval and his black attendant watch by lamplight the figure dangling above them. The doctor consults his watch. They wait for a few moments and the doctor steps forward and reaches up to take the dangling figure's pulse. Behind them is the black wooden coffin. He checks his watch. There is a sound of feet on wooden stairs outside and a sharp rap at the door. The doctor nods to the black, who opens the door. The sheriff and Mr Clements enter. Outside in the hallway is an old man leaning back in a chair. The camera holds on this man in the hallway throughout the scene. He watches in through the door, which remains open. Beyond him in the hallway is a window with light coming in. In the foreground are stairs coming down from the floor above. The old man watches in the door and when all is clear he takes from the bib of his overalls a piece of wood he is carving together with his jack-knife and falls to carving very methodically, letting the chips fall into the upturned cuff of his overalls.

DOCTOR (os)      You dont have to fill that in. It's down here. Violent or accidental death.
SHERIFF (os)      Does Mr Clements have to sign this?
DOCTOR (os)      Mr Clements has to sign the release. No. It just says that the state relinquishes all claims.
VOICE (os)      Give us some more slack.
VOICE 2 (os)      Get his foot there.
DOCTOR (os)      Yes. Time of death is 1:13 p.m.
SHERIFF (os)      What about this 'how did injury occur'?

Sounds of the body being lowered, grunts.

VOICE (os)      Easy.
VOICE (os)      You'll have to cut it.

The old man in the hallway raises the carving and blows on it and looks at it and continues whittling.

SHERIFF (os)      Thank you Mr Clements. Yes.

Sounds of feet on the wooden stairs. The old man looks up and carefully tucks the carving and the knife into the bib of his overalls. The sheriff and another man come down the steps and come past the old man and enter the room. The door remains open. The old man stares straight ahead. After a moment he turns and looks into the room, then carefully takes out his carving and his knife again. Sounds of hammering the coffinlid nails.
Interior. Narrow hallway. Six men struggling along the passage with the coffin.
Exterior. Long shot of jail and an empty wagon standing in the front with Patrick McEvoy waiting. The doors open and the men come out with the coffin and load it into the back of the wagon. The sheriff approaches Mr McEvoy with a paper and gets him to sign it. The other men stand around somewhat uneasily. Mr McEvoy looks at them and then turns and takes up the reins and chucks up the mule and they start off.
Exterior. Day. The Graniteville cemetery. A scaffolding of poles is erected over the monument of William Gregg and the monument is being hoisted with a block and tackle. A heavy freight wagon with an six-mule team is waiting to be backed under and receive the monument. A crew of gravediggers wait on with shovels. Teamsters back the mules and the stone is lowered into the bed of the wagon and the diggers come forth with their picks and shovels and proceed to exhume the bodies of the Gregg family. Mrs Gregg in her carriage waits on in the distance. It is a quiet and sunny scene. She gives the word to her man and he chucks up the team and they go on out the road among the stones.
Interior. Late afternoon. The state hospital at Columbia. The young man from the opening of the film approaches the desk. He and the young woman at the desk converse briefly and he signs his name on the visitor's roster and she motions to an orderly who comes over. They converse and the orderly beckons the young man to follow him. The young man is carrying a bouquet of flowers. There is a muted sound of voices beyond the walls. A hall in the hospital. The orderly coming along. The young man following behind. An old man is mopping the floor and he stands at a sort of attention with his mop while they pass and then turns and makes a strange mudra after them with his hands before taking up his mop again.
The orderly and the young man pause in front of a small cubicle and the orderly nods to the young man and he enters. A white light comes in at the window. Old sheets for curtains. An old woman in an institutional robe is sleeping in a chair by the window. The young man comes in and takes a seat carefully on the bed. He puts his hat down and looks at the old woman. He folds his hands together, holding the flowers, and sits looking down at his feet like one holding a vigil. Shot reminiscent of Bobby in his cell before execution. After a while he looks up. He might almost have been praying at a wake. When he looks up he sees with a start that her eyes are on him, awake and intense.

MARTHA      Do I know you?
YOUNG MAN      No Mam.
MARTHA      Are you a doctor?
YOUNG MAN      No Mam. My name is William Chaffee. I'm from Charleston.
MARTHA      Well you look like you're somebody.

He realizes that he is holding the flowers and he extends them toward her. She looks at them for a moment and then she reaches out and takes them.

YOUNG MAN      I was at Graniteville this morning, Miss McEvoy. I came up on the train.
MARTHA      I lived there as a young girl.
YOUNG MAN      Yes Mam.
MARTHA      These are just the prettiest flowers. Are these for me?
YOUNG MAN      Yes.
MARTHA      Well I declare.
YOUNG MAN      I guess most ladies like flowers.
MARTHA      I was always a fool about flowers. I guess I take after my daddy thataway. He was a nurseryman. He had peach orchards . . . You never seen the like of peaches. They used to ship em out by train. Just carloads of em. He had a touch with anything growin. Just had a sleight for it.
YOUNG MAN      I talked to a Mr Bolinger down at Graniteville. He asked to be remembered to you.
MARTHA      Well I dont know. They was several of them. They was some of em got high up in the mill.
YOUNG MAN      I believe he's about your age. I cant remember . . .
MARTHA      Harvey.
YOUNG MAN      Yes. That was it.
MARTHA      He has a son that's a district court judge. He had five children and they wasnt a one of em ever worked the first day in that mill. He's got a slew of grandchildren. I dont have no kin. I had a nephew . . . My sister had a boy but he got gone from here years ago I couldnt tell ye where to. She and her husband is both dead.
YOUNG MAN      I see.
MARTHA      She was lots different from me. She didnt hardly remember Mama at all and she was . . . I dont know. She must of been ten or eleven when Mama died. She died in the dead of winter and I remember they had her laid out—back then ye had your services at the house, they wasnt no funeral homes—had her laid out and they brought Maryellen in there and she looked at Mama and she said: What's Mama doin in bed with her clothes on? I mean she was big enough to understand . . . Years later she told me, said she didnt hardly even remember Mama. I was five year older. I know. But I remember her from when I was just teeninecy.
YOUNG MAN      Did your sister remember Bobby?

She looks up at him. She looks at him very quietly for several minutes and then she looks down. She picks at the hem of her gown.

YOUNG MAN      I didnt mean to . . .

She looks up again.

YOUNG MAN      Mr Bolinger told me . . . I never knew very much about it. Miss McEvoy. My mother has the old Bible and it's about the last thing in it. My grandmother moved to Charleston right after the . . . She even took the monument. When Mr Bolinger told me that you were . . . that you were here I just . . . It was just a family story. It was like something in a book. It didnt seem like real people.
MARTHA      I know you now.
YOUNG MAN      I didnt come here to make you feel bad.
MARTHA      I dont feel bad.
YOUNG MAN      I just wanted to talk to you. You're the only one who knows what happened.
MARTHA      I dont even know where he's buried at. Daddy never told us. He never put up no marker. Just a nameless grave somewheres. He was afraid they'd come and dig him up. Them doctors. They'd come and dig up anybody like that and get they head. They'd take it and study it. Daddy said that God would know where to hunt him. Mrs Gregg moved all her dead from Graniteville Cemetery. She took em over to Charleston.
YOUNG MAN      She was a bit eccentric. Toward her old age.
MARTHA      She was a bit what?
YOUNG MAN      Eccentric. She was a bit peculiar.
MARTHA      No she wasnt.
YOUNG MAN      Well, she . . .
MARTHA      Peculiar. She wasnt peculiar. She used to make gingerbread horses and she'd have all the youngerns up there and she'd give us lemonade of a summer. She took a lot of pains about that cemetery. She had my daddy up there all the time to see about first one thing and then anothern. They used to be a stone up there it just said "the little boy" and she would have flowers on it all the time. Just some little boy that they had took off the train down there and he'd died they wasnt nobody knowed who he was nor nothin. I wonder if God has names for people. He never give em none. People done that. I wonder if people are not all the same to him. Just souls up there and no names. Or if he cares what all they done. I dont know why Bobby done what he done. Once people are dead they're not good nor bad. They're just dead.
YOUNG MAN      Mr Bolinger spoke highly of your father.
MARTHA      He always said we'd save up and go back to Greenville. I say Greenville but it was really Pickens. Pickens South Carolina. But we never done it. I reckon he'd made a start but them lawyers got it all. We'd had a farm up there—what we called it—it wadnt nothin. I'd never seen a whole dollar fore we come to Graniteville. After Bobby . . . Daddy just never did come out of it. Never after did he ever hold his head up on this earth. I remember bein glad that Mama was dead. I never thought I'd ever be glad anybody was dead, least of all my Mama, but I remember bein glad that she was dead and that was the only thing I could think of. I wanted to get her pitcher took but Daddy wouldnt have it. He said he didnt want to remember her dead. I have a pitcher of Bobby.

She fumbles an old purse from among the folds of her skirts and opens it and takes out an old yellow tintype.

MARTHA      Me and Mama went back up to Pickens about a year fore she died. I was just a young girl. Went up on the train. We'd had this horse and his name was Captain and I used to ride him just everwheres and he'd foller me around like a dog and I remember whenever we got ready to leave from up there why they sent me over to Mamaw's because the feller was fixing to come and get him. They had done sold him, you see. But me and Mama went up there. We went up there and we was in Greenville that Saturday afternoon and I looked and there in the street was old Captain. He was harnessed up in a express wagon standin there in front of a store and whenever I seen him I just run across the street and throwed my arms around his neck and kissed him and I reckon everbody thought I was crazy standin there in the middle of the street huggin and kissin a old horse and just a bawlin to beat the band.

She looks down at the picture in her hand.

MARTHA      Sometimes I wish I'd not even kept it. That lawyer said that the image of God was blotted out of his face. That's what he said about Bobby. I ort not even to of kept it. Sometimes I can almost talk to him. I caint see him no more. In my mind. I just see this old pitcher.







ABOUT THE AUTHOR
CORMAC MCCARTHY is the author of numerous novels, including Blood Meridian, No Country for Old Men, and The Road. He has won the National Book Award, the National Book Critics Circle Award, and the Pulitzer Prize. His plays include The Stonemason and The Sunset Limited, which was originally performed by Steppenwolf Theatre Company. His screenplay The Counselor was made into a film directed by Ridley Scott and released in 2013.
Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at hc.com.







ALSO BY CORMAC MCCARTHY
The Orchard Keeper
Outer Dark
Child of God
Suttree
Blood Meridian
The Stonemason: A Play in Five Acts
All the Pretty Horses
The Crossing
Cities of the Plain
No Country for Old Men
The Road 
The Sunset Limited: A Novel in Dramatic Form
The Counselor: A Screenplay 







CREDITS
Cover photograph © by plainpicture







COPYRIGHT
THE GARDENER'S SON. Copyright © 1996 by M-71, Ltd. All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access and read the text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse-engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter invented, without the express written permission of HarperCollins e-books.
FIRST ECCO PAPERBACK EDITION PUBLISHED 2015 
Woodcut by John Mandeville from The Travels of Sir John Mandeville

The Library of Congress has catalogued the hardcover edition as follows:
McCarthy, Cormac, 1933-
The gardener's son : a screenplay / Cormac McCarthy—1st ed.
p.   cm.
ISBN 0-88001-481-4 (hardcover)
I. Gardener's son (Motion picture)  II. Title.
PN1997.G3194    1996
791.43'72—DC20      96-13611

ISBN 978-0-06-228754-0
EPub Edition November 2014 ISBN 9780062387264
14 15 16 17 18   IND/RRD   10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1







ABOUT THE PUBLISHER
Australia
HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd.
Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street
Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia
www.harpercollins.com.au
Canada
HarperCollins Canada
2 Bloor Street East - 20th Floor
Toronto, ON M4W 1A8, Canada
www.harpercollins.ca
New Zealand
HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand
Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive
Rosedale 0632
Auckland, New Zealand
www.harpercollins.co.nz
United Kingdom
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
77-85 Fulham Palace Road
London W6 8JB, UK
www.harpercollins.co.uk
United States
HarperCollins Publishers Inc.
195 Broadway
New York, NY 10007
www.harpercollins.com



