















PRAISE FORCORMAC McCARTHY

"Like the novelists he admires—Melville, Dostoyevsky, Faulkner—Cormac McCarthy has created an imaginative oeuvre greater and deeper than any single book. Such writers wrestle with the gods themselves."
—The Washington Post Book World


"McCarthy's prose [is] the most laudable, his characters the most fully inhabited, his sense of place the most bloodworthy and thoroughly felt of any living writer's."
—Esquire


"McCarthy is one of the most richly stylized writers in American letters."
—San Francisco Chronicle


"McCarthy justifies the very worth of fiction in the consummate breadth and dimension of his work."
—New York Post


"The genius of McCarthy's work [is] in its bold, seamless melding of private revelation, cultural insight, and unabashed philosophizing."
—The Village Voice


"He is nothing less than our greatest living writer."
—Houston Chronicle




















FIRST VINTAGE INTERNATIONAL EDITION, OCTOBER 2013
Copyright © 2013 by M-71, Ltd.
All rights reserved. Published in the United States by Vintage Books, a division of Random House LLC, a Penguin Random House Company, New York.
Vintage is a registered trademark and Vintage International and colophon are trademarks of Random House LLC.
This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents are either the product of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.
The Cataloging-in-Publication Data is on file at theLibrary of Congress.
eISBN: 978-0-345-80360-3
www.vintagebooks.com
"THE COUNSELOR" film artwork © 2013 Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation.
All Rights Reserved.
v3.1









Contents

Cover
Title Page
Copyright

First Page

About the Author
Other Books by This Author









 
The counselor's condominium bedroom. The curtains are drawn and it is all but dark in the room. The view is from the rear of the bed and of two figures in the bed. The dialogue is muffled at times by the bedcovers and it therefore appears in SUBTITLES on the screen.

LAURA  Are you awake?
COUNSELOR  No.
LAURA  Okay.
COUNSELOR  What time is it?
LAURA  Two oclock. Almost two oclock.
COUNSELOR  Two oclock what.
LAURA  What?
COUNSELOR  AM or PM.
LAURA  You're not serious.
COUNSELOR  Not entirely.
LAURA  It's afternoon.
COUNSELOR  I know. God you're a sexy woman. What time is your flight?
LAURA  Seven-forty.
COUNSELOR  What are you doing?
LAURA  I'm not doing anything.
COUNSELOR  They're going to take me out of here on a gurney.
LAURA  We could talk.
COUNSELOR  Do you think we should have some coffee?
LAURA  You think that we should have coffee.
COUNSELOR  I guess not.
LAURA  I havent seen you for two weeks. And I have to go back this evening.
COUNSELOR  I know. Tell me something sexy. Words are everything to a man.
LAURA  Okay.
COUNSELOR  Well.
LAURA  I'm thinking.
COUNSELOR  Okay.
LAURA  I want you to put your hand up my dress.
COUNSELOR  You're not wearing a dress.
LAURA  What does that have to do with it? It's something you like for me to say.
COUNSELOR  I know. But it has to be real, doesnt it?
LAURA  All right. I want you to put your hand inside my panties.
COUNSELOR  It's the same problem. Maybe you should just say what it is that you want me to do.
LAURA  I want you to touch me.
COUNSELOR  You want me to touch you where.
LAURA  I want you to touch me down there.
COUNSELOR  You really do.
LAURA  I really do.
COUNSELOR  Say it more sexy.
LAURA  I want you to touch it.
COUNSELOR  God. Are you wet?
LAURA  Yes. Ooh. Baby?
COUNSELOR  God. You're sopping.
LAURA  I know.
COUNSELOR  How did you get yourself into such a state?
LAURA  Ooh. From thinking about you.
COUNSELOR  From thinking about me what.
LAURA  From thinking about your sweet face between my legs.
COUNSELOR  God, woman.
LAURA  Baby? Ooh. I think I should go tidy up.
COUNSELOR  I dont want you to. I want you all over me.
LAURA  Are you sure?
COUNSELOR  Very sure.
LAURA  All right.
COUNSELOR  How did you get to be such a bad girl?
LAURA  It was from hanging out with you. Can I tell you something?
COUNSELOR  Of course.
LAURA  I think you outdid yourself last night. I thought I would never stop coming.
COUNSELOR  You know what that does to a man's ego?
LAURA  I do. Shall I go on?
COUNSELOR  Please.
LAURA  God. Slow. Slow. God. How do you know how to do that?
COUNSELOR  From hanging out with really nasty girls.
LAURA  You've ruined me. You know that.
COUNSELOR  I hope so. God. You have the most luscious pussy in all of Christendom. Did you know that?
LAURA  What do girls say when you do that?
COUNSELOR  There arent any girls. There's just you.
LAURA  But there have been.
COUNSELOR  A long time ago. I dont remember.
LAURA  Yes you do.
COUNSELOR  Do you really want to know?
LAURA  Yes. I do.
COUNSELOR  Okay. They usually would say one of two things. Either Oh my God, or Jesus Christ. But nearly always something religious like that.
LAURA  You're pretty funny.
COUNSELOR  Women like to be amused. Tell me what to do.
LAURA  You know what to do.
COUNSELOR  Tell me.
LAURA  What if I shock you?
COUNSELOR  Too bad.
LAURA  Are you sure?
COUNSELOR  Yes.
LAURA  Okay. I want you to finger fuck me.
COUNSELOR  What?
LAURA  You heard me.
COUNSELOR  I cant believe you said that.
LAURA  Believe it.
COUNSELOR  You've reached a whole new level of depravity, havent you? I thought that didnt mean that much to girls.
LAURA  Depends on the girl.
COUNSELOR  You really do.
LAURA  I want you to stick your finger up me and find my spot and push on it.
COUNSELOR  Jesus. Right now?
LAURA  No. On Thursday.
COUNSELOR  God.
LAURA  Ooh. God. Yes. Yes. Ooh. I thought you didnt know how to do that?
COUNSELOR  I never said that. God you are luscious.
LAURA  Shh.
COUNSELOR  Okay.
LAURA  Shh. Oh. God. Oh my God.

CREDITS
Mexican garage. A welder in coveralls and goggles is cutting a line along the side of the tank of a Ford F-650 septic-tank truck with an acetylene torch.
Mexican garage. The tank of the truck has been cut in two laterally and a hoist is lowering a fifty-five gallon drum into the open top of the tank. The welder is standing in the tank waiting to unfasten the hooks and the cable.
High desert grassland, similar to the country around Patagonia Arizona or east of Las Vegas New Mexico. Evening. A white Cadillac Escalade is parked along the edge of an arroyo under some large cottonwood trees. A two-horse trailer is hitched to the rear of the vehicle and the tailgate of the Escalade is down. The driver's door is open and a man—Reiner—is sitting in the driver's seat looking out the open door with a pair of binoculars. He is well dressed in khakis and sport shirt and he is wearing a pair of tall Gokey leather snakeproof boots.
High desert. Evening. A cheetah is loping at high speed.
A street in Amsterdam, shops, canal. The counselor crosses a bridge. He is dressed in a summer suit with no tie and he carries a black nylon portfolio in one hand.
High desert. A very attractive woman—Malkina—is sitting crosslegged in the luggage rack on top of the Escalade. She is wearing a black western hat with a flat or porkpie crown and a braided leather chin strap. A white shirt with a leather vest and a pair of whipcord riding pants with expensive leather boots. Her long black hair is pinned back and she is leaning forward with her elbows on her knees looking through a pair of expensive binoculars.
Mexican garage. The welder is welding the top of the tank back in place.
Mexican garage. The welder is grinding down the weld bead along the side of the tank with an electric disc grinder in a huge shower of sparks.
High desert. A jackrabbit is racing through the grass. The cheetah overtakes it and kills it in a cloud of dust.
High desert. The woman lowers the binoculars and closes her eyes and presses her elbows against her sides. She almost winces. At this close distance we can see the tattoo of an Egyptian cat at the side of her neck. A second cheetah is sitting chained at the side of the Escalade and it gets up and circles and sits again and stares very intently into the distance.
Mexican garage. A man in coveralls wearing a canister paintmask is spraying the tank of the truck in a paintbooth.
Office of a diamond dealer in Amsterdam. An old fashioned woodpaneled room. The dealer is in shirtsleeves with gaiters, a tie. He pushes the microscope across the table to the counselor. The counselor puts his eye to the microscope. There is a jeweler's blackcloth spread on the desk between them and on it are seven or eight diamonds, three to five carats in size. The counselor looks up and the dealer reaches and pulls the microscope back across the desk and makes a shrugging gesture with one hand and removes the stone from the clip and places it on the blackcloth and mounts another stone in the clip and pushes the microscope back. The counselor bends to study it. The dealer watches him.
A small Mexican port town on the Gulf of California. Several trucks are being unloaded and are driven along the dock toward a warehouse with a sign over the door that says Aduana. One of the trucks is the septic-tank truck and it is waved aside and the driver hands a brown envelope down to the customs inspector who puts it inside the front of his coat and the truck drives out to the road.
High desert. Sunset. The woman is riding out across the grasslands at almost a full gallop on a good Arabian horse. English saddle. She turns the horse and looks behind her and bends low over the horse's neck and urges the horse on. The two cheetahs pass her and disappear in the dust.
Southwestern desert. Distant mountains shimmering in the heat. Looking down a long straight stretch of empty blacktop road all but liquid in the waves of heat.
Southwestern desert. The septic-tank truck is sitting in the chaparral. The driver opens the door and stands up, holding onto the roof of the cab and the top of the open door. The other man watches through the windshield with a pair of binoculars. In the distance a line of stragglers crossing through the chaparral, men and women, carrying suitcases, carrying laundrybags over their shoulders. The standing man takes a cigarette from his shirtpocket and lights it and blows the smoke gently.
Office of the diamond dealer.

COUNSELOR  I want her to have something that she would not be uncomfortable wearing. I dont want to give her a diamond so big she'd be afraid to wear it.
DEALER  (Nodding, just the trace of a smile) She is probably more courageous than you imagine.

He takes the stone from the clip and sorts another one and puts it in the clip and looks at it through the loupe. He holds it to his mouth and breathes on it and looks at it again. He leans and fixes it under the microscope and leans back. The counselor bends to study the stone. The dealer watches him.

COUNSELOR  Is this a Pillow?
DEALER  No. It's an Asscher. Look at the corners.
COUNSELOR  Yes.
DEALER  Let's put it in the grading box.

The counselor looks up and the dealer reaches and takes the stone with the tweezers from the clip and takes a small white cardboard trough and places the diamond in it.

DEALER  The Pillow has a slight arc to the sides. It is a modern version of the old-mine cut. Let's look at the color.

The counselor adjusts the microscope and turns the stone with the tweezers.

DEALER  Put it table-side down.
COUNSELOR  So you're looking through the pavilion.
DEALER  Yes. There is more to look through.
COUNSELOR  It appears to be yellow.
DEALER  Yes. This is called the body color. It is still a white stone. But the body color will be either brown or yellow. The colors start with D. The D stone has no color.
COUNSELOR  The colors go all the way to Z.
DEALER  Yes.
COUNSELOR  So what am I looking at?
DEALER  H.
COUNSELOR  Is that still a good color?
DEALER  A very good color. It is nitrogen that gives it the yellow. The truth is that anything you can say about a diamond is in the nature of a flaw. The perfect diamond would be composed simply of light. Do you see the inclusion?
COUNSELOR  No.
DEALER  Look some more. It is small. What we would call a feather. Turn the stone slightly.
COUNSELOR  Yes. I think I see it. (He looks up and sits back) So it is graded what?
DEALER  A VS-1. Some might grade it higher.
COUNSELOR  You might grade it higher.

The dealer shrugs.

COUNSELOR  You like this stone.
DEALER  I like that stone.
COUNSELOR  How many carats is it?
DEALER  Three point nine.
COUNSELOR  It's expensive.

The dealer shrugs. He pulls the microscope toward him and places a stone in the clip and pushes it back.

DEALER  Tell me what you see. Remember that you are not looking for merit. This is a cynical business. We seek only imperfection. This is a five carat stone. Tell me what you see.
COUNSELOR  (Bending to the microscope) This view.
DEALER  Yes.
COUNSELOR  The culet seems big.

The dealer shrugs. The counselor studies the stone.

COUNSELOR  The crown and pavilion dont fit. The girdle comes out crooked.
DEALER  (Raising his eyebrows) Yes. The crown and the pavilion may be well cut each in itself and yet stand alien to one another. Once the first facet is cut there can be no going back. What was meant to be a union remains forever untrue and we see a troubling truth in that the forms of our undertakings are complete at their beginnings. For good or for ill.
COUNSELOR  (Looking up) But there is no perfect diamond.
DEALER  En este mundo nada es perfecto. As my father would say.
COUNSELOR  You are Sephardic.
DEALER  Yes.
COUNSELOR  Do you know Spain?
DEALER  I do. And Spain me. At one time I thought that she would return from the grave. But that is not to be. Every country that has driven out the jews has suffered the same fate.
COUNSELOR  Which is?
DEALER  Ach. You dont want to hear. We should talk about the stones. The most valued stone is the red diamond. From the Argyle mines. So very rare. I have seen two in a long life. A price almost beyond belief.
COUNSELOR  I do want to hear.
DEALER  (Leaning back and studying the counselor) You do.
COUNSELOR  Yes.
DEALER  Ach. Well. How to say. There is no culture save the Semitic culture. There. The last known culture before that was the Greek and there will be no culture after.
COUNSELOR  That's a bold claim.
DEALER  The heart of any culture is to be found in the nature of the hero. Who is that man who is revered? In the classical world it is the warrior. But in the western world it is the man of God. From Moses to Christ. The prophet. The penitent. Such a figure is unknown to the Greeks. Unheard of. Unimaginable. Because you can only have a man of God, not a man of gods. And this God is the God of the jewish people. There is no other God. We see him—what is the word? Purloined. Purloined in the West. How do you steal a God? The jew beholds his tormentor dressed in the vestments of his own ancient culture. Everything bears a strange familiarity. But the fit is always poor and the hands are always dripping blood. That coat. Didnt that belong to Uncle Chaim? What about the shoes? Enough. I see your look. No more philosophy. And perhaps Schiller is right. When gods were more human men were more divine. The stones themselves have their own view of things. Perhaps they are not so silent as you think. They were piped up out of the earth in a time before any witness was, but here they are. Now, who shall be their witness? We. We two. Here. (Fitting a stone in the clip) This is a cautionary stone.
COUNSELOR  A cautionary diamond.
DEALER  Of course. Why not? Although I suppose every diamond is cautionary. It is not a small thing to wish for, however unattainable. To partake of the stone's endless destiny. Is not that the meaning of adornment? To enhance the beauty of the beloved is to acknowledge both her frailty and the nobility of that frailty. At our noblest we announce to the darkness that we will not be diminished by the brevity of our lives. That we will not thereby be made less. Let me show you. You will see.

Evening. The woman Malkina is sitting in a camp chair at a folding table set with a linen tablecloth, with china and silver. An Aladdin lamp burns on the table and she is reading a book. Reiner places a cocktail glass before her with a cherry in it and leans with a shaker and pours a Manhattan cocktail for her. She looks up and smiles. He goes to the fire and turns two filet steaks on the grill. The two horses are grazing just beyond. The cheetahs at their chains stir, one rises and turns and lies down again. The woman sips her cocktail.
High desert. Evening. Reiner and Malkina are standing on a rise out on the prairie watching the sunset. The sun is about half way down. A vast red sky.

REINER  You like it because it reminds you of Argentina.
MALKINA  It is like Argentina. The Pampas. But that's not why I like it. I like it for itself.
REINER  It doesnt have to be like something else.
MALKINA  No.
REINER  Do I remind you of someone else?
MALKINA  Yes. You do.
REINER  Someone you miss?
MALKINA  Someone who is dead. I dont think I miss things. Things are here and then they are gone. I think to miss them is to hope they will come back. But they are not coming back. I've always known that. Since I was a girl.
REINER  You dont think that's a bit cold?
MALKINA  I think that truth has no temperature. There it goes.

The sun flares out beneath the horizon.
Desert. The sun has just set. Bare purple mountains dark against a darkening sky streaked with deep red. The high thin scream of a motorcycle in the far distance, very slowly becoming louder. Very slowly. Then it streaks across the middle distance in a small part of a second, really just a blink of lights, and whines away into the distance and the silence.
END CREDITS
A small and elegant restaurant in a private club. Some twenty tables, the diners well dressed, the women in cocktail dresses and jewelry. Chandeliers, crystal, silver, linen. Over the sound system Anne-Sophie Mutter is playing Mozart's Violin Concerto No. 2. The waiters are in black tie and black trousers with white kitchen coats. Along one wall are eight large oil portraits of celebrities: Bogart, Monroe, Dean, Elvis, Lennon, Miles Davis, Billie Holiday, and the Spanish Formula One race driver The Marquis de Portago. The paintings are bright and quite striking but neither lurid nor cheap. They are oil paintings that look like really high quality pastels. At the far end of the room there is a raised platform—a small stage—and on the platform is a grand piano. The top of the piano is covered with a red quilt or blanket and it is fastened with bungee cords that go underneath the piano. A cheetah is lying on the piano. The second cheetah comes down through the room past the tables. A woman strokes it absentmindedly as it passes without looking at it. It leaps effortlessly to the top of the piano and sniffs the other cheetah and licks its fur. They wear heavy and elaborate collars with black transponder receivers. On the third wall there is a complete Formula Two Lotus racecar hanging from the actual wall nose down. There is a wall of photographs of cars and drivers and celebrities. At the corner table a man and a woman sit opposite each other. He is forty-three and she is thirty-six. They are well dressed and very attractive. A waiter is clearing the table and another is pouring their champagne flutes. He rewraps the towel around the neck of the bottle and stogs the bottle into the tableside bucket of ice and moves on.

COUNSELOR  Anyway, I have something to discuss with you and I'm a bit scared.
LAURA  (Smiling) Have you been bad?
COUNSELOR  No. Actually I dont have that much to discuss. So let me just give you this and you tell me what you think.

He takes a small black velvet box from his coat pocket and places it on the table before her. She puts the back of her hand to her mouth and looks up at him. Then she picks up the box and opens it. She looks up at him again.

LAURA  Oh Baby.
COUNSELOR  Will you ...
LAURA  Yes. I will.
COUNSELOR  Whew.
LAURA  You didnt know?
COUNSELOR  I knew. But I was scared anyway.
LAURA  Good. It's beautiful.
COUNSELOR  Are you okay?
LAURA  Yes. I feel a bit strange.
COUNSELOR  You're not going to cry.
LAURA  No. I dont think so. Are you sure?
COUNSELOR  Oh I'm more than sure.
LAURA  It's beautiful.
COUNSELOR  You are a glory.
LAURA  I'm a glory?
COUNSELOR  Yes. As in glorious. You are a glorious woman.
LAURA  Thank you. You are a man of impeccable taste. I shouldnt have said that.

He raises his glass.

COUNSELOR  You cant take it back.

She takes the ring from the box and puts it on her finger and holds out her hand to look at it. She turns her hand to show it to him. She picks up her glass and touches his with it and they drink.

LAURA  Okay then.
COUNSELOR  I intend to love you until I die.
LAURA  Me first.
COUNSELOR  Not on your life.

*  *  *  *  *
A small grocery store. A young man dressed in a bright green leather motorcycle outfit—jacket and tight pants and green boots and gloves—is waiting in line, his helmet hanging over his arm. He is somewhat dark. Part Mexican. The woman in front of him has unloaded her groceries onto the conveyor belt and the clerk is adding them up. She turns and smiles at the boy. He is holding a ten-pound bag of dogfood.

WOMAN  Do you have a dog?
YOUNG MAN  Do I have a dog.
WOMAN  (Smiling) Yes.
YOUNG MAN  No Mam.
WOMAN  (A bit disconcerted) Oh.
YOUNG MAN  I dont have a dog.
WOMAN  Okay.
YOUNG MAN  These are for me.
WOMAN  For you.
YOUNG MAN  Yes Mam. It's a diet.
WOMAN  A diet?
YOUNG MAN  Yes Mam. Well. I probably shouldnt even be telling you this. I've tried it a couple of times and I got to say it works pretty good. You dont really eat. You get hungry? You just pop a couple of these bad boys. I carry a baggie full around with me. Night, you wake up? You dont go down and raid the refrigerator. You got a dish of these on the table by the bed and you just reach and pop a couple. You got your glass of water there. Last time I lost twenty-seven pounds in thirty days. I'd pretty much recommend it to anybody. These diets you read about? (Pointing) I know this works. Of course like anything else you got to use your head. Time before I woke up in the hospital. You just got to keep your mind on business. Like anything else. But you want to lose weight? This is it. You got everything you need in here. All your vitamins and minerals. I'll tell you what. After a few days you dont even want anything else. I'd absolutely recommend it to anybody.

The woman turns to the clerk and he gives her back her credit card. The other clerk has finished bagging up her groceries. The boy pushes his bag of dogfood forward.

WOMAN  But you said you woke up in the hospital. What happened? Did you have a systemic reaction or what?
YOUNG MAN  (Taking out his money to pay for the dogfood) Oh no Mam. It wasnt anything like that. I was sitting in the street licking my balls and a car hit me. You take care now. You hear?

*  *  *  *  *
Reiner's penthouse. A large room giving onto a patio with a swimming pool. There are about twenty people in the room and on the patio—including a number of goodlooking young women. There are tables and chaise longues out at the pool and naked girls splashing in the water. On the outer patio there is a cabana and a bar with a bartender mixing drinks and a large black weightlifter beside him at an outdoor stainless steel grill cooking steaks and ribs. In the room itself are tables and sofas. There are two waitresses on rollerskates taking drinks and food to people, one in a bikini and the other in panties and T-shirt. One of the cheetahs is stretched out on a sofa and the other is crossing the room. The waitress pulls up at the bar and orders two Budweisers. Her T-shirt, worn braless, bears a cartoon of a dragster with enormous wheels and a huge 671 GMC supercharger mounted on the engine. The script says: Injection Is Nice But I'd Rather Be Blown. The bartender opens the cooler and takes out two longneck bottles and calls out Pilsener! and the cook, wearing cut-off bib overalls, braces himself and the bartender shoves the bottle into the seat of his overalls and pops the top off the bottle and then does the same with the second beer and puts them on the girl's tray and she glides away and pulls up at a coffee table and sets the beers out and two young women pick them up and sip from them. On the wall there is an enormous screen which continually flashes color photos taken of people at parties here. The counselor passes through the room and comes to a door where he pushes three buttons on a keypad. He waits. There is a click and he pushes the door open and enters and turns and shuts the door. The room is modern and elegant. A bank of computers and electronic equipment along one wall. An elegant desk of figured hardwood and stainless steel. Reiner is sitting on the edge of the desk talking to Malkina, who stands between his knees. She turns and smiles at the counselor and Reiner greets him.

REINER  Good morning, Counselor.
COUNSELOR  Morning.

Malkina leans and whispers into Reiner's ear and pats him on the knee and turns to go. She is tall, dark, and very attractive. She smiles again at the counselor as she passes him.

MALKINA  Hola, Guapo.
COUNSELOR  Hey.

She goes out and closes the door and Reiner gets off of the desk and turns his leather swivel-chair and sits in it and motions the counselor to a leather sofa at the end of the desk and at right angles to it. The counselor comes over and sits down.

REINER  How's the bride?
COUNSELOR  Bridal.
REINER  That sounds about right. Nice lady. I assume she's not privy to your newest business venture.
COUNSELOR  She's not. And your lady?
REINER  Yeah.
COUNSELOR  Yeah what.
REINER  She's fine. I dont know what she knows. I dont want to know.
COUNSELOR  You dont trust her.
REINER  Jesus, Counselor. She's a woman.
COUNSELOR  Woo.
REINER  Yeah, well. I dont mean it to sound that cold. I just mean that where men are concerned they've got their own agenda. I always liked smart women. But it's been an expensive hobby.
COUNSELOR  Yeah. (Nodding toward the electronic wall) Do you know what all that stuff is?
REINER  Mostly. Anything I dont know I can ask her. Which worries me even more.
COUNSELOR  Mmm.
REINER  Yeah.
COUNSELOR  You never told me what happened with you and the lovely Clarissa.
REINER  Miss Clarissa. Of the extraordinary body. What happened? I think in the end it was jealousy that undid us.
COUNSELOR  Jealousy?
REINER  Yeah. She was getting more pussy than I was.
COUNSELOR  (Smiling) Is that true?
REINER  I dont know. Probably. I have to say that for a girl who liked girls she took an extraordinary interest in the male member. She sucked on it so hard it finally corrected my vision. She left me for this goodlooking black woman. Had a boyfriend used to play for the Oilers. Nice chap. We met once for drinks at a club in Dallas to discuss our mutual plight. He was taking it rather poorly, I have to say. Women do better, dont they?
COUNSELOR  Maybe they have more practice at it.
REINER  Yeah, well. My guess is that in most cases if you still had the woman you're weeping over you'd be weeping harder.
COUNSELOR  (Smiling) You cant hear anything in here, can you?
REINER  It's better than that.
COUNSELOR  Yeah?
REINER  You cant hear anything out there.
COUNSELOR  So is this place secure?
REINER  Who knows? I dont speak in arraignable phrases anywhere. There's a scrambler on the phone but still there's a lot of smart people out there. Of course anybody who thinks he's the smartest is on his way to the slam.
COUNSELOR  Would that be me?
REINER  Nah. Although I have to say that I always did think a law degree was a license to steal. And that you for one hadnt really capitalized on it.

The counselor shrugs.

REINER  Yeah. Well, you're not the straight dude people think though, are you?
COUNSELOR  I guess not.
REINER  I dont mean the caper. I mean you. Women like you.
COUNSELOR  All right.
REINER  You know what they like about you?
COUNSELOR  I'm a good fuck?
REINER  Yeah, right. They can sniff out the moral dilemma. The paradox.
COUNSELOR  Moral dilemma.
REINER  Yeah. They're drawn to it. Not sure why. Maybe it's just that lacking any moral sense themselves they're fascinated by it in men. You think about it. You want to know if a guy has issues watch the way women react to him.
COUNSELOR  Interesting.
REINER  Men are attracted to flawed women too of course, but their illusion is that they can fix them. Women dont want to fix anything. They just want to be entertained. The truth about women is you can do anything to them except bore them.
COUNSELOR  Well, there's nothing about Laura that I would want to fix.
REINER  Maybe not.
COUNSELOR  But you think she probably knows things about me that I dont know about myself.
REINER  Jesus, Counselor. I'm not even sure what sort of a question that is.
COUNSELOR  Yeah. And you? Vis-à-vis your inamorata.
REINER  You dont want to know. I dont want to know.
COUNSELOR  Moral dilemmas.
REINER  Yeah. You pursue this road that you've embarked upon and you will eventually come to moral decisions that will take you completely by surprise. You wont see it coming at all.
COUNSELOR  Such as?
REINER  Such as whether to waste somebody. Or have them wasted.
COUNSELOR  You ever been faced with a decision like that?
REINER  You're a member of the court.
COUNSELOR  Well. I dont intend to take this up as a trade.
REINER  One-time deal. Right?
COUNSELOR  Which you've heard a thousand times.
REINER  No. But a few. What usually happens is that after a couple of deals they know more than you do and they set up shop across the street.
COUNSELOR  How does that work out for them?
REINER  Not well.
COUNSELOR  So would that be a moral issue?
REINER  Not for me.
COUNSELOR  Or for your associates.
REINER  Yeah well. They have a real aversion to mixing business with pleasure. Do you know what a bolito is?
COUNSELOR  No. A bolo is one of those skinny neckties. Or is it one of those things you throw? Argentina.
REINER  Yeah. In this case it's a mechanical device. It has this small electric motor with this rather incredible compound gear that retrieves a steel cable. Battery-driven. The cable is made out of some unholy alloy, almost impossible to cut it, and it's in a loop, and you come up behind the guy and drop it over his head and pull the free end of the cable tight and walk away. No one even sees you. Pulling the cable activates the motor and the noose starts to tighten and it continues to tighten until it goes to zero.
COUNSELOR  It cuts the guy's head off.
REINER  It can.
COUNSELOR  There's nothing he can do.
REINER  No.
COUNSELOR  Jesus.
REINER  Yeah.
COUNSELOR  How long does it take?
REINER  Three, four minutes. Five maybe. It depends on your collar size.
COUNSELOR  You're shitting me.
REINER  Nope. Mostly wretched excess of course. It's just that there'd be no easy way to turn the thing off. Or reason to. It just keeps running until the noose closes completely and then it self-destructs. Actually you're probably dead in less than a minute.
COUNSELOR  From strangulation.
REINER  No. The wire cuts through the carotid arteries and sprays blood all over the spectators and then everybody goes home.
COUNSELOR  Jesus.
REINER  Yeah, well.
COUNSELOR  Bolito.
REINER  Yeah. Probably a play on words too. Boleto—with an e—is the spanish word for ticket. As in yours has just been punched.
COUNSELOR  I wouldnt think it would go through bone.
REINER  It wont. It would have to go between the vertebrae. The gear is a worm drive with a gain built into it. Or a reduction, actually. It keeps getting stronger and slower. To compensate for the compression of the tissue.
COUNSELOR  How do you know all this?
REINER  You know how I like gadgets. Anyway, a friend of mine got hold of one. In Calexico. Stolen out of County Property.
COUNSELOR  I would think they'd be expensive.
REINER  They are. This one was used.
COUNSELOR  Sweet.

Reiner shrugs.

COUNSELOR  Why does no one see him?
REINER  See who?
COUNSELOR  The garroteer.
REINER  Oh. Well, given a choice between watching someone walk away down the street and watching someone being slowly decapitated by a device apparently engineered and patented in the halls of hell you are going to watch the latter. That's just the way it is. You may think you should avert your gaze. But you wont.
COUNSELOR  Where's all this beheading shit come from? You never used to see that.
REINER  Yeah. It's blown in here from the East.
COUNSELOR  Meaning the East.
REINER  Yeah. You put nine Mexicans and an Arab in a room and give them each a hundred dollars and come back in a couple of hours who do you think is going to be holding the grand?
COUNSELOR  So are you gearing up to do business with them down the road?
REINER  The Arabs?
COUNSELOR  Yeah.
REINER  No.
COUNSELOR  Why is that?
REINER  Because they dont need your money.

*  *  *  *  *
Southwestern desert. The septic-tank truck and a pickup are parked in the chaparral. The two Mexican drivers are talking to two other men. They squat on the ground. One passes around a pack of cigarettes. Then he picks up a stick and draws a map in the dirt.
*  *  *  *  *
A warehouse with floodlights. The metal door clanks upward and the green leather cyclist comes whining through on a Kawasaki ZX-12 and brakes and does a donut on the concrete floor and stops and shuts off the bike and takes off his helmet. A doberman runs to him and stands up and he hugs her and tousles her ears and steps off of the bike. There is a black late-model Cadillac Escalade parked toward the rear of the warehouse. He crosses the room with her leaping about him to an island in the far corner that contains a kitchen and a bed, a tin locker, a leather easy chair—taking the bag of dogfood with him. He fixes her bowl of food and turns on the stereo and opens the refrigerator and takes out a frozen dinner and puts it in the microwave and opens a beer and sits, watching the dog eat. He puts the beer on the table and stands up and takes off the leather jacket and unzips a pocket and takes out a clear plastic bag and pitches it onto the table. It is full of hundred dollar bills. He opens a drawer and takes out a packet of marijuana and papers and sits rolling a joint. He lights it and leans back with his eyes closed. The dog finishes her dish and comes over and circles and sniffs and sneezes. He blows smoke at her and she sneezes and circles.

YOUNG MAN  Yeah, well. Too bad.

The timing bell rings on the microwave. He gets up and goes over and opens the door and takes out the meal. The dog sits watching.

YOUNG MAN  You dont eat lasagna. Go lie down.

*  *  *  *  *
In the club. The counselor and Laura at a table. A young man in a T-shirt, sportcoat, and jeans, with a girl, on their way out. They stop and he pulls back from the girl and smiles at the counselor.

TONY  Well Counselor, how are you making it?

The counselor leans back and studies him.

COUNSELOR  I'm all right.
TONY  Is this your lady?
COUNSELOR  It is.
TONY  How are you, Mam?
LAURA  I'm fine. Thank you.
TONY  Me and the counselor go back a ways. Dont we, Counselor?
COUNSELOR  We do. I'm afraid.
TONY  Dont be afraid, Counselor. Hell, I'm okay with everything. You okay with everything, Counselor?
COUNSELOR  I am if you are.
TONY  (Addressing Laura) See there? Aint he just the best son of a bitch?
GIRL  Come on, Tony.
TONY  How long you know this guy, Petunia?
LAURA  Long enough.
TONY  Long enough? How long is that, long enough?
COUNSELOR  Maybe you should listen to your lady friend.
TONY  Is that what you do, Counselor?
COUNSELOR  Pretty much.
TONY  Does he keep you entertained?
LAURA  That's none of your business.
TONY  Because you look to me like you might get bored easy.
GIRL  Tony. Let's go.
TONY  Okay. I'm gone. Here. Let me try this one on you. See if you can tell me what this is. This is pretty good.

He pulls up his T-shirt and places his hands palm down on either side of his navel and moves the skin of his stomach up and down alternately six or eight times very quickly and then spreads them to show his navel. Then he does it again.

TONY  You get it?

Laura has turned away with her eyes closed.

TONY  Let me show you again. Watch.

He repeats the performance.

TONY  Come on, Counselor. It's a girl runnin the hurdles.

Laura bows her head, her eyes closed.

TONY  Come on, Sugardumplin. What? You dont think that's funny? She's a little up tight aint she Counselor?

The counselor pushes back his chair and stands.

GIRL  Tony I'm going.
TONY  Hell, Counselor. Keep your seat. You dont have to get up for me. You know, Petunia, the counselor here has got a way of sullin up like a possum when he dont get his way. I'm goin to say that you have probably noticed it. But that aint really the problem. The real problem is that his thin skin makes it okay in his eyes for you to wind up under the bus. You know what I'm sayin? Anyway, that's how I see it. (He holds up his hands) All right. I'm goin. I'm goin. You take care now. You hear?

*  *  *  *  *
A cafe in a shopping mall. Malkina and Laura are at a table having lunch.

MALKINA  So how many carats is it?
LAURA  I dont know.
MALKINA  (Pausing with a forkful of salad, then putting it down again) You dont know.
LAURA  (Smiling) No.
MALKINA  You have got to be kidding me.
LAURA  No.
MALKINA  Let me see it.

Laura holds out her hand.

MALKINA  No. Take it off.

Laura takes off the ring and hands it across the table to her. Malkina looks at the ring, turns it, holds it up to the light. She hands it back.

MALKINA  It's a three and half carat. Maybe a three point eight. Nice stone. Asscher cut.
LAURA  (Putting the ring back on) Thank you.
MALKINA  Good color. Probably an F or a G. Nothing visible so it's at least a VS-2. Do you want to know what it's worth?
LAURA  No.
MALKINA  (Smiling and shaking her head, stabbing at her salad) You really dont, do you?
LAURA  No.
MALKINA  So have you set a date?
LAURA  No. I want to get married in the Church. Which he says is all right. He's been married before and I thought that would be a problem but the Church doesnt recognize other marriages. Anyway, I'm looking for a job here.
MALKINA  Are you scared?
LAURA  (Smiling) No. A bit nervous. Sometimes.
MALKINA  Are you a church lady?
LAURA  I go. Yes. It's important to me.
MALKINA  What about confession?
LAURA  Yes. Well, maybe not so much.
MALKINA  Does the priest ask you about sex?
LAURA  He doesnt ask. But you're supposed to tell him everything.
MALKINA  He doesnt press you for the juicy details?
LAURA  (Smiling) No.
MALKINA  He touched me, Father. Where, my child? In the back seat, Father. But you're supposed to go, right?
LAURA  Yes. So you can go to communion.
MALKINA  And whatever nasty shit you did you're supposed to promise not to do it again.
LAURA  Yes.
MALKINA  (Shaking her head) Mmm. What if a non-Catholic went in to confess? What would he do?
LAURA  I dont know. Why would you?
MALKINA  I dont know. Maybe because you're only as sick as your secrets. Would he listen?
LAURA  I dont know. He wouldnt be able to give you absolution if you're not a Catholic.
MALKINA  You believe that only Catholics go to heaven?
LAURA  I think it's pretty much what the Church teaches. I'm not so sure.
MALKINA  Yeah. But anybody could just wander into the booth, right?
LAURA  The confessional? Yes. I suppose.
MALKINA  So what do you say?
LAURA  You confess your sins.
MALKINA  Yes, but what do you say? You get in there and what? Do you tell him who you are?
LAURA  No. You say: Bless me Father for I have sinned. And you say how long it's been since your last confession. And then you tell him what you've done. Then when you're through you say that you're sorry. Heartily sorry, you say. And that you wont do it again.
MALKINA  But you do.
LAURA  I suppose. Usually.
MALKINA  Do you give him any money or anything?
LAURA  No.
MALKINA  (Shaking her head) Mmm. Strange. Suppose you've done something really nasty. He doesnt pump you for details?
LAURA  I dont think so. You're embarrassing me.
MALKINA  I can see. You're blushing. Okay. We'll change the subject.
LAURA  Good.
MALKINA  We'll talk about my sex life.
LAURA  (Looking up) You're teasing.
MALKINA  Just rattling your cage. What a world.
LAURA  You think the world is strange.
MALKINA  I meant yours.

*  *  *  *  *
Northern Mexico at US border. Night. The septic-tank truck is lumbering over the desert, driving with only the parking lights on at the front of the truck. The truck crests a slight rise and grinds to a halt. In the distance are the lights of a city along the horizon.
*  *  *  *  *
A bar at the edge of the city. Afternoon. The counselor comes in and stands at the door for a moment to accustom his eyes to the darkness. Westray is sitting at a table in the corner and he raises one hand. The counselor crosses the room and pulls back a chair and sits at the table. Westray is slightly older than the counselor, nice looking and well dressed. There are very few customers in the bar. At the far end a young man is playing the pinball machine and he gives it a shove and tilts it and walks away. Westray is wearing dark glasses.

WESTRAY  Counselor.
COUNSELOR  It's not dark enough in here for you?

Westray removes the glasses to reveal a black eye.

COUNSELOR  Wow. That's a dandy. What happened?
WESTRAY  Confrontation with a doorman. Who bore a disquieting resemblance to Proconsul.
COUNSELOR  A confrontation?

Westray shrugs.

COUNSELOR  Jesus. What did you say to him?
WESTRAY  I think I told him that he was not to take it personally but that he should go fuck himself.
COUNSELOR  But not to take it personally.
WESTRAY  No.
COUNSELOR  What did he say?
WESTRAY  He said: I'm going to hurt you, White Person. Here she is.

A waitress has arrived at the table. She puts down paper napkins.

WAITRESS  What'll it be?
WESTRAY  I'll have a Heineken.
COUNSELOR  Make it two.

The waitress glances at Westray's eye and moves away. Westray sits back in his chair and studies the counselor.

COUNSELOR  I didnt know that you got into donnybrooks.
WESTRAY  I dont. Anyway, that was in another country.
COUNSELOR  And besides the wretch is dead?
WESTRAY  No. But I've sent a pair of reliable chaps to talk to him. Bloody expensive, too.
COUNSELOR  You surprise me.
WESTRAY  You shouldnt be surprised, Counselor. What's the Miller quote that Reiner likes? The smallest crumb can devour us? You learn to let nothing pass. You cant afford to.
COUNSELOR  I should keep that in mind?
WESTRAY  You might keep that in mind. So. Fire away.
COUNSELOR  All right. What do you do with the money?
WESTRAY  What do I do or what does one do?
COUNSELOR  You.
WESTRAY  Mine goes off shore. We can talk if you like. But you cant use my people.
COUNSELOR  All right.
WESTRAY  Let me make a call.
COUNSELOR  All right.
WESTRAY  What else. You're not happy.
COUNSELOR  I'm all right. What's the buy-out for this whole deal?
WESTRAY  Net net?
COUNSELOR  Funny. Yeah. Net net.
WESTRAY  Hard to put a cold dollar on it. You dont know what your expenses are up front. It's six hundred and twenty-five kilos. Pure uncut. It goes for about fifty dollars an ounce in Colombia and the street price in Dallas can be as high as two grand.
COUNSELOR  Is that where it's going? Dallas?
WESTRAY  No. It's going to Chicago. If the whole deal were to go tits up in a ditch the papers would put the street value at a hundred mil. We're probably looking at twenty. Maybe a bit more.

The counselor gets out his pen and starts to write on the napkin.

WESTRAY  It's twenty-one thousand nine hundred ounces.
COUNSELOR  (Leaning back and studying Westray) You do that in your head?
WESTRAY  No. I just remembered it. I know somebody who could do it in her head though.
COUNSELOR  Yeah. I'll bet you're right.
WESTRAY  If you're not in, you need to tell me.
COUNSELOR  I'm all right.
WESTRAY  It's not just our people. You've got the money guys. You have to get cash in dollars into Mexico and then they have to get it out again. But that's all they do. You have to use US banks. This means you have to have a corporation. And even then you have to have someone on the inside. You'd be surprised at the people who are in this business. Very surprised.
COUNSELOR  Do you have a corporation?
WESTRAY  No. Of course not. We just pay the points. The other option of course is cash. Which is an even bigger headache. For all the obvious reasons. The biggest issue is not that your man is going to fall in love with a poledancer and go south with your ducats. The biggest issue is that somebody is going to figure out who he is and what he's up to. Here we go.

The waitress arrives and sets down the bottles and glasses. The counselor takes a clip of bills from his front pocket but Westray already has a twenty out and he puts it on the tray. She reaches in her apron pocket for change.

WESTRAY  You're good.
WAITRESS  (Surprised, smiling) Well thank you.
WESTRAY  I dont suppose you have any pilsener glasses back there.
WAITRESS  Any what?
WESTRAY  It's all right. Thanks.

The waitress moves away.

WESTRAY  I see your look. I like to tip them enough that they dont thank you.
COUNSELOR  Why dont they thank you?
WESTRAY  Because they think it's a mistake. And they dont want to call attention to it.
COUNSELOR  (Shaking his head and smiling) Well. Cheers.
WESTRAY  I dont like to be wrong about human nature. Anyway (Tipping his bottle toward the counselor) a plague of pustulant boils upon all their scurvid asses.
COUNSELOR  (Smiling) Is that your normal toast?
WESTRAY  Increasingly.
COUNSELOR  (Smiling) If the drug wars stop this will dry up, right?
WESTRAY  Let's just say it will be more risky. That's the part that Reiner doesnt seem to get. You may have noticed that his lifestyle has become increasingly lavish.
COUNSELOR  I've noticed.
WESTRAY  I never go in his club. And I miss the bastard. We always shared a taste for exotic women. A few times in fact shared the women themselves.
COUNSELOR  That wouldnt include the present one would it?

Westray leans back and studies the counselor.

WESTRAY  And why would you ask me that?
COUNSELOR  No reason. Sorry.
WESTRAY  I see a murky picture forming in your mind. How well do you know her?
COUNSELOR  Not all that well. Why?
WESTRAY  Because you dont know someone until you know what they want. Is why.
COUNSELOR  I'll try and remember that.
WESTRAY  Good.
COUNSELOR  And you're advising me to travel light.
WESTRAY  Yes.
COUNSELOR  And Reiner?
WESTRAY  Reiner thinks that nothing bad can happen. He's in love. Any of this sound familiar? You guys are opening a new club.
COUNSELOR  Is that okay?
WESTRAY  Sure. What the fuck. What else?
COUNSELOR  I dont know.
WESTRAY  Do you know how many people were killed in Juarez last year?
COUNSELOR  No. A lot.
WESTRAY  Yes. I think three thousand is a lot. These people are another species, Counselor. You might want to think about that as well. They will rip out your liver and eat it in front of your dog.
COUNSELOR  Jesus, Westray.
WESTRAY  Let me ask you this. Before the so-called drug wars who do you think was killing all those young girls in Juarez?
COUNSELOR  I dont know. Nobody knows.
WESTRAY  Nobody knows.
COUNSELOR  No.
WESTRAY  Come on, Counselor. Hundreds of young girls? Thousands, most likely. Follow the money. If you have so much cash that you're using it to insulate your house and you've bought all the cars and clothes and guns that you can find a place to put, and you are morally depraved beyond all human recognition, what then do you spend your money on?
COUNSELOR  Why do they kill them?
WESTRAY  Who knows. For fun. Snuff films. You'll see. Those will start turning up. Anyway, what do you do with a fifteen year old girl that you've just violated with a tiretool?
COUNSELOR  You think the drug lords hire kidnappers to keep them supplied with young girls.
WESTRAY  I think they have kidnappers on full retainer.
COUNSELOR  I guess I should think about that too.
WESTRAY  I cant advise you, Counselor.
COUNSELOR  Yeah. But you are advising me.
WESTRAY  I just want you to be sure that you're locked in. I dont know. Maybe I should tell you what Mickey Rourke told what's-his-face. That that's my recommendation anyway. Dont do it.
COUNSELOR  (Smiling) Because I'll tell you something, Counselor. This arson is a serious crime.
WESTRAY  Yes. And so is this.
COUNSELOR  Well. I guess I'm a bit surprised at the cautionary nature of this conversation.
WESTRAY  Good word, cautionary. In Scots Law it defines an instrument in which one person stands as surety for another.
COUNSELOR  As surety.
WESTRAY  Yes.
COUNSELOR  Sounds a bit primitive.
WESTRAY  It is. The problem of course is what happens when the surety turns out to be the more attractive holding.
COUNSELOR  (Pause) What about you?
WESTRAY  I can vanish. In a heartbeat. With my money. Can you?

The counselor sits looking out across the room.

WESTRAY  Look, Counselor. The truth is I can walk away from all of this. And I mean all. I know you probably wont believe this but I'll tell you anyway. I think about my life. What have I ever done for the hapless, the hopeless, the horse-fucked? And I'm pretty skeptical about the goodness of the good. I think that if you ransacked the archives of the redeemed you would uncover tales of moral squalor quite beyond the merely appalling. I've pretty much seen it all, Counselor. And it's all shit. I could live in a monastery. Scrub the steps. Wash the pots. Maybe do a little gardening. Why not?
COUNSELOR  You're serious.
WESTRAY  Very.
COUNSELOR  Why dont you?
WESTRAY  In a word? Women.

The counselor smiles.

WESTRAY  I know. But time is not going to stop, Counselor. It's forever. And everything that exists will one day vanish. Forever. And it will take with it every explanation of it that was ever contrived. From Newton and Einstein to Homer and Shakespeare and Michelangelo. Every timeless creation. Your art and your poetry and your science are not even composed of smoke. Alles Vergänglich ist nur ein Gleichnis, as Goethe has it. Everything that perishes is but a likeness. That's really Plato on wheels. A likeness of what? Is that true? I dont want your eyes to glaze completely over, Counselor, but what this is coming down to for me is that seizing the day wont quite do it. I wont flesh out the argument but the only thing ultimately worth your concern is the anguish of your fellow passengers on this hellbound train. I have a lot to answer for. I know that. And I may be a motherfucker but I'm not a hypocrite. You have to help Tom Gray up off the barroom floor. It's little enough. But it's not nothing. All right. Are you ready?

Outside the bar.

WESTRAY  Where are you parked?
COUNSELOR  (Pointing to his Bentley) That's me over there.
WESTRAY  (Looking around) Some neighborhood. You're lucky it's still there. Anyway. You take care now. You hear?

The counselor waves and crosses the street. Westray watches him go.

WESTRAY  Counselor.

The counselor turns.

WESTRAY  You know why Jesus wasnt born in Mexico dont you?
COUNSELOR  No. Why?
WESTRAY  They couldnt find three wise men or a virgin.

The counselor shakes his head. He turns to go.

WESTRAY  Counselor.

The counselor stops and turns.

WESTRAY  Here's something else for you to consider. The beheadings and the mutilations? That's just business. You have to keep up appearances. It's not like there's some smoldering rage at the bottom of it. But let's see if we can guess who it is that they really want to kill.
COUNSELOR  I dont know. Who?
WESTRAY  You, Counselor. You.

*  *  *  *  *
A small and bare conference room for lawyers and their clients at the Texas State Penitentiary for Women. No windows. A table and two chairs. The counselor is standing at the table with his briefcase, going through his documents. The door opens and a guard hands in a woman in prison uniform and closes the door behind her. She is an attractive woman in her early forties.

COUNSELOR  Hey.
RUTH  Did you bring cigarettes?
COUNSELOR  Yeah.

He digs into his briefcase and comes up with a carton of cigarettes and slides them across the table and she sits and starts to open the carton.

COUNSELOR  (Arranging his files on the table) I know you use those things to trade with but I still dont understand what it is that you trade for.
RUTH  (Opening a pack of cigarettes and tapping one out) You dont want to know.
COUNSELOR  They treating you well?
RUTH  Oh yeah. Peachy.
COUNSELOR  You've got a preliminary hearing on the seventeenth. What size dress do you wear?
RUTH  I wear a seven.
COUNSELOR  What about shoes?
RUTH  Lo mismo.
COUNSELOR  Seven?
RUTH  Yeah.
COUNSELOR  Hat?
RUTH  What?
COUNSELOR  What size hat.
RUTH  Hat? I dont know what size hat. Goddamn. What do I need a hat for? A hat? You're shittin me.
COUNSELOR  Yes.
RUTH  Smart-ass. You had me goin there for a minute. (She lights a cigarette with a lighter and looks up and blows smoke.) You goin to get me somethin sexy to wear?
COUNSELOR  No.
RUTH  You'll have me lookin like a fucking schoolmarm.
COUNSELOR  How about a business woman?
RUTH  Yeah. Some business.

She leans back and blows a stream of smoke across the table and the counselor waves his hand back and forth to waft it away. He pulls back the chair and sits at the table.

COUNSELOR  All right.
RUTH  I know you dont think this room is bugged but you dont really know that, do you?
COUNSELOR  No. Not if you put it that way.
RUTH  I dont know any other way to put it.
COUNSELOR  What was it you wanted to tell me?
RUTH  My kid's in jail.
COUNSELOR  Oh boy. Where?
RUTH  Fort Hancock.
COUNSELOR  Fort Hancock.
RUTH  Yeah.
COUNSELOR  What was he doing in Fort Hancock?
RUTH  He was comin to see me.
COUNSELOR  What's he in jail for?
RUTH  Speeding.
COUNSELOR  Speeding?
RUTH  Yeah.
COUNSELOR  He couldnt pay the fine?
RUTH  No. He had twelve thousand dollars on him but they took that off of him.
COUNSELOR  Where was he going with twelve thousand dollars?
RUTH  He was comin here. Like I said.
COUNSELOR  How did you find this out?
RUTH  He called.
COUNSELOR  What else is he charged with?
RUTH  I dont know. Some other stuff. Reckless endangerment or whatever. He said they just piled that stuff on on account of how fast he was goin.
COUNSELOR  How fast was he going?
RUTH  Two o six.
COUNSELOR  Two o six.
RUTH  Yeah.
COUNSELOR  What is that? Two o six? That's not a speed.
RUTH  That's what he said. He didnt want to tell me.
COUNSELOR  That's a time of day. Or somebody's weight. Two o six? Are you telling me he was going two hundred and six miles an hour? In what?
RUTH  On that Jap bike of his.
COUNSELOR  Jesus.
RUTH  If you could get him his money back he could pay off the fine and get out of there.
COUNSELOR  Where did he get the money?
RUTH  I dont know.
COUNSELOR  Well. That's the problem.
RUTH  What's the problem?
COUNSELOR  If you have more than ten thousand dollars on you it belongs to the United States Government.
RUTH  How is that?
COUNSELOR  Because they say so. If you cant explain where you got it they take it. You might think you should get to keep everything up to ten grand and the government would just get the overage but the government doesnt think like that.
RUTH  He aint gettin his money back.
COUNSELOR  No.
RUTH  Well I dont see how you can just take somebody's money.
COUNSELOR  Yeah, well. Welcome to America. How much is the fine?
RUTH  Four hundred dollars.
COUNSELOR  Jesus.
RUTH  I dont guess you'd spring for it, would you?
COUNSELOR  Christ. Four hundred dollars?
RUTH  Yes.
COUNSELOR  All right.
RUTH  All right what?
COUNSELOR  All right I'll get him out.
RUTH  You will?
COUNSELOR  Yeah.
RUTH  Really?
COUNSELOR  Yes really.
RUTH  Thanks. I owe you.
COUNSELOR  Yes you do.
RUTH  How about a blowjob?
COUNSELOR  Well, you'd still owe me three eighty.
RUTH  Damn but you are a smart-ass.
COUNSELOR  I know. You bring it out in me. Lighten up, Ruthie.
RUTH  Dont call me that. I hate that name. I dont even like Ruth.

*  *  *  *  *
An inspection station on Interstate 10. Vehicles of various sorts are inching along. The border patrol agent waves several cars past and stops a truck and talks to the driver and then waves him past. The septic-tank truck pulls up and the driver nods and smiles.

DRIVER  How you doin?
AGENT  (Making an unpleasant face) All right. Get that thing out of here.
DRIVER  You got it.

The truck pulls away and out onto the highway. The driver shifts gears. He is suddenly a very serious-looking person.
*  *  *  *  *
The counselor's condominium. Night. He is sitting in his leather chair with a drink, talking on the phone.

COUNSELOR  I know. I just wanted to hear your voice.


Yeah. I really miss you.
Dont go there.
(Chuckling) You're just glowing with sexual health?
No. I love it.
Yes. Bad. Badly.
You havent been taking liberties with your person have you?
(Smiling, almost chuckling) You couldnt touch it with a powder puff?
It's too boring.
I kept waking up thinking you were there. I could smell your perfume on the sheets. I had such an enormous erection I had to get out of bed in order to turn over.
Yes.
In the airport parking lot.
Of course.
Did I know that you would do it with me? Of course.
I dont know. I thought it would be exciting.
Like high school. Yes.
I remember asking you if you were all right. Because you were gasping like an asthmatic.
Of course I remember. What I said was: Here, let me help you off with your damp things. And then I pulled down your panties.
Yes.
Ooh.
Oh my goodness.
Is this phone sex?
I know.
Life is being in bed with you. Everything else is just waiting.
Yes.
I love you very much.
Yes.
You too.
Good night.

He lowers the phone into his lap and leans his head back in the chair with his eyes closed.
*  *  *  *  *
Reiner and the counselor in an empty nightclub. Late afternoon.

REINER  You see a place like this in the cold light of day it looks pretty seedy. Everything's lighting, really. Lighting and music. You get the right lighting in here and some music and some goodlooking girls and suddenly it's a whole other world.
COUNSELOR  How soon do you think?
REINER  Two weeks. Three, max.
COUNSELOR  You're keeping the dancefloor.
REINER  Yeah. A dancefloor takes up a lot of space but when you have live music and dancing you have a very different sort of place. The door fees dont really amount to all that much but you can charge more for the drinks. But mostly it's just a different milieu. You try and chat up a girl at a bar? That's a no-man's land. How many guys are good at that? But you ask a chick to dance, well, she doesnt want to look like a bitch. You got a better shot. Sitting at the bar she's supposed to tell you to fuck off. You know Peterson, right?
COUNSELOR  Sure.
REINER  Did you know he speaks portuguese?
COUNSELOR  I didnt know that.
REINER  His mother was from Brazil. She grew up here but her whole family's from Brazil. So this cousin of Peterson's shows up and he speaks about three words of english. If that. This is maybe three years ago. We're all out here on Saturday night and the cousin is asking Peterson how do you say may I have this dance, only we get wind of it and we shut Peterson up and we're coaching the cousin on how you say it. Repeat after me: I. want. to. eat. your. pussy. And we work with him till he's pretty much got it down. I vant to ate you poossy. And we send him off. He's this kind of elegant looking guy anyway. He's wearing a suit and everything. And he goes off across the room and he picks out this really great looking girl and he stands in front of her and gives her this little bow and he says: I vant to ate you poossy. Well. The table gets pretty quiet and this girl looks up at him and she says: What did you say? So of course he says it again. Little bow. I vant to ate you poossy. So she studies him for a minute and then she leans over to see past him and of course here's these three guys across the room all hugging each other and just weeping with merriment and she gets up and she takes Peterson's cousin by the hand and she says something like: Well Buster, this is your lucky night. And she takes him out to this Mercedes van in the parking lot and proceeds to fuck his brains out. He's gone for an hour. We dont know what the hell is going on. But everything he's ever heard about American girls is true. Finally she leads him back in and she gives him this big sexy kiss and she cuts her eyes over at us to make sure we're watching and she sends him back to the table. Well. We're going nuts. Peterson is trying to get the story out of him and he's jabbering away and rolling his eyes and we're like, what's he saying? what's he saying? And finally it all comes out. And we're just fucking flabbergasted. No way is this guy lying. We look at the girl across the dance floor and she blows us this big kiss. Jesus. We're just fucking stunned. We want all the details of course and fucking Peterson is feeding it to us in driblets. And of course it's the whole thing. Blowjob. The works. Until we're just sitting there staring at each other. And after a while Peterson gets up and he looks at us and he says: I'm going for it. And off he goes. He crosses the floor to this other table where this really cool looking girl is sitting by herself and he gives her the little bow and announces that he vants to ate her poossy. Well of course about this time the husband is coming out of the mens room and he's about eleven feet tall and he looms up behind Peterson and the girl says: Why dont you tell him what you just told me? Anyway, to make a long story short, this guy hits Peterson so hard that he goes completely across the dancefloor on his back with his arms at his sides and comes up against the wall with his head under a chair and just lies there. Apparently dead. This guy hit him so hard that he came out of his loafers. His loafers are still standing at the table. Peterson is lying dead on the dancefloor in his sockfeet with his head under a chair. Now I know what you're thinking. The guy grabs his wife, throws some money on the table, and they split. Right? Not a bit of it. He sits down and snaps his fingers and they order fresh drinks. Like this is every day for him. Anyway they call an ambulance and they haul Peterson off to the hospital and he's got a concussion and a broken jaw. And his loafers are still at the table.
COUNSELOR  Jesus. What happened with you guys?
REINER  Nothing. We left. We'd had enough fun for one evening. Somebody wanted to go over and get Peterson's loafers but I didnt think that was such a good idea. Anyway. The other big space-eater is the bandstand. They just had a jukebox in here. I think what I'm going to do is take that wall out and get rid of the hallway.

*  *  *  *  *
Yard of the Pump Masters Septic Tank Pumping Company. Early morning. The trucks are pulling out one by one and the yard master is checking them off on his clipboard. When they are all gone there is one truck left in the yard.
*  *  *  *  *
A large motorcycle store in the city. A man enters and stands looking. He crosses to where a Kawasaki ZX-12 motorcycle is mounted and circling slowly on a motorized dais. The dais is marked off with a blue felt rope and the man approaches and stands looking at the bike for a moment, then unhooks the rope and lets it fall to the floor and mounts the dais and stands circling with it. A clerk talking to a customer nearby sees him.

BIKE CLERK  Excuse me a minute.

The clerk comes over to the dais. The man has taken a steel tape measure from his coat pocket and is measuring the height of the Kawasaki at the handlebars.

BIKE CLERK  Sir, may I help you?
WIRE-MAN  (Looking at the bike while the steel tape spools up and clicks home. He pops his lips.) Nope. I'm all done.

The man steps down from the revolving dais and puts the tape measure back in his coat pocket and goes past the clerk toward the door. The clerk bends and picks up the rope and hooks the end of it back in the stand and turns and watches the man as he leaves.
*  *  *  *  *
Church, interior. Five women are standing in line along the rear wall of the church waiting to go to confession. The women are both hispanic and anglo. At the front of the line is Malkina, dressed casually but fashionably. The woman in the confessional pushes back the curtain and exits with her head bowed and Malkina enters the confessional booth.

MALKINA  Hi.
PRIEST  Hi?
MALKINA  Oh. Bless me father for I have sinned.

Silence.

PRIEST  How long has it been since your last confession?
MALKINA  I've never been before. This is my first.
PRIEST  Are you Catholic?
MALKINA  No.
PRIEST  Why are you here?
MALKINA  I wanted to confess my sins.
PRIEST  Have you ever done this before?
MALKINA  No. I told you.
PRIEST  I couldnt give you absolution. Even if you did. Confess. You couldnt be forgiven.
MALKINA  I know. I just wanted to tell someone what I'd done and I thought why not go to a professional.
PRIEST  Have you thought about taking instructions?
MALKINA  That's not something I do very well.
PRIEST  I mean in order to become a Catholic. You take what are called instructions. You learn about the faith. What it means. Then you could confess and you would be forgiven for your sins.
MALKINA  How do you know?
PRIEST  Excuse me?
MALKINA  What if they're unforgivable?
PRIEST  Nothing is unforgivable.
MALKINA  Yeah? What's the worst thing anyone ever told you?
PRIEST  I wouldnt be at liberty to tell you a thing like that. The priest can never reveal anything from the confessional.
MALKINA  That bad, huh? Well, I havent killed anybody. But I've been pretty bad. I think. I dont really know because I'm not all that sure about the rules.
PRIEST  Where are you from?
MALKINA  Buenos Aires. You?
PRIEST  Excuse me?
MALKINA  Where are you from?
PRIEST  Phoenix. Arizona.
MALKINA  I know where Phoenix is. Do you ever go out on dates with girls?
PRIEST  No. Of course not.
MALKINA  Boys?
PRIEST  No. What did you want to tell me.
MALKINA  What if I'd done something really bad? What if I had killed somebody. Would you call the police?
PRIEST  No.
MALKINA  I killed somebody.
PRIEST  You said that you hadnt. Look, I'm sorry, but we have people here waiting to go to confession.
MALKINA  They can wait. I did. You want to throw me out because I'm not a Catholic but what if I'd said I was one? I mean, you dont carry a card around do you?
PRIEST  Who did you talk to about this?
MALKINA  Why did I talk to somebody?
PRIEST  You said Bless me father.
MALKINA  I asked a friend. But she didnt know I was going to do it. I asked her if non-Catholics could go to confession but she said no you couldnt.
PRIEST  But you didnt believe her.
MALKINA  No. I believed her. I just wanted to see what would happen.
PRIEST  So are we done here then?
MALKINA  I havent told you my sins yet.
PRIEST  I dont want to hear your sins. There would be no point. Are you baptized?
MALKINA  I dont know. It's possible.
PRIEST  Your parents never told you?
MALKINA  I never knew my parents. They were thrown out of a helicopter into the Atlantic Ocean when I was three. Look, you dont have to do the forgiveness thing. All you would have to do is listen. To the sins. You could even pretend I was lying. If you didnt like what you were hearing.
PRIEST  Why would you lie?
MALKINA  I wouldnt. But you could think that I was. Maybe I wanted to be wicked but I didnt have the stones for it. So I would just make up stuff. Women tell you about sex, dont they?
PRIEST  I cant talk about that.
MALKINA  Yes. But every woman who comes to confess tells you that she is an adulterer or a fornicator or something or else why would she be here? The only women who dont come are the ones who arent doing anything. So you must get an unusual picture of women. You must think that they are just having sex all the time. That that's all they do. Anyway, I think that women might make up sexy things to tell you just to make you crazy. Dont you think that's possible?
PRIEST  No.
MALKINA  But you dont know. Suppose I told you that I had sex with my sister. Would you believe that?
PRIEST  You really have to go now.
MALKINA  Because I did. We did it every night. As soon as the lights were out we were at it. We'd be falling asleep at our desks the next day at school. They didnt know what was wrong with us. But that's not the worst thing. Where are you going?

The priest pushes back the curtain and exits the confessional. Malkina, kneeling, turns and pushes aside the curtain. The priest is hurrying up the aisle, blessing himself.

MALKINA  (Standing up and calling to the priest) Wait! I wasnt finished!

The women waiting to go to the confession are confused, horrified. One of them blesses herself.
*  *  *  *  *
Border city. Evening. An outdoor cafe adjoining a parking lot. Metal chairs and tables. Traffic. A Mexican man is sitting at one of the tables with a cup of coffee before him and a newspaper. The young man in green pulls up on the Kawasaki ZX-12. He takes off the gloves and the helmet and puts the gloves inside the helmet and steps off of the bike and walks down to where the man is sitting and kicks back a chair and sits down.
A man and a girl are sitting in a parked car. The girl is watching the table through a pair of binoculars.

GIRL  I wont be able to get what the kid is saying. Is that okay?
MAN  (JAIME)  We dont care what the kid is saying.

She is watching through the binoculars and writing on a pad on a clipboard.
The man at the table rises and leaves, leaving the paper on the table. The kid sits at the table and opens the newspaper and sits reading.

JAIME  Did you get it?
GIRL  Yeah. It's not much.
JAIME  That's okay. Keep your eye on him.
GIRL  I am.
JAIME  This guy doesnt read the fucking newspapers.
GIRL  I know.

The kid rakes an object from under the paper into his helmet and puts down the paper and stands and puts the helmet under his arm and crosses the plaza to his bike and puts his foot over the bike and starts it with the starter and pulls his gloves from the helmet and lays them on the tank in front of him and pulls on the helmet and fastens the strap and then pulls on the gloves and kicks back the stand and pulls away into the traffic.

JAIME  Could you see what it was?
GIRL  No. But it's in the helmet.
JAIME  Yeah. It's in the helmet.

The man is dialing a number on his cell phone.
*  *  *  *  *
Reiner's house. Malkina is on the phone.

MALKINA  Look Jaime, he doesnt have to know, he just has to do what I tell him to do. No. It's already downloaded. It's programmed to pick up the bike at above five thousand rpm's and that is coded into the global. The only way we can lose him is if he suddenly decides not to drive over thirty miles an hour and I'll leave you to think about how likely that is. Call me in an hour.

Jaime and the girl in the parked car. Jaime clicks off the cell phone and looks at the girl.

JAIME  Let's go.

*  *  *  *  *
Corner table in an upscale club. The counselor and Reiner.

REINER  I dont know. Women have funny ideas about sex. They're supposed to be so modest? Let me tell you. When they get it into their head that they want to fuck they're like a freight train. The things I've learned about women? Fuck. About half of it I'd like to forget.

He takes a sip of his drink.

COUNSELOR  I'm not sure I follow you. What is it you'd like to forget? For instance.
REINER  You dont want to know.
COUNSELOR  Sure I do.
REINER  Not the worst things.
COUNSELOR  Those in particular.
REINER  Not the very worst.
COUNSELOR  Come off it, Reiner.
REINER  I dont know. Let's talk about something else.
COUNSELOR  Are you shitting me? What else?
REINER  Yeah. I dont know. I shouldnt tell you this.
COUNSELOR  Just pull up your socks and tell me. What is it you'd like to forget?
REINER  All right. I'd like to forget about Malkina fucking my car.
COUNSELOR  What?
REINER  See?
COUNSELOR  What did you just say?
REINER  I said I'd like to forget about Malkina fucking my car. I think.
COUNSELOR  What the hell are you talking about?
REINER  You remember the 328 I had.
COUNSELOR  Sure. Nice car.
REINER  Very nice car. Not a V-12 but a better car than the 308. Which was an embarrassment for a Ferrari. Westray had one and he said that it wouldnt pull a greasy string out of a cat's ass. His metaphor. Is that a metaphor? Anyway, this was a while back. Not that long. We'd been getting it on for a while and we came back one night—we were staying up at Cloudcroft. Mostly for that great stretch of road between Cloudcroft and Ruidoso. And we drove out on the golf course and parked and we're sitting there talking and for no particular reason that I could see she lifts herself up and slides off her knickers and hands them to me and gets out of the car. I asked her what she was doing and she says: I'm going to fuck your car. Jesus. She tells me to leave the door open. Turns out she wants the domelight on. So she goes around and climbs up on the hood of the Ferrari and pulls her dress up around her waist and spreads herself across the windshield in front of me with no panties on. And she's had this Brazilian wax job. And she begins to rub herself on the glass. Dont even think I'm making this up. You cant make this up. I mean, she was a dancer, right? In Argentina? She danced at the opera thing down there. I've seen the clippings. And she does this full split and starts rubbing herself up and down on the glass and she's lying on the roof of the car and she leans down over the side to see if I'm watching. Like, no, I'm sitting there reading my e-mail. And she gestures at me to crank down the window and she leans in and kisses me. Upside down. And then she tells me that she's going to come. And I thought, well, I'm losing my fucking mind. That's what's happening here. It was like one of those catfish things. One of those bottom feeders you see going up the side of the aquarium. Sucking its way up the glass? It was just. I dont know. It was just ... Hallucinatory. You see a thing like that, it changes you.
COUNSELOR  Jesus.
REINER  Tell me about it.
COUNSELOR  Did she?
REINER  Did she what?
COUNSELOR  Did she come?
REINER  Yeah. Sure. Then she just laid there. Spread out across the windshield. Finally she climbs down and comes around and gets in the car and shuts the door and I hand her her knickers and she puts them in her purse and she sort of looks at me. Like to see what I thought about that. What I thought about that? Jesus. I dont know what I thought about that. I still dont. It was too gynecological to be sexy. Almost. But mostly I was just fucking stunned. Maybe I was thinking about the leather. I dont know.
COUNSELOR  The leather.
REINER  Yeah. The seats. You know. Where she was sitting? I mean the car is about two weeks old. Finally I asked her if she'd ever done that before and she said she'd done everything before. Of course. So I start the engine and turn on the lights but the windshield is all smeared and I didnt have anything to wipe it with and of course she suggested that I get out and lick it off and I tried the wipers but naturally the windshield washer thing doesnt work because the Italians dont really believe in that sort of thing and finally I took off my socks and got out of the car and used them.
COUNSELOR  Catfish?
REINER  I dont know. Yeah. I think so.
COUNSELOR  Do you think she knew the kind of effect this might have on a guy?
REINER  Jesus, Counselor. Are you kidding? She knows everything.
COUNSELOR  You dont think this is an odd thing to tell me?
REINER  I think it's an odd thing.
COUNSELOR  Yes, but I mean why would you tell me this? I mean, I know this woman. Why is it okay to tell a thing like that about somebody ...
REINER  Somebody I'm banging?
COUNSELOR  Come on, Reiner.
REINER  I dont know. You're probably right. Maybe I wanted to see what you'd say. Maybe there's more to it than that. Maybe I'm scared.
COUNSELOR  You're scared?
REINER  Yeah. Probably. Yeah. Sometimes she scares the shit out of me.
COUNSELOR  Because of that?
REINER  No. Not that.
COUNSELOR  You're in love with her.
REINER  I dont know what I am. Yeah. I suppose I am in love with her. You dont think that's cause for worry? It's like being in love with ... what? Easeful death? Fuck it. Fuck it, Counselor. Just forget the whole thing.
COUNSELOR  It's just that I dont know what it is that you're trying to tell me.
REINER  I know.
COUNSELOR  Does this have anything to do with the deal?
REINER  I dont know. You're right. I shouldnt have told you. Just forget it.
COUNSELOR  Forget it.
REINER  Yeah.
COUNSELOR  How do you propose that I do that?
REINER  I dont know. Jesus, Counselor. How do I know?

*  *  *  *  *
Malkina's bedroom. She sits in a robe in front of the fire. The cheetahs are lying on the rug at her feet. She is listening on the phone.

LAURA  No. I had a dream about you. And when I woke up I couldnt remember why the dream was so troubling even though I could still remember the dream. I just wanted to call and see if you were all right.
MALKINA  Are you superstitious?
LAURA  I dont think so. No more than the next person.
MALKINA  And who would that be?
LAURA  Excuse me?
MALKINA  The next person. You're not gay are you?
LAURA  No. Of course not. I shouldnt have called. I know you think my world naive. But is that so bad?
MALKINA  I dont know. I cant advise you.
LAURA  I know.
MALKINA  You should be careful what you wish for, Angel. You might not get it.
LAURA  I know.
MALKINA  Do you?
LAURA  Yes. I do.
MALKINA  Good. I'll see you at the club.

*  *  *  *  *
Two-lane blacktop road through the high desert. Night. A car passes and the lights recede down the long straight and fade out. A man walks out from the scrub cedars that line the road and stands in the middle of the road and lights a cigarette. He is carrying a roll of thin monel wire over one shoulder. He continues across the road to the fence. A tall metal pipe is mounted to one of the fenceposts and at the top—some twenty feet off the ground—is a floodlight. The man pushes the button on a small plastic sending unit and the light comes on, flooding the road and the man's face. He turns it off and walks down the fence line a good hundred yards to the corner of the fence and here he drops the coil of wire to the ground and takes a flashlight from his back pocket and puts it in his teeth and takes a pair of leather gloves from his belt and puts them on. Then he loops the wire around the corner post and pulls the end of the wire through the loop and wraps it about six times around the wire itself and tucks the end several times inside the loop and then takes the wire in both hands and hauls it as tight as he can get it. Then he takes the coil of wire and walks out and crosses the road, letting out the wire behind him. In the cedars on the far side a flatbed truck is parked with the bed of the truck facing the road. He walks up to the rear of the truck and turns and pulls the wire taut and shines his flashlight back along the length of it. There is an iron pipe at the right rear of the truckbed mounted vertically in a pair of collars so that it can slide up and down and the man threads the wire through a hole in the pipe and pulls it taut and stops it from sliding back by clamping the wire with a pair of visegrips. Then he walks back out to the road and takes a tape measure from his belt and measures the height of the wire from the road surface. He goes back to the truck and lowers the iron pipe in its collars and clamps it in place again with a threaded lever that he turns by hand against the vertical rod. He goes out to the road and measures the wire again and comes back and wraps the end of the wire through a heavy three-inch iron ring and walks to the front of the truck where he pulls the wire taut and wraps it around itself to secure the ring at the end of the wire and then pulls the ring over a hook mounted in the side rail of the truck bed. He stands looking at it. He strums the wire with his fingers. It gives off a deep resonant note. He unhooks the ring and walks the wire to the rear of the truck until it lies slack on the ground and in the road. He lays the ring on the truck bed and goes around and he takes a walkie-talkie from a work-bag in the cab of the truck and stands in the open door of the truck listening. He checks his watch by the domelight in the cab.

WIRE-MAN  Anything?
VOICE  (MALE)  He's coming.
WIRE-MAN  You're at eight miles.
VOICE  Yeah.
WIRE-MAN  That's less than three minutes.
VOICE  Yeah. Flat out it's about two minutes and twenty seconds.
WIRE-MAN  Can you hear him?
VOICE  Not yet.

They wait.

VOICE  There he is.
WIRE-MAN  Yeah. I hear him. All right. Let's do it.

He hangs up the walkie-talkie and takes the cigarette from his mouth and grinds it into the dirt and shuts the door of the truck. He looks at his watch. Very thin in the distance we can hear the highpitched scream of the Kawasaki bike flat out at eleven thousand rpm.
Shot of the green rider bent low over the bike at one hundred and ninety miles an hour. Suddenly the floodlight comes on and he raises up and turns his head to look at it.
The truck. The desert is suddenly lit to the north of the wire-man and he takes the ring and carries it forward and pulls it over the hook. The wire hums.
Shot of green rider with his face turned back to the floodlight now behind him. Suddenly his head zips away and in the helmet it goes bouncing down the highway behind the bike. The bike continues on, the motor slows and dies to silence, and in the distance we see a long slither of sparks recede into the dark.
The truck. The man clips the wire at the ring with a pair of wirecutters and the wire zips away. He walks out to the road with the walkie-talkie. In the road he shines the light down the blacktop and then walks down the roadside ditch until he comes to the helmet.

WIRE-MAN  (Into walkie-talkie) We're good. Yeah. Over and out.

He puts away the walkie-talkie and bends over and picks up the helmet. It is surprisingly heavy. He goes back to the truck and opens the cab door on the driver's side and puts the helmet in the floor and shuts the door and goes out to the road and crosses to the fence where he cuts the wire free from the fencepost and begins to wind it up as he walks, passing the wire over his elbow at each turn to make a coil of the wire. At the truck he stows the wire in a toolbox under the bed of the truck and gets in the truck and starts it and turns on the lights and turns out into the road.
Desert. Night. At the fence the man is disassembling the pole and floodlight. Disconnecting the wires. The pole is made of sections of 1-5/8 inch galvanized chainlink fencepost that slide one into the next and he puts these in the bed of the truck and puts the small components in the under-bed toolbox.
Desert. Night. The truck pulls out and drives past the headless body sprawled in the road. Then it stops. The man looks out the window of the truck back at the body, then backs up the truck and gets out. He picks up the feet and drags the body into the ditch and wipes his hands on his pants and then gets back in the truck and pulls away down the highway.
*  *  *  *  *
Death row cell, Texas State Penitentiary. Night. Ruth wakes and lies looking up at the ceiling. She sits up, pushing back the bed covers. She sits on the edge of the bunk with her hands folded.
*  *  *  *  *
Front gate of the septic-tank company. The flatbed truck pulls up and the wire-man gets out and shuts the door. He is holding a battery-driven diegrinder in one hand and he watches the road behind him where a single light is approaching. Sound of a motorcycle. The cycle pulls up and halts and the rider gets off and kicks down the stand and the wire-man goes to the gate and turns on the diegrinder and bends to cut the padlock on the gate. A sheaf of sparks lights up the area and the lock falls to the ground in about twenty seconds. He pushes open the gate and then bends and picks up the lock and juggles it in his hand and throws it into the bushes.

WIRE-MAN  (Shaking his hand) Hot son of a bitch.

The second man goes past and turns on a flashlight.

SECOND MAN  You know which one it is?
WIRE-MAN  Yeah. It's got Arizona plates.

The wire-man goes back to the flatbed truck and opens the passenger side door and takes the green motorcycle helmet off the seat and takes out of the helmet a set of keys and a computerized jumper cable with three color coded jacks and shuts the door and follows the second man into the yard where the septic-tank trucks are parked. The second man has opened the door of the truck and pulled the hood release and he goes around to the front of the truck and opens the hood.

WIRE-MAN  Let me see your light.

He takes the light and goes along the side of the truck and picks up a loose set of wires.

SECOND MAN  You know how it goes?
WIRE-MAN  Yeah. It's color coded. Red to red, green to green. Black to black. Here. Hold the light.

He plugs in the connections and hands the keys to the second man.

WIRE-MAN  See if it'll start.

The second man gets in the truck and turns the key. He turns it again.

WIRE-MAN  Wait a minute. This thing's got a switch on it. How do you say on in Mexican?
SECOND MAN  You're shittin me.
WIRE-MAN  Try it now.

The second man cranks the engine and it starts. Wire-man drops the hood and steps back.
*  *  *  *  *
The counselor is sitting in his chair in his condo, listening to Westray on the telephone.

WESTRAY  Counselor.
COUNSELOR  Que pasó?
WESTRAY  We've got a problem.

Silence.

WESTRAY  You there?
COUNSELOR  I'm here. How bad a problem?
WESTRAY  Let's say pretty bad. Then multiply by ten.
COUNSELOR  Fuck.
WESTRAY  What time can you meet me tomorrow?
COUNSELOR  It is tomorrow.
WESTRAY  What time?
COUNSELOR  Nine oclock.
WESTRAY  All right. Where.
COUNSELOR  How about the coffeeshop at the Coronado.
WESTRAY  How about McDonald's? We can start getting used to our new lifestyle.
COUNSELOR  (Softly) Jesus. Coronado. Nine oclock.
WESTRAY  See you at nine.

The counselor hangs up the phone and leans back and puts his hand over his eyes.

COUNSELOR  Fuck. Fuckety fuck fuck fuck fuck.








 
*  *  *  *  *
Coffeeshop of an elegant downtown hotel. The counselor is seated at a corner table watching Westray enter and scan the room. Westray is dressed in a goodlooking suit, no tie. Carrying a newspaper. The counselor looks at his watch. Westray crosses the room to the table.

WESTRAY  Morning.
COUNSELOR  Good morning.

Westray lays the paper on the table and sits.

WESTRAY  You seen the paper?
COUNSELOR  No.

The waitress puts down menus and glasses of water. She knows the counselor and flirts a bit with him. They wait till she has gone before they talk again.

WESTRAY  Do you know who the Green Hornet is?
COUNSELOR  The Green Hornet.
WESTRAY  Yes.
COUNSELOR  He's a cartoon character.
WESTRAY  It's all right. The newspaper doesnt know either. He's a biker.
COUNSELOR  Shit. (Leaning back) All right. What? Is he in custody?
WESTRAY  In a manner of speaking, yes.

The counselor reaches for the paper.

COUNSELOR  It's in the paper? What has he done?
WESTRAY  You dont know anything about this.
COUNSELOR  (Thumbing through the paper) About what?

The counselor stops and looks at Westray.

COUNSELOR  What?

Westray holds out his hand in a gesture that says: Go ahead.

WESTRAY  Like I said: They dont even know who he is.
COUNSELOR  He had no ID on him.
WESTRAY  No. No ID. And no head, actually.
COUNSELOR  No head?
WESTRAY  Mmm.

The counselor sits reading. He looks up.

COUNSELOR  What the hell is this? Does his mother know?
WESTRAY  Oh yes. She thinks they'll probably get to her before the State does. Anyway they did find his head. Read on. Read the part where it says it appeared to have been thrown from the window of a car at speed. I sort of liked that. Car at speed.
COUNSELOR  (Reading) Mother of God. (Looking up) A police spokesperson said the matter is under further investigation?
WESTRAY  I hope you havent done something stupid.
COUNSELOR  (Pushing the paper aside) All right. Why dont you tell me what this is about.
WESTRAY  I thought you might be able to tell me. I had a call from our business partners. They wanted to talk with you.
COUNSELOR  Do I want to talk to them?
WESTRAY  I dont think so. In these circles talk has a slightly different meaning. Anyway, it seems that the deceased was working for them. Now the shipment is missing and the only thing they have to go on is that he was a client of yours.
COUNSELOR  Client? He wasnt a client. I paid a speeding ticket for him.
WESTRAY  Well. I'm perfectly willing to believe you had nothing to do with this but I'm not the party you have to convince.
COUNSELOR  Convince of what, for Christ sake?
WESTRAY  That this is just some sort of coincidence. Because they dont really believe in coincidences. They've heard of them. They've just never seen one.
COUNSELOR  God. So what happened to the shipment?
WESTRAY  I asked them that.
COUNSELOR  And?
WESTRAY  They said: Se fue.
COUNSELOR  Se fue? Jesus.
WESTRAY  Mmm.
COUNSELOR  I need to call his mother.
WESTRAY  Probably not such a good idea.
COUNSELOR  Why is that?
WESTRAY  She says she's going to have you killed.
COUNSELOR  Sweet Jesus.

The waitress comes to the table.

WAITRESS  Sorry about that. What can I get you to drink?
COUNSELOR  Hemlock.
WAITRESS  I'm sorry?
WESTRAY  I'd like an orange juice and coffee and he's having a double Maalox with a side of Oxycontin.
The waitress looks from one to the other, tapping her pencil on her order pad.
WESTRAY  Sorry. Just bring us two coffees. And my OJ.

The waitress moves away.

WESTRAY  How did you wind up with her?
COUNSELOR  The mother?
WESTRAY  The mother. The mother of all mothers.
COUNSELOR  It was a court appointment. An appeal. One of Ferguson's fucked up deals. Look. They cant hook me up to this. What do they think I would do with the stuff?
WESTRAY  They dont know. They dont care. They assume that everybody knows somebody. They do. You need to think about this, Counselor. These people are out twenty mil. Do you know how serious that is?

The counselor sits back and studies Westray.

COUNSELOR  They think we're all involved.
WESTRAY  Why wouldnt they?
COUNSELOR  Reiner too.
WESTRAY  Yes. You fucking genius.
COUNSELOR  (Looking away) Jesus.

The waitress returns and sets down their coffee and the juice.

WAITRESS  Did you want to order?
WESTRAY  No thanks. We've sort of lost our appetites.
COUNSELOR  This is fine, Alexis.

The waitress moves away.

WESTRAY  Have you ever seen a snuff film?
COUNSELOR  No. Have you?
WESTRAY  No. Would you?
COUNSELOR  I would not.
WESTRAY  Because the consumer of the product is essential to its production. You cant watch without being implicated in a murder.
COUNSELOR  But you know someone who's seen one.
WESTRAY  I do. He said that the girl was beheaded with a machete. She was about fourteen and she was being sodomized by a hooded figure and looking into the camera and crying when her head fell off.
COUNSELOR  Jesus.
WESTRAY  You might want to think about that the next time you do a line.
COUNSELOR  I dont do drugs.
WESTRAY  I'm glad to hear that, Counselor. Because it's what was done to her next that you really wouldnt want to see. I wont ask you to use your imagination because I sincerely hope that it wouldnt be up to the task. They led forth a portly and slightly older fellow naked and erect and wearing like the others a black hood with eyeholes. To address himself to the naked and quivering and headless corpse in all its gushing menses which you must remember would not have served his purpose had she not been young and pretty. And all of this he has paid for. Now. What do you think it cost? Ballpark.

The counselor sits with a blank face. Then suddenly he grimaces and turns his face away.

COUNSELOR  Oh Jesus.
WESTRAY  Mmm.
COUNSELOR  God. Do you think that's true?
WESTRAY  I know it's true.
COUNSELOR  There cant be such people.
WESTRAY  Think again, Counselor.
COUNSELOR  Good God.
WESTRAY  The point, Counselor, is that you may think that there are things that these people are incapable of. There aren't.

The counselor sits staring at the table. Westray sips his coffee.
The counselor raises his head and looks at him.

WESTRAY  It's always later than you think, Counselor. I should have jumped ship a long time ago and I didn't.
COUNSELOR  What are you going to do?
WESTRAY  Me? I'll be gone in no time at all.
COUNSELOR  Where will you go?
WESTRAY  Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR  You think I'd rat you out.
WESTRAY  Counselor, if these people got hold of her the Virgin Mary would rat you out.
COUNSELOR  Jesus.
WESTRAY  I've known this was coming for a long time. For all my sins I still believe in a moral order. I'm not so sure about you. And it's not that you're going down, Counselor. It's what you're taking down with you. All right. Take care.

He rises and leaves.
*  *  *  *  *
An upscale restaurant.

MALKINA  So where do you think this is going, mi Capitan.
REINER  This?
MALKINA  Yes.
REINER  I cant really take your question seriously. It's going where it's going.
MALKINA  Either you think everything is going to be okay or you dont want to think about it at all.
REINER  Because the third possibility is not something you're ready to admit to.
MALKINA  Yes. The excluded middle. The Tertium non Datur.
REINER  I dont know, Baby Girl. You read that stuff, I dont. (Pause) I dont like decisions made for me. But if you put them off, waiting for the maximum information, that might be what happens. You think that there is still space enough to make the decision. And then there isnt.
MALKINA  Space.
REINER  Yes.
MALKINA  Greed always takes you to the edge, doesnt it?
REINER  That's not what greed does. That's what greed is.
MALKINA  You know that when the axe comes through the door I'll already be gone. Dont you.
REINER  That's fair enough.
MALKINA  I'm not entirely faithless. You'll see.

Reiner smiles.

MALKINA  You're in trouble.
REINER  Probably.
MALKINA  What do you want me to tell you?
REINER  I dont know. What do you?
MALKINA  I dont know. I miss the ladies.

Reiner tilts his head. Almost a shrug.

MALKINA  I dont know what I can tell you.
REINER  About the ladies?
MALKINA  No. Not about that.
REINER  You'll figure it out.
MALKINA  I know. But the space is closing fast. I know that. The space that you spoke of.
REINER  I dont want to lose you. There.
MALKINA  I know.
REINER  Are you hungry?
MALKINA  I'm starving.
*  *  *  *  *

Reiner's office. The counselor is pacing up and back. He stops and turns.

COUNSELOR  You talked to him.
REINER  Yeah. I talked to him.
COUNSELOR  Can we go somewhere?
REINER  (Rising) Sure.
COUNSELOR  I dont feel comfortable in here.
REINER  Come on.

*  *  *  *  *
Booth in a coffeeshop.

REINER  You asked me that.
COUNSELOR  Yeah. But you didnt answer that.
REINER  You think I know something you dont. Maybe I think the same thing.
COUNSELOR  I've told you everything I know.
REINER  What are you going to do?
COUNSELOR  I dont know. What are you?
REINER  I dont know.
COUNSELOR  That's what Westray said. But he did know. Didnt he?
REINER  I know you dont have any money or you wouldnt be in this jackpot in the first place.
COUNSELOR  Maybe.
REINER  Yeah. Well. I know why I'm in it. Do you?
COUNSELOR  Sure. Same as you. Greed.
REINER  I dont think so. You got in trouble. I tried to appeal to your greed two years ago. No deal. Now it's too late. Greed is greatly overrated. But fear isnt.
COUNSELOR  What do you think I should do?
REINER  I dont know, Counselor. They know that you're stupid. They just dont know how stupid.
COUNSELOR  You say that like it's my hole card.
REINER  Maybe it is.
COUNSELOR  Maybe I could talk to them.
REINER  And say what?
COUNSELOR  I'd tell them the truth.
REINER  You're just a fucking wonder. Did you know that? Go ahead.
COUNSELOR  Go ahead what?
REINER  With the truth. I'd like to hear it.
COUNSELOR  I'd tell them that I'd never even met this kid. That I'd gotten him out of jail on a speeding charge.
REINER  Okay. How did he happen to hire you?
COUNSELOR  He didnt. I got him out of jail as a favor to his mother.
REINER  Okay. How did you happen to know the mother?
COUNSELOR  I was appointed by the court to represent her in an appeal on a capital murder case. She killed her husband. The kid's stepfather.
REINER  Did you know what the kid did for a living?
COUNSELOR  No.
REINER  But you do now.
COUNSELOR  I do now. Yes.
REINER  And would it please you to tell the court what that occupation was?
COUNSELOR  How did I get in court?
REINER  Sorry. I guess I was getting ahead of myself.
COUNSELOR  Very funny.

Reiner stirs his coffee. He lays the spoon steaming on the table.

REINER  Yeah. Well. Probably not.

*  *  *  *  *
The counselor is on a busy street downtown. It is raining. He turns into a cafe and approaches a woman sitting at a table with a poodle.

COUNSELOR  Mam, I'm terribly sorry to bother you but my phone is out and it's something of an emergency. Could I use your phone for just a minute?

The woman looks at him and then hands him her phone which is lying on the table. The counselor dials.

COUNSELOR  Where are you?


I cant call you on my phone.
No. You cant.
Go to a hotel and call me later.
Dont go to the apartment.
Just dont.
It's very important.
I've got to go.
Dont call anyone.
No.
Anyone. I love you.

He rings off and hands the woman her phone.

COUNSELOR  Thank you very much. Very kind of you.

He turns and goes out. The woman finishes her coffee and rises with the dog under her arm and goes out. She puts up her red umbrella and stands holding the poodle and looking out at the street in the rain.
*  *  *  *  *
The septic-tank truck on a two-lane blacktop road in central Texas. A late-model sedan is following it, two men in the car. The passenger in the sedan plugs a flashing red rooflight into the cigar lighter in the dash and reaches out the window and places the light on the roof of the car. Then he takes a black box off the seat and holds it at the window and turns it on and it begins to emit a police siren sound. The septic-tank truck slows and pulls over onto the verge and comes to a halt. The sedan pulls in some distance behind it and the two men get out, putting on white Stetson hats. They are dressed in boots and tan slacks and white shirts and wear automatic sidearms. The driver of the truck—wire-man—watches them in the rearview mirror. The boots of the co-driver of the truck are moving back along the passenger side of the truck. The driver starts the truck and pulls away. The two men in the road have almost reached the truck and they draw their pistols and run forward. The co-driver of the truck is now lying in the bar ditch and when the truck clears his position the two men in the road are exposed directly in front of him and he opens fire on them with a pistol, dropping one of them dead in the road and wounding the other in the leg. The wounded man dives into the ditch on the other side of the road. The truck has come to a stop again, angled slightly toward the road, and the driver opens fire on the wounded man with a pistol from the truck window. The wounded man presses himself flat in the ditch and takes careful aim with his pistol and shoots the driver in the head. The driver's pistol clatters into the road. The co-driver in the ditch sees the pistol fall. He studies the far side of the road and then backs down into the ditch and crouches and runs along the ditch toward the truck. The wounded man sees the man's back moving along the ditch and he stands and fires three rounds after him. The last round hits the tank of the truck and brown sewage starts to spout from the hole. The co-driver reaches the truck and opens the door and clambers in over the body slumped in the floor and crouching over the body he reaches and pushes the clutch to the floor with his hand and drops the shifter into first gear and reaches and releases the emergency brake. He pushes down the accelerator with one hand and lets the clutch out with the other and the truck moves forward into the road. The wounded man climbs out of the ditch and hobbles back to the car and gets in and shuts the door. He lays the pistol on the seat and reaches under the seat and takes out an AR-15 machine-pistol and starts the car and pulls out down the road after the truck. The truck has wandered to the far side of the road and the car pulls up along the passenger side of the truck and the wounded man opens fire with the AR-15, emptying the magazine into the door of the truck. Then he slows the car and backs away and pulls to the verge and sits watching. The truck veers slowly off in front of him and rolls down into the bar ditch where it tilts up onto two wheels and balances for a moment and then drops back onto all four wheels and sits there in silence. The man in the car sits watching. In the rearview mirror he can see a car approaching, very small on the long stretch of blacktop road. He can see the pistol lying in the road and beyond that the dead body. He eases the car forward and comes abreast of the truck in the ditch and stops. He looks in the rearview mirror again. The approaching car is shimmering in the heatwaves off the road. The man's trouserleg is dark with blood to his boot. He places his hand on his thigh and leans forward slightly in pain. He turns the AR-15 on the seat and ejects the empty magazine and reaches under the seat and gets hold of a small canvas bag and puts it in his lap and unzips it and takes out a loaded magazine from among the half dozen in the bag and loads the AR-15 and pulls back the slide to chamber a round. The approaching car has slowed. Now it stops. It turns sideways in the road and backs up and swings around and heads back the way it came. The wounded man has opened the door and he steps out and levels the AR-15 and opens fire on the fleeing car. He empties the magazine and then lowers the gun and stands watching. The car slows and drifts off the road and down into the bar ditch and comes to a stop. The man reaches into the car and gets another magazine and reloads the AR-15 and turns and goes down the bank to the truck.
Sewage is still leaking from the bullethole in the tank. The man limps up to the passenger side of the truck with the gun at the ready and pulls open the door and steps back. Then he steps up and reaches into the truck and pulls out a body by the belt and lets it fall into the grass. Then he pulls the other one out on top of it. He turns and climbs up out of the ditch and stands in the road and looks up the road and down. He limps down the road to the car and gets the pistol and the pouch of magazines off the seat and takes the keys from the ignition and goes to the rear of the car and opens the trunk and gets out his bag. He opens the bag and puts in the machine-pistol and the magazines and closes it again. He puts the pistol in his belt at the small of his back and closes the trunk and walks down the road to the body and sets the bag in the road and takes his knife from his pocket and opens it and kneels painfully and cuts open the dead man's rear pocket and takes out the man's billfold and opens his bag and puts the billfold in and shuts the bag and gets to his feet and picks up the bag and goes back up the road toward the truck.
The man is sitting in the front seat of the septic-tank truck whittling with his knife on a treebranch. His open bag is sitting on the seat beside him. There is a box of nine-millimeter cartridges in the bag and he takes one of the cartridges out and compares the diameter of the bullet to the diameter of the stick he is whittling. Now he cuts a ring around the branch about three inches from the end.
The man climbs down from the cab of the truck and walks back and jams the end of the stick into the hole in the truck. He breaks off the branch and throws it to one side and folds away his knife and wipes his hands on his trousers and taps the plug in more firmly with the pistol and then goes back and climbs painfully up into the cab and shuts the door and rests for a minute with his eyes closed. Then he takes out his cell phone and dials a number and puts the phone to his ear.

WOUNDED MAN  Bueno. Tenemos la troca.
No. Más tiempo.
Por la mañana. Creo que sí.
Sí. A las siete, cómo no.
Problemas? No. Nada de importancia. Ándale pues.

He folds away the phone and rests for a few seconds. Then he starts the truck and drives up out of the ditch and the truck pulls away down the road, the gears shifting.
*  *  *  *  *
The woman with the red umbrella is walking up the street in the rain. A black Escalade pulls up alongside her splashing her with water from the gutter and two men get out. They come from behind with a cloth bag that has a leather belt around it and they pull this over her head and down almost to her knees and one of them pulls the strap and it draws shut instantly about her. They then pick her up by the belt at either side and literally throw her into the rear seat of the vehicle and shut the door and get in and drive away leaving her purse and her poodle and her umbrella on the sidewalk in the rain. Elapsed time about fifteen seconds.
*  *  *  *  *
The counselor is in the handicapped booth of the mens room at an international airport talking on a cell phone.

LAURA  I'm really worried, Baby.
COUNSELOR  It's going to be all right. I'll call you.
LAURA  Cant you meet me someplace?
COUNSELOR  I cant.
LAURA  That's not possible. That you cant.
COUNSELOR  God I miss you.
LAURA  Meet me.
COUNSELOR  We really have to be careful.
LAURA  You said that if they were looking for you they would have already found you. Isnt that what you said?
COUNSELOR  No. Not exactly.
LAURA  How bad is it? Baby?

Silence.

COUNSELOR  All right. Where.
LAURA  You say.
COUNSELOR  Alpha Centauri.
LAURA  That's too far. We'd be too old to do it. How about Boise?
COUNSELOR  Boise?
LAURA  Boise.
COUNSELOR  Why Boise?
LAURA  What's wrong with Boise?
COUNSELOR  Have you ever been to Boise?
LAURA  No. Have you?
COUNSELOR  No. What will you be wearing?
LAURA  A red dress.
COUNSELOR  What else?
LAURA  That's all.
COUNSELOR  No knickers.
LAURA  No.
COUNSELOR  Boise.
LAURA  Yes.
COUNSELOR  Do you have a hotel?
LAURA  I'm looking as we speak.
COUNSELOR  Wednesday.
LAURA  Tomorrow.
COUNSELOR  Wednesday. Leave me a message at the Delta Counter.
LAURA  I love you.
COUNSELOR  I love you.

The counselor folds the phone and drops it into the toilet and flushes it.
*  *  *  *  *
Plywood office of a junkyard in the desert. The junkyard man is talking on the phone. A pitbull lying on a mat at the side of his desk growls and stands up. The man looks up.

JUNKYARD MAN  Tengo un cliente.

He hangs up the phone and looks at the client. The client comes forward in his bloodstained clothes and limps to a stop and reaches into his jacket. The junkyard man looks somewhat alarmed. The dog growls.

WOUNDED MAN  Está bien. No le preocupe.

He takes a false-leather pouch with a bank logo from his coat and unzips it and takes out three banded sheafs of hundreddollar bills and drops them onto the desk. The junkyard man stands up.

JUNKYARD MAN  Cállete, Dulcinea. Cállete.

The dog lies down, grousing.

JUNKYARD MAN  Siempre las más feroces, las perras.

The junkyard. The junkyard man is harrying two boys.

JUNKYARD MAN  Ándale. Pronto! Pronto!
JUNKYARD BOY  Pero es un pickup.
JUNKYARD MAN  Sí, sí. Claro. Es lo mismo. Sólo la frente es diferente. La cabina es la misma. La cabina y las puertas. Ándale.

They run out through the lot, carrying a battered-looking toolbox.
The septic-tank truck, parked in the junkyard lot. One of the doors—bullet-riddled—is off and is standing against the front wheel of the truck. A boy is unscrewing the other door with an electric screwdriver while a second boy holds the door open. The door is propped up on a crate with a two-by-four under its bottom edge and the second boy levers it up to take the weight off it. It falls away and the two boys catch it and take it off and stand it in the weeds against a wrecked car. The driver's door has exit holes and the passenger door entry holes—and more of them.
The junkyard. The two boys with the toolbox catch the door they've removed from a pickup truck and carry it down past the rows of wrecked cars to the septic-tank truck.
The junkyard. The doorless septic-tank truck is being jacked up on one side with two floor jacks. The junkyard man operates one of the jacks. The plug has been removed from the hole in the tank and the sewage is leaking from the hole.

JUNKYARD MAN  Más atrás. Más.

The truck tilts up and the leak slows and then stops.
Junkyard. The owner is standing in a chair with welding goggles on and holding an oxyacetylene torch. He melts lead from a stick and spreads it over the bullethole in the tank with a wooden paddle.
Septic-tank truck. Two girls are scrubbing out the cab with brushes and pails of water. The seat is out of the truck. One of the doors has been put on and the junkyard man swings it shut and opens it again and adjusts the latch with a screwdriver. One of the boys is spray-painting the other door where it stands against some stacked parts with the window down.
A mobile home at the edge of the junkyard. A car pulls up in the drive and a woman gets out carrying a red plastic toolbox. She climbs the stairs where a girl holds the door for her.
Interior mobile home. The wounded man is lying on a cheap sofa with his leg stretched out on a coffeetable that is covered with a sheet. There is a plastic bucket in the floor with bloody gauze. The woman finishes wrapping his leg and turns and takes a syringe from her toolbox and unwraps it.
Reiner's house. Malkina's bedroom.

MALKINA  (On the telephone) Look. The last I heard they had just gone through Midland Texas. That was about twelve hours ago. Since then nothing. So I picked up the phone and called the sheriff and asked him if they had found any dead bodies along the highway down there and he said yes they had and I thanked him and hung up. I know you think I'm kidding. I'm not kidding. And I'm not out. And I'm not kidding about that either. And yes. I know where the truck is. All right. Really? Well I think that falls under the category of tough shit. We're all done here.

She hangs up the telephone.
*  *  *  *  *
City street at night. A light rain is falling. Reiner in the white Cadillac Escalade. The two cheetahs are in the rear. A black Escalade pulls past and turns in front of him and cuts him off and stops. Reiner hits the brakes and jams the gearshift into reverse and turns to back up, his arm over the back of the seat. The cheetahs are slammed about. Another Escalade pulls in behind him and he slams the shifter back into drive again and cuts the wheel to try to pull around the Escalade in front of him but it has backed up and he is trapped between the two vehicles. The driver has jumped out of the front Escalade and he comes to Reiner's window and slams a prybar against it but it only bounces off the glass. He slams it again. A second man comes up and waves him away and jams a device against the door that looks a bit like a shop router. He pulls down a lever over the top of the machine and it fires a plunger into the door with a sound like a pistol shot and he pushes another lever up and pulls the door open with the device still attached. He reaches in and grabs Reiner by the collar and pulls him half way out of the vehicle. Reiner claws at his trouserleg and comes up with a short barreled revolver from an ankle-holster.

MAN WITH PRYBAR  Cuidado!

The man pulling Reiner from his vehicle drops him and leaps back and pulls an automatic pistol from the rear of his belt. Reiner fires wildly and the man fires three rounds into Reiner and Reiner slides out to lie face down in the street. His gun clatters away. The man with the automatic pistol half turns away and bangs the sides of his head with the heels of his fists in frustration. The man with the prybar throws up his hands.

MAN WITH PISTOL  Madre de Jesus! Hijo de puta!

He kicks the dead man in the head and turns. He throws one hand up in the air.

MAN WITH PRYBAR  Vámanos.

The man with the pistol shoves the gun into the back of his belt and pulls up the lever on the doorjacker and pulls it away and turns and kicks the corpse again.

MAN WITH PISTOL  Pendejo.

The two men turn and go back to the Escalade and get in and pull away. The Escalade blocking Reiner's vehicle at the rear pulls past and follows and they disappear down the street in the rain. The two cheetahs at the rear window of the vehicle move to the side and sit looking out. A few people come forward from the surrounding buildings and stand looking. Two teenagers who are watching run out into the street and one takes Reiner's gun and the other his wristwatch and they take his billfold and turn him over face up and search the inside pockets of his coat and then they disappear in the rain. Reiner is lying face up in the street with the rain falling into his eyes.
*  *  *  *  *
City street in the rain. Night. Reiner is lying face up in the rain beneath the open door of the Escalade and the two cheetahs are crouched at either side of him and looking about furtively. One of them nudges Reiner's body with its nose.
*  *  *  *  *
Counselor on phone at his condominium.

COUNSELOR  I didnt think I'd reach you. Do you know where Reiner is?
WESTRAY  No.
COUNSELOR  He doesnt answer his cell and the phone at the club doesnt even ring.
WESTRAY  The club's closed. Some of Reiner's little friends showed up looking for him and it wound up with them roughing up some of the customers. All the help ran out the back door. The cats are gone. So that's pretty much that. I mean if you wanted to get shot having dinner you could just go to Juarez.
COUNSELOR  When was this?
WESTRAY  Two nights ago.
COUNSELOR  Have you talked to him?
WESTRAY  Yes.
COUNSELOR  What did he say?
WESTRAY  He said he was going to try and find his cats. Before some dumb fucking cop shot them—his words. They've got these electronic tracking collars but they can cover a hell of a lot of ground in pretty short order. Where are you?
COUNSELOR  I'm home.
WESTRAY  I'm surprised you're still there.
COUNSELOR  I wont be in an hour.
WESTRAY  An hour.
COUNSELOR  Yeah.
WESTRAY  Well, you might want to think about whether you should loll around there all that long.
COUNSELOR  Where are you?
WESTRAY  I'm not at home.

Silence.

COUNSELOR  All right. I'm just going to throw some things in the car.
WESTRAY  In the car.
COUNSELOR  Yeah.
WESTRAY  What are you? A mental defective?

The counselor goes to the window and looks out.

COUNSELOR  What am I supposed to drive?
WESTRAY  I cant advise you, Counselor. Call a cab.

Silence.

WESTRAY  You're pretty quiet.
COUNSELOR  Yeah.
WESTRAY  Let me tell you something, Counselor. If your description of a friend is someone who will die for you then you dont have any friends. All right. I've got to go.
COUNSELOR  All right.
WESTRAY  You take care now.
COUNSELOR  Yeah.

The phone clicks to dial tone.
*  *  *  *  *
Back yard of a suburban middle class home. The two cheetahs are walking along the edge of the swimming pool. One stops to sniff at the water. In the pool are two boys, aged eight and ten. They stand frozen. A man reclining in a poolside canvas chair lowers the paper he is reading to see what the silence is about. He freezes, holding the paper at the level of his chest. The cheetahs amble slowly along the edge of the pool and out across the lawn. The man lowers the paper into his lap. The two boys turn to look at him. The oldest turns to look where the cheetahs have gone and turns to the man again.

BOY  Dad?

The man closes his eyes and raises one hand palm-out. Almost as if in blessing.
*  *  *  *  *
International Airport. Laura gets out of a rental car at the airport rental parking lot and pulls her bag over her shoulder and takes her suitcase off of the passenger seat and shuts the door.
Laura coming down the aisle of the parking lot trailing her suitcase on wheels behind her. A black Escalade is coming down the row behind her. At the end of the row of cars another Escalade pulls in front of her and stops. Two men get out. She turns but the other Escalade has pulled up behind her. She drops the handle of her suitcase and turns to run between the parked cars but a man seizes her by the arm and pushes her back toward the vehicle. She is struggling furiously but the other man grabs her hair and pulls her around and opens a switchblade knife in her face and she stops and lowers her head.
*  *  *  *  *
An upscale hotel room, king size bed, flowers in a vase on the dresser. Night. The counselor is at the window looking out at the rain.
Entrance to the hotel. The counselor is standing looking out at the street.

DOORMAN  Sir? Did you need a cab?
COUNSELOR  No. Thank you. I'm all right.

Hotel bar. The counselor is sitting at a small table in the corner. The waiter passes his table and stops.

WAITER  You all right here Sir?
COUNSELOR  Sorry?
WAITER  Can I bring you something?
COUNSELOR  No. Thank you.

The waiter turns to go and then turns back.

WAITER  Are you all right Sir?

The counselor looks up at the waiter.

COUNSELOR  Will you do something for me?
WAITER  Yessir. Of course.

The counselor takes out his billfold and takes out a card and hands it to the waiter.

COUNSELOR  That's my card. I'm a guest at the hotel. What I wish you would do for me is go to the desk and see if I have any messages. I know you're wondering why I dont go myself. But I've bothered them so much I think they're beginning to figure me for some sort of nutcase and I'm afraid they'll stop looking.
WAITER  (Taking the card) You got it.

Hotel room. Boise, Idaho.

COUNSELOR  Baby, please answer. Please answer. I dont know where you are. And if I dont know where you are I dont know where I am. I dont. I was lost all my life. I cant be lost again. I cant, Baby. I cant. The world without you is nothing. Just nothing.

Law office. Juarez Mexico. The counselor and a Mexican attorney or abogado. He is seated at his desk, his crocodile boots crossed on the desk top. He looks thoughtful. The counselor sits waiting.

ABOGADO  (Mexican accent) All right. I will have to make a call. You understand. Then if it is all right it is all right. Dont put me in the center. Okay?
COUNSELOR  In the middle.
ABOGADO  In the middle. Yes.
COUNSELOR  What do I owe you.
ABOGADO  You owe me nothing, Counselor. We are friends. A handshake. Wait for me. Have a coffee. I will have a yes or a no.

The counselor rises and reaches across the desk. The abogado rises. They shake hands.

COUNSELOR  Thank you.

The counselor turns to go.

ABOGADO  Counselor.
COUNSELOR  (Turning) Yes.
ABOGADO  I will do what I can do. But you must know that this is the long shot.
COUNSELOR  Yes. I do. Thank you.
ABOGADO  You're not—what do you call it? In hiding?
COUNSELOR  No. I was hiding. Now I'm seeking.
ABOGADO  Of course.
COUNSELOR  Thank you.

The abogado nods.
*  *  *  *  *
The counselor on the phone in a hotel room in El Paso.

JEFE  (Spanish accent) Yes. But I can only tell you what I told our friend. That there is no one to talk to.
COUNSELOR  Could I come to the Florída?
JEFE  The Florída is closed.
COUNSELOR  I would do whatever you suggest.
JEFE  But I have nothing to suggest, Counselor.
COUNSELOR  We could meet someplace.
JEFE  We are meeting now.
COUNSELOR  There must be someone I could see.
JEFE  I am afraid that there is no longer such a person. That is a thing of the past. I am afraid that there is no one to see.
COUNSELOR  Please dont hang up.
JEFE  I have some time. It is all right. I am just having my lunch.
COUNSELOR  There are people there?
JEFE  There is no one here. The waiter. I enjoy to have my lunch alone. It is more peaceful.
COUNSELOR  I'm not sure that you understand my position.
JEFE  But I do, Counselor. I lost a son. Two years ago. I thought that someone would call. To demand money. But there was no call. I never saw my son again. He was sixteen.
COUNSELOR  I'm sorry.
JEFE  Where the bodies are buried in the desert is a certain world, Counselor. Where they are simply left in the street is another. That is a country heretofore unknown to me. But it must have always been here, must it not?
COUNSELOR  I dont know.
JEFE  Sí, sí. Con hielo, por favor. I'm sorry. You were saying.

The counselor is clutching the phone and leaning with the heel of his hand against his forehead, his eyes closed. He opens his eyes.

COUNSELOR  I dont know what I was saying.
JEFE  People are waiting. For what? At some point you must acknowledge that this new world is at last the world itself. There is not some other world. It is not merely a he ate us.
COUNSELOR  Hiatus.
JEFE  I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR  Hiatus. I believe the word is hiatus.
JEFE  Hiatus. Thank you, Counselor.

Silence.

COUNSELOR  Will you help me?
JEFE  I would urge you to see the truth of your situation, Counselor. That is my advice. It is not for me to say what you should have done. Or not done. I only know that the world in which you seek to undo your mistakes is not the world in which they were made. You are at a cross in the road and here you think to choose. But here there is no choosing. There is only accepting. The choosing was done long ago.

Silence.

JEFE  Are you there, Counselor?
COUNSELOR  Yes.
JEFE  I dont mean to upset you, but reflective men often find themselves at a certain remove from the realities of life. In any case, to prepare a place in our lives for the tragedies to come is an economy few wish to practice. Do you know the works of Antonio Machado?
COUNSELOR  No. I know his name.
JEFE  A lovely poet. I think his work does not translate so well. But the spanish is very beautiful. He was a schoolteacher and he married a very beautiful young girl whom he loved very much. And she died. And so he became a great poet.
COUNSELOR  I'm not going to become a great poet.
JEFE  Perhaps not. But even were you to do so, it would be of little help to you. Machado would have given every line he wrote for one more hour with his beloved. There is no rule of exchange here, you see. Grief transcends every value. A man would give whole nations to lift it from his heart. And yet with it you can buy nothing.

Silence. The counselor holds his wrist to his forehead, his eyes closed.

JEFE  When my son was lost to me I would not pray for that which I should most fervently have wished for. I could not.
COUNSELOR  A speedy death.
JEFE  I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR  Why are you telling me this?
JEFE  Because you stand at that crossing of which we spoke. You may dedicate your life to grief or not. The choice is yours. The assassin would claim you as well, but he will require your compliance. And of course he puts nothing of himself at hazard. He seeks to know what the warrior knows, but he has no stomach for the warrior's way. He is a usurper and a pimp. And as he is without courage he is greatly to be feared. He would explore that realm to which we are all consigned, but his way is to send an emissary. To bring his victim to the edge of the precipice with the greatest care and then lean to inquire if there be any news. Some word amid the sobbing. Amid the bleeding and the cries and the terror. Not even in the act of love will one be the object of such solicitude and such care.
COUNSELOR  Why are you telling me this?
JEFE  Because you cannot accept the reality of your life.
COUNSELOR  Why do you care?
JEFE  Do you love your wife so completely that you would take her place upon the wheel? Not die for her. That is easy. But that your nerve would not fail you as they bend to buckle the straps?
COUNSELOR  Yes. Yes, damn you.

Silence.

JEFE  That is good to hear, Counselor.
COUNSELOR  What are you saying? Are you saying that this is possible?
JEFE  No. It is not possible. Sí. Un cafecito. Por favor. Negro. Negro, sí. Gracias. I'm sorry, Counselor.
COUNSELOR  You said I was that man. At that crossing.
JEFE  Yes. At the understanding that life will not take you back. I have no wish to paint the world in colors more somber than those it wears, but as the world gives way to darkness it becomes more and more difficult to dismiss the understanding that the world is in fact oneself. It is a thing which you have created, no more, no less. And when you cease to be so will the world. There will be other worlds. Of course. But they are the worlds of other men and your understanding of them was never more than an illusion anyway. Your world—the only one that matters—will be gone. And it will never come again. The extinction of all reality is a concept no resignation can encompass. Until annihilation comes. And all grand ideas are seen for what they are. And now I must go. I have calls to make, and then, if there is time, I will take a little nap.

The phone rings off.
*  *  *  *  *
Night. Malkina and the black weight-lifter are driving through the outskirts of the city. She is sitting with a GPS and a tracking monitor for the transponder. A narrow two-lane blacktop road in the headlights. Some lights in the distance. They come to a crossroads and the weight-lifter slows and looks at her.

MALKINA  Left. Go left.

They drive slowly along the road. Suddenly one of the cheetahs crosses the road ahead of them in the lights.

MALKINA  (Almost crying) It's Silvia. Hi, Baby. Hi, Baby.

A garage, the septic-tank truck. There is a gantry crane overhead—a chain hoist that slides on iron rails—and a man in coveralls and welding glasses is slicing open the tank of the truck laterally from front to rear with a cutting torch.
Garage. A welder is on top of the tank welding a metal bar to the tank. There is a heavy metal hook bolted through the bar and a similar hook is already in place toward the front of the truck. He finishes and tips up his mask and stands and pulls the hoist toward him along the rails with its chains swinging.
Garage. The top half of the tank is being lifted by the two hooks and the chains from the single hook hanging from the pulley. Inside the severed tank lie four fifty-five gallon steel drums. The gantry crane moves down the rail and lowers the top of the tank to the concrete floor behind the truck and a worker—in coveralls and wearing a mask—unhooks the chains and then the gantry moves back over the truck and he hooks a crosschain to the first of the barrels and tightens it with its turnbuckle and the first of the drums is lifted out of the tank.
The washbay in the corner of the garage. The four drums are standing upright on pallets and the worker in coveralls and rubber boots is hosing them down with a steamwasher.
*  *  *  *  *
Streets of Juarez. There is a yellow police ribbon strung across sawhorses blocking off the street and in the middle distance is a car that has been machinegunned. One door is open and there is a dead body in the street. Police cars with their roof-lights strobing. In the foreground people are marching with signs and with banners. They contain large full color portraits of the missing. The signs say: Desaparecido, or Desaparecido with a date following. They say: Se Busca A with a name following. Some of the women carry umbrellas against the sun and some carry crosses of raw wood and crosses with wreaths mounted on them. A khaki-colored Army jeep with a soldier in battle-dress at the rear of a mounted machinegun fords its way through the crowd. The counselor is among the mourners, carrying a poster with a color photograph of Laura.
*  *  *  *  *
Three men in breathing masks at the washbay. One is in workclothes and one is in white coveralls. The third, well dressed in slacks and sportcoat, is the Buyer. The worker has an electric driver and is unfastening the tops of the drums. One of them is already open and the man in coveralls takes out four clear plastic bags each holding a kilo of cocaine. The worker unscrews the bolt on the second drum and lifts away the rim that circles the top of the drum and then lifts away the top of the drum and moves on to the next drum. The buyer follows the man in coveralls across the garage. They have removed their masks.

BUYER  Why are there four drums?
COVERALL MAN  (Mexican accent) I dont know. I think maybe we have a traveler.
BUYER  A traveler?
COVERALL MAN  Yes. A free rider. How do you say? Like you have on a ship. A something away.
BUYER  A stowaway?
COVERALL MAN  Yes. A stowaway.
WORKMAN  Madre de Jesus!

The coverall man turns, smiling. The workman has left the washbay and he has pulled away his mask and is almost gagging.

WORKMAN  Son of a beetch!
COVERALL MAN  Cierrelo! Pronto! Pronto!

He turns and goes through a metal door, laughing. The Buyer follows him up a set of concrete steps, iron pipe railing.
A small office with a glass window looking down to where the septic-tank truck is parked. Coverall man and the Buyer are sitting at a cheap metal table. There are computers on the table. A scale and some plates and the plastic bags of cocaine.

BUYER  In the last two accounts we're only an hour different. But it's another day. It's tomorrow.
COVERALL MAN  Yes. I love that.
BUYER  We're okay. We have what? Four hours?
COVERALL MAN  Yes. Perhaps we should know if electronic money earns an extra day of interest when it crosses the International Date Line.
BUYER  Good question. Why do they send you a dead body?
COVERALL MAN  No reason. It is convenient.
BUYER  Convenient.
COVERALL MAN  Yes. There is always somebody you wish for him to go away. So you send him to America.
BUYER  Do you know who he is?
COVERALL MAN  No. Of course not. He is a pasajero.
BUYER  A passenger?
COVERALL MAN  Yes. An immigrant.
BUYER  It's just a way to get rid of a body.
COVERALL MAN  Yes. Just a way. Somebody you dont want around.
BUYER  From Mexico.
COVERALL MAN  From Colombia.
BUYER  He came from Colombia.
COVERALL MAN  Yes. Of course.
BUYER  What will you do with him?
COVERALL MAN  Nothing. He goes back in the truck.
BUYER  He goes back in the truck.
COVERALL MAN  Of course.
BUYER  And then what?
COVERALL MAN  Nothing. It is normal. Well. Not so normal I suppose. They think it is funny. A sort of joke. You have to have a sense of humor in this business.
BUYER  So what happens to him?
COVERALL MAN  Nothing. The truck goes back together. They paint it. He is inside. He rides around. Maybe they sell the truck. At auction maybe. It's all the same. He rides around some more. Sucking up the shit. Welcome to America.

He smiles broadly. He checks the time by his Rolex.
*  *  *  *  *
A cafe in a border town. The counselor is lying at one of the cheap formica tables with his head in his folded arms, the photograph poster of Laura on the table.

CAFE MAN  Señor.
COUNSELOR  Yes.
CAFE MAN  Señor.

The counselor sits up and looks at the man.

CAFE MAN  I must close.
COUNSELOR  I know.

The counselor is haggard and unshaven.

CAFE MAN  What you do? You have no place to go maybe.
COUNSELOR  You dont have to go home but you cant stay here.
CAFE MAN  Cómo?
COUNSELOR  It's all right.

The counselor rises, picking up the photograph.

COUNSELOR  I fell asleep. I'm sorry.
CAFE MAN  There is no harm.
COUNSELOR  No harm. Lovely thought. Magical thought.
CAFE MAN  Cómo?
COUNSELOR  Good night.
CAFE MAN  Es muy peligroso. En las calles.
COUNSELOR  I know.
CAFE MAN  They hear somebody in the street they shoot them. Then they turn on the light to see who is dead.
COUNSELOR  Why do they do that?
CAFE MAN  (Shrugging) To make a joke. To show that death does not care. That death has no meaning.
COUNSELOR  Qué piensa? Usted. Do you believe that?
CAFE MAN  No. Of course not. All my family is dead. I am the one who has no meaning.
COUNSELOR  Entiendo.
CAFE MAN  Cuidado. Sí?
COUNSELOR  Sí. Cuidado.
CAFE MAN  Quién es? La Señora.
COUNSELOR  (Turning at the door) Mi esposa.
CAFE MAN  Ah. Guapa. Lo siento.

The counselor stands at the door.

COUNSELOR  Sí. Guapa. What is that?
CAFE MAN  It means she is beautiful.
COUNSELOR  No. I mean what does that mean? What is it? Beautiful.
CAFE MAN  I dont know. It is late.
COUNSELOR  Yes. Good night.
CAFE MAN  Good night, Amigo. Good night.

*  *  *  *  *
The counselor goes down an alley to a door and takes out a key and lets himself in. A bleak hallway, linoleum floor. A lightbulb hanging from the ceiling. He lets himself in at the first door on the right and turns on the light. A room with an iron bed and a cheap dresser and a sink. He fastens the chain and crosses to the bed and sits. He puts his poster on the bed beside him and lowers his face into his hands. Machinegun fire briefly in the distance.
*  *  *  *  *
International Airport. Westray exits carrying a medium-sized bag and a shoulder bag. He is dressed in a dark suit. He stands at the curb studying the cabs and limousines and then he crosses the street to a black town car and opens the door and gets in. The driver is an attractive woman who wears a chauffeur's cap. She turns and smiles at him.

WESTRAY  Me gusta su sombrero.
CHAUFFEUR  Thank you.
WESTRAY  The International.
CHAUFFEUR  (Smiling) I know.

She turns and starts the engine and they pull out into the traffic.
*  *  *  *  *
Desk at a major hotel in a world city. Westray is standing at the counter with his passport and credit card. He is waiting while the clerk checks his reservation. A very attractive blonde is standing a few feet away, checking in. She is dressed in a dark business suit and carries a large shoulder bag. Westray looks her over. She glances at him.

WESTRAY  How are you doing?
BLONDE  Okay. You're Canadian.
WESTRAY  You saw my passport. Where are you from?
BLONDE  New Mexico.
WESTRAY  Have a drink with me.
BLONDE  What?
WESTRAY  Have a drink with me. You're not married.
BLONDE  No.
WESTRAY  Get checked in. We can sit right over there. They'll bring us whatever we want.
BLONDE  You're a masher.
WESTRAY  A masher? Lord. Where did you hear that?
BLONDE  I'm teasing. I think.
WESTRAY  I'm a very decent chap. You'll see.
BLONDE  Do you have any references?
WESTRAY  Mmm. This is getting better all the time.

*  *  *  *  *
World city. Malkina, dressed in a business suit, is crossing the street. She walks down the sidewalk to a jeweler's window and stands looking at the display behind the glass.
Sidewalk cafe in the city. Malkina is looking at a scrap of paper and talking to the blonde from the hotel desk.

MALKINA  Five digits. Who's Rowena?
BLONDE  I dont know.
MALKINA  Social. His driver's license is Nevada?
BLONDE  Yes.
MALKINA  All right. Your little bonus is in an envelope in my purse.

The Blonde opens one of two purses on the table and takes out the envelope and puts it in the other purse.

BLONDE  You still wont have his computer.
MALKINA  I'll have the computer. Were you planning on seeing him again?
BLONDE  What would be the point? He'll be broke.
MALKINA  Smart girl.
BLONDE  Or is it worse than that?
MALKINA  What do you care?
BLONDE  I dont want to get mixed up in something heavy.
MALKINA  You already are.
BLONDE  How do you mean?
MALKINA  What if he were to come looking for you?
BLONDE  But he wont. Will he?
MALKINA  No. He wont.

The Blonde sits staring at the sidewalk.

BLONDE  Oh, Jesus.

She gets up and takes her purse and takes out the envelope and puts it on the table.

MALKINA  What's that?
BLONDE  I dont want it.
MALKINA  Dont be a sap.
BLONDE  I cant. I have to go.
MALKINA  Well. Please yourself. You know what I like about Americans?
BLONDE  (Blinking back the tears, angry) No. What?
MALKINA  (Smiling) You can depend on them.

*  *  *  *  *
Morning. The counselor is asleep on the cot with his clothes on. There is a knocking at the door. He sits up. The knocking again.

COUNSELOR  Momento. Momento.

He crosses the room and undoes the chain and opens the door.
A young man is standing there holding a package.

DELIVERY BOY  Está el abogado?
COUNSELOR  Sí.

The boy hands him the package and smiles and touches his cap and turns to go.

COUNSELOR  Momento. Qué es este?

The boy is at the outer door. He turns and holds out both hands.

DELIVERY BOY  Yo no sé. Un regalo. Quién sabe? Ábralo.

The boy goes out. The counselor goes back into his room and sits on the cot looking at the package. It is about five inches square and wrapped in paper and tied with a blue ribbon. He pulls the ribbon loose and it falls to the floor. He unwraps the paper and sits looking at a DVD. Suddenly he realizes what it is and he turns and drops it onto the bed like something hot and clutches at his face, his hands clawed.

COUNSELOR  Oh God. Oh God. Oh God.

*  *  *  *  *
A major street, world city. Westray comes out of a large building, possibly a bank. He is dressed in a tan summer business suit and he is carrying a small black canvas bag. As he exits into the street a man comes up behind him and drops the wire of a bolito over his head and pulls the wire taut by its loop. Westray instantly drops the bag and seizes the wire about his neck and turns, wild-eyed. The assassin picks up the bag in one movement and steps from the curb into the street where he gets into a taxicab that is waiting for him with the door open. The cab pulls away into the traffic.
Westray turning, the fingers of one hand caught in the wire now being severed and the wire drawing into his neck. His collar is red with blood. He sits down on the pavement and kicks his feet, as if in annoyance. Almost like a petulant child. Pedestrians have begun to stop, although at a distance. The gearmotor of the bolito is grinding. Westray falls over, kicking. His left carotid artery bursts and bright red blood sprays in a fountain into the air and splashes back on the sidewalk. The spectators draw back.
Inside the cab Malkina is sitting in the back seat with the assassin. She takes the case and puts it in her lap and unzips it and sorts through it. She takes out a computer and she looks through the papers in a folder. She unzips a pocket in the case and takes out a pair of passports. She takes out an envelope. A jump drive. She puts all these things in her shoulder bag and takes out an envelope and hands it to the assassin and he puts it in his shirt and she zips shut her shoulder bag and leans and taps the cabdriver on the shoulder.

MALKINA  Aquí, por favor.
CABDRIVER  Aquí?
MALKINA  Sí.

The cab pulls to the curb and Malkina hands the driver some bills and gets out and shuts the door. The cabdriver looks at the money and purses his mouth in surprise and approval. He turns to the man in the back.

CABDRIVER  A dónde?

The assassin is watching Malkina as she disappears among the pedestrians. Her elegant fitted clothes.
*  *  *  *  *
Sidewalk cafe. World city. Malkina at a table with Lee—a twenty-five-year-old Chinese American.

LEE  What do you have? Do you have the CAs?
MALKINA  I have two of them.
LEE  Can you get the other two?
MALKINA  Yes. I've got a search engine downloading them out of another computer.
LEE  There's another player.
MALKINA  No. He's out of the picture.
LEE  How far out?
MALKINA  All the way out.
LEE  You're sure.
MALKINA  Very sure.

Lee studies her.

LEE  Do you ever get a sudden dark feeling about something?
MALKINA  Concerning a deal?
LEE  Concerning anything.
MALKINA  I dont know. But I could imagine that my dark and your dark are different darks.
LEE  All right.
MALKINA  I'll have everything by tomorrow that there is to get. What we dont have we'll just have to figure out. I've got the routing numbers and the account numbers. I've got the source code but we'll have to have a compiler to translate everything into machine-readable code. It's all doable.
LEE  VPNs and routers.
MALKINA  Yes.
LEE  Passwords.
MALKINA  What is it you really want to know?
LEE  There's somebody else. Your bank guy?
MALKINA  He gets ten percent and all his costs come out of his end.
LEE  Are you Ukrainian?
MALKINA  No. Soy pura Porteña.
LEE  All right.
MALKINA  You dont have to worry about my connections. I'm an independent operator.
LEE  I worry about everything. That's why I'm still in business. This is basically a spoof.
MALKINA  If you like.
LEE  All right. What is it that you want to know?
MALKINA  I'd like to know how clean you are.
LEE  I dont keep anything around that I dont have to.
MALKINA  Yes. Well you can have a basic tool kit with Sequel servers and whatever but a remote access Trojan Horse like Zrizbi or Torig is not for keeping track of your household expenses.
LEE  It's not illegal to own one.
MALKINA  That's not the point. When they find it they keep looking.
LEE  Okay.
MALKINA  You can clone your cell phone with a SIM writer but the bills keep going to the number you're cloned off of so you cant use it forever.
LEE  We dont want to use it forever.
MALKINA  I know. But you dont know how much time you have. Forever can be pretty fucking short. Plus hackers think you cant trace a cloned cell phone but that's not really true any more. And if they get a trace they can use a Stingray and locate you physically to within about five feet. You dont want that in your life.
LEE  All right. How many calls total, four?
MALKINA  Yes.
LEE  Voice crypt.
MALKINA  Yes. Separate shoes.
LEE  Yeah, well, on the subject of security I know that you understand nothing gets off the hard drive, but this would still come under the heading of time constraints.
MALKINA  I'm not worried about that. What's out there is out there. They think their traffic analysis is sophisticated but by definition it has to lag the protocols that generate it. As for the physical computers you just put them in the oven and set it to four-fifty and walk away. Everything I need to take with me I can download onto a USB stick.
LEE  Double encrypted.
MALKINA  Yes.
LEE  Random seed.
MALKINA  Yes.
LEE  All right. Let me look at it. We havent talked money.
MALKINA  Quarter mil.
LEE  I dont suppose you'd tell me what the caper is worth.
MALKINA  Why not? You're going to see it up on the screen anyway. It's twenty-two mill, give or take whatever. And if we nail all four accounts.
LEE  You could boot that quarter up a bit.
MALKINA  All right.
LEE  Five hundred K.
MALKINA  That's not a bit. That's double.
LEE  Four hundred.
MALKINA  Done.
LEE  Cash.
MALKINA  Cash. Do you need something up front?
LEE  No. I'm good. What are you going to do, float a bank loan?
MALKINA  Something like that.

*  *  *  *  *
City street. Ambulance siren. The ambulance pulls up onto the sidewalk where Westray is lying, parting the crowd. Three medics get out and go to the body and place a sheet over it and one of them takes a pulse at the wrist and then they get a gurney out of the ambulance and place it on the sidewalk and one of the medics picks up the body by the feet and the other two take hold at either side and they lift the body onto the gurney still covered by the sheet. A gasp goes up from the crowd and when the medics turn to look Westray's severed head is still lying on the sidewalk together with the bolito.
*  *  *  *  *
Landfill on the outskirts of Juarez. Bleak desert landscape with raw mountains hazy in the distance. Sound of a bulldozer. The landfill is a rubble of nameless trash. There are fires burning and smoke drifts across the fill. Families in the distance are picking through the garbage. Women and children. They carry woven shopping bags over their shoulders. A few buzzards strut about. An old ten-ton dumptruck labors across the landfill and turns and halts and backs and comes to a stop and the driver pulls the lever and the bed tips up and dumps its load of trash. The driver jiggles the lever and the bed clangs and then he lowers the bed into place and the truck lumbers away. A dusty yellow bulldozer pulls up and begins to grade the trash away into the fill. A girl's body comes up in the trash and then rolls under again. The bulldozer backs and then goes forward again. The headless body of Laura in her red dress appears briefly and then disappears in the trash and garbage.
*  *  *  *  *
World city, apartment in a high rise building. Night. The reflection of Lee's face in the glass. Reflection of a bank of computers behind him. The lights of the city below. Malkina crosses the room and then crosses back.
Lee and Malkina sitting at the computers. She is wearing a set of headphones. Lines of text running on the screens.

LEE  What's the time delay again?
MALKINA  (Taking off headset) What?
LEE  I'm just rattling your cage.
MALKINA  Dont.
LEE  All right.

Malkina brings tea from the kitchen. They sit at the screens.

MALKINA  We've got two hours.
LEE  You want to try and get some sleep? I'll wake you.
MALKINA  I'm too wired.
LEE  You want to go for a walk?
MALKINA  I'm not leaving this suite if the building catches fire. You can see what's on television if you like.
LEE  What if it's us?
MALKINA  I dont know. Maybe they have virtual prisons for virtual felons.

*  *  *  *  *
Arizona high plains. The male cheetah is lying under a tree. He gets up and walks out to the edge of the grass and stands looking into the distance.
*  *  *  *  *
A penthouse restaurant in a major city at night, the lights of the city spread out below. Malkina is at the door being greeted by the maitre d'.

MAITRE D'  Buena noches, Señora. Buena noches.

With her is a tall and elegant man in his forties dressed in a black business suit with an expensive gold silk tie. The maitre'd holds out his hand for them to enter.

MAITRE D'  Bienvenidos. Bienvenidos.

She is dressed in an ankle-length black pleated skirt, a dark green bolero jacket with black braiding. She wears a heavy graduated swag choke necklace of emeralds with matching earrings. She is about five months pregnant, just noticeable. They cross through the room and the maitre'd gestures them to a window table where a waiter holds a chair for her. A second waiter is unfolding their napkins and a third is crossing the room with a champagne bucket on a pedestal which he positions at the man's elbow. He lifts a bottle of Dom Pérignon from the bucket and wraps it with a towel and twists out the cork and pours two flutes of the champagne and then twists the bottle back into the ice. The maitre d' bows.

MAITRE D'  Buen appetivo.

He moves away. They touch glasses. The escort speaks with an accent possibly European.

ESCORT  To the heir then.
MALKINA  Thank you.
ESCORT  Will you return to the States then? At that time?
MALKINA  I dont think so.
ESCORT  Where will you go?
MALKINA  I can go wherever I choose.
ESCORT  To Europe?
MALKINA  There's not going to be a Europe. I think I might like China.
ESCORT  China. Really?
MALKINA  Yes.
ESCORT  You dont speak the language.
MALKINA  (Smiling) I'm a quick study.
ESCORT  How do you get money into China?
MALKINA  It's not a problem. You can buy into the market. Heavy industries are good. Pohang Iron and Steel I like.
ESCORT  What about cash?
MALKINA  The easiest way to compress wealth is with diamonds. They're highly negotiable and they weigh nothing. Although a Picasso painting—out of the frame and rolled up—is worth about the same. Ounce for ounce.
ESCORT  And how much would that be?
MALKINA  (Smiling) Is this an idle curiosity?
ESCORT  It's a curiosity.
MALKINA  There are roughly a hundred and fifty carats in an ounce. And diamonds average out to about ten thousand dollars a carat. Stones in the two to five carat range. Can you do the math?
ESCORT  You do it.
MALKINA  Diamonds are worth about one point five million an ounce. You can hold twenty million dollars in the palm of your hand. Money itself weighs out at about three thousand dollars to the ounce. Roughly fifty thousand dollars a pound. So that twenty mil in your hand would be over four hundred pounds of paper in hundred-dollar bills. Four forty, to be exact.
ESCORT  Can you sell diamonds in China?
MALKINA  You can sell diamonds on Mars.
ESCORT  What if it's a girl? Wouldnt that be a problem?
MALKINA  It would. But he's not.
ESCORT  I see. May I ask you something?
MALKINA  You may ask.
ESCORT  Is the child Reiner's?
MALKINA  Is that what you want to know?
ESCORT  Yes.
MALKINA  No. It's not. Reiner had had a vasectomy. The counselor used to tell people that it was court-ordered. I told him the day that I found out. He was all right with it. He wanted me to get an abortion and we would go on as if nothing had happened. He was actually somewhat emotional about it. It surprised me. I told him that if it was a girl I would abort it. But it wasnt. And I didnt.
ESCORT  Did he want to know whose it was?
MALKINA  Of course.
ESCORT  Did you tell him?
MALKINA  No.
ESCORT  The child will have no father.
MALKINA  Every child has a father. In this case the best kind of father.
ESCORT  And what kind of father is that?
MALKINA  The best kind of father is a dead father.
ESCORT  You are serious.
MALKINA  I think that Freud is right in that a son who is worshipped by his mother will never doubt himself. But a contentious father can undo that. And the virtues of a dead father—his very identity for that matter—are limited only by the mother's imagination. You look a bit uncomfortable.
ESCORT  I'm fine.
MALKINA  If I were a woman that you could have, then you would not be interested. The curse of the player.
ESCORT  I hope that is not true.
MALKINA  (Smiling) No one wants to admit that the object of his desire has weighed him in the balance and found him wanting. That is a very hard thing to accept. Better to imagine the desired one as whimsical and irresolute. Would you agree?
ESCORT  (Smiling) You are quite cruel.
MALKINA  You will thank me.
ESCORT  What is it that you want?
MALKINA  My own life. I own very little. Some jewelry. A few clothes. There are times when I imagine that I would like my innocence back. If I ever had it. But I would never pay the price which it now commands on the market.
ESCORT  (Nodding. Looking up at her. Quietly) Your own life.
MALKINA  (Studying him. Then) When the world itself is the source of your torment then you are free to exact vengeance upon any least part of it. I think perhaps you would have to be a woman to understand that. And you will never know the depth of your hurt until you are presented with the opportunity for revenge. Only then will you know what you are capable of.
ESCORT  I think you have told me more than I wished to know.
MALKINA  It's all right.
ESCORT  And the cats?
MALKINA  Silvia died. She had a congenital heart condition. Which we knew. Raoul is alive and well in Arizona. He rules over a domain of a thousand hectares and he has a special rock where he can take the sun and watch for game. That's all. Dogs bring people together. Cats dont. Still, I miss him.
ESCORT  Raoul.
MALKINA  (Smiling) Yes. Raoul. I miss watching him bring down jackrabbits out on the desert at seventy miles an hour. I never tired of that. To see quarry killed with elegance is very moving to me. It always was.
ESCORT  Is it sexual?
MALKINA  Of course. A thing like that is always sexual. But grace. Freedom. The hunter has a purity of heart that exists nowhere else. I think he is not defined so much by what he has come to be as by all that he has escaped being. You can make no distinction between what he is and what he does. And what he does is kill. We of course are another matter. I suspect that we are ill-formed for the path we have chosen. Ill-formed and ill-prepared. We would like to draw a veil over all that blood and terror. That have brought us to this place. It is our faintness of heart that would close our eyes to all of that, but in so doing it makes of it our destiny. Perhaps you would not agree. I dont know. But nothing is crueller than a coward, and the slaughter to come is probably beyond our imagining. Should we think about ordering? I'm famished.
CREDITS








CORMAC McCARTHYTHE COUNSELOR
Born in Rhode Island in 1933 but raised and educated in Tennessee, Cormac McCarthy is the author of a dozen previous novels and the recipient of the Pulitzer Prize, the National Book Award, and the National Book Critics Circle Award.








ALSO BY CORMAC MCCARTHY
The Sunset Limited (a novel in dramatic form)The RoadNo Country for Old MenCities of the PlainThe CrossingAll the Pretty HorsesThe Stonemason (a play)The Gardener's Son (a screenplay)Blood MeridianSuttreeChild of GodOuter DarkThe Orchard Keeper



