
















   
 Masks 20 
 The Menace of the Mechanical Master 
   
 By Rodford Edmiston 
   










   
 Masks 20: The Menace of the Mechanical Master 
 By Rodford Edmiston 
 Copyright 2018, 2023 Rodford Edmiston 
   
 Preview: "Switcher" copyright 2023 Melanie Brown 
   
 Published by AlephTwo 
 October 2023 
 A Division of Janglewood LLC 
   
 Line Editor: Melanie E. 
 Text Editor: Joyce Melton 
 Publisher: Joyce Melton 
   
 First Kindle Edition October 2023 
   
 Cover credits: Art by Melanie E. 
 Cover design and typography by: Joyce Melton 
   
 This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to your favorite ebook retailer and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author. 
   










   
 Table of Contents 
   
 Part 1 
 Part 2 
 Part 3 
 Part 4 
 Part 5 
 Part 6 
 Part 7 
 Part 8 
 Part 9 
 Part 10 
 A Sparse and Select History of Costumed Adventurers 
 About the Author 
 Special Preview: "Switcher" by Melanie Brown 
 Other Books from Janglewood Imprints 
   










   
 Part One 
   
 The video conference call was unusual in more aspects than the fact that all three participants were wearing masks, with two in full costume. The members of Tricorne were planning yet another Spring Break together. However, this time the youngest member was proposing something different from previous team-ups. 
 Ponytail bouncing as she spoke, Energia presented her case with her usual enthusiasm. After waffling back and forth for several years on the matter of whether to wear a cape, she had finally decided to reserve that accessory for her formal costume and do without otherwise. She had long settled on the theme of green bodystocking with blue pieces over that, plus a blue mask. These complimented her red hair nicely. 
 The middle member, Gadgetive, was not in her heroing rig - which looked like a display on a manikin at a military surplus store sale but was so much more - but was wearing her mask, gloves and coveralls. Custom coveralls. She was her usual skeptical self when it came to changing anything about their team. 
 Blue Impact, in her current outfit of slacks, shoes, shirt, gloves and mask - all in medium shades of blue - topped with her trademark dark blue leather jacket, was noncommittal. 
 The energy-force manipulator found herself making a hard sell. Especially to the team's middle member. 
 To make the call, Energia was visiting the new Intrepids base; Blue Impact was at the security station for the Pine Island Academy; and Gadgetive was "testing" the communications rig she had installed at the college where she was currently a student. (She seemed to change schools each semester, to take advantage of some particular teacher or program. Energia thought she was currently back at MIT but wasn't sure.) 
 The topic was their arrangements regarding getting Tricorne together for the week they had off from school for Spring Break. All three were definitely in favor of that. However, a suggestion by the youngest member was meeting with some opposition. 
 "I just think she'd make a good addition to our team," said Energia. "Besides sharing some classes with her, I've worked with Vic several times, and both of you know her. She's expressed interest in working with us. I mean, she's never actually been in a super team before. Just more general law enforcement teams, some of them admittedly with super involvement. Even during the war she was more working with the military and other feds than supers." 
 Energia was shading things a bit - in her mind simplifying them harmlessly for her pitch - but what she told them was generally accurate.  
 "It's that whole 'working with the feds' thing which makes me nervous," said Gadgetive, sounding suspicious. "What about her being a member of the Bureau? Isn't that her actual job?" 
 "She's - Not on retainer, what's the term? An intern? - anyway, thanks to the budget cuts she's paid to go to school as long as it's to prepare for her job, but they don't have money to actually hire additional employees right now. Weird bureaucratic accounting stuff.  
 "However, she's a badge-carrying federal LEO all the time; she's just not on their regular payroll. Working with us would count as on-the-job training for both her school work and with the Bureau. Which means they'll pay her expenses for interning with us." 
 "I don't like letting a fed in," said Gadgetive, in a sour mutter. "I mean, she's registered with the Bureau! They know who she is!" 
 "I'm registered with the Bureau!" said Energia, exasperated. "You let me in!" 
 "Technically, you were in Tricorne before you registered," said Blue Impact, playing devil's advocate. "Even before our team was named, in fact." 
 "I can't believe you let them know who you are," muttered Gadgetive, sulking like someone more than a decade younger.  
 "I trust Brade and Doro and the few others who are authorized to access the private information on supers who have registered with the Bureau," said Energia, flatly. "They have all these safeguards to prevent anyone else from getting that information, too." 
 "What safeguards?" said Gadgetive, perking up a bit.  
 "If I told you they wouldn't be secret." 
 "I bet you don't even know." 
 "Nope. That's the whole point." 
 "If anyone is interested," said Blue Impact, looking to one side at something, "they just interrupted the usual news for a special report on Solomon Harvek." 
 "Who?" said Gadgetive, honestly puzzled.  
 "He's the one behind the plot which almost killed Doro," said Energia, hotly. Though she was surprised Gadgetive didn't recognize the name. Maybe she had been busier than usual with "more important" technical matters, and had somehow missed all the news about him. Though Energia wondered why his connection to a death ray hadn't penetrated her usual preoccupation.  
 "Wait, what?!" 
 Blue Impact added a news channel to their conference call and turned the sound up. 
 "It was for the children!" said Solomon Harvek, plaintively, as the segment cut to him making a statement while he and his team of attorneys headed into court. "These men were ruining lives, families! Think of the poverty, the suicides!"  
 "Who's he taking about? That has nothing to do with what happened to Doro," said Gadgetive, confused, even though she now appeared to be remembering more about what was going on with him. Maybe due to several technical companies being involved, as well as mad science. 
 "Does he mean the jerks who were running Corporate Salvage? They only went after him because they caught him cheating them. Harvek did a lot more harm to the economy than they did! Not to mention actually killing and injuring a lot of people, with his shoddy construction materials and pinhole gun." 
 "Yeah," said Energia. "I don't see him doing anything for anyone but himself. Especially not the 'little people' or their children. He's one of those people who think that 'poverty' means you don't have a million handy for impulse buys." 
 "Don't bother muddling the issues with facts," said Gadgetive, sourly. "The rich are different from us. The world does what they want. Until it suddenly doesn't." 
 "Easy, now," said Blue Impact. "Be careful you don't tar all the wealthy with the same brush you use on the small percentage who are actual criminals." 
 "Well, that rich criminal is up for multiple murder counts," said Energia, angrily. "Some of them federal LEO." 
 "Anyway," said Gadgetive, getting back to the topic of the call, and deciding to take another tack in her protest against adding anyone to Tricorne, even for just a week, "it's weird that Vic used to be a guy!" 
 "What have you got against guys?" 
 "Huh? Nothing! I just think it's weird, is all." 
 "By most measures, it's more weird that my tissues are as dense as magnesium," said Blue Impact, wryly. "That's not even possible in normal biology." 
 "Yeah, and Vic is now completely female, right down to the chromosomes." 
 "It's still weird," said Gadgetive, firmly.  
 "It's more common than you think," muttered Energia, remembering her uncle/aunt and a few other examples. "Anyway, Vic needs more experience with teams and the Bureau will pay his - I mean her - expenses." 
 She scowled at Gadgetive.  
 "Now you've got me doing it." 
 "Doing what?" said the gadgeteer, confused.  
 Time constraints meant that they couldn't come to a full agreement that session. However, they still had a few days until the break began. Energia felt she had a good chance to bring at least Blue Impact over.  
 # 
   
 "How'd your call go?" said Solange. When Energia exited the video conference room the older gal was leaning against the wall beside the door, playing a game on her smartphone. 
 The new Intrepids base was... smoother than the old one. At least, that was the first word which came to Energia's mind, as she looked around. It lacked the texture - the character - of the old base. The hallways were slightly rounded at the edges, paneled, colored in a purpose-appropriate manner and easy to keep clean. To Energia's mind they were also rather bland. 
 There were seamless glow panels in the ceiling which lit everything with sunlight brightness and color, with almost no shadows. There were hardly any echoes, either. The problem wasn't just with the hallways. All of the construction in the new base struck her as garish and tasteless. Which she kept quiet about. The team - all of the members, from the supers to the vehicle mechanics - was justifiably proud of these new facilities.  
 "Well, Gadgetive is understandably reluctant to include anyone else in Tricorne," said Energia, smirking. "Though I think the main reason is that this makes us more than three, so she thinks that means we can't be Tricorne any more. Doesn't matter that Vic will be only interning with us for a week to learn about super teams for her planned career, and not with the intent of becoming a full-time member." 
 She decided not to mention Gadgetive's objection to Vic's gender change, given Solange's own experience in that area. At least these days the older super was less likely to dress the way a teenage boy would have wanted someone as shapely as her to dress. 
 "Gadgeteers," said Solange, rolling her eyes as she put her phone away. She pushed off from the wall and began walking. Energia couldn't help feeling a bit envious at the casually sexy way her friend moved. As far as she could tell that stride was completely unconscious, simply a product of the geometry of her body. Unlike the exaggerated way Solange had often walked when they first met. "Anyway, are you ready for the tour of our new base?" 
 "I've been here before, remember." 
 "Yeah, but we didn't have half the stuff completed the last time you were here that we do now. Bunter even has a terminal in nearly every room. We're almost finished! Well, until someone gets an idea for an improvement, which always happens. Has already happened, in fact. Anyway, c'mon!" 
 Solange spent the next hour and a bit giving Energia a quick tour of the new base, starting with the subtrain access to the ancient Sub-Terran tunnel. This prehistoric way ran deep underground at a small horizontal distance from the super base. After scrapping their original plans due to demon problems - and abandoning the initial stages of that facility's construction - the Intrepids had asked Zeep for help. 
 At the direction of Bowman and several other super inventors, Zeep had consolidated and shaped a small nickel-iron asteroid and placed it in the deep hole where the old mountain base had been, before it was burned out by the Shilmek. Iron of the coldest sort - and a huge amount of it - now sealed one of the portals demons had used to try and invade this world. Dr. Piano - in a classic understatement - had stated "That should, indeed, settle the problem." 
 Solange gestured towards the entrance to the shuttle tunnel, as the duo stood beside the symmetrically-ended car which ran on the track.  
 "That's why our subtrain tunnel connecting to the old network starts well above the demon level," said Solange, grinning, as they stared down the dark tunnel. Which, to save energy, was only lit - by section - when in use. "It goes out and then down pretty steeply to intersect the Sub-Terran tunnel network. Which seems to have dodged around the old mountain. Wonder if they knew..." 
 "Hence the long, narrow tunnel with the teeny-tiny subway car," said Energia. She grinned. "I'd hate to walk that. Especially in the dark." 
 "Not a problem for you, since you can both fly and generate your own light." 
 Significant construction had subsequently taken place both inside and outside of the new base. The latter work had turned the rounded cone which Zeep provided into a proper mountain - though with a natural iron alloy core and covered with reinforced concrete which was in turn covered with a pseudo-natural limestone facade - thereby producing an overall shape which closely resembled that of the mountain destroyed by the Shilmek. 
 Simultaneously, the inside of the new mountain had been tunneled through and equipment installed. All the hard work had been very worth it. The new headquarters could take far more damage without the shields than the old one, and the new shields were four times as potent. Thanks to Zeep's help, the process had actually proceeded more quickly than the scrapped original plan, allowing them to complete their new base only a little behind schedule.  
 "I like it," said Energia, summing up as they exited the elevator at the top level. She was actually a bit surprised at this change of opinion. Much of the criticism she'd had of the new base had been addressed by the finishing touches the team had applied since her previous visit. 
 "Though I do miss the odd nooks and crannies in the old base. The corridors and chambers here are more open, better placed and more thoroughly and reasonably connected. Everything is very orderly and organized. The old base had more character, though. There were all these little volumes which actually made it feel more intimate." 
 "Well, most of those resulted from remodelings down through the decades." Solange grinned as they entered the base's topmost security lock, to head outside. "Just give it time. Like I said, we're already seeing places where we need to make additions and changes." 
 "Sounds promising," said Energia, as the outer hatch opened, revealing a very beautiful - if obviously still new and very manicured - scene.  
 She stepped outside into the park on the flattened top of the artificial mountain and lifted off, waving goodbye to her friend as she flew away.  
 # 
   
 The Saturday before the official beginning of Spring Break, a Toyota Corolla wagon notable only because of its age - and the fact that this was denied by its pristine appearance - drove sedately through an old business district of a major East Coast city. 
 Vic followed the directions she had been given and memorized, and turned Monstro into the designated alley. There, as promised, under an awning, was a vertically-retracting truck door, which began opening as she approached. She pulled inside, noting the small if odd selection of vehicles present. As the door closed behind her she saw Energia waving. 
 Vic quickly shut Monstro off and exited, waving back as she climbed out. She had vaguely Asian features, though with Occidental eyes. Her hair was long, the color dark brown for most of the length but light at the tips. (Energia knew from college that most of the length - including the frosted tips - was from extensions.) 
 Her skin was a bit too brown for her actually fully Caucasian ancestry but not dark enough for either type of Indian. She had taut muscles, high, firm breasts and slightly broad shoulders, with a torso tapering slightly to a mildly narrowed waist then flaring into very feminine hips. Her outfit - and manner - could charitably be described as "tomboyish." 
 Vic now saw the other two regular members of Tricorne. The four of them - three of them in costumes and masks - came together at their mutual center of mass. Though Gadgetive hung back a bit, scowling. There were handshakes, and even a hug between Vic and Energia, which surprised the former a bit.  
 "Welcome to our humble abode," said Blue Impact, smiling, and indicating the property with a sweeping gesture.  
 "Enter freely and of your own will," said Energia, hamming it a bit. "C'mon, get your stuff and we'll show you to your room; then you get the tour of the rest of the lair." 
 "I am very glad to be with you folks this Spring Break," said Vic, fervently, as she opened the rear of her compact station wagon. "For multiple reasons. One of them being that I did not want to go back to tutoring, which was draining my soul. 
 "Since this counts as continuing education, the Bureau's training program will pay me - and more than I get from tutoring - to be here. Though I have to write up a report on what I learned. Don't worry; no secrets will be included." 
 She only had one large suitcase and a hard-sided equipment case, both of which she yielded to the super-strong Blue Impact. Who, of course, lifted both at once, one in each hand, with no appearance of effort. The quartet then walked up the short set of stairs onto the loading dock at the back of the bay, and headed towards the large elevator at the rear of this raised section. 
 "Tutoring?" said Gadgetive, puzzled, asking in spite of her resolve not to have anything to do with Vic. 
 "She did it for a few semesters and still complains about it," said Energia, amused, as the double doors to the elevator opened. 
 "Kids today are so stupid!" said Vic, as the quartet entered the small, mobile chamber. 
 "To be fair, you were tutoring them because they were having trouble," said Energia, playfully wagging a finger. 
 Blue Impact pushed the second-highest button on the panel.  
 "I had this one guy I was tutoring in history," muttered Vic. "Specifically, World War II. He didn't understand why he had to learn what he called 'ancient history.'" 
 The doors closed, and there was a subdued hum as the large elevator began quietly climbing. Vic had the distinct impression the current load was only a small fraction of its capacity. 
 "You should introduce him to the Sailor," said Blue Impact, dryly, "who fought in the War of 1812." 
 "That history he liked! I think part of the problem was that technology played such a large part in the Second World War and he didn't like tech. He - maybe deliberately - refused to learn anything technical, despite me having to physically take his smartphone from him to make him focus on the lesson. 
 "He just didn't see the connection between the rapid development of technology during and after the war and him being able to text or call anyone, anywhere, any time." 
 Vic heaved a great, much-put-upon sigh, just as the doors opened onto the upper floor hallway. They stepped out. Energia led the way down the hall to Vic's room, which already had the door standing open. 
 "He was actually convinced that only one B-29 was ever built - the Enola Gay - and that it dropped all - not both, all - of the atomic bombs in World War II. Including several against Germany! Which he wouldn't believe didn't happen! He thought that the single plane was developed as part of the same program which built the A-bomb, though he couldn't name the Manhattan Project. 
 "Any time I tried to explain that there were thousands of those bombers made, he smugly said 'Why would they build more than one when that was all they needed to drop the Bomb and beat the Germans?' When I explained that no atom bombs were dropped on Germany he smugly said 'Of course they were. How else did they win?'" 
 Energia was politely commiserative as she entered the guest room, while Gadgetive was openly dismissive that anyone could actually be that stupid and Blue Impact made no comment. 
 Once inside, at Vic's direction, Blue Impact plopped the suitcase on the bed and put the case with Vic's armor on the floor at the foot. Vic began unpacking as they continued talking. She still felt a bit odd at having "girl clothes" to put away, but played it casual. Still, she finished quickly.  
 "You and Gadgetive should get along great," said Blue Impact, tongue in cheek. "You have very similar tastes in civilian clothes. Now, let's give you the grand tour." 
 "So, that elevator is hydraulic - the works are under the loading dock in the garage - and the platform goes all the way to the blocked off area on the roof," said Energia, as they stepped back out into the hallway. "Our big apergy flyer is usually parked up there, but we can use the elevator to take it all the way down to the loading dock in the garage for maintenance." 
 "I think the rest should be show, rather than tell," said Blue Impact. 
 They took the stairs down, the oldest and youngest members of Tricorne pointing out various features as they descended the open stairway along the back wall into the large, central volume which took up most of the lair. Gadgetive mostly stayed silent, only occasionally speaking in regard to some technical thing she felt the others had gotten wrong or not given adequate attention. 
 Once the quartet was all the way downstairs - into the large open space which comprised the main room of the lair was at the same level as the top of the loading dock - they showed Vic the kitchen, com center and lounge; the last two being in corners of the large, central area, with Blue Impact's private corner. 
 The tour ended at the couch, recliners, other chairs and coffee table, which were all in one carpeted corner. These faced - some of them only approximately - the large TV mounted on one wall. The home entertainment center was on a set of low shelves below that. The four of them sat, and for a moment were all silent. 
 Vic became more of a participant when the conversation resumed, as she talked about what she hoped to learn during the week she would be interning with Tricorne. She even suggested that if she was a good fit with the team they might invite her back for the full Summer... which did not sit well with Gadgetive. After a few minutes, though, Vic's manner changed again. 
 "Uhm, if you don't mind a possibly personal question," Vic asked deferentially of the team's leader, "where does 'Blue Impact' come from? I've read a lot of explanations, including that it's from a small-press comic book character." 
 "I loved manga and anime as a kid," the oldest present replied, smiling at the memory. "Even learned a little spoken Japanese. So when I was trying to find a mask name I was strongly influenced by the 'Color Noun' names of several manga and anime characters, such as Red Impulse from Gatchaman." 
 "Hey, I like anime," said Vic, grinning. "Maybe we can have an anime night." 
 "Oh, please, no!" said Gadgetive. "It's so... unrealistic! Not to mention full of senseless posturing and melodrama." 
 "Are you sure she's a girl?" said Vic, in a stage whisper, to Energia. Blue Impact wondered if the youngest Tricorne member had coached their visitor as to how to needle the gadgeteer.  
 "We had our doubts for a while. However, the fact that she often staggers down to breakfast in panties and t-shirt have removed them. She doesn't show it in costume, but she's at least a B-cup." 
 "I dunno..." said Vic, peering pointedly at the increasingly annoyed Gadgetive. Though she was hiding her own discomfort at the topic. "I know guys who could carry that off. Just needs the right padding and tucking..." 
 "Do you both want to have your floors painted with nitrogen triiodide?" 
 "All right, that's enough," said Blue Impact, though she was grinning. "Vic, we need still need to train you in our security measures. You don't want to accidentally trip any alarms." 
 The same procedure worked at each of the five entrances, including the one on the roof. Vic just needed to enter a number on the security keypad and either speak a codeword, or allow the scan of a thumb or eye. Given that she had no masked identity to protect, Vic chose the latter. Actually, she let them scan both thumbs and both eyes, at the recommendation of Blue Impact.  
 "One thing we regenerators need to keep in mind," said Blue Impact. "If we regrow a finger or eye, the pattern could change. That's why you need to do both thumbs and both eyes." 
 "Roger," said Vic, though she grimaced at the thought of having to regrown digits or eyes. 
 Blue Impact explained that earlier, those already present in the building had been watching for Vic's car and let her into the garage manually. For future access, she was given what looked like a remote garage door opener, only with more buttons, and a tiny camera. 
 "Just treat it like any of the other security keypads," said Energia.  
 "It's not too different from what I've used before," said Vic, nodding as she examined the compact device. "With federal stuff, like safehouses." 
 "We keep trying to install a biometric ID system," said Blue Impact, "but given the mask protective lenses and the costumes and the range of unusual physiologies involved for us and our approved visitors, they just don't work right. So far, our best security measure has been secrecy. Just don't talk to anyone about what's really here unless they're supposed to know. Which is not a long list." 
 "I still say you should let me install traps," said Gadgetive, sourly. "Wouldn't have to be lethal. Just nets, or stun rifles, or anesthetic gas, or..." 
 "As I have explained repeatedly," said Blue Impact, sternly, "traps don't have judgement, and are therefore illegal." 
 She turned back to Vic. 
 "Now, let's move on to the security center. That's not only were we manage our security system, it's also our com center. Though it's not the only location where those systems can be accessed." 
 Gadgetive was still muttering under her breath as Blue Impact explained how to log in to access the building security systems and the crime monitoring software. Something which would - as she had promised - work from any of the terminals in the building. 
 By the time they were finished Vic was feeling a bit intimidated by the security measures even this small team felt were necessary. A feeling which wasn't helped by Energia telling her about the security features of the new Intrepids base, during the group's supper. 
 ### 
   










   
 Part Two 
   
 Vic was using the treadmill in the lair's gym the next morning when she saw Energia enter. Like Vic she was wearing workout clothing, though with added mask. Vic waved as the other super moved to one of the mats.  
 "Good morning," Energia said, waving cheerfully back. She noticed that Vic - in kicking jeans, a sport bra and running shoes and without her hair extensions - had the machine set close to its maximum normal human level. She grinned at the martial artist. "Ah, Sunday at the lair. Filled with the sounds of whirring and clanking exercise machines." 
 Energia slipped off her shoes, stepped onto the mat and began stretching. Vic dutifully focused on her own exercises.  
 Vic was still on the treadmill - though at a slower pace, working on her endurance - when Energia finished her warmup and went to one of the resistance machines.  
 "Did you just set that for nearly maximum normal human?" said Vic, a bit startled. Though only a bit; she knew Energia liked to stay fit, and included strength training in her workouts. 
 "Yeah," said Energia, as she took her seat. She smirked at Vic. "You got a problem with that?" 
 "Well, I tried it on the max setting for normal human, and it wasn't quite enough. So I moved it up to the lowest setting in the superhuman range, and that was too much. Unless I wanted to cheat and use my powers." 
 "Huh," said Energia, frowning as she trained. "I'll ask the others about that. I've never been comfortable at the max norm setting, and Gadge uses lower than I do, and Blue Impact never goes below the lowest superhuman setting. I don't think anyone was aware of a gap." 
 They trained in silence for the next several minutes, until Energia finished her reps and changed settings to work her legs.  
 "I guess you miss this at the college," said Vic, as she increased the treadmill's speed again. "All this special equipment, even though you're in the normal human range. I know they have some training gear for the superhuman program, but that's mostly really heavy free weights. Though I guess you could use the normal gym..." 
 "I do, actually," said Energia, beginning to breath hard and noticeably perspire. "I tried suggesting they put in custom machines, not just for physically norm range supers like me but to better train the super strong. They said they wanted to but didn't have the budget. I said they could probably get some of the gadgeteers in the super program to do the building for free if they just found someone to donate the raw materials, but they weren't really interested." 
 She stopped and grinned at Vic.  
 "I think they've learned not to trust gadgeteers unless they can put a proven responsible one in charge of the rest." 
 Vic gave a short but sincere laugh at that. 
 "Speaking of which, I'm glad you warned me that Gadgetive would be... standoffish," said Vic. 
 "Yeah. Gadgeteers and mads in general hate change they don't deliberately cause, especially in what they see as 'protected status' categories. Such as the groups they associate with. Dealing with those changes distracts them from things they consider important."  
 She took on a look of revelation 
 "I wonder if that's why she keeps changing schools. So she doesn't get used to any one setting." 
 "You have more experience with gadgeteers than I do," Vic said, as she slowed again, this time going to a fast walk for a cool down. "What... well, what's up with them? I mean, I've heard the savant lecture, but..." 
 "It's just an itch some people have," said Energia, as she rose and moved to the free weights. Again, the weights she chose weren't the heaviest intended for normal humans, but they were still impressive for Energia's size and build. 
 "A compulsion, when they get the idea. They know it will work, the actual build is just to tease out the details, or fill whatever need they perceive the invention will serve. Besides that, they have to show all the doubters. Gadgetive isn't as bad as a lot of 'em, though she can still get really, heh, 'focused' sometimes." 
 "She makes Alex seem normal," said Vic, in a quiet voice. 
 "Well, if you want to get her to talk to you bring your combat outfit down to the lounge and start going through it," said Energia, grinning. "It's pretty different from her own armor but still very effective. She should find it irresistible." 
 "I might just do that," said Vic, grinning back. "I haven't checked it out since getting here. I should make sure all is in order." 
 She finally got off the treadmill and moved to a device intended to train reflexes.  
 "I still don't really have a handle on her, though," said Vic, as the gadget began randomly swatting at her. "She's a lot like some of the folks at the college, but both more extreme in some of the same ways and just different enough to be in another class in others." 
 "Well, she's a full-blown gadgeteer, and one on a par with Dr. Device," said Energia, quietly. "They - gadgeteers - tend to develop their social skills - including an awareness of their own sexuality - late and often deliberately, when they finally admit what they're missing. She also has a lot of tragedy in her background. The surprise is that she's as close to normally socially functional as she is." 
 "Wait," said Vic, as - distracted but still succeeding - she reflexively blocked a swat from the machine. "Are you saying that Gadgetive isn't... doesn't..." 
 She floundered, automatically continuing to block and dodge as she tried to put her question into words. 
 "I think she currently counts as ace," said Energia, frowning in thought as she did alternating arm curls. "Asexual. She feels attraction to guys and understands it on an intellectual level, but doesn't let it affect her decision making processes." 
 "That's... Well, I'd say it's weird, but I'm probably weirder than that when it comes to sexuality; at least when you take my entire life into perspective." 
 "It's a weird world," said Energia, grinning again as she moved to put her weights back on the rack. "Especially where sex is involved. Which is probably a good thing." 
 They each trained for nearly another half hour before stopping. Vic a bit early, because she was starting to get hungry. Energia went a bit longer than she usually did because she wanted to talk to and train with Vic, and quit when the guest at the lair did.  
 "Well, lunch won't be too much longer in coming," said the energy/force manipulator, confirming Vic's internal clock. "I'm going to shower, change into something more heroic, and hope we don't get a call before we can eat!" 
 "That sounds like a plan," said Vic, laughing.  
 # 
   
 Vic - extensions back in place - had already discovered that meals in Tricorne's lair were a communal affair. Even Gadgetive attended, and arrived in the kitchen roughly on time. Though not everyone always ate the same foods as everyone else. While most suppers were made by one or more of the team members, other meals and snacks were usually improvised from leftovers.  
 Something Vic had already learned as a general rule applying to supers who were serous about their mask careers was that they ate a huge amount. Proteins and complex carbohydrates were especially popular. Something the supers had in common with many sorts of athletes. 
 Just now, Vic, herself, was over halfway into an enormous ham and honey mustard sandwich on thick-sliced whole wheat bread. Something she had suddenly acquired a craving for after seeing Blue Impact making one. The experience was not at all lessened by the fact that the bread was still warm and fragrant from the breadmaker Blue Impact had loaded that morning.  
 "As I understand the situation," the oldest person present said, after swallowing, "you can get paid to continue to learn how to work in super law enforcement for pretty much however long you can justify the classes you take." 
 "Which means I'm staying in school for the foreseeable future," said Vic, with a shrug. "I never planned to get a doctorate in anything, but by the time the Bureau bean counters say they can justify actually hiring me full time I might have one. Of course, the longer I stay in school and the higher the degree I get, the more they have to pay me when they finally hire me!" 
 "I know, I know..." said Energia, rolling her eyes. "Typical bureaucratic thinking of this fiscal year's bottom line instead of saving money over the long term. Fortunately, Tricorne has enough funding - most of it from private foundations and individuals - for all of us to go pro right now, but so far none of us have. We're actually earning quite a bit of interest on the surplus funding. 
 "I would like to finish out my own master's degree at least, then start with the team as a career. That's still a few years off, though, thanks mostly to the war interrupting things. I think Gadge wants to get her doctorate before going full time, but she's already ahead of me in college. Teach - Blue Impact - says she wants to continue at the island for a while longer but eventually go full time with Tricorne, too." 
 She grinned.  
 "We might just all arrange things so we three start as a full time team the same date!" 
 "Big time!" sang Blue Impact, baffling the others. She made dancing motions with her upper body as she sat in her chair. "We're on our way, we're making it!" 
 The others stared.  
 "What?" she said, stopping and smirking. "You don't know the classics?" 
 "I keep forgetting you're a lot older than you look," said Vic, in sudden revelation.  
 "Hey, you have the same problem except you look younger than I do," said Blue Impact, smirking. "I at least look like I'm of legal age."  
 "I've never seen her act like this before," said Gadgetive, actually appearing concerned.  
 "Oh, wait," said Energia, grinning. "I remember her mentioning something about an old boyfriend being back in town." 
 "Not a boyfriend - I wish - but a guy with powers I met in my early hero days. Mysterious creature of the night type. This is civilian ID stuff, so, no more details, sorry." 
 "You've got a date?" said Gadgetive, grinning. 
 "A reunion, tomorrow night. Two people who met while adventuring years ago and have hardly seen each other since." 
 "Well, congratulations and good luck!" said Vic, grinning. 
 "Not a date," said Blue Impact, rolling her eyes. She convinced no-one.  
 # 
   
 Later that afternoon Energia came down from her room to find Vic on the floor of the lounge area, playing with the cat. The energy/force manipulator hovered about evenly between the floor and ceiling fans to watch for a moment. 
 "So, another innocent falls victim to his feline charms," said Energia, grinning.  
 "Yeah, your little beefeater, here, is pretty slick," said Vic, laughing.  
 "Hey, that's not a bad name," said Blue Impact. Though she was working at her private station in the corner of the lair, her keen senses let her know what was going on.  
 "What?" said Energia. 
 "Beefeater. He does love those beef-flavored treats." 
 "Wait," said Vic, startled. "How long have you had this cat?" 
 "A few years. We just never got around to naming him." 
 "Who's naming what?" said Gadgetive, entering with a yawn. Most likely, she was taking a break from whatever her current project was in the lair's workshop to get some caffeine, sugar and fats.  
 "Vic called our cat a 'beefeater' and Teach thinks that would be a good name." 
 "Oh, great. How long have we had that cat? Now you're letting a newcomer name him?!" 
 She stormed out. The others exchanged looks and shrugs.  
 # 
   
 In a - most likely futile - attempt to placate Gadgetive, that evening Vic brought her combat gear down to the lounge. Her excuse was that she needed the room to lay everything out for examination. Whether that check was her primary reason or not, the gear - once separated into its component pieces of armor, weapons and auxiliary equipment - did, indeed, take up a lot of floorspace.  
 "Wow," said Blue Impact, as Vic examined one of the armor segments for damage, including simple wear. "I've seen you wearing it, of course, but never realized just how... involved it is." 
 "Yeah. Took a lot of research and trial and error to get all of this to fit on me in a way which doesn't impede my movements. We actually consulted with some Society for Creative Anachronism people and research publications on Medieval armor. Because I use it when working for them, the Bureau modifies my existing armor pieces or makes new ones for me as needed." 
 "You both have regeneration," said Energia, absently, as she watched Vic check straps and padding, "but Teach has built-in armor. You're normal human when it comes to toughness." 
 "Well, someone in good physical condition can better resist damage," said Vic, her tone just as distracted, though for a different reason. She held a knee piece up to the light and scowled for a moment at what looked like a scrape in the composite material. She relaxed when a thumb test showed it to be a smudge. "I can also pump things up a bit with ki manipulation, but that takes concentration." 
 Unfortunately, Gadgetive didn't show while the armor was being inspected, in spite of Vic slowing the process by explaining the armor sections and the weapons, com gear, medical gear and so forth which went with the suit. She actually solicited suggestions for improvements from the other two. Once it was all back in the carry case Vic put that on the floor at one end of the couch, then sat next to it.  
 "I hope that's as close as I get to discussing female clothing during this visit," she said. "Especially underwear." 
 Vic sighed, shook her head and gave them a wry grin. 
 "For some reason, women who hear about my involuntary sex change then want to give me a crash course on how to live as a woman. Despite the fact that I've been one for years, now." 
 "To be fair, there are some things you still might have missed," said Energia. She grinned as she recalled a few times her Uncle Randy - as Template - had needed help with some bit of female apparatus. S/he usually asked Colossa, who would later tell Energia about the situation, to their mutual amusement. 
 Sometimes, though, Energia was the only one available who was in on the secret of her uncle's dual identity. She sobered as something else occurred to her. "However, we're all professional women, here. I also think most of our conversations would pass the Bechdel test." 
 "That's good news," said Vic, seriously. "I thought I'd have to endure lots of - excuse the expression - girl talk." 
 "That does happen," said Energia, head tipped a bit to one side and grinning as she considered the matter. "Not often. Even just hanging around the lair we usually maintain a mostly professional attitude towards things. Though we do have our purely social moments." 
 # 
   
 "First Monday of Spring Break and we're up at six and in the gym by nine," said Vic, laughing. "I guess it beats being on night patrol, but this is not typical student behavior." 
 "We might not get any crimefighting action this time around," said Energia, as she and Vic again shared their morning exercise time. "That's never actually happened to us during Spring Break - there's almost always something going on - but a week is a fairly short time. You just might be left seeing us doing pretty much nothing." 
 "Well, I'd rather not have to fight," said Vic, philosophically. "I came here to learn about how super teams operate, so I can better work with them in the future, as part of my job. I'm actually looking forward to our first combat training session, this afternoon." 
 "Just remember, each team is different," said Energia, grinning. "Though, yeah, there are certain things most of them have in common." 
 "Like really good security," said Vic, rolling her eyes as she deftly switched off the reflex trainer between swats. "I have an excellent memory and now know exactly the procedure to get in or out without triggering the alarms. I still am not planning to go anywhere outside this building without one of you three along to get me back in." 
 Energia had to laugh at that.  
 "We're actually working on sensors which I can trigger directly with my powers," she said. "That wouldn't help you, of course. So far, though, I'm still punching in like everyone else." 
 After lunch that afternoon, however, there was a subtle change in the group feeling in the old bakery. Blue Impact was busy in her corner, talking with someone for over an hour. The others could tell something was up, but not whether it involved the team as a whole or just her. Or, if here, whether it involved her mask or secret identity. Finally, she left her private area and called the others together.  
 "I have an assignment for us," said Blue Impact. "I was recently informed by a contact that someone was planning a raid on a display of Fifties and Sixties gadgeteer devices, which is at the big museum downtown." 
 "Wait!" said Gadgetive, eagerly. "It that the classic theme park stuff Abner Sturgeon created?!" 
 "I thought you might be interested in that," said the team's senior member, smiling. 
 "Turns out that one of the backers of the event has connections with the masks community. He was warned - by a source he declined to reveal - that several groups were planing an assault on the exhibit. Most of those groups and individuals involved want to steal all or part of what is being shown, to sell as collectors' items. At least one wants to destroy it as heresy. Heresy of what I don't know. Neither did my contact." 
 "So are we gonna get private access if we act as security?" said Gadgetive, excitedly.  
 "Uhm, sort-of," said Blue Impact, her smile slipping a bit. "They want two of us to dress as hostesses - we'll be in disguise and they'll provide the dresses - while the others watch from hiding in costume. If trouble does come the assumption is that the two already in costume will either handle things on their own or delay things long enough for the other two to sneak away, change and come to help." 
 "Kind-of awkward plan, if you ask me," said Gadgetive. She grinned at their team leader. "At least you'll be back time for your date." 
 "Not a date," said Blue Impact, tiredly. "Anyway, the idea is that having two people working the exhibits will let them spot covert attempts." 
 "That almost makes sense," said Energia, dryly.  
 "I'm glad you think so," said Blue Impact, her smile now impish. "I volunteered you and me for the hostess roles, since neither of us use armor or weapons and would be able to act without them in an emergency." 
 "Oh," said Energia, now not looking nearly as certain.  
 "Did I mention we get to keep the fancy dresses they custom fit to us? So we two need to get non-costume disguises ready and get over there for a fitting by seven." 
 "Oh! Well, we're not supposed to take payments, but there's no law against it, and since those dresses are made just for us..." 
 "I thought you'd like that part. We start the actual watching in the morning. There's just enough time for us to have a group training session with Vic today as soon as our lunch digests." 
 # 
   
 That evening, after all the fitting was done and those who would be on duty in disguise were back at the lair, Energia - back in costume and mask - cautiously approached the door of Gadgetive's workshop. She normally avoided this part of their base; it was where Gadgetive went when she wanted to be alone (which seemed to be her default state) and the energy/force manipulator usually respected her friend's wishes. 
 Just now, though, a combination of concern and curiosity led her there while the other two current occupants of the lair were busy with their own pursuits. The door wasn't locked; if it had been Energia would have tried again later. She pushed it open.  
 "Oh, hey," said Gadgetive, who started, but only after Energia took several steps into the room. Obviously, she was distracted - and distressed - by something.  
 "What's up?" said Energia. 
 "With what?" said the gadgeteer, with blatantly fake casualness.  
 "You seemed happy when we were talking about those, uhm, amusement park devices, but then you got sad." 
 Gadgetive twisted uneasily in her seat. 
 "Oh, well, it's... just that one of the last... trips I went on with my family before the accident was to one of the theme parks where they had those devices," said Gadgetive. She started out still faking casualness, but both her mood and volume faded as she spoke.  
 "Oh," was all Energia could think to say.  
 She hesitated a moment, then moved close and gave her friend a long, firm hug. That Gadgetive didn't protest this - even comically - was adequate evidence she desperately needed it.  
 "I'm sorry, hon," said Energia, voice barely above a whisper. "You had already been through so much in your life before I ever met you, but you usually don't show it, so I forget..." 
 "Hey, it's all right," said Gadgetive, patting her friend's hand as Energia eased out of the hug. "I'm... Well, not over it; I guess I'll never be over it, but... I can deal. Most of the time. I just need to remember the good stuff." 
 "Like your parents having to physically restrain you from disassembling some of the mechanical equipment at the park?" said Energia, grinning. 
 "How'd you ever guess?" said Gadgetive, laughing. It was a bit forced, but at least she was laughing. 
 ### 
   










   
 Part Three 
   
 The special exhibit was in the technology hall of the museum complex near the city's center. Much of the show was in the elegant main building, which still appeared modern a half century after construction. There were also several annexes - most of them older buildings which hadn't aged as well - nearby and a large storehouse out in an industrial area. 
 The museum as an institution was nearly as old as the nation and highly respected. Some people - primarily wealthy donors to the museum - objected snootily to "popular culture" exhibits such as this one. They believed that what they saw as a dignified institution should restrict itself to more "serious" displays. 
 Such as incredibly expensive paintings and sculptures and - for technology - historic stock tickers and bank vaults. However, the "popularizing" displays garnered far more support with everyone else, so they continued despite the objections.  
 The specific event for which super help had been requested was a display of items from from the early days of the attractions at a beloved theme park. This included automated vehicles from both amusement rides and visitor transportation, surprisingly sophisticated automatons of several types, sections from "living" structures and a complete automated (though for display only in this show and therefore currently nonfunctional) kitchen. 
 These exhibits were presented in chronological sequences. Each series started with earlier versions of the type of device being focused on, showing how the later versions were developed from the earlier ones. This allowed the exhibitors to show the way the designs evolved and became more sophisticated and convincing through the years. 
 The disguised Energia's duties involved guiding people through a progression in the development of the robotic avatars used in various attractions. Abraham Lincoln was by far the most popular. The earliest simulacrum of him could barely rise from his chair. The latest - unfortunately, not part of this exhibit - could stand easily and walk around his set to interact with several props. 
 This was especially appropriate for those who knew that Lincoln was a technophile who held at least one patent.  
 Even as she greeted the next tour group, Energia marveled at how the war damage to the city was now almost unnoticeable. This building had only been lightly affected directly, and most of the others in the complex were likewise spared. 
 However, the civic center across the street - visible through the front doors and windows of this building - had needed to be almost completely rebuilt. All of those repairs had been finished more than a year earlier, and executed so well that now casual observers couldn't tell the structures had ever been damaged.  
 "This portion of the exhibit displays the animated manikins without their coverings, so you can see how the internal mechanisms advanced in sophistication with each iteration," said Energia, or "Sue" as her nametag read. "The earliest ones were, indeed, barely more than manikins with motors added. 
 "Though the Uncanny Valley concept has been largely debunked, many people felt the fact that on stage these automatons only looked almost real actually detracted from their appeal. Fortunately, park management - realizing the problem was actually how unconvincing they were, even at a distance - formed a team called the Advanced Technologies Research Department. 
 "This was soon nicknamed the Head Shop. Both their organizational structure and nickname were inspired by Lockheed's famous Skunk Works. Company management was belatedly very upset when someone later pointed out that the nickname was also slang for a place to buy drug paraphernalia. The managers felt that those in the workshop had put one over on them - being very creative people they likely had - but by then the nickname had stuck." 
 "Sue" found the way her voice echoed from the high ceiling to be a bit distracting, as were the voices and footsteps in the large, busy foyer outside the pathway of temporary walls which she led her charges along. All this in spite of the fact that the moveable barriers confining guests to specific paths were very sound absorbing. 
 Fortunately, the next part of the tour was in an enclosed function room. She led her group from the first section, across a short stretch of marble-floored open foyer, through a door and into the next portion of the tour. Energia made sure the head count was correct before proceeding. During her first few tours oblivious members of the group had sometimes wandered out into the foyer instead of proceeding to the next - and clearly marked - part of the tour.  
 "Here you see the first results of the Head Shop's work. These manikins were intended to replace those early ones we just saw in the same attractions. The improvements are obvious, though the automatons still don't stand up to close examination, even with the coverings on, as they are shown here. 
 "However, the new versions were convincing enough in their routines - at least up on a stage, at a distance - that even some reviewers of the attractions thought they were live actors." 
 There were many murmured sounds of people being impressed.  
 Nearby, on a nearly parallel path, Blue Impact (her nametag read "Constance") was giving a similar spiel on the equipment used to move visitors around the park. Energia and Blue Impact - already in disguise - had been fitted with attractive dresses and briefed on their duties the night before, and this morning they had been mixed in with several other hosts who guided visitors around the exhibits and gave presentations. 
 Only upper management knew their new guides were supers. All the guides had received a tailored set of briefings and printed documents to study for their particular parts of the show. The exhibit was scheduled to last for a month, but the attack would likely come in the next few days... if it came at all.  
 The show was large and impressive, and involved several parallel chains of exhibits, each with a multi-stage tour through multiple rooms, all starting and ending in the huge main lobby. Energia wasn't a techie but knew enough about technical matters through training and experience to appreciate the importance of the items being displayed. However, her appreciation was only a fraction of that exhibited by the team's gadgeteer.  
 "Yeah, you don't see magic doing anything like this!" said Gadgetive, enthusiastically, over their earbuds.  
 "What about some of the famous magical automatons?" said Blue Impact, in a low murmur, just loud enough to be picked up by her earbud through bone conduction.  
 The older super was currently walking back to the start of her part of the tour, with no-one close to her. She was therefore free to talk, though quietly. 
 "Not the same." 
 "They look and act the same," said Energia, in a similar murmur, taking advantage of the ambient noise to comment as she lead her crew through an open - and busy - stretch of hallway.  
 "Okay, let's talk digital, then!" snapped the gadgeteer. "The integrated electronics communications system used for the later-made of the devices on exhibit and their modes of operation were part of the foundation used to form first ARPANET and later the Internet. Let's see the elves develop intercontinental digital communications!" 
 "Actually, the Bluegrass Elves have what they call 'the Enternet' aka 'the wood wide web,'" said Blue Impact, quietly. "Glomahr told me about it. They use the fungal rhizomes which pervade a wooded segment or forest to send messages and even monitor conditions the plants are experiencing. They use their fingers to interact with the plants and rhizomes, so it's also digital. They've been doing this for thousands of years, though the nicknames I mentioned are, of course, modern." 
 "Not the same thing," said Gadgetive, smugly. "Besides, that's biological and psionic. Not magical." 
 Energia reached the next part of her tour just then and had to stop paying attention to the earbud radio and prepare to resume her spiel. Blue Impact also got back to the start of her tour. Gadgetive, of course, was under no such constraints.  
 "Most of what's on exhibit here was the work of a pretty small group," she said. "You hardly mentioned any names in your spiels, and those were all bigshots. Upper managers. The actual workshop was run by Abner Sturgeon, who was probably a gadgeteer and maybe a true mad inventor. 
 "He's not mentioned at all in the stuff for the exhibit, and barely in any of the official histories, even though he was instrumental (sorry about that) in designing the equipment which made their park a hit. After the founder of the company died Abner had a falling out with the corporate executives who took over from the founder. Abner finally 'retired' in a fit of exasperation. 
 "Poor old Abner," said Gadgetive, finishing with a sigh. "He was dead, alone in his home, for three days before anyone started worrying about him. They had to call in one of his former coworkers - Edward Logsdon - to figure out how to get in safely to check on him. Abner had spent his last eight years occupying himself by modifying his home into a fully integrated mechanical system. Just to show his former bosses that his ideas would actually work. 
 "Ooh! Energia, did you see the Jenkins CHARL1E robot, in the path you're guiding people through? It's the prototype, the only one built, because his bosses said they didn't want anything that strong running around freely." 
 Energia gritted her teeth and smiled at her tour group, as Gadgetive rattled on. All the undercover duties fell to her and Blue Impact due to one of the few things Gadgetive and Vic had in common: They both disliked wearing a dress, especially a fancy one. The amusement that shared attitude brought Energia kept her mood pleasant with the guests at the exhibit in spite of Gadgetive's occasional rants.  
 # 
   
 "Second day of this," said Gadgetive, tiredly, after taking her position again the next day. "When do we get some action?" 
 At least no-one was asking Blue Impact about her "date." Though she had gotten back to the lair after everyone else went to bed the night before, she was awake and making breakfast - still in a very good mood - before anyone else rose the next morning. 
 Vic's post was on the roof near a skylight over the middle of the foyer. Gadgetive was stationed similarly above the main entrance.  
 "Be careful what you wish for," said Vic. "By the way, Blue Impact, be sure to thank whoever thought to put a portajohn up here. I do wish we had a bit more shade, though." 
 "It's only another eight hours, plus lunch," said the team leader, amusement in her voice. 
 Still, the day ended with no unusual activities. Well, until they got inside the lair and were descending the stairs to the living quarters level. Vic took her helmet off then instead of waiting until she was in her quarters as she had the day before, and Gadgetive did one of the few legitimate triple-takes the others had ever seen.  
 "You all right?" said Energia. 
 "You're... different," said Gadgetive, to Vic, making it an accusation. 
 "I am?" 
 "Oh!" said Energia, laughing a bit as she got it. "Vic took her extensions off before she put her armor on. That's her natural hair length." 
 "Oh. Yeah. It fits better under the helmet this way," said Vic, touching her short hair. She also gave a bit of a laugh. "It meets Bureau hair length regulations like this, too. Yesterday I dressed for work in my room, then took the helmet off in my room later, so I guess you hadn't seen me like this before." 
 Gadgetive stared a bit. Then, muttering under her breath, she pushed ahead, hurried through the stairway door and on to her room. 
 "Is it just me, or is she worse than usual lately?" said Blue Impact, irritated. 
 "I think she's just still upset that we have an 'unexpected' guest for Spring Break," said Energia. She looked over at Vic, who was obviously uncomfortable. "Don't take it personally. She'd react the same way to an additional cat." 
 "I don't actually find that reassuring," said Vic, tone uncertain.  
 # 
   
 "You're looking a bit under the weather," said Blue Impact to Energia, the next morning, as she and the others had a quick breakfast at the lair before heading to the museum. 
 She and Energia were actually in civvies, wearing disguises involving wigs (a new one for Energia; a different one for Blue Impact). They would carry their costumes to work in gym bags, which would be stashed in a janitor's closet near the front atrium at the museum.  
 "I can't get that ride theme song out of my head," said Energia, tiredly.  
 "Best way to get rid of an ear worm," said Vic, "is to listen to another song." 
 "I actually tried that. It worked for a while, and I was able to get to sleep, but then I woke up with the ride song playing in my head, again." 
 "You sure it wasn't Gadgetive playing something in AM RF which only you could perceive?" said Blue Impact, impishly, looking at the team gadgeteer.  
 "Huh?" said Gadgetive. She suddenly looked thoughtful. "Oh. Yeah. That would work for her." 
 "Oh, thanks, teach," said Energia, glaring back and forth between the other two members of Tricorne. "You've given her an idea." 
 "Hey, I'd never do that!" said Gadgetive. "I mean, as a short term prank, while you're awake, maybe. Not to keep you from sleeping. Sleep is important." 
 Vic managed to hide her smirk. She had realized early in her visit that Gadgetive was pretty much constantly short on sleep. Meanwhile, due in part to her superhuman biology and in part due to natural variation, Blue Impact needed less sleep than most people.  
 "Well, let's load the dishwasher and get going," said Blue Impact. "It's Thursday, and things will ramp up tomorrow. Let's enjoy what will hopefully be a - relatively - quiet day." 
 "You had to say that," said Energia, with a sigh.  
 # 
   
 A little later, with Vic and Gadgetive at their concealed posts on the roof, Energia and Blue Impact - already in their civilian disguises - donned their hostess outfits with the others who were giving the tours. As they prepared to start their day, Blue Impact thought she heard Energia muttering under her breath. Moving closer, she realized what the other was saying.  
 "Please don't let there be a robbery," "Sue" muttered. "Please don't let there be a robbery." 
 "Worried about your new dress?" said "Constance" quietly, as the two supers lagged behind the other hosts.  
 "Of course I'm worried about my new dress!" she hissed. "They said we could keep them afterwards!" 
 "Well, if some..." 
 There was an enormous crash, something not just heard but felt.  
 "Mech attacking the building!" shouted Vic, over their earbuds. 
 "Shit!" yelled Energia. She looked frantically around. "I just realized, we're further from our costumes here than at any point on the tours we give!" 
 "Then we better hurry!" said Blue Impact, taking off running. 
 "Now we're running in high heels!" shouted Energia. She was especially annoyed that even with that restraint, Blue Impact was still faster than her. 
 # 
   
 By the time they got their costumes on and to the atrium Gadgetive and Vic were both at floor level inside the large room, having descended through a skylight via the former's rope. Nearly everyone else was gone, even the security guards. This was not surprising, because the two supers were already fully engaged. The were fighting several armed and very well protected drones. 
 Fortunately, the armaments seemed to be less-than-lethal. Though that didn't mean they were safe to be hit by. 
 Blue Impact - thanks to her superior reflexes - made it to the janitor's closet first. Her and Energia's ID badges had been coded to unlock this door and a few others in addition to those the regular museum tour guides' badges opened. Energia ran in as her teacher held the door. Neither bothered turning the lights on; both had senses which made the dark inside the closet irrelevant. Both had also practiced putting their costumes on quickly, even in difficult situations.  
 Again, Blue Impact finished first. She charged out the door and into the atrium while Energia was still getting her bodystocking secured, causing the latter to emit a squawk of outrage. The oldest member of the quartet of super defenders took in the scene as she ran into the atrium. 
 Vic was mainly dodging; machines were not the sort of opponent her abilities were best against, though she was far from helpless. Gadgetive was faring much better, since this was the sort of foe she was good against, but there were several drones. If Vic hadn't been drawing the attention of half of them the gadgeteer would have been swarmed.  
 Blue Impact made full speed towards the closest drone. She caught it with a place kick just as it was turning towards her. She even managed to aim it at another drone. That put those two out of action, at least for the moment. Blue Impact quickly and expertly evaluated the rapidly changing situation as she moved to the next target.  
 The drones were flying spheres, a bit less than a meter in diameter, method of propulsion unknown. They were vaguely reminiscent of Constantine's Omni-Spheres, though mirror-finished instead of flat black. They quickly demonstrated another difference; these drones could sprout tentacles with claws or ranged weapons from concealed ports. 
 How many of any of those each had was currently unknown. They weren't hugely fast but they were quite maneuverable. As witnessed by the throbbing in Blue Impact's foot, they were also very solidly built. 
 On top of all that, Blue Impact could see a much larger sphere working to widen the hole in the side wall near the front of the building, through which the drones had entered. That device was big enough to have a person inside. She didn't know for certain that it did, but figured that was pretty likely.  
 A drone targeted her, and she dodged. One thing in the favor of the defenders was that for some reason the drones retracted a weapon-equipped tentacle after a shot or swipe, then redeployed it for the next attack. A flaw in the programming, perhaps? Something to be determined later. 
 Blue Impact leapt into a diving roll and came up with a chunk of wall, which she threw at another drone. It dodged, resulting in a glancing blow, but that still kept it from acting against any of the trio for a moment.  
 Energia finally arrived, flying into atrium above the fray. She zapped a drone with each hand, using focused heat rays. Disabling them took several seconds.  
 "Get the big one!" Blue Impact shouted to her.  
 Energia gave a short nod and flew towards where the larger sphere was still clumsily widening the hole. It suddenly found the loose material it was removing shoving hard against it, moving it backwards, thanks to Energia. This also allowed the force/energy manipulator to fly outside and gain altitude.  
 "They're using graviton manipulation," said Energia, changing tactics. "Hang on..." 
 The small spheres inside fell and rolled. The big one dropped, but recovered, its stronger drive resisting Energia's efforts. She tried a heat ray, but the thing had some sort of protective field. Magnetism and electricity likewise proved useless. That left visible light, but a brief test of that proved the armor too tough and reflective to burn through quickly.  
 "Hah! You supers never learn! My foamed cermet armor can withstand over three thousand kelvins!" shouted an amplified voice.  
 Energia did a quick evaluation, then flew away. 
 "What the Hell..." said the operator, confused. Then he grinned, hanging in his uncomfortable but secure harness inside the sphere. "Hey, did I just scare off the big, bad hero?" 
 "Nope," said the big, bad hero. "Check your rear camera." 
 Instead, the mech quickly spun around, throwing the man inside painfully against the straps. He gaped as he saw Energia, glowing and smiling, with a hand on the large transformer on the small lawn on one side of the museum property. 
 "Smile. Wait for flash." 
 "Shit!" he screamed, as he frantically tried to target her. 
 Too late. The eye-searing, visible-light beam which streamed from her other hand cut deeply into his armor. Energia went all around the central part of the mech with the attack, leaving just a truncated conical section containing the cockpit. That part fell free of the rest of the device. It dropped to the pavement with a loud clunk and began rolling in a curved path. The main part of the large sphere simply stopped, supported by its legs, the arms hanging limp.   
 Energia intended to use her Meissner effect to stop the smaller, rolling portion, but was interrupted when the hatch blew off as the occupant ejected, rockets blasting. The operator at least had the presence of mind to wait until the hatch was pointing away from any close structures. Though he did scrape along the pavement - with much sparking - a short distance before the ejection pod could turn upwards. 
 All that, however, didn't stop Energia from snagging him in mid-rocket boost, holding the pod until the flames stopped, then grabbing the pilot as the pod ejected the seat and his parachute deployed. Energia separated the inventor from his seat and deposited him - a bit ungently - onto the grass near the hole he had made in the wall.  
 She thought he might give a defiant speech swearing revenge or retribution or perhaps try to escape. Instead, as Energia watched him closely while she corralled the still-rolling cockpit, he chose the third most common choice of gadgeteers and mad inventors in such situations.  
 "My mech!" he wailed. He crawled over to the nearest part. He cradled as much of the huge, heavy armor section in his arms as he could and rocked it. Or tried to. "My beautiful creation..." 
 Energia watched to make sure he wasn't actually trying to get manual control of some weapon. However, he just sat there, holding that piece of his invention and crying, until Blue Impact arrived and flex-cuffed him.  
 "Is that it?" said Energia, landing beside Blue Impact.  
 "We took care of all his drones. You took care of his battle mech. There's property damage but nobody hurt, beyond being scared and some minor bruises and scrapes. Looks okay." 
 "That's what you think!" 
 The amplified voice made both of the costumed heroes start, along with their prisoner. A quick look in the direction of the voice showed men in armor running towards them. Armor which looked like exaggerated versions of what police wore when on riot duty. 
 "We are RIOT SQUAD!" shouted the smug man with the bullhorn, confirming that analysis of the style of dress of these new arrivals. "You are quashed!" 
 If they had simply attacked without the warning they might have had a chance. Instead, the leader had to posture and brag. Something the others in the group complained about later, including directly to him.  
 Thanks to that warning, Energia leapt into the air while Blue Impact did a diving roll to the side. As a result, the attacks against them - beanbag rounds, spinning nets and pepper balls - found their only target in the already captured inventor. He was hit with multiple pepper balls and two nets. 
 Meanwhile, Energia tried a mass electrical jolt tuned to the human nervous system. It was only partially effective, due to the shielding in their body armor. Then she had to frantically dodge, as stun bags, pepper balls and several nets came at her from multiple directions.  
 The fight was then well and truly engaged. There were successful attacks on the part of both sides but at first nothing definitive connected, leaving the situation hanging in the balance. Fortunately, Gadgetive and Vic - who had been making sure the drones inside were all completely out of action and that no bystanders were under the debris - arrived on the scene at this time and quickly turned the tide decisively against the second set of attackers.  
 Gadgetive found herself mainly defending the others. She jammed the attackers' communications, gummed up several of their weapons and generally made herself useful without having much time to become more offensive. 
 Vic, on the other hand, very quickly took out three of the six still standing after Blue Impact's first counter attacks. The older super soon found herself in an informal competition with the martial artist as to how many of the attackers each took care of. It finally came down to Vic facing the last attacker by herself while the members of Tricorne were busy restraining those already downed. That last standing member of Riot Squad being the man with the bullhorn.  
 He threw this at Vic, and used the moment she needed to dodge to prepare for her defeat. He knew that he was at least twice her age and that he had been training hard since his teens; there was no way she had enough experience to stand against his superior skills. 
 Smiling, the man moved in, planning on an elaborate display of his martial prowess. He started with a feint, designed to set up his target for a series of other feints and stunning blows, which would culminate in a devastating finishing strike.  
 Vic blocked the feint and bounced off the block into a heel-palm strike to the man's helmeted forehead. His head shot backwards. Fortunately for him, his head remained attached and the rest of his body followed. He hit the pavement hard and didn't move.  
 "Wow..." said Gadgetive, wide-eyed behind her mask as she saw this. She turned to Blue Impact and grinned. "Okay, she might be useful after all..." 
 ### 
   










   
 Part Four 
   
 Thanks to the complications of the double attack, cleanup took hours. Between museum security, local police, milling bystanders and many, many news crews arriving quickly to cover the attack on the museum, things did not go smoothly. Fortunately, the police did keep the news teams away from the actual scene, so the four supers were spared having to deal with them as well as attending to everything else they had to do. 
 Even as the matters involved in the actual assaults were being straightened out, though, another complication arrived in the form of a museum official, who was accompanied by several more security personnel. 
 The team members were, at that time, standing around, waiting for a high-ranking local police official to arrive and make a show for the press of formally taking their statement. The leader of the new arrivals may have therefore seen them as easy targets. Ignoring the police and the security men and women already present, he marched directly to the quartet and addressed them in a challenging manner. 
 "While you were busy with trivialities someone stole the Tuesday Ruby!" 
 "Wait..." said Blue Impact. "That's in a completely different building. It's a permanent exhibit. We didn't even know there was a threat to steal it." 
 "The obvious question is why not?!" the man said, shrilly, as he ignored the efforts by one of the uniformed city officers to regain control of the situation. "It is the most valuable single item on exhibit in this entire complex! Why wasn't it your priority!?" 
 "Look, we knew nothing about any threat against anything except this specific, short term exhibit," said Blue Impact, angrily. "If you knew there was a problem, why didn't you bring it to someone's attention?" 
 "Oh, now you're trying to blame me?" said the man, even more shrilly.  
 "Right," said Blue Impact, with a tired sigh. "We risk our lives stopping two robbery attempts, and all we get from you is criticism for not stopping a third which took place somewhere else." 
 "The Tuesday Ruby isn't the most valuable object in this museum complex," said Gadgetive, in an authoritative tone. "It isn't even the most valuable object in the mineralogy museum. That would be the Idol's Eye Blue Diamond. The ruby is valuable, though, and famous. The Precious Stones even wrote a song about it, back in 1967." 
 "I'm talking about the theft of a national treasure and you're arguing trivialities!" the man shrieked, his voice cracking. "What are you people even doing here?!" 
 "We were invited," said Blue Impact, flatly. 
 "Well, not by me!" 
 "Exactly," said Blue Impact. "You didn't ask for help ahead of time, like the people in charge of the tech exhibit did." 
 "I already told you, this is all your fault!" 
 "Right," Blue Impact repeated. She looked at the senior officer present, who rolled his eyes. Deciding to focus on their actual problem, she turned to look at their prisoners. "Vic, who was it that you suggested calling, a few minutes ago?" 
 "FBI. They have a special branch for dealing with art theft and art fraud, and I think that's what the items in this exhibit count as. The ruby would, too." 
 The mad inventor and several others started shouting denials about that classification, but one of the uniforms present overrode them in volume.  
 "Whoah! No FBI! This is specifically a local crime, and we'll handle it." 
 "I really don't need an argument over jurisdiction, just now," said Blue Impact, angrily. She noticed that most of the uniforms were stepping back a bit. "We have a federal officer interning with us. She already made the arrests." 
 She pointed at Vic, who pointed to the badge on her belt. 
 "You're not a fed," said the officer, actually sneering. "You're a pseudo-fed!" 
 "If you think you can ignore my authority," said Vic, voice quiet but tone deadly, "you'll find yourself arrested, in restraints and up on charges. Back off!" 
 He did, though sputtering. His retreat was due in part to the senior officer present having a quiet word with him. 
 "Stop ignoring me!" shouted the mineralogy museum official. 
 As if that were possible, thought Blue Impact.  
 "Sir, we're not ignoring you," said Blue Impact, trying to be diplomatic. "We're calling in experts to deal with your problem." 
 That was Vic's cue to start making calls, using her Bureau-issued brilliant phone. Meanwhile, the senior uniform on scene quickly got on his radio. Before he could receive any sort of definitive response, however, several unmarked cars arrived and - among others - three well-dressed men and a woman got out. The man apparently in charge of these new arrivals looked around, stone faced but obviously attempting to sort out what was going on. 
 He saw Vic wave, then point to her badge. His eyes might have widened just a bit. He walked quickly over to her and the pair spoke quietly for several minutes. Then, at Vic's suggestion, the man waved the senior uniformed officer present over. The three of them had another intensely quiet conversation.  
 By now Blue Impact had her own cell phone out and was making several quick, terse calls. Finally, she nodded, thanked whoever she was speaking to and hung up. She walked over to the head of museum security, who was looking like he felt neglected.  
 "I just finished a conference call which included the city's Attorney General," she said, politely but firmly. "The museum gets funding from the city, the state and the federal government; mostly the latter, though even that is less than the private donations. However, this exhibit is here from out of state. Given that, and the fact that an authorized, active federal officer made the actual arrests they all agreed that the FBI should take custody." 
 "I'll have to confirm that," said the man, stiffly. 
 "I would expect no less." 
 "What's that supposed to mean?!" 
 "It means that if you don't confirm that I will report you for dereliction of duty!" snapped Blue Impact. She spun around and marched towards Vic, who had just finished with the men she had been talking to. "Tell me some good news." 
 "The Chief, here, got a call which pretty much confirmed what we had already decided: The FBI has jurisdiction. They - the FBI - have a team on the way from the local office. They've already cleared this with the city." 
 "What about my ruby?!" screamed the mineralogy museum man. 
 "It's not your ruby, Fred!" yelled another facility administrator. "It belongs to the museum! Have you even officially reported the crime, yet?" 
 The loud man started to make an angry retort, then looked startled. Then he turned and hurried - soon breaking into a run - back the way he had come.  
 # 
   
 A museum official eventually confirmed the obvious; that the special exhibit was closed for at least the rest of the week. More likely for the rest of the month. Maybe permanently. Repairs had to be made to the building and even some of the exhibits. Additional security was arranged to keep things safe until the wall could be repaired. The quartet of supers was therefore out of a job. Much to their unanimous relief. 
 Once they arrived, the FBI team essentially told the quartet the same thing. In general, they said "Thanks for your help. We'll handle things from here." 
 "I heard what our two roof squatters told the police," said Blue Impact, as the four women walked back to their ride, which was hidden in a lawn care garage behind the museum's administration building. "However, once we get back to the lair we definitely need a debriefing of our own. I have questions I haven't heard anyone else ask, yet." 
 As their apergy pod settled into cruise mode for the short trip back to Tricorne's headquarters, Energia noticed Gadgetive yawning.  
 "How can you be sleepy after all that excitement?" 
 "Not sleepy," said the gadgeteer, in a sour mutter. "Just short on caffeine." 
 "Feeling tired?" said Vic, with saccharine cheerfulness. "There's a nap for that!" 
 "Huh?" said Gadgetive, blankly. 
 Vic suddenly straightened in her seat at the sound of a distinct combination of tones. 
 "Sorry; it's my boss." 
 She pulled out her brilliant phone. Holding the device up to her already opened faceplate, she answered the call and then mostly listened for a bit. 
 The call didn't last long, but by the time it was over the chameleon-skinned flyer was already dropping through the roll-open top of the storage shed on the roof of the old bakery. The quartet disembarked from the vehicle, crossed the short distance to the top of the stairs - unseen thanks to a high fence all around the periphery of the roof - and entered the lair. 
 "What a mess," groaned, Vic, collapsing melodramatically on the lair's reinforced couch, still in her armor. "Is this the way your cases usually go?" 
 "No, but a lot of them do," said Blue Impact, just as tiredly. She gave Vic a sympathetic smile, as she sat in her extra-sturdy recliner. "Though we don't usually have to deal with the paperwork they put you through." 
 Vic gave a tired laugh, and then unbuckled her chin strap and pulled her helmet off. She shook her hair out, scratched her scalp a bit, and gave a relieved sigh.  
 "You remember that call I got on the flight back here? That was Doro, telling me they'd gotten five calls to verify my identity and authority. Two of those from the FBI!" 
 "Given the value of the items stolen," said Blue Impact, nodding slowly, "that's actually understandable." 
 "Was the gem theft just coincidence?" said Energia, as she landed gracefully on the other end of the couch. "Or did some mastermind set all the rest up as a distraction to steal the ruby for a mega-laser or something?" 
 "Whoah," said Gadgetive, eyes going wide as she - as usual - entered the large, main room last. "I hadn't thought of that. They do use rubies for some types of lasers. Though it'd be easier to culture a synthetic one with exactly the right properties than steal something that well protected." 
 "I suspect that the ruby theft was for ransom," said Blue Impact, frowning in thought. "Even recutting the Tuesday Ruby - which would be a cultural crime - wouldn't let them get away with selling the pieces; its chemical signature is registered and the pieces would be quickly identified." 
 "We need a bigger couch," said Gadgetive, glaring at the two already sitting on that piece of furniture. There was actually plenty of room between them.  
 "Oh, use the other recliner," said Energia, sourly. "You never sit on the couch unless you're watching TV anyway." 
 "Okay," said Vic, trying to ignore the byplay and get back to the case, "one other thing I got from the call was a warning that other places which also have some of the same tech as in the exhibits might be targeted. They've notified the FBI and local law enforcement in the appropriate areas." 
 "Closest place to here - to the museum, I mean - would be Abner Sturgeon's home," said Gadgetive, looking thoughtful as she distractedly sat on the coffee table. "It's in a suburb of Charleston." 
 "Probably not our concern, then," said Blue Impact. She sighed and rose, moving to activate the video camera connected to their entertainment system, and making sure the digital recorder was working. "All right, let's get started on the debriefing. What was the first anyone knew of the attack?" 
 "That big thump," said Vic, "as the power armor punched a hole in the wall to let the drones in. I didn't see or hear it before that, and I was too far away for my sense of perception to catch it." 
 "Yeah," said Gadgetive, nodding. "Must have been stealth-ed, like our flyer. Didn't see or hear anything before that." 
 Blue Impact led them through a detailed account of their actions, piecing together what had happened as best she could. Finally satisfied, she nodded. 
 "That's about all we can do until I get the reports from the prisoner interrogations," she said, turning the camera and recorder off. "I'll make some notes for our records after I have a chance to view the recording." 
 "Y'know," said Gadgetive, hopefully, "I'd like to see that house." 
 "Sturgeon's home?" said Blue Impact, pausing on her way to her private, corner workstation with the memory chip containing the video of their debriefing. 
 "Yeah. It was supposed to have been cleared of all his stuff, but there are rumors that the new owners just left it all there. That either it was too much trouble to remove, or that the new owners were actually admirers of his work. Even if it was just left there, if the thieves are after that tech, they'll go to the house. If it is still fully functional..." 
 "Well, it should be easy to find out who owns the property," said Blue Impact. She turned again and resumed course.  
 The others looked at each other; Gadgetive happily, Energia neutrally, Vic not sure what was going on. 
 "She's very good at the online detective work," said Energia, by way of explanation. "Also at the gumshoe stuff, though that's different in costume than for police or PIs." 
 "Yeah, that last bit I already knew," said Vic, nodding. "Part of Bureau training is what the difference is and how to do each. Though I'm not really good at any of those. Give me bad guys to punch, if you want to see me doing what I'm good at. Not that I enjoy punching bad guys, but if they need it, I'm available." 
 "Got it!" came the triumphant cry from Blue Impact, a bit later. "Property was sold a few weeks after Abner's death - turned out the guy who let them in had his power of attorney - to a real estate development company. Then, nothing. Which is very strange. Every other property in that neighborhood has changed hands at least twice since then. Though someone is still paying the taxes and utilities on Sturgeon's property." 
 "Even though Sturgeon died years ago?!" said Energia, surprised.  
 "There's a lot of paperwork to go through connected to that property," said Blue Impact, walking back out into the main area. "A couple of lawsuits, problems with the utilities, zoning violation complaints... There's also some records which haven't been computerized. I've got both custom software and a couple of contacts in the appropriate city office sorting through things. I suspect the property actually was sold again at least once, but so far haven't tracked down to whom. That could take days or even weeks." 
 "Just to be safe," said Vic, carefully, "we should at least go take a look at the place. I have the impression that the local cops in that city aren't even being advised there might be a problem involving the house." 
 Or perhaps she was hoping to make a favorable impression on the team's gadgeteer.  
 "We really should check it out," said Gadgetive, doing her best to look like an eager puppy and failing miserably at that task. 
 "If this is all a mastermind plot," said Blue Impact, slowly and thoughtfully, as she stood in the entrance to her private corner, "we can expect more complications. It's what they do." 
 "So, we're going?" said Gadgetive, eagerly.  
 "Yes," said Blue Impact, grinning at her enthusiasm. "We're going. After we clean up a bit. We're still dirty from the fight." 
 "We should have lunch, too," said Vic. "In all the excitement we missed it. There's no telling when we'll get another chance to eat, either." 
 That idea met with all-round approval. 
 "Better late than never," said Energia, agreeably. "When it comes to food, anyway." 
 # 
   
 The people walking their dogs and tending lawns and flower beds in their upper middle-class neighborhood that afternoon looked askance as the apergy pod silently descended straight down out of the clear sky to plant its wheeled landing gear solidly on the pavement in front of the incongruous house. 
 However, even when four costumed figures exited to stand at the gate, the attitude of the locals was to each obviously think some variation of "Well, of course that place would receive that sort of attention." and to go on about their business. None of them came over to ask what the masks were doing. None even gave the costumed supers more than an occasional surreptitious glance.  
 "No doubt which one it is," said Energia, quietly, as they stood looking at their target. 
 The sprawling, two-storey house was on a correspondingly large lot. It was not only the oldest structure in the neighborhood, it was the only one of its style, which included a white picket fence. Everything on the lot - including the fence - was immaculate. There was a mail box on the gate post, but it was empty, with no name on the box or the post; just the number.  
 "Wow. Guy must have spent a fortune on this," said Energia, flying up a bit to get a better view. "Even back in the Sixties, this was not a cheap neighborhood." 
 She looked around from her vantage.  
 "I'm surprised someone hasn't bought it and torn it down to build another McMansion." 
 "It was bought, remember," said Blue Impact. "Not long after Abner Sturgeon died. Supposedly by a real estate developer, who promised to put up a showcase home as soon as he got the funding." 
 "That sounds familiar," said Energia, smiling as she landed.  
 "To what?" said Gadgetive, puzzled.  
 "The wild promises people promoting startups often make," said Blue Impact. Of course, Energia's comment also applied to her ex-bakery lair, but she wasn't going to mention that.  
 "Well, whoever currently owns it makes sure it's well-maintained," said Vic. "Place looks spotless." 
 "Too spotless," said Blue Impact, frowning. "It's like..." 
 "Like something from a theme park," said Energia, nodding as she got the team leader's drift. "Which is probably deliberate." 
 "I bet there's automated mowers," said Gadgetive, sounding excited. "They probably come out every night, when there's nobody around. Sprinklers, too." 
 "So... Do we just knock?" said Vic, uncertainly.  
 "That works surprisingly often," said Blue Impact.  
 "Of course, when it doesn't," said Energia, all too cheerfully, "we usually wind up fighting for our lives." 
 Blue Impact lifted the latch and pushed the classic white-painted gate open. Then jumped back as many things happened in rapid sequence. The least threatening of them being that the gate slammed shut and relatched, and not due to springs. 
 Hatches opened in the sod and menacing looking devices deployed from under the ground. All those on that side of the house were pointed at Blue Impact. Armored shutters rose into place over all the doors and windows, locking solidly into place.  
 "Attention!" said an amplified voice. "This property is in security lockdown! All intruders will be neutralized and held for the police!" 
 "I don't believe it!" shouted Gadgetive, excitedly. "They left it intact! The whole thing's here! It must be!" 
 "Is there somebody in there?" said Energia, loudly. 
 There was no response.  
 "The place is supposed to be empty," said Blue Impact, frowning. "This must all be on automatic. Which means the new owner needs to be contacted." 
 "Yeah, and you won't let me have traps," said Gadgetive, pouting. 
 "What if Vic identified herself as a federal LEO?" said Energia, frowning in thought. "Is the system sophisticated enough to recognize that?" 
 They tried. Vic held up her badge, opened her faceplate and identified herself and as a federal special agent in a loud, clear voice.  
 "There is no warrant present," said the same voice. "There is no probable cause. You will not enter this property." 
 "Yeah, that sounds pretty sophisticated," said Energia, impressed.  
 "As well as pretty final," said Vic, putting her badge back on her belt and closing her faceplate. 
 "That voice sounds a lot like the big guy who did so many of the voices for attractions at the theme park Abner worked for," said Blue Impact. She looked at the team's gadgeteer. "You think you can do anything with this from out here?" 
 "I'm remembering something a biology teacher I once had told a class I took," said Gadgetive, with a sour expression. "'Under the most stringently controlled conditions of environment, conditioning and heredity, the organism does what it damn well pleases.'" 
 "Are you saying this is alive?" said Vic, startled.  
 "Or close enough as makes no nevermind, as my grandma used to say," said Gadgetive. Her scowl deepened. "There's a reason I don't work with biology." 
 "So is this a person?" said Blue Impact, firmly.  
 "Nah," said Gadgetive. She frowned. "Probably not. I mean, I don't think so..." 
 "Should we try negotiation?" said Energia, grinning.  
 "No," said Blue Impact, firmly, after a moment. "Right now there's no sign of trouble here. We'll keep on trying to find the owner, but for now we need to leave this alone. It may have already called the police." 
 "Nothin' on the police scanner," said Gadgetive, frowning, "though I bet there would be if one of us tried to enter the property." 
 "What if I flew in?" said Energia, who was still hovering well above the sidewalk.  
 "Probably react as soon as you crossed the property line," said Gadgetive, nodding. "Not sure how, but some of those things which deployed look pretty formidable." 
 "Yow," said Energia, mildly, quickly settling onto the pavement.  
 "Yes," said Blue Impact, nodding. "So we back off and contact the owner." 
 "Yeah, this looks like it would at the very least call the authorities if someone tried to break in," said Vic, also nodding. "Since it didn't call before we got here and still seems to be in proper working order, there probably haven't been any serious attempts at intrusion. For now we should leave things alone." 
 ### 
   










   
 Part Five 
   
 "Guess what?" said Blue Impact, a couple of hours later, back at the lair. "Turns out the person who owns the house is the same Edward Logsdon who had to let the police in, years ago. He is part owner of the real estate company which bought the house, which is why there's no record of further transfers. 
 "He just had the company say it was waiting for a buyer to develop the property, in order to head off complaints about the house not fitting with the rest of the neighborhood, as it changed through the years. I guess he took it over as a private project. Or maybe as a memorial to his friend." 
 The other three had been in the lounge area, talking about the case while their leader worked in her private corner. When she finally had something to tell them, Blue Impact was pleased to find that they were already together and close by.  
 "It did fit in when it was built," said Energia, who had learned to appreciate old things from her maternal grandmother. "The whole suburb was bought out, usually one lot at a time, and the other old houses torn down, with the properties often being combined to make room for McMansions." 
 "Well, yes," said Blue Impact, with a straight face. "Anyway, the bad news is that when I tried to contact Logsdon I couldn't. He seems to have disappeared. Even his wife doesn't know where he is. She just spent several hours calling around to their children and grandkids and other family as well as friends and business acquaintances. No-one has seen him since early this afternoon." 
 "I bet he's inside that house," said Energia, with conviction.  
 "I would normally agree with you," said Blue Impact, seriously. "His wife says he went to check on it after the attempts were made on the exhibits at the museum this morning, but no-one saw him actually arrive there. He's also not answering his cell phone, which appears to have been deliberately disabled because it won't even respond to a ping. 
 "Because of the circumstances the police are already looking for him. His car has an emergency location device and the police say it was found abandoned in a culvert well away from the path he should have taken to get from where he was to the house." 
 "Shit," said Vic, alarmed and angered. "I bet someone kidnapped him to force him to let them into the house and something went wrong." 
 "Well, he's almost eighty, and while he's reportedly in good health any rough treatment of someone that age could definitely have serious effects. Also: language." 
 "So we need to find him, and soon," said Energia, now also firmly.  
 "He needs to be found soon," said Blue Impact. "Not necessarily by us, but by someone. Soon." 
 # 
   
 "This case is turning out to be pretty big," said Blue Impact, at breakfast the next morning. "Though there's still nothing probative, both local and federal investigations - plus my own checking - have shown connections between all three robbery attempts - with the one for the ruby being the only successful one - at the museum, as well as several other similar recent crimes." 
 "Shit," was all Energia said. The others stayed silent. "Sorry." 
 "Please be more careful with your language," said Blue Impact, tiredly. "I know you're well past legal age, but it still gives a bad impression." 
 "You can tell she's older than she looks," said Gadgetive, smirking. She was absent-mindedly tapping her fingers on the table they sat around in the lair's generous kitchen. The others had learned to ignore that habit.  
 "Yeah, but she has a good point," said Vic, a bit reluctantly. "They train those of us who work for the Bureau of Special Resources - including part-timers like me - to mind our manners. Something I forgot until she called me on it yesterday. Perception can be as important as reality to some people. We must be like Caesar's wife, and avoid even the appearance of impropriety." 
 "So," said Blue Impact, resuming. "At least five out of seven recent tech crimes we - that is, law enforcement - know of have connections to the works of Abner Sturgeon. Investigators say that even the ruby heist has connections - though they're more tentative - to whoever planned at least some of the other crimes. Details, unfortunately, are not available at this time. 
 "We therefore need to check on more of Abner's work, and try to find some way to track down whoever is behind all this." 
 "Not a lot to go on," said Vic, frowning. "Doro says all the thieves we caught were paid through intermediaries. The few of those who have already been caught in connection to the other crimes gave testimony indicating they were also contacted indirectly." 
 "Again, these are all signs of a cautious, competent mastermind at work," said Blue Impact. She sighed, looking tired. "That's one of the most dangerous and effective types of super criminal. We need more information." 
 "None of his stuff is still actually used by the theme parks," said Gadgetive, thoughtfully. "They may have some in storage, though. That could be a target." 
 "The FBI has already thought of that," said Vic, nodding. "The company's official line is that they reused or scrapped all the old equipment, except for those few items they donated to museums or technical colleges, or kept for their own historic exhibits. Most of the stuff in the show here, for example, actually came from private collectors, with the rest of it already being in museums and borrowed from them. 
 "Which means the exhibit organizers unintentionally gathered it all in one place for the thieves. The FBI is making Abner Sturgeon's old coworkers give them inventories of what they might have in their garages, as well as what the company still has. They're going to keep a careful eye on whatever is left, wherever it is." 
 "So, this hypothetical mastermind will probably seek other targets," said Energia, absently chewing her lower lip, as she thought things through. 
 "More likely, if there is one mastermind behind all this they'll redouble their efforts," said Vic, speaking from personal experience. "They may back off a bit, or postpone some operations, but they'll always come back to their original goals. If only to prove that the dullards working against them don't have a chance."  
 "So, what is there for us to do?" said Energia. She noticed that for some reason all four of them were leaning close together over the kitchen table, speaking quietly. She deliberately leaned back a bit, and the others unconsciously followed her example. 
 "Unless we can get permission from the police to examine the evidence at one of the other crime scenes," said Blue Impact, slowly and thoughtfully, "or find someone who can get us in that house, we just wait. Which is the hardest role." 
 # 
   
 After the meeting ended Vic headed to her room, intending to change into her training garb and get some exercise. She had only been there for a few minutes when there was a knock on the door. Vic quickly pulled her gi top on over her sport bra as she went to the door but didn't bother tying it, simply closing the top and letting friction hold it in place. 
 From both the sound and her sense of perception as she neared the door she knew it was Blue Impact, but Vic had learned not to let folks know she could tell those things unless she didn't mind freaking them out. Of course, with Blue Impact the difference in knocks was pretty obvious, given her denser tissues. Though most people still didn't notice.  
 "Hi, boss," she said, smiling, after opening the door. "What's up?" 
 "Have you got a moment to talk?" 
 "Sure. Come on in." 
 As the team leader entered Vic quickly tied her top closed but made no other changes, since Blue Impact got immediately to the subject. 
 "Have you noticed any... problems with Energia the past few months? You've seen more of her recently than I have during that time, and I'd appreciate your insight." 
 "I've known her for a few years, but you've known her longer," said Vic, frowning as she thought about the question. "Though, yeah, I knew her before the war, so... She was really down for several months after Maldren left, which is understandable. I know how I'd feel if Michelle had to leave." 
 "Is she getting over missing him, though, or is she just covering that up?" 
 "I honestly can't say. Energia is pretty good at that whole secret identity stuff. She does still seem down on occasion, but who isn't?" 
 "Okay. Sorry for putting you on the spot like this, but you have been closer to her at college than I have at the Pine Island Academy, recently." 
 "Yeah. If I notice anything more definite, I'll let you know." 
 "Thanks."  
 # 
   
 The break came late that afternoon. Vic received a call from Doro, instructing her to call the head of the local FBI team investigating the situation. The others knew about the calls, but since Vic went to her room for the second - and stayed there for nearly an hour - they had no idea what was going on. Until Vic called them all together in the main room.  
 "Okay, the FBI says they were able to track some of the stolen old tech to a warehouse in a freight center about fifty miles north of here," said Vic, unable to keep from pacing across the short-nap carpet which covered the concrete floor of the lounge area. "They're planning a raid and want us along in case whoever is behind this has supers on hand guarding the place." 
 "When will the raid be?" said Blue Impact.  
 "Seven-thirty tonight. They claim they picked the time because it's late enough the suspects will be getting sloppy but early enough the special agents will have good light. Frankly, I think that's just the earliest they could get everyone there." 
 "Well, we can make it. Did they have any recommendations for how we should approach, or when and where to meet them?" 
 "They sent me a text with full instructions." 
 "Indirectly, I hope," said Energia, a bit alarmed.  
 "Yeah. This is my Bureau issue brilliant phone. It has gadgeteer security measures, including spoofing what cell repeaters it's using." 
 "Good," said Blue Impact. "Let's get those instructions printed." 
 # 
   
 Tricorne + 1 arrived at the rendezvous point just before the assigned time, to discover that the special agents had gone ahead. There were only a few people still at the assembly point, all of them remaining at a communications van to coordinate. One of the special agents left behind to stand guard outside the van walked over to meet the team as their flyer landed.  
 "Yeah, sorry," said the special agent. He didn't look or sound sorry. "They saw some activity and decided to go ahead. We probably won't even need yo..." 
 Sounds of explosions and automatic weapons fire from the direction of the warehouse presented an ironic denial to his statement before he could even finish it. He spun around and stared at the smoke starting to rise in the distance. Energia shot into the air as the other three jumped back into their transport pod and quickly followed her.  
 They immediately found themselves in a war zone... only it was a battle with just one person against the four supers and the FBI's special agents. The FBI personnel were engaging a gargantuan, extremely stocky man dressed in what might have been a tunic and plain kilt, who was casually tossing forklifts and pieces of building at them. Usually with one hand. While ignoring their gunfire. 
 "Who is that?!" said Energia, over the team coms, as she circled overhead. 
 "I don't know, but this is a potentially lethal situation," said Blue Impact, who was baling out before the flyer touched down, leaving Gadgetive to make sure the autoland feature of the pod handled that chore properly. "Don't hold back." 
 "I doubt he'd notice me if I held back, from the looks of him," said Energia, gaining altitude. 
 Blue Impact landed hard enough to crack the pavement, then ran towards the antagonist. The pod touched down just as Energia opened up. She hit the figure with a heat blast which melted and ignited the asphalt in the pavement he stood on, although it had little effect on him or his clothing. He yelped, looked up at her with a glare, and leapt.  
 Energia - expecting this - dodged out of his way and hit him with a flash attack as he passed. Dazzled, he couldn't see where he would land and hit badly. Then immediately bounced back to his feet. 
 "Tough, strong, fast..." said Energia, taking evasive action as he ripped a chunk from a neighboring concrete loading dock and hurled it at her. She grabbed it magnetically by the steel reinforcement and sent it back at him. He punched it out of the air. "May have fast regeneration, too. This isn't going to be quick or easy." 
 "On my signal, blind him again," said Blue Impact, changing direction. "Gadgetive, when she does, you hit him with as many nets or webs or whatever which can entangle which you have available. Then Vic and I will move in and pound on him until he yields." 
 The tactic had worked before. It worked on this guy. For a moment. This time, unfortunately, as the cocoon of contractile webbing tightened, he simply threw his arms wide - with some effort - and it burst asunder.  
 Blue Impact was already racing towards him, and he was facing away from her so she continued. She changed her attack to a leaping double kick, however. She caught him over his right kidney and actually shoved him off balance forward and made him grunt a bit. Then he turned and slammed his left fist downwards. 
 Fortunately, Blue Impact was already rolling away, so instead of flattening her he just showered the area with a spray of broken pavement. This also left him open for Vic.  
 The martial artist blind-sided him with a hook kick to the gut. To the brute's obvious surprise, he grunted and staggered backwards. He still recovered in time to swing at her. Vic didn't even try to block this but did a backflip away from him. He charged after her, and Vic found herself fighting alone against the man-monster whose undivided attention she now had.  
 He was no clumsy brawler, something he had already demonstrated. While he obviously preferred brute force attacks, he also had enormous skill. If he had hit Vic even once, she would have been out of the fight and maybe even out of life. However, as experienced and quick as he obviously was, she was highly skilled, just as quick and far more agile. Moreover, every time she hit him, she hurt him, while he couldn't touch her. 
 Vic even managed to split his lip and bloody his nose with a leaping front snap kick, from which she went into another backflip, to land cat-like on her feet. He looked less surprised and more impressed with each of her successes. He still wasn't going down. He was also obviously healing as they fought. 
 The others tried to help, but Vic and the huge man were moving too quickly and erratically. Finally, she caught him with a side kick to the solar plexus. She had been using the Purple Art and ki projection and her skill with every blow for some time before this, which was the only way she was able to hurt him. This time she put everything she had into the strike, worried because they were moving back towards the FBI special agents. 
 This commitment to the attack left her vulnerable, but fortunately her gamble paid off. He gave a huge grunt, staggered, then curled around his gut and fell to the ground.  
 Vic backed away, breathing hard but not really panting, and watched. Slowly, she relaxed. She stood and watched as Blue Impact and Gadgetive cautiously moved in and bound the guy.  
 "I don't know if this will hold him," said Gadgetive, worried as she applied super-strong restraints. She looked up at the slowly approaching feds. "Let's hope they have a neutralizer." 
 As it happened, they did. The quartet pulled back as the FBI special agents attached the older neutralizer unit they had brought to a tripod and shone its baleful glare down on the huge man. Vic and her allies stood well back.  
 "There," said the tech who set it up. "That will hold him!" 
 "If he's a genetic super," said Blue Impact, pointedly.  
 "What other kind is there?" said Moshe Sanders, the special agent in charge, absently.  
 Blue Impact sighed, but since the neutralizer did seem to work decided not to enlighten him just then. Instead, she turned to the other members of her team. 
 "Why don't we see what he was guarding so vigorously?" 
 # 
   
 As it turned out, that was primarily documents. Stacks of boxes of actual, physical papers. The part of the warehouse closest to the door the big man had come out of was full of them.  
 "What. The. Hell," said special agent Sanders, as he looked up from the box he had opened and around at the rest. He shook his head. "All right, get some more of those open and let's try to figure out what all this is." 
 They didn't need long to learn that what it was, was strange.  
 "Uh, boss? This one is a paper trail with receipts showing that President Gibbons sold Congressional votes to China." 
 "WHAT?!" 
 "This one has him taking bribes to promote removing embargoes on several nations which are known supporters of terrorism," said someone going through another box. 
 "This one shows how the Vice President is plotting to assassinate the President, declare martial law and use that to become dictator. I mean the old Vice President; the one who was already disgraced. Not the new one." 
 "Hold on," said special agent Sanders, scowling. "What is this, headlines for tabloids?" 
 "There's stuff here going back years," said Sanders' main assistant, who had skipped to the rear of the pile and opened a box there. "Even to before Thurlin." 
 "Over here!" someone called out, from deeper in the warehouse. "There's weird, mechanical-looking things!" 
 "Pantographs," said Gadgetive, after those not busy inventorying box contents hurried over. "Specifically, these devices are used to reproduce handwriting. I'm also seeing old teletype machines. Though both categories of device have a lot of extra stuff connected to them." 
 She pulled out a compact flashlight and began examining the equipment in detail. Then abruptly straightened and stood back. 
 "Da... Wow... You use this terminal, here, to select a preprinted form and a machine to print or write what you want on the form. Only someone has added a text generator. An electromechanical text generator. You type in someone's name and this..." 
 She straightened, froze for a moment, then spun around, wide-eyed behind the lenses of her mask, to face the others.  
 "This is some of the Head Shop's work! I remember, they used these in the reproduction newspaper office in the theme parks to produce humorous fake documents for park visitors. Things like wanted posters, complete with an image of the visitor but in a period setting and garb; as well as era-appropriate newspaper pages and the like. Wouldn't take much modification to make this produce what's in those boxes." 
 "So the purpose of this warehouse is to produce scandal documents," said the head of the FBI contingent present. "Why?!" 
 "Special agent Sanders, this is very typical of mastermind type planning," said Blue Impact, firmly. "Specifically, this is intended to create short-term confusion. To distract those in power and those who work for them. 
 Obviously, these documents were intended to be 'leaked' to various news agencies, with potential scandals prepared ahead of time, then not used due to the opportunity passing. In many cases, by decades. Long enough that the fake documents are no longer pertinent. The original idea being to get everyone in the government busy disproving the claims instead of looking for actual crimes and whoever has committed them." 
 "That's crazy!" said one of the special agents.  
 "You try telling a mastermind that!" said Vic, who had been the subject of a similar operation.  
 "It might have worked, at that," said special agent Sanders, nodding slowly. "If these had been leaked piecemeal at the right times... At the very least, news agencies would have been distracted from covering the thefts and various government speakers would have been busy issuing denials." 
 He looked around the large, open area in what was supposed to be a disused and empty warehouse, and sighed.  
 "We're still going to be stuck cataloging all this. Though, since we found it before it could be released, we can make that a low priority." 
 "You better hope they haven't released any, yet," said Vic, direly. "There could be more-current stuff already in distribution." 
 ### 
   










   
 Part Six 
   
 Fortunately, the neutralizer was still working on the huge, mysterious man when they got back to him. At least, he didn't try to break his bonds while he was under it. The FBI personnel very carefully brought their vehicles and prisoner - under the neutralizer the entire time - into the warehouse, to cut down on interference from people in the area who had been attracted by the fuss. 
 The FBI men and women set up an interrogation room right there in the middle of the warehouse, with the big guy sitting on the concrete floor. The neutralizer was aimed at him from too far away for him to easily attack it, and the interrogators sat around him in chairs. Someone figured out how to turn on the lights for that area, and the interrogation began. 
 "Who are you?" asked Sanders.  
 "I am the Godsfather," the huge, bulky man rumbled. "The progenitor of the gods. Where is she who bested me?" 
 "I'm asking the questions. What were you doing here? 
 No response.  
 "Who hired you?" said Sanders, more firmly. 
 No response. 
 Vic sighed and stepped forward to the edge of the light, though well back from the clearly visible cone of effect of the neutralizer.  
 "My name is Victor Peltior." 
 "An appropriate name," said the man. He smiled at her. "Are you betrothed?" 
 "What?!" said Vic, sputtering. "NO! I mean, I..." 
 She snarled and shook her head.  
 "The love of my life is named Michelle." 
 "Ah," he said, nodding slowly. "A disappointment. As well as not uncommon for warrior women. Truly a pity. We could have birthed an entire new generation of gods." 
 He smiled at her. Leered, actually.  
 "What titans they would have been!" 
 Vic was a bit surprised at how well spoken he was. However, before she could think of what to ask next, the FBI came back into the conversation. 
 "Who hired you?" said Sanders, firmly.  
 The man sighed, and turned to look directly at the special agent. 
 "I do not know. I was hired through an intermediary named Fred Richards - most likely a pseudonym - who made clear that he also did not know the organizer's identity. I was to remain inside unless someone unauthorized tried to come in, then I was to stop them. Since I failed, I will not be paid." 
 "How did you know who was authorized?" said Vic.  
 "I was given a list of names with photos. Oh, and a description of one person who was on the list but had no photo. There was no name nor image for her." 
 "Where is the list?" 
 "Burned." 
 Special agent Sanders swore.  
 "How well can you remember what was on the list?" said Vic.  
 He looked at her and smiled more broadly. He had fangs going both up and down.  
 "Perfectly." 
 Over the next fifty minutes they got descriptions and names - which all present realized were likely false - for everyone except the exception. For some reason, Godsfather kept avoiding describing her. Finally, though, Vic persuaded him to admit he had actually met her, twice, when she had visited the warehouse. She seemed to be in charge, or at least important. 
 The woman was Caucasian, of roughly medium height and build. In fact, nothing about her stood out... with the exception of one feature. 
 "She wore makeup which made her look as if her eyes had exploded," said Godsfather. That description seemed to make him feel uncomfortable.  
 # 
   
 Much later that evening, the flyer finally landed at the lair.  
 "I still can't believe that guy," muttered Vic, as they walked from the flyer to the rooftop stairs at the lair. "Hitting on me like that, after fighting us!" 
 "Yeah, I'd have given him a new sensation," said Energia, angrily.  
 She held her hands out in front of her, and the others jumped as she made a fat, blue spark arc between her palms with a loud Snap! 
 "How do you do that without burning holes in your gloves?" said Vic, once her pulse had settled back down.  
 "Superconducting fibers woven into the material," said Gadgetive, her tone scornful of Vic's ignorance, as they entered the stairs, and before Energia could answer. "A not uncommon optional extra." 
 Soon Vic was out of her armor and the quartet was in the main room, brainstorming, trying to make sense of all the very odd information they had recently gathered about this very odd case. After they rehashed this they tried for a while to come up with some revelation, some coherent plot behind all the events. However, any such revelation eluded them. 
 "Masterminds generally don't have any physical powers," said Blue Impact, finally, frowning. She rose and began pacing as she spoke. By now she was more thinking out loud than brainstorming. "They usually don't worry about not having them; since masterminds consider themselves to already be superior, they figure they don't need physical powers. Also, there's plenty of muscle just waiting to be hired. 
 "When they do have physical powers, either the mastermind part is secondary to the physical powers - like with Constantine - or they give themselves artificial powers. Most of those latter efforts aren't very successful, because they try for too much. Sort of the way people thought Dr. Gaunt had, a few years back, turning himself into a giant, before they learned that was an empowered homunculus, or whatever the actual mystical term is. (I need to remember to ask Dr. Piano about that the next time I see him.) 
 "One of the exceptions is Sung, who very sensibly boosted his body to just a bit beyond normal human limits, supplementing that with extensive training. As several prison guards and fellow prisoners found out the hard way after he was captured." 
 "That reminds me," said Vic, "Sung was finally sentenced, two days ago. Life in prison with no hope of parole." 
 "Too good for him," growled Gadgetive. "Setting off a nuke in the open air like that, and above a school!" 
 "On a related note," said Energia, "I was checking my clipping service earlier. Solomon Harvek is now claiming that everything he did was part of a secret government project to develop the death ray he used against those Coast Guard craft. That it was all for the defense of the country." 
 "To continue," said Blue Impact, a bit loudly, to try and get the discussion back on track, "if this mysterious woman - or whoever is behind her - is an actual mastermind and is still hiring for this gig, we may be able to get a lead that way. I'll query my street and police contacts. Vic, you talk to your contacts at the Bureau, and also suggest they talk to the FBI." 
 "On it." 
 "Gadgetive, Energia, you both should ask around among supers you know whether there's been any activity related to someone putting the word out that there's work henching in the affected area. As well as whether known henchmen and assistants - especially empowered ones - have either gone missing or are bragging about their new job." 
 "Got it," said Energia. 
 "Got it," said Gadgetive, though she looked doubtful. "We've only got a few more days before break ends, though." 
 "Which is more important?" said Blue Impact, sternly. "Getting back to school on time or stopping a master criminal?" 
 "Putting it another way," said Energia, when Gadgetive looked conflicted, "would it be better to get back to class on time and just let this go, or to chase down a mastermind working on a major scheme and get an excused absence?" 
 "Look, we've had this problem before," said Gadgetive, sounding annoyed. "What we decided then was to go back where we're supposed to be on time, and agree to meet on weekends and maybe evenings if things get hot."  
 "All right," said Blue Impact. "I think that's enough for tonight. Let's turn in and start with our enquiries in the morning." 
 # 
   
 The two FBI special agents met in the office of the senior of the pair later that evening. Both were tired; neither was happy with the day's events.  
 "Boss has already gone home," said Sanders, tiredly. "Though he was here late enough to get the report I called in from the scene."  
 "I don't like accepting help from outsiders," said Fuyumi Tanaka, as she sat. "Especially outsiders who wear masks." 
 "Vic Peltior is a badge-carrying federal law enforcement officer, and doesn't wear a mask; just a protective helmet with a transparent faceplate. Technically, this is actually her case. She's interning with this team - Tricorne - as part of her training for the Bureau of Special Resources. One of the team's regular members, Energia, is registered with the Bureau. 
 "Also, while she doesn't look it, Blue Impact has been crime fighting longer than either of us and has a very good reputation." 
 "I still don't like it." 
 "Well, when we get a better budget we can hire enough people and buy enough equipment to handle all the cases in house," said Sanders, with a tired grin. "Meanwhile, though I don't exactly welcome super help for super cases, they do come in handy." 
 # 
   
 "They've identified Godsfather and several of those he described," said special agent Sanders, early the next day, in a secure call to the Tricorne lair. "He's an old foe of the Sailor, and someone who seems to be the same man appears in records and even myths going back thousands of years. However, he's been below the radar for decades, and was in our records as likely just a myth. 
 "Several of those from the list he gave us are known criminals, most of them with histories of working with masterminds. The eyeshadow woman has not been identified, but is likely the person in charge. Perhaps just of that warehouse; perhaps of this whole mess." 
 Blue Impact had the others gathered around the com center, with the phone set to speaker mode, but so far the three younger supers were staying quiet.  
 "Gadgetive did some research and found that the document manufacturing device at the warehouse was either an early version of what they used in the theme parks or a proof of concept prototype," said Blue Impact. "Either way, it's old, probably from the late Fifties. After several mechanical iterations, they started using a computerized system in the Eighties." 
 "So we need to find where it's from," said Sanders.  
 "Already know," said Gadgetive, finally speaking. "It was stolen from a museum of technology in Louisville, Kentucky." 
 "Did they report it missing?" 
 "Yes. Until now everyone thought it had been taken either by a classic tech collector or someone planning to sell it to one. Which I guess could still be the case. They just used it for their own purposes in the meantime." 
 "For making bogus documents." They could practically hear him scowling. "So, was it put there by the original thief? By the buyer? Or did it go through several hands?" 
 "You folks are better equipped to determine that than we are," said Blue Impact.  
 # 
   
 At breakfast Blue Impact refused to talk business, at least about the current case. Instead she kept the talk innocuous, insisting they not discuss the results of their searches until a meeting she scheduled for that afternoon. Since they hadn't had much chance to pursue their contacts yet that made sense. 
 Energia spent a couple of hours after breakfast contacting various people, mainly the Intrepids. None had any solid information. However, between the Intrepids, the Young Guardians and a few other teams and solo masks she spoke with, she started to see a pattern. 
 She almost mentioned this to Vic when they had a workout together before lunch, but didn't. Energia thought that the martial artist also was keeping mum about something she had learned. Their conversation in the lair's gym was instead curt and punctuated with knowing smiles.  
 Even during lunch the two of them kept quiet about their morning's work, except they both mentioned they thought they were on the trail of a clue or perhaps a big break. Gadgetive also was looking smug about something. Though they all said they still had work to do in pursuit of their hunches. However... 
 "Okay, spill it," said Blue Impact, impatiently.  
 "Nope," said Gadgetive, grinning. "Your rules. I'm still gathering information, but should be ready for the two O'Clock meeting. Not before." 
 "Same here," said Vic, not as impishly but still with a smile. "Don't want to speak prematurely." 
 "Ditto," said Energia. 
 "Right," said Blue Impact, tone and expression carefully neutral.  
 Finally, the meeting came. Or, rather, about ten minutes before the scheduled time the last of the four wandered into the lounge area. For once it wasn't Gadgetive, who was second to arrive, after Energia. Instead it was Blue Impact; perhaps to demonstrate that she could be more patient than the younger members of the group. 
 She stood in the center of the carpeted area, staring at the other three as they sat on the couch, pretending a casualness they didn't actually possess. There was eventually some uneasy hemming and hawing by the two youngest, while Gadgetive just sat there impatiently.  
 "Okay, okay," said Energia, rolling her eyes and sighing. "Guess I'll go first. The main thing I found is that a street mask who goes by the name The Black Badge - rumor is that he's a former cop who got fired for actually enforcing the law on people whom the establishment normally treated as being above it - has been all over several of the big cities on the East Coast, following a trail only he seems to have noticed. 
 "This mainly has involved him beating up people until they tell him what they know about a new mastermind who is hiring lots of empowered thugs and gadgeteers. Oh, and while it's not confirmed that he's a super, given what he does and how, he's at least a low-level physical." 
 "Wow," said Blue Impact, startled. "I completely missed that. I mean, I knew about his rampage but didn't know what was behind it. Definitely worth following up on. Okay, Vic?" 
 "What I uncovered is very similar, actually," said the martial artist. "Except that it's Pink Monkey who's on a tear. According to the folks I spoke with at the Bureau, she's looking for some new mastermind who hired a bunch of her favorite cohorts. She was mad at first 'cause she needed those people for some scheme of her own; then she got even madder 'cause whoever hired them wasn't interested in hiring her." 
 "Wow," said Blue Impact, again. "Okay, good work." 
 "All I got was some puzzling thefts of old equipment," said Gadgetive, too quickly and far too casually. 
 "What sort of equipment?" said Blue Impact, suspiciously. 
 "Oh, just some old tools and parts, the sort of things used for antique mechanical watch and clock and typewriter repairs. As well as stuff for making replacement parts." 
 "Let me guess," said Blue Impact, nodding slowly. "Several small thefts, much of it of stuff in storage because there's not much call for it these days, but some of it was made by gadgeteers and such? Also, those several small thefts add up to a lot of material gone." 
 "Bingo," said Gadgetive, grinning toothily. "It's almost as if someone who recently acquired a lot of half-century old intricate mechanisms needs parts and tools to get them back into operation before selling them." 
 "Antique tools and parts," said Energia, laughing, "forgotten gadgeteer gear and obsolete document forging equipment. Electromechanical computers used for making fake incriminating evidence. Stealing the stuff to make the stuff to repair the stuff. I think I love this case!" 
 "Well, while I don't consider my morning wasted, I didn't uncover anything about the case," said Blue Impact, also smiling, but wryly. "When none of my usual contacts had anything, I contacted Doctor Piano on the off chance there might be a supernatural connection. He thinks that is very unlikely, but will keep a metaphorical - or perhaps even literal - ear to the ground. 
 "I also contacted Samuel Logsdon, the son of the man who currently owns Abner Sturgeon's house; the missing Edward Logsdon. He's willing to let us in to check for clues. However, his priority is working with police to try and find his father." 
 "So," said Vic, leaning back and putting her hands behind her head. "Three good leads; maybe four if we can find something at the house. Where do we start?" 
 "Well," said Energia, lifting straight up off the couch, relaxing her posture as she flew, "I'm going to call my folks and my advisor at Ramsey Technical College and let them know I may be late getting back." 
 "That sounds like a very good idea," said Vic, also rising, though more mundanely.  
 "Guess I better, too," said Gadgetive, with a sigh.  
 "Once you've done that," said Blue Impact, "actually, after we've all done that, we need to see if we can find The Black Badge." 
 ### 
   










   
 Part Seven 
   
 The trio in Tricorne's large apergy flyer looked down upon the dirty, deeply shadowed streets and alleys with sensors and eyes as their transport silently hovered well above the rooftops. 
 Meanwhile, Energia flew nearby, using her own senses away from the insulation of the van-sized pod and the interference from its mechanisms. Several sources had pegged this city as one location where The Black Badge was currently carrying out his operation. Some claimed he was focusing on this specific neighborhood.  
 "I'm seeing a lot of activity down there," said Gadgetive. "It's especially anomalous when you consider that this is officially an economically depressed area with lots of closed businesses and abandoned buildings. Some with significant thermal signatures." 
 "I better make a note of those," said Vic, scowling. "There's probably marijuana growing going on there. Maybe other things." 
 "I can feel all that," said Energia, over her earbud. "The activity, I mean. There's lots of electricity being used in buildings which look empty. I'm also hearing what is either a small riot or a bunch of people fighting a low-level super." 
 "Lead the way!" said Blue Impact, turning the flyer towards her.  
 Energia found the source of the noises; unfortunately the center of the disturbance was in an old commercial section with associated apartment buildings, where even the regular streets were narrow, with tall buildings crowding around. As for the actual scene of the fight... 
 "You'll never fit the flyer in there," said Energia. "It's a maze of twisty little passages, all alike." 
 "Very funny," said Blue Impact.  
 On the pavement beside a loading dock at the rear of an old, multi-level brick factory building - burnt out years before - they could see a large number of people crowding around a single man. As the four supers approached they saw many more men and even a few women heading in. However, by that time there were far more heading away from the disturbance. The new arrivals were turned back by this exodus.  
 "I see The Black Badge!" said Energia. "Wow, he's surrounded by a bunch of downed heavies. Now he's trying to chase after one guy, but he's hurt and there's a lot of people on the ground hampering him." 
 "Head off that one guy," said Blue Impact. "Gadgetive, take the controls. I'm going down. Vic, you're our reserves." 
 "Gotcha!" 
 While Gadgetive hovered the flyer just above the roof of one of the buildings, Blue Impact stepped out, then hurried to the fire escape. The heavy super would have preferred dropping directly onto the pavement, but there wasn't really a place where she could do that without endangering someone already on the ground. Or the pavement, itself. 
 Meanwhile, Energia flew ahead of the fleeing man. As he approached the end of the alley he was running through and starting to feel hope he would reach the open street beyond, she dropped down in front of him, glowing. Energia was tempted to make her appearance upside-down, but - a bit reluctantly - decided to just hover upright in front of him, the fringes of her plasma wall making the bricks in the walls on either side of the narrow alley smoke and spit.  
 "What's the hurry?" she said, smiling sweetly.  
 Despite his obvious injuries, The Black Badge reached Energia and her very anxious prisoner before Blue Impact caught up with him. Energia remembered noticing before that his outfit appeared out of focus in the few photos and videos of him. In person she could see why; the whole police-inspired costume, including his full-face mask, was matte black and appeared fuzzy. 
 "What are you doing here?" he snapped, at Energia. 
 "You're welcome." Energia noted that even his voice seemed fuzzy.  
 "What if I was planning to follow him back to his boss?" said the Black Badge, angrily.  
 "Then you wouldn't have mentioned that where he could hear it," said Energia, sweetly.  
 He opened his mouth and took a deep breath, but whatever verbal blast he was about to deliver was cut off by the arrival of Blue Impact.  
 "Good. You got him." She turned to The Black Badge. Blue Impact didn't specify whether she meant the fleeing hood or the freelance mask. "We're after a mastermind who is known to be hiring for several jobs in the region. We've heard that you may be after them, as well. We want to trade information." 
 She and Energia were acting casual, but both were on full alert. Neither of them had dealt with this man before, and most of their information about him amounted to little more than rumors. Which told them, among other points of data, that he often chose to settle situations with violence.  
 He considered their offer for a few moments.  
 "You first," he said, finally. 
 "Someone high up in the mastermind's ranks - perhaps even being the mastermind, herself - wears makeup which makes her look as if her eyes have exploded." 
 The Black Badge was obviously startled by this. He began swearing.  
 "Well?" said Blue Impact.  
 "I kept hearing people mention something about 'the woman with the weird eyes' and thought it was a vague description of a power or power side effect. It's just makeup!" 
 "That's the word we have." 
 "Well, I don't have a name, and the descriptions vary wildly except for the bit about the eyes, but there's one woman who is definitely either second in command or the mastermind herself. She's also, for whatever reason, out for revenge. Actually, the most definite clue I've head from the low- and mid-level goons I've chased down is that she is trying to avenge her grandfather. Though I don't know who that is." 
 "That's it?" said Blue Impact, obviously disappointed. 
 "Oh, I have names, dates and places where people who were hired by people she hired will get together to organize operations. That's how I caught these guys." 
 Blue Impact nodded, then told him about the two clues they had recently uncovered. As well as about the warehouse full of scandal sheets.  
 "That's actually funny," said the Black Badge, with a gruff laugh. "Oh, and that's something else I've figured out about this mastermind; she has a sense of humor. She's also being very careful to avoid killing anyone." 
 "We're going to try and get into Abner Sturgeon's house soon," said Blue Impact. "Do you want to know what we find?" 
 "No. Let's work at this from our different angles and see who gets to the top first. I'm betting on me. Oh, and thanks for the info on Pink Monkey. I knew she was having a prolonged tantrum but not why." 
 "Fair enough." 
 Blue Impact motioned to the still-hovering Energia, who shooed the scruffy man towards The Black Badge.  
 "Okay, Henry, break's over. Who hired you and for what?" 
 The man whimpered and protested but in the end gave up a couple of names. The job was a local horological museum, where several models of commercial mechanical chronometers were currently on exhibit. 
 "Right," said the Black Badge, nodding slightly. "That fits the pattern. Get back to your friends, then. Or, better for all of us, including you, go to ground until this blows over. Now, git. The adults have important stuff to talk about." 
 The scruffy man scampered, Energia lifting to let him pass. 
 "You need any help with that?" said Blue Impact. "The museum, I mean." 
 "Nah. They'll be weeks reorganizing. I'll drop word with the local cops and masks and they'll keep an eye out." 
 "Well, if that's it..." 
 "I think that will do for now." 
 Neither offered to shake hands. He turned and walked past Energia, forcing her to again lift up or burn him with her plasma wall. He turned right at the street and vanished.  
 "Wow. Guy could corner the market on gruff," said the flying super. Who still hadn't landed. 
 "Oh, I've met a few street masks who make him seem verbose. Okay, Gadgetive, we're done here." 
 "Can't get the flyer in there," said Gadgetive. "Like bouncy gal said, it's a maze of narrow alleys, buildings just crowded up against each other. Street's too busy to land on, too." 
 "I am not bouncy," said Energia, rolling her eyes. 
 "That's fine. Just lower the rope ladder and open the canopy. For me, that is. Energia can just bounce back up on her own." 
 "Rrrggghhh..." said Energia, zooming upwards. Her mood not helped at all by the fact that she could hear Vic laughing over their coms. 
 # 
   
 "I'm rather glad I didn't have to interact with The Black Badge," said Vic, once they were all aboard and underway. "He reminds me too much of Mr. Truth."  
 "The guy who was stalking your family?" said Energia, who had heard that story, from Vic. 
 "Yeah." 
 "I can see that..." said Energia, with a grimace. She would definitely not like learning someone was watching her family. That was one reason she wore a mask and used a nom de guerre. Vic, unfortunately, didn't have the option of such secrecy. 
 They rode along in silence for a while. However, Energia soon noted they were flying over an area with multiple fast food restaurants.  
 "Anybody else hungry?" said Energia, mildly. 
 The answer was "Yes!" unanimously and enthusiastically. 
 "How about a bucket of chicken?" said Gadgetive, hopefully. 
 "All dark, extra crunchy?" said Vic, just as hopefully.  
 "I think we can get a mixed bucket," said Blue Impact, with a tolerant smile.  
 Bringing a flying vehicle into a stream of ground traffic was always tricky. Fortunately, the time was currently off-peak for meals. Blue Impact found a chicken place with no line at the drive-through. She brought the flyer down at a steep angle, stopping at the speaker, hovering silently just off the ground without bothering to deploy the landing gear. They were already attracting attention. 
 "This thing needs a side window," said Blue Impact, as she reached for the canopy control.  
 "Just use the PA," said Gadgetive. 
 "Still gotta open the canopy to pay and get our food," said Blue Impact, as she hit the control. The large, clear, curved portion of the flyer's front unsealed, raised a bit and then slid back. 
 "Oh; right." 
 As she placed the order, Blue Impact handled the stares of folks in that parking lot and those at the steak house next door with professional aplomb; Energia with an impish amusement; Vic with some discomfort; and Gadgetive without notice. From the reaction of the young woman on the other end of the intercom, there must have been a video camera associated with the speaker box. 
 This was reinforced when they reached the window. She kept a perfectly professional face as she took their cash, though people further inside - both employees and customers - were not nearly as composed. Many repositioned to get a better look, either over the shoulder of the cashier or through one of the windows in the main part of the establishment. Blue Impact paid cash and accepted the change; then they waited. Fortunately, the bucket arrived quickly.  
 "Wow, that smells good," said Vic, as Blue Impact handed the hot container to Gadgetive.  
 "Grease and salt," said the team's gadgeteer, grinning. "Two of the basic food groups." 
 While Gadgetive put the bucket on the flat area behind the console between the two front seats, Blue Impact moved the flyer sideways out of the order lane - making sure to check the right rear camera, first - to clear the roof extension over the drive-through window. Then she lifted the pod straight up, closing the canopy on the way. 
 At their cruising altitude she put the flyer on autopilot and the vehicle's occupants lowered their trays. Actually, Vic already had hers down.  
 The team kept the vehicle's small refrigerator - located just behind Vic's seat, against the right wall - well stocked with a variety of drinks, including bottles of water. Without needing to rise from her seat, Energia used her powers to open the door to that and asked the others for their preferences. Soon all four were happily munching away, while the pod flew itself home.  
 "I think you magnetized my pop," said Blue Impact, joking, first to break the silence.  
 "I think I like being on a super team," said Vic, around a mouthful of chicken thigh.  
 "One of the advantages of that being access to advanced tech," said Blue Impact. 
 "Just remember," said Energia, "there's no bathroom in this. Not enough room, with all the other gear." 
 "Shouldn't be a problem," said Blue Impact. "We'll be home, soon. More mashed potatoes, anyone?" 
 # 
   
 By the time the flyer - still on autopilot and now camouflaged - settled into its rooftop pen the occupants were comfortably full and the remains of the meal were packed back into the bucket.  
 "Wow," said Energia, as she put what was worth salvaging in the lair's refrigerator shortly thereafter. "There's hardly enough leftovers for one person to have another meal." 
 "Still make a good snack later," said Blue Impact. She grinned at Vic. "A responsible team leader always makes sure there's plenty of food around." 
 "As well as caffeine!" said Gadgetive, firmly. "Though I have to make my own coffee. What you two call coffee is barely flavored water. It needs to be a full, dark, rich roast and strong!" 
 "Every time I hear her complain about our coffee, I remember the old joke about the farmer whose life goal was to make a cup of coffee which would hold a furrow," said Blue Impact. She waited for the others to respond, but none of them seemed to understand her reference. "Ah, well..." 
 "Another reason to keep well stocked is for emergency team-ups," said Energia, moving the conversation in a slightly different direction. "Oh; remind me to restock the fridge in the flier." 
 "There's many more reasons. I - long before I agreed to mentor Gadgetive - had to take food and medical supplies from my own emergency stocks to a situation here in town, one time. For some reason the city officials delayed responding themselves, and actively kept folks like the Red Cross out. 
 "We never did figure out why, but several professional politicians had their careers abruptly end over that. From what they said in interviews afterwards, they uniformly had no clue as to what had caused their fall in popularity." 
 "You were able to take enough stuff to help on your motorcycle?!" said Vic, startled.  
 "Oh, I have a small trailer for it. However, for that project I borrowed a delivery truck from a merchant I know in the affected area. Had to sneak the truck out and then back in by a way the police had blocked but didn't have anyone stationed at." 
 Vic looked like she was about to say something, but interrupted herself.  
 "Sorry. Phone's telling me I have a message." 
 She pulled the device out and opened the missive. 
 "Doro says that we should catch a radio show that's on tonight," said Vic. She relayed the details to the members of Tricorne. 
 # 
   
 The four of them made sure to gather in the lounge area a few minutes beforehand. Vic even brought popcorn. The program was an evening talk show, with a host who rarely addressed supers or anything to do with them. When he did he was usually mildly critical. 
 Tonight he was true to form. He had two guests; one a female psychologist who specialized in analyzing the behavior of public figures; the other a male sociologist who dealt with group trends.  
 The psychologist covered - and criticized - a movement gaining strength among popular "analysts" of claiming that super heroes were in the business of crime-fighting because they were addicted to the adrenaline rush. The show's host pointed out that this same "malady" could apply to all first responders. 
 The woman agreed, but noted that the idea was gaining support because there was some truth behind the notion. Just not a lot. The host called a station break. 
 "None of that is new!" said Energia, angrily. "Including lumping all supers into one category and treating us as if we were all in the worst group." 
 "The biggest problem with that idea - like she said - is that it is partially valid," said Blue Impact, sighing. "There's also the whole narcissist aspect, the 'look at my works ye mighty and despair' component. Though I think that applies much more to criminal masterminds than any other supers." 
 "Far more," said Vic, nodding. "At least, according to the criminal psychology courses I've had." 
 "Even many talented masks who do good works are exhibitionists," said Energia, grudgingly. "Though for most who have that motivation that's just early on. Pretty soon, they tend to either grow out of that attitude or get tired of the whole hero schtick and quit." 
 The program resumed with the second speaker describing a graph he had created. He talked about a trend line analysis of the consequences of super activities, and how those consequences were growing worse.  
 "Again, nothing new and there's not much context," said Gadgetive, as the show went into wrap-up. "They're using a power law graph with data from as far back as accurate records have been kept, and extending it into the future without taking into account that people are already working to mitigate the effects he's talking about." 
 "It does seem like the damage from super villain crimes is increasing," said Energia, obviously concerned. "Overall, I mean." 
 "Yeah, but that's still on his line. If the conditions change because of actions to reduce the problem, the line is no longer valid. You need to plot a new trend." 
 "I beg you pardon?" said Blue Impact. 
 "Look, the rate of super activities - good and bad - is a nearly constant percentage of total human activities," said the gadgeteer. "Because the number of humans is increasing, and the proportion of active superhumans is essentially constant..." 
 "Then the total number of super incidents is rising," said Vic, nodding. "That's common knowledge, and is actually part of why the Bureau was created." 
 "What most folks don't realize," said Gadgetive, finger up, almost lecturing, "is that the impact of super events follows a power law graph." 
 "Uh..." said Vic, whose reaction was echoing those of Energia and Blue Impact.  
 "Okay, simple explanation; for some functions to graph a straight line one axis must scale as an exponent. A power. For example, the total worth of all the billions of people on Earth is under a thousand dollars each while a handful are worth billions. 
 "That can be accurately plotted on a single graph as a straight line using a negative exponent for one of the axes. Same with storms, terrorist attacks and so forth. The rarity is displayed as a power with respect to magnitude, rather than linearly." 
 "What about the Shilmek attack?" said Blue Impact. 
 "That's an external factor which you'd think wouldn't fit the plot," said Gadgetive, shrugging. "Though it actually does. Don't ask me why. Some folks claim the effect is universal. Literally. When it comes to super damage, there's also lots of arguments over what the exponent should actually be. Most agree it's somewhere around negative three." 
 "So," said Energia, frowning, "the more people in the world, the more supers and the more super events. Huge events are vanishingly rare, but with more events the really big ones become more likely overall ." 
 She very deliberately stared Gadgetive in the eyes.  
 "Given all that, how long until something happens which ends human civilization?" 
 "About eighty years," said Gadgetive, seemingly unconcerned. "About a hundred twenty until something happens which kills all humans, with the possible exception of a few supers. That's assuming we don't do something to address the problem. Which people already are!" 
 She peered at the others during the ominous silence which followed.  
 "Uh, did you hear me say..." 
 "Yes!" snapped Blue Impact. "Why hasn't anyone told us about this before?! That we're all doomed!" 
 "Huh?! Wait, that is if we don't do anything," said Gadgetive, quickly. "I mean, even normal human actions will doom the world in a few decades if they just keep on like they are. That's why there's so much fuss about correcting global warming. There's always something wrong with the future which has to be fixed. The more advanced trend line analyses take that - and the likelihood of corrections - into account." 
 "Wow," said Energia, weakly. "I'm relieved... I think. Okay, so... the future is a work in progress. At least some people are always working to make it better. I just hope the anti-super folks don't find out about these forecasts. Their idea of correcting the problem will be to get rid of all supers." 
 "Huh?!" said Gadgetive, stunned. "No! Whoah, that's exactly the wrong thing to do! That would make things worse!" 
 "Tell them that," said Blue Impact, quietly. "Even more difficult, try convincing them." 
 ### 
   










   
 Part Eight 
   
 The next day - Sunday - the quartet finally got the call from Samual Logsdon, just after 8:00 AM. Naturally, he wanted to meet them at Abner's house as soon as possible. Fortunately, the four current occupants of the lair had expected to be active this day and were up early.  
 On this, their second trip to the upscale neighborhood, the team earned quite a bit more attention. Or at least attention of a higher volume. Even as they disembarked from the flyer a middle-aged man stormed across the street, shaking his fist at them. Interestingly, the other inhabitants who had been watching the costumed quartet now vanished.  
 "What are you doing here?" the man shouted, angrily.  
 "Sir, we are conducting an investigation into the disappearance..." 
 "I don't care about that. You're creating a disturbance!" 
 "Actually, we were waiting quietly for the son of the owner," said Blue Impact, annoyed. "You're the one creating a disturbance." 
 "What?!" he snapped, obviously outraged. "How dare you! Do you know who I am?!" 
 "No," said Gadgetive, boredly. 
 "I'm Byron Carstairs!" he declared, seeming to be more outraged that they pretended (in his mind) not to know him than at their presence. 
 He paused, with a smug grin, waiting first for recognition to dawn, then for their hasty, embarrassed pleas for forgiveness. None of which happened.  
 "Sir, we are here with the permission of the owner's son. He should be here shortly," said Blue Impact, recognizing his expectations but having no intention of fulfilling them.  
 "You... you... I'll call the police!" 
 "I'm a federal law enforcement officer with the Bureau of Special Resources," said Vic, tiredly, pointing to the badge on her belt. She was in her armor, but carrying her helmet.  
 "I'm calling the police!" the man shouted. He turned and hurried away, continuing over his shoulder. "The real police! Not some... government agency!" 
 There was a blare of horns from the Mercedes he stepped out in front of. Something which the man ignored. Fortunately for Mr. Carstairs, the car was planning to pull to the curb in front of the flyer, so it was already slowing. The driver and sole occupant was Samuel Logsdon, whom they were there to meet.  
 "What was that all about?" said Logsdon, staring after Carstairs as he exited his car. 
 "Most likely jealousy over our advanced transportation," said the team leader, straightfaced. She offered her gloved hand. "Mr. Logsdon? I'm Blue Impact." 
 She introduced the other three. 
 "Yes, I saw you four on the security video when I was checking it remotely the other day, after the alert," he said, shaking their hands, too. "Unfortunately, that connection only shows what the outside cameras see, and I only see that when I check it. The signal goes to an off-site security cache. I was hoping to find some clue as to what happened to my father, but all was quiet except for your short visit. At least, outside. I'm just hoping you can find some clue inside." 
 He opened the gate and entered, motioning for the quartet to follow him.  
 "Oh, and please call me Sammy." 
 "No arsenal popping out of the ground," said Blue Impact, looking a little uneasy as they traversed the concrete walkway to the front door. 
 "Those are inert," said Sammy, with a vague gesture towards the places under the sod where the weapons were stored. "All fakes, just for show, but they keep people out. Never had a forced entry or had anyone trespass more than once." 
 "There's a two-car garage..." said Vic. 
 "I normally pull in there, to avoid attracting attention," said Sammy, glancing in the direction Carstairs had gone as he climbed the three steps to the small stoop. "However, when bringing strangers inside this is far simpler. The house knows me and allows me to bring guests in." 
 He paused while unlocking the door to gesture to the lintel.  
 "That looks like carved limestone, but it's actually molded concrete. Also, in the assortment of fruit it portrays there's only one apple, and it has a worm coming out of it." 
 "That's cool!" said Energia, grinning.  
 "There's a tiny camera behind the worm's eye. The AI which coordinates all the house activity has extremely good facial recognition algorithms." 
 "We appreciate this access," said Blue Impact, as he opened the door and stood aside to hold it for the four women. "If only to check one more box in our investigation. However, you mentioned something about records..." 
 "My father has all the documents involving Abner and his creations stored in the basement here," said Sammy, pulling the door closed behind him as he followed them in. "He says that makes keeping those separate from his business and other interests easier." 
 Sammy led them through what seemed like a perfectly ordinary front hall, into a living room. He flipped a wall switch and the ceiling light came on. There was also a series of muffled clicks as parts of the trim below the ceiling unfolded to reveal impish faces. Bizarrely, the eyes in the stylized faces seemed to follow the visitors as they moved. 
 People and animals in what had appeared to be ordinary framed landscapes or portraits hanging on the walls came to life. In one landscape painting a windmill turned its blades, and birds slowly glided across the background. Hidden and silent projectors began showing images on the ceiling, mainly of sky and clouds but with the occasional bird or plane, with appropriate, if muffled, sounds.  
 "It's like being in the Dwarf House," said Gadgetive, eyes wide and voice barely above a whisper. 
 "Abner had a strange sense of whimsey," said Sammy. "I spent a large part of my childhood in this house, so it doesn't seem all that strange to me. I am very aware of how it affects most people, though. You better believe that Abner had an override to turn all this off when he wasn't demonstrating it to visitors. 
 "I'm not even showing you the full suite of features. Those tend to make conversation difficult, due to the music and voices. Some of the interactive characters will occasionally get into positive feedback loops talking with each other. There have been times when I was glad the more belligerent characters in this house couldn't move out of their frames and finish an argument with a fist fight." 
 The furnishings were very typically late Sixties in style and perfectly maintained. There was not the least speck of dust. Energia had the impression that as they left each room automatic cleaners - in her imagination looking like something from an old cartoon - would emerge through concealed panels to quickly and quietly remove any dirt from the carpet or floorboards. 
 "Even some of the furniture in these rooms has animation features," said Sammy. He flashed them an impish grin. "Don't sit at the dining room table unless you want all the stuff on it to come alive, with the centerpiece unfolding into a very short French waiter and asking for your order. With an appropriate accent, of course!" 
 "Yow!" said Energia, grinning almost as broadly as Gadgetive.  
 "Most of the chairs are just chairs, but the one at the head of the table is attached to the floor, and has a face which unfolds from the back if you try to move it or sit in it, and tells you it's reserved for the head of the household." 
 He was trying to keep the mood light, but Blue Impact could tell there was a substantial underlayer of worry. Considering that his elderly father was still missing she could definitely understand that attitude.  
 Sammy gave them a quick tour of the house, including the garage and second floor. They made sure to check every closet and cupboard, which left them certain there was nothing amiss in the entire building; at least, above ground. Gadgetive was close to swooning at all the mechanical complications implied by the delightful, whimsical additions Abner had made. 
 Sammy was careful to point out that the main bedroom and its bathroom, and Abner's study - all on the second floor - were largely mundane.  
 "He knew first-hand how annoying this stuff could be after a few hours," said Sammy, with a sad smile. "Now, the records are in the basement. The stairs down are in the kitchen, which is why I saved it for last." 
 In the kitchen the old-fashioned fluorescent fixture in the middle of the ceiling came on with a plink followed by a slight hum at the flip of the wall switch. 
 There were fewer animations in here than in the rest of the ground floor, and they were very unobtrusive. Though as the group passed through the doorway at the top of the stairs a face in the upper door frame smiled down at them, its eyes tracking the movement of each person as they passed through. 
 The basement had no amusement park style active decorations, but instead was nearly filled with humming, clicking, rotating and oscillating parts. Now Gadgetive did swoon, though that might have been from the subtle aromas of machine oil and ozone. The others worked around her. 
 Sammy pointed to filing cabinets along one wall, and a workbench along another.  
 "Abner used the workbench to make and maintain all this. My dad is no slouch at technical stuff, but he wouldn't touch anything Abner made without his supervision or, later, checking the detailed notes Abner left. You better believe he - and I, to a smaller extent - have worked hard to keep all this working properly. Anyway, Dad primarily used this bench for going through the papers." 
 Some of the documents involved records for utilities, property taxes and the like. The rest were either fan mail or from people interested in buying the property. There was a large overlap between those last two groups. 
 A quick check showed nothing suspicious in either set of records for the past several months. 
 "We could search further back," said Blue Impact, straightening with a sigh. "However, in my professional opinion if there were something here connected with your father's disappearance it would have been in the records we've already checked." 
 They spoke with Sammy for a while, about where his father might be and the larger set of crimes they were investigating, and about Abner's work. Gadgetive was especially interested in the latter.  
 "Gadgetive," said Blue Impact, with exaggerated patience, "this is not the appropriate time. After we find Mr. Logsdon you can speak with him about this." 
 Gadgetive might have been about to protest the waste of opportunity, but Vic suddenly held up a hand.  
 "Getting a cell phone message." 
 She pulled out her Bureau-issue phone and took the call.  
 "That was from the FBI team working on the case. They've uncovered a lead to another warehouse. They definitely want us along, this time." 
 "Sammy, thank you for helping with this," said Blue Impact, putting a gloved and reassuring hand on his upper arm. "Hopefully, this latest operation will lead us to your father." 
 "Thank you. Now, I better escort you out." 
 # 
   
 "Okay, the thefts could have been just to make the person behind them rich," said Energia, frowning in thought as the flyer climbed vertically from the curb to high above airliner routes, and then hurried south. "What I'm seeing, though, smacks of a larger, much more complicated scheme. With the sales of collectible items from the early thefts used to fund a big, overall plan." 
 "A big, overall plan which also includes revenge of some sort," said Blue Impact, nodding. "Though 'includes' may be an understatement. I suspect that the revenge aspect is the primary motivation in all this." 
 "Okay, how many masterminds are there currently running around loose whom this would fit?" said Vic, her expression mirroring that of Energia.  
 "Not many, if you assume they don't have much in the way of starting financial resour..." 
 Blue Impact stopped, looking startled.  
 "No. They couldn't have let him go again." 
 "What?" said the others, in fair chorus.  
 "He was found guilty by the International Court of the UN and sentenced to life in Scheveningen Prison! For, among other crimes, detonating a nuclear device in the stratosphere! Even if he escaped they would have warned people, surely, and he couldn't be running things from inside... Or could he?" 
 "Perfect cover," said Gadgetive, nodding thoughtfully. "Most folks wouldn't suspect he could do it, and if he's caught he gets to embarrass the people who dared judge him!" 
 "Sung," said Vic, nodding.  
 "Unlikely," said Blue Impact, countering her own suspicion of a moment before. "There are plenty of others whom this profile would fit. As well as many who could emulate that approach as a cover. He's just on our minds due to recent events." 
 "Still something to keep in mind," said Gadgetive. 
 "Heads up, people," said Blue Impact, as the travel pod started its vertical descended towards the location Vic had been given. "Looks like they went ahead without us... again." 
 "They also got in trouble, again," said Energia. 
 Blue Impact took over and manually guided their vehicle in a descending spiral to get a good view of the site. The warehouse was - like the previous one - in an industrial and shipping zone, though it was dozens of miles away from that previous location. It was off to itself, with a large, paved area all around, meant for parking semi trailers. 
 This was all currently empty, except for utility poles, fire hydrants and such, and the FBI special agents staging the raid, and their vehicles. Plus more than a dozen human-shaped mechs of various types but with distinct family resemblances to each other. For some reason, two of them were wearing black pants, black jackets, black leather gloves, black hats and sunglasses.  
 "Are those Thessalian hunter-killer robots?" said Energia, alarmed, indicating the fashionable humanoids.  
 "Bisaltia," said Gadgetive, sounding distracted. "Plus several other older models. Be glad they're not Thessalians, or even all Peloponnese; that many of either of those models would definitely give just the four of us a hard time." 
 This warehouse was apparently more important to the mastermind than the previous one. Or maybe they had just learned from the easy seizure of the other. The FBI was already heavily engaged with multiple humanoid machines. The devices were obviously bulletproof; at least, for the potencies of bullets the FBI special agents were using.  
 The pod landed and the quartet hurried to where the FBI special agents had taken cover behind their vehicles. Fortunately, it seemed that the units were programmed to stay within a certain distance of the building where they were based. They would pursue to that limit, but no further. 
 Instead, they were rhythmically walking along this perimeter until past the FBI personnel. Then they would turn and move away from that front, then turn again and proceed in somewhat ant-like fashion parallel to the first line back to the other end, then march along the perimeter again. This counter-clockwise wheel might have been entertaining, if the machines hadn't been so obviously dangerous. 
 "We thought they might have more supers," gasped special agent Sanders, when the four costumed females came hurrying up. "We brought several neutralizers. Which, of course, don't work on these things! We haven't even seen any people here, just machines!" 
 "Well, we have a gadgeteer and those are gadgets," said Blue Impact, confidently. "We should have this licked pretty quick." 
 "I see two Chaonia, two Epirus, a pair of Peloponnese, even that couple of old Bisaltia units," said Gadgetive, who seemed more impressed than worried. "Be especially careful of the Bisaltia. They look crude and a bit silly in those clothes and are slow overall but they're very strong and tough and can break a neck or fracture a skull with one spring-cocked blow. Wow. Now I see more coming. Probably in response to our arrival. Looks like they're all in original condition, too, except for having modern weapons!" 
 "Less admiration," said Blue Impact, "more information! How do we stop these things?!" 
 "I could do an EMP..." said Energia. 
 "Won't help," said Gadgetive. "The original emulates these are based on were designed to go where their creator couldn't, including inside nuclear reactors. The Bisaltia were specifically intended to survive a nuclear war! All those models are hardened, against pretty much anything. You can jam their communications, but they are capable of independent operation, though the older the unit the more limited the extent of that." 
 "So it's do this the hard way," said Blue Impact, raising her fists. Her gloves creaked ominously. 
 "No, no, no! This is history, here!" 
 "Then come up with a way to stop them while doing as little damage as possible!" snapped Blue Impact. "Especially to people! There are lives at stake, so make it quick!" 
 Gadgetive suddenly took off her backpack. 
 "You remember when we fought BlueBot?" she said, as she began taking stuff out. 
 "Of course," said Blue Impact.  
 "We studied that in one of my classes," said Vic, nodding.  
 "Well, I figured out a way to stop him with a twonky of my own, to sabotage the one which had taken him over." 
 "Tell me you can use that to stop these." 
 "Yeah. These things are all commercial models; if they haven't been altered internally I know how they think, literally. Just give me a few minutes to modify the design of my worm and get my fablab to make a dozen or so, then load them into my launcher..." 
 "Remember, you've got people here who can hand deliver things," said Blue Impact. 
 "Oh. Right. Okay, just... keep an eye on them until I can get these made." 
 That, fortunately, proved easy. The devices continued to walk their wheel, obviously watching the intruders, but they would not go beyond that previously established invisible boundary. They wouldn't even use their weapons unless someone came past that line. 
 "Okay," said Gadgetive, laying four small, rough-textured balls on the trunk of the FBI car they were behind. "These are for the Peloponnese models. Those are the newest and most capable ones here. Just put one of these against the ventilation grill on the back below that bulge. Hold it long enough for the twonky to deploy and get a grip. It will do the rest." 
 "How long will the deployment take?" said Blue Impact. 
 "Uhm, well, it varies according to the exact placement, how the unit is moving, how..." 
 "Are we talking seconds or minutes?"  
 "Or years?" said Energia, rolling her eyes.  
 "Oh! Just two or three seconds." 
 "Not easy, but doable," said Vic, nodding.  
 "Just remember, besides being remotely controllable, those units communicate with each other. That should hold true even between models, as evidenced by the fact that they are cooperating and not fighting each other. The newer ones can even learn from experience - they were nicknamed Terminators, after that second movie came out - and share what they learn. So watch for units ganging up on anyone attacking one of them." 
 "Special agent Sanders," said Blue Impact, turning to the head of the FBI contingent. "How are they armed?" 
 "Electrical and sonic stunners," he said, ticking things off on his fingers, "beanbag guns, net guns, pepper balls, and maybe a few other things. All considered less than lethal, but still not fun. A third of us were down by the time we were able to start withdrawing. If they had pursued us we'd all be down. As it was, we were barely able to drag the wounded out as we went." 
 "Roger. Looks like she's holding true to her previous behavior of not killing or seriously injuring anyone. Okay, I have a full-face filter mask I can put on and am tough enough that the other weapons shouldn't stop me." 
 "I can hover with my plasma wall up and draw fire," said Energia. "I can also use my powers to impede those things. Though only a few at a time." 
 "I bet I can draw fire and dodge well enough not to get hit," said Vic. "My armor has a helmet filter I can deploy, and built-in sound protection." 
 Blue Impact picked up one of the balls. 
 "Gadgetive, get back to making more of these things for the rest of those things. Vic, here, take these two and see if you can place them without taking too much risk. I've got the other two." 
 A surprisingly short time later they had all the various models of drones under Gadgetive's control, in part due to help from the first units her twonkys suborned. 
 As it turned out, Vic could - with only a bit of difficulty - put the balls containing the twonkys in place without getting hit, which greatly helped speed the operation. Though she and Blue Impact were still downwind of several deployed paintballs filled with pepper powder or indelible stain which hit near them. Once they were finished, at Gadgetive's command the robots fell in and saluted.  
 "That went better than I hoped," said special agent Sanders, straightening and stretching his back once the all clear was given. He grinned at the supers. "Well done." 
 For the first time, Energia noticed that Sanders was noticeably older than the other special agents. His hair even showed quite a bit of grey.  
 No wonder he had to stretch his back. 
 "How did you find this place?" said Blue Impact, now that they had a moment to catch up. 
 "As a precaution we planted trackers in several types of gadgets we felt were likely to be targeted," said Sanders. "We traced several of them here, with a few going to another location, a business downtown. That location is the headquarters of some sort of technology company. We didn't have enough special agents to hit both locations at the same time, so we just have a few people watching the other site until we can finish here." 
 "I'm surprised the mastermind didn't find the trackers," said Vic. Then she remembering something from her own past. "Though if you do it right, their own ego can keep them from finding things. No-one would dare!" 
 "That was the approach we used," said Sanders, nodding. "We planted a few obvious tracking devices, plus a few which were better hidden and on timers. The obvious ones all failed. Those on timers are still beeping." 
 "I'll have Gadgetive tell those drones to enter the warehouse ahead of us," said Blue Impact. "We can use them to check if there are any more inside, as well as for traps." 
 However, once they got the nearest warehouse door open they realized the interior had been very thoroughly torched. The supers and FBI personnel fell back, coughing at the nasty smoke, except for Vic and Blue Impact, who still had filters deployed. Those two took a quick look around inside, then came out and confirmed the worst.  
 "No signs of life," said Blue Impact. "I'm pretty sure there were people in there earlier, though. They must have disabled the sprinklers, started the fire and left somehow while we were busy."  
 "Great," said Sanders, sourly. "I'll tell the people we have watching the office building that we're on the way." 
 "Let them know that we four will be there before the rest of you," said Blue Impact. Her tone made clear that this was not negotiable.  
 "Before that, though, better let Gadgetive wipe you two down," said Energia, like the others keeping her distance from Vic and Blue Impact. "You may have noticed how we're all staying away from you two. You both kind'a unclean, right now, with all the pepper balls and such. No way are we riding in close quarters with you two until you're deodorized." 
 ### 
   










   
 Part Nine 
   
 "Speaking of BlueBot," said Energia, once they were underway on the short trip into the city, "I wonder if there's any connection between us encountering that machine on one of our early cases and this." 
 "Y'know, there could be," said Gadgetive, thoughtfully. "That case also involved the work of someone with an appreciation for old, anthropomorphic robots who stole or just found one of them, and repurposed it. The same person or persons could also be responsible for the theft of the Sixties combat android Groppo about that same time."  
 "Gadgetive, I need you to tell me everything you know about those drones," said Blue Impact. 
 "Why?" said the gadgeteer, puzzled. "They won't use them again; just like they had them here instead of another powerful super standing guard. Masterminds like to change things up. Well, some things... They tend to vary the details more than their overall approach." 
 "Because this setup was different in other ways from the last warehouse. Someone had a whole bunch of several series of similar devices made by the same company through a long span, instead of a few gadgets gathered from different sources." 
 "I noticed that, too," said Vic, nodding.  
 "Background on those robots could provide an important clue." 
 "Uhm, okay," said Gadgetive, frowning in concentration. When she resumed speaking, she was apparently quoting some source. Vic remembered that - like her - many gadgeteers, mad inventors and masterminds had very good memories. 
 "Starting back in the late Fifties, Dr. Michael Arnot began work on what he called 'emulates.' Each version was one of a series of mechanical special agents intended to go places and perform tasks the agoraphobic inventor couldn't. However, his chief of research - Hunter Franks - also worked on his own, similar design in secret, intending to sell it for security and military uses. There was some bad blood, there, once Arnot found out. 
 "Franks quit, then founded his own company. He named the models he produced after regions of ancient Greece, a practice which continues today. Dr. Arnot later developed his line into a series of units intended to go places humans and even most supers couldn't, such as nuclear reactor cores, to gather information and even make repairs. 
 "A few years later he also began marketing a series of household assistants, mainly for people who were physically disabled. Meanwhile, Franks was arrested for using one of his preproduction units - a pre-production Bisaltia model he called Roger - to murder people he had grudges against. Which almost included Dr. Arnot. The company he - Franks - founded continued without him until it was eventually taken over by his son, who was his only child." 
 "I remember, now," said Energia, leaning forward in her restraints to look at her friend. "They covered this in a class I took at Pine Island. Both father and son were accused of stealing their designs from Dr. Arnot." 
 "A few of Arnot's patented features were used in the first preproduction units," said Gadgetive, firmly. She didn't seem to be quoting, now. "However, once the senior Franks was in prison the new managers replaced those parts with equipment made in-house or legally licensed. The actual commercial units - then and now - are either all completely original or the manufacturers licensed any of the tech they used which was invented by others. 
 "The stigma is still there, though. Even after he - the elder Franks - died in prison, a few years after his conviction, the Franks son who took over the creative work was accused of stealing design elements from other inventors."  
 "That could be the revenge element," said Vic, nodding. "Did the son have any children?" 
 "I don't know," said Gadgetive, unfolding the keyboard from the dash in front of her, "but I can find out." 
 She soon had an answer.  
 "Okay, four kids, boy, girl, boy, boy. The oldest kid died in an accident involving an early prototype for the Peloponnese model, about twenty years ago. His grief over that may be why the middle Franks - I mean, the father of the four - died relatively young. The daughter - the next oldest - got involved in crime and was pretty much ignored by the family and the business, which likely didn't help her father's health. 
 "She and the first son were the only ones to share the family interest in - and genius for - things technical. The two youngest were - are - playboys, with no interest in inventions or running things. A board took over the company again after that oldest son died, since the daughter was in jail. The new managers didn't do much except make incremental improvements." 
 "What was the daughter's name?" said Blue Impact, frowning.  
 "Artemis Franks," said Gadgetive. "Huh. Her records are sealed. Lots of layers of protection. Wait, here's something in the clear: After she got out of prison a few years ago she took an active part in running the company. Eventually was named President. Took several lawsuits and lots of campaigning and political maneuvering by her, but she eventually took full control and she appears to be doing a good job. 
 "The company is thriving. She's responsible for multiple new models being introduced, too. Some revolutionary other products, as well." 
 "I know that name," said Blue Impact, her frown deepening. "Something... from several years ago." 
 "It looks like her files were sealed by the federal government," said Gadgetive. "I'll need time to get through their security." 
 "Don't!" said Blue Impact, quickly. "So far everything you've found is in public records, right? Let's not break any laws, here. Not just because of Vic, either." 
 She shot the federal special agent a look, then spoke in a low voice to the team's guest.  
 "I have to keep telling her this sort of thing. She just doesn't seem to think that human laws are important." 
 "I know the type," said Vic, smirking. She finished in a higher and slightly whining voice, obviously imitating someone. "'Oh, but they're so arbitrary!'" 
 "Well, they are," grumped Gadgetive. 
 "Alex, right?" said Energia, grinning as Vic rolled her eyes and nodded. 
 While Blue Impact sat at the controls of the travel pod, still frowning in thought, the vehicle began its automated descent.  
 "We're right back in the same city where we started our investigation this morning," said Vic. "Only downtown, instead of in a suburb." 
 "Yeah," said Energia, nodding. "Maybe Logsdon never left town." 
 "Got it," said Blue Impact, her finger snap muffled by her glove. "There was a minor-league super named Chameleon Gal - she was into hustling, swindling and blackmailing, not violent crime - who made a deal with federal prosecutors after getting caught participating in some big scheme. Turned state's evidence against her partners. Nobody knew her real name before she was caught, and as part of the deal her records were sealed. 
 "Her power was that she could make people think she looked like someone else. I heard, though, that she sometimes used the name Artemis Hunter. I thought it was a pure pseudonym, given the redundancy, but what if this is the same person who is now in charge of the company? Believing that by using part of her real name in her mask name she would divert attention from her legal identity is typical mastermind overthinking." 
 "Artemis Hunter?" said Vic, with raised eyebrows. "That is a bit redundant, but lots of people like that sort of duplication in a name. Especially a pseudonym. Though the fact that she picked a fake last name which was the same as Hunter Frank's first name could be significant." 
 "Hang, on," said Gadgetive, typing frantically. "Yeah. Her full name is Artemis Hunter Franks." 
 "Talk about redundant," said Vic, nodding. "Though that was presumably her parents' fault." 
 "Black Badge said people couldn't agree on what the mastermind looked like," said Energia, in sudden revelation. 
 "She doesn't actually change shape," said Blue Impact with a vague wave of her right hand. "She... confuses the part of the brain which interprets what someone sees. So people remember a plausible but false image." 
 "Can she select what people see?" said Energia, frowning.  
 "To an extent. The more she's able to concentrate the larger the extent." 
 "I wonder if that's why she's wearing that striking eye makeup, now," said Vic, looking thoughtful. "Even though it makes her more noticeable, what people notice is the exploding eyes. Especially if she augments that effect with her power. If she then puts on a pair of sunglasses and applies her power in a different way she's innocuous; effectively unnoticeable." 
 "That's what I'm betting," said Blue Impact, seriously. "Okay, I'll land us a couple of blocks from the building. We'll meet with the FBI special agents on scene, find out what they know and let them know what we've deduced. Then we'll go from there, figuring out what to do." 
 "Thinking on our feet and improvising like mad, as per usual," said Energia, laughing.  
 # 
   
 Blue Impact put the pod down in a regular parking space, and made sure to feed the meter when they exited. Though it was a Sunday there were plenty of people around the business area, and the quartet and their vehicle elicited many startled looks. They proceeded on foot; including Energia, to her irritation. 
 Even during the approach to the FBI special agents' position, Blue Impact was careful to keep other structures between the small group and their ultimate goal. They were met by Fuyumi Tanaka - the FBI woman in charge of the small team keeping an eye on the building - as they neared the agency's surveillance van, well before they came in view of the business headquarters building which was their target.  
 "The company should just have a skeleton staff on site, this being Sunday and all," Tanaka said, as she led them on a covert path to the van, "but we're seeing odd amounts of activity on the two uppermost floors and in the lobby." 
 The inside of the FCI vehicle was a bit crowded with the addition of the four supers. However, Blue Impact didn't plan for her team to stay in there for long. She wasn't the only one. The two groups quickly exchanged information. 
 "So, we probably need to go in soon," said Vic, when both sides ran out of things to reveal. Looking around she saw the special agents nod, some reluctantly. "Politely or rudely?" 
 "I... don't..." said Tanaka. 
 "The polite method is to walk boldly in," said Vic, explaining the super tactic to her fellow fed, "having those with badges flash them and try to bluff their security people into granting us entry. We'd have to convince them that we already know there's something wrong and they'll be in serious trouble if they don't cooperate and let us past. This is done with the assumption that we'll actually see something illegal once we do get into the building. 
 "Or do we think there's enough evidence of wrongdoing - probable cause - that we can just force our way in without permission? In that case we just walk inside and past the guards, having someone restrain anyone who tries to stop us. That's the rude way." 
 "There's also a third option," said Blue Impact. Who, after all, had more experience than the other three supers together. "We four walk openly towards the building and see if that provokes a response." 
 "The problem with that," said Energia, sourly, "is that if a response is provoked it could endanger bystanders and cause a lot of property damage; if one isn't provoked we wind up standing outside the building looking silly." 
 "There aren't a lot of people around right now to endanger, though," said Vic, thinking it through. "However, if the people in the building do just play it cool..." 
 "Masterminds can play the game, and so can most of their middle-managers," said Blue Impact, again the voice of experience. "Underlings usually can't. Even if there's no response, the FBI special agents - presumably - will be coming along right behind us. If there's no reaction from inside by the time we get to the front of the building, we just stop and pretend we're a bit early and waiting for them." 
 "The slow, confident, intimidating, walk," said Vic, nodding. "They actually teach us that at the Bureau." 
 "At the Pine Island Academy, too," said Energia, also nodding. She smiled at Tanaka, in a very unhumorous way. "I was allowed in Advanced Intimidation classes ahead of most students." 
 "It's settled, then," said Blue Impact, now also nodding.  
 "It is?" said special agent Tanaka, obviously confused.  
 "It is?" said Gadgetive.  
 The costumed quartet began filtering out the door of the communications van, Gadgetive rapidly catching up physically and mentally if not socially. Still in the van, the FBI special agent managing the stakeout looked around at the three special agents in her charge. 
 "When did I lose control of this operation?" 
 "Fuyumi, I don't think any of us ever had a chance of being in control of this operation," said one of the special agents. He rose.  
 "We better get after them," said Tanaka, thus prompted, with an aggravated sigh. "Fred, bring the neutralizer. I don't know who we'll have to use it on, but I'd bet a week's pay we'll have to use it on someone." 
 There were no takers.  
 # 
   
 After the four costumed supers exited the van, however, Energia moved in close to the team leader.  
 "You're not just doing this 'cause we're running out of Spring Break, are you?" she said, quietly, as they reached the end of the alley where the FBI van was parked. 
 "You know," said Blue Impact, also quietly and looking surprised, "I completely forgot about that! No, I just want a break in this case, and think this is a good way to get one. We're hopefully going to force someone's hand." 
 "Just note that it could break a lot more than the case," said Energia, in a stage mutter.  
 Blue Impact laughed, straightened, put on her "I mean business" face and walked boldly out into the street crossing the one where the FBI van was parked. The others quickly followed, in posture, expression and course. 
 They came off the side street across from their target and a short distance down the block. Traffic was light; striding confidently they jaywalked diagonally across to the sidewalk which ran in front of the business. Once they were on the far side of the street this left them close to the main entrance of the building.  
 "Franks Security Robotics," said Energia, reading the sign on the front of the building as they approached.  
 "International in scope and involving far more than either security or robots," said Gadgetive, nodding. "They're one of the biggest names in modern cybernetics." 
 Their progress was suddenly interrupted by the front of the building exploding outwards. Only there was no blast; instead, something - someone -- very large burst through the glass at the front of the high lobby, from the inside. Something alive and human in shape. Something much larger than a human, and still growing.  
 "Thought you could just walk up here and come right inside, did ya'?" said a booming voice. "You can't do that to us!" 
 Energia's first thought was that this was somehow her Aunt Colossa, but she quickly corrected that. 
 "Is that... Great Big Joe?" said Energia, sounding worried. "I thought he retired from crime and went into advertising!" 
 "I think that's Joe Grow's son," said Blue Impact, frowning. "Calls himself Major Grow. All right, you! Stand down!" 
 The giant laughed like an amused whale and reached for a delivery truck parked in front of the building. Energia hit him with a high-frequency, high-voltage electrical attack, which danced impressively across his skin but barely affected him. Gadgetive shot him in the face with webbing, which was a little more effective; at least he dropped the truck to paw at the material. 
 Blue Impact charged in and side-kicked his left ankle, which was the highest part she could quickly reach. Vic took advantage of the distraction all this caused to bounce from the roof of a car into a flying side kick. She caught the giant in the side of the left knee. 
 Major Grow ripped the webbing away and looked confused. Then annoyed.  
 "You think you can just waltz in here," he roared, like some great engine of destruction, "and do what you want?" 
 "He's nuts!" said Energia, flying higher and trying a different frequency of electrical attack. Unfortunately, this had even less effect than her first attempt. 
 "No more!" yelled the giant, growing increasingly furious. Though he fortunately seemed to have reached the limit of his size-increasing power. 
 He straightened and spread his arms wide, hands open, palms forward. All four of his opponents knew what was coming next, and braced for it.  
 When he slammed his hands together the shockwave rattled windows for blocks, breaking more than a few. Energia and Blue Impact covered their ears while Vic and Gadgetive depended on the protections built into their helmets. 
 They were still all stunned to varying degrees; the effect was more of a massive pressure wave impact than a sound. However, Blue Impact and Energia recovered before Major Grow could take advantage of the situation. The former due to her denser tissues and the latter due to being further away than the others.  
 Energia switched to plain direct current electricity, which at least had a strong detrimental effect on Major Grow. Unfortunately, his response to the lightning was to crouch in preparation for leaping at her. However, a manhole cover hurled like a Frisbee caught him in the left temple, courtesy of Blue Impact. 
 Before he could stand tall again or even recover at all, Vic jumped from the ground to the top of a van then off the front of the building. Continuing on, Vic caught him with a leaping side kick to the same temple which the manhole cover had just struck. 
 That almost ended the fight. However, though staggered by the cumulative effect of the two blows, Major Grow grabbed his head with one hand and swung the other around blindly as he lurched upright.  
 Gadgetive webbed his right foot to the pavement. Blue Impact grabbed someone's already damaged Jaguar and used it as a battering ram against Major Grow's left ankle. He stumbled, and dropped, crushing several more cars and blocking the street. Vic immediately took advantage of this more convenient access to land several paralyzing and very painful nerve strikes, some delivered from atop the giant's back. Major Grow screamed, then passed out.  
 "Well, I guess that's probable cause!" said Vic, hopping down to the pavement. "I'm also really glad those nerve strikes worked on him!" 
 However, the quartet's troubles weren't over.  
 "Guardbots!" yelled Gadgetive, pointing.  
 Two Thessalians came running out of the opening Major Grow had made.  
 Energia, glad to finally have a target she didn't need to worry about accidentally killing, hit both with pure heat, pouring it on, dumping most of her store into them in just a few seconds. The robots seized, humming. After several minor explosions they both dropped to the sidewalk, glowing a dull red and with flames coming out of several joints and seams. 
 The panting heroes took a moment to catch their collective breath. This double fight, less than an hour after the previous one, was taxing even their martial artist. 
 "Here come the FBI, with a neutralizer," said Energia, who had the advantage of a better view, due to altitude. "I hope that will cover all of him!" 
 "Energia, stay with us!" said Blue Impact to the team's sole flyer, as the older super hurried into the hole in the front of the building. "We need to stick together!" 
 Energia sighed, but flew down to the hole. Though she stayed above the head level of her teammates, flying horizontal. There was plenty of room, both going through the hole and once they were inside the main lobby.  
 The well dressed man at the reception desk was on the phone, screaming for security. Watching in growing panic as the quartet approached.  
 "You can't come in here!" he shouted, dropping the phone and backing away. "It's all on security video! The police are on the way!" 
 "I'm federal law enforcement," said Vic, pointing to her badge. "We've got FBI backup. Now, what are you doing in here on a Sunday?" 
 "What?" he said, confused. He looked up as two of the FBI special agents entered, badges and guns out. He frantically jabbed a finger at the costumed heroes. "Them! I work here! They attacked Miss Franks' fiance!" 
 "Wait," said one of the special agents. "Artemis Franks is engaged to Thomas Grow?!" 
 "Yes! He was defending her interests against attack by these radicals! Arrest them!" 
 "These people are helping the FBI investigate a series of thefts of valuable technological antiques, as well as assaults on law enforcement special agents and the possible kidnapping of Edward Logsdon," said special agent Tanaka, hurrying into the lobby. "They were waiting to meet us in front of this building when they were attacked by Thomas Grow!" 
 "I don't know anything about that! I do know that all of you are trespassing! Security!" 
 Facility security finally arrived, and promptly got in a yelling match with the two FBI special agents. The tired masks just watched quietly for a few moments. 
 "C'mon," said Blue Impact, after a bit, in a low voice to the other three costumed supers. "Let's take advantage of the diversion they're causing." 
 They moved casually towards the doorway to the fire stairs, with everyone else in the lobby being too distracted by the yelling match to notice. 
 Once inside, Blue Impact began heading down the steps. 
 "Down?!" said Energia. 
 "Works for me," said Vic. "Masterminds like to escape into tunnels." 
 "The FBI will go up," said Blue Impact, nodding. "Eventually. That's where they saw the activity they mentioned earlier. So we go down. If I'm wrong and they need help quickly, Energia can fly up the stairwell." 
 "Sounds like a plan," said Energia, remembering just how much experience their team leader had in the costumed super business. 
 ### 
   










   
 Part Ten 
   
 At the bottom of the stairs the four supers exited into a mechanical room. It was dark and filled with the muffled sounds made by the near-idling equipment which supported the building.  
 "Now what?" said Energia, quietly, as they stood just inside the huge room.  
 "Don't like this," said Gadgetive, looking around warily. "No mechanical room in a legitimate business should be this clean." 
 They suddenly tensed for battle when a robot in coveralls, long-sleeved plaid shirt and cap rounded a corner and marched towards them. They all relaxed with grateful sighs when it continued, unheeding, past them. 
 "Just a maintenance drone," said Gadgetive, with a nervous laugh. "No wonder it's so clean in here. Though don't take those for granted. They're not designed for fighting, but they're strong and tough and can be remotely repurposed. They're also a violation of union rules." 
 "We should all look around as best we can for a tunnel, a concealed elevator, whatever," said Blue Impact. "Keep your ears open, as well as your eyes and whatever other senses you may have." 
 "Hold it," said Vic, raising a hand.  
 She closed her eyes and started walking forwards. The others looked among themselves, a bit confused. Then back at her, in time to see Vic spread her arms and maneuver as if herding something into a corner which very much didn't want to go there.  
 "Gotcha!" she said, triumphantly, opening her eyes and smiling.  
 "Are you telling me..." said Blue Impact. 
 "There's... something... someone there," said Energia, frowning.  
 "Got it," said Gadgetive waving a scanner in that direction. "Human female. Meets the physical parameters of Artemis Franks." 
 "Huh," said Energia, smiling. "'Bout time we had a bit of luck with this case." 
 "So, you've improved your powers enough to created a full MYOB effect," said Blue Impact, impressed, to the apparently empty volume where - presumably - their target was being held.  
 Reluctantly giving up on trying to remain undetected, a woman suddenly appeared in the corner where Vic had herded her. 
 "How the fuck did you find me?!" Artemis snarled, at Vic specifically, as she became visible.  
 She was dressed in a fancy - and expensive - business pants suit. Her makeup was not merely normal, but subdued.  
 "Ancient martial arts technique," said Vic, not mentioning that her sense of perception worked through a different part of the brain than that which Artemis' powers affected. 
 "How much do you want?" said Artemis. "I'm a legitimate businesswoman, now, but I used to run with the villains. I'll pay you twice what whoever hired you did." 
 "Bad news," said Vic, pointing to her badge. "I'm a fed; they're with me. There's FBI upstairs." 
 "What?" said Artemis, obviously confused.  
 She's a good actor, thought Blue Impact. Though some of that reaction also seems to be legitimate surprise. 
 Vic proceeded to formally arrest the protesting woman, including using flex-cuffs to keep her hands behind her back. 
 "More bad news. Given what your fiance just did - to your building and to the street and cars outside, as well as what he tried to do to us - we have more than enough probable cause to search the entire place," said Blue Impact, when Vic was finished.  
 "Oh, no," said Artemis, looking genuinely upset. "What's that idiot done now?" 
 "So," said Blue Impact, very deliberately not giving her an answer. "Let's get to the stairs. It's going to be a long climb to the top." 
 "Wait, wait," said Artemis, sounding almost desperate. "There's an executive elevator which goes from down here straight to my office on the top floor. Direct express." 
 "So that's how you got down here so quickly," said Energia.  
 "Down? No, no, I was going up. I just got here. Parked in the executive garage, over that way, and walked to here. There were some panicked messages from security about a fire at one of our warehouses so I was coming in to handle that. You can check the security videos for when I came in, if you need proof." 
 Artemis continued to babble as they walked. None of them believed more than a small portion of what she was telling them. With her technical expertise alone, she could have easily faked the time stamp on the security video, and her security people probably had standing orders about supplying information to the cops. 
 However, Tricorne and Vic did let her lead them to the elevator. It wasn't even concealed; at least, not down here. The ride up was surprisingly quick. 
 As it turned out, three of the FBI special agents on scene were already in the penthouse office. They were only mildly surprised when what appeared to be a solid wood panel behind the office's huge, slightly cluttered desk slid aside and the elevator behind it disgorged five people from its crowded volume. 
 There were greetings back and forth - the FBI special agents sounding very relieved - as the five exited the elevator.  
 "Wow," said Energia, as she saw the opulence of the room. "This job must pay really well. Just look at the size of that desk!" 
 "I'd say she designed a lot of what's in here herself," said Gadgetive, impressed. "Also, people should be very careful about using any of her equipment. At the very least, I'd bet that most of it's meant to only work for her." 
 "Got that right," muttered Artemis, with more than a trace of pride.  
 "Ah," said special agent Tanaka, as she moved to intercept them. "That's where the elevator is. Also, you got her! Good work!" 
 "She been through the process?" said special agent Fred Hagen. 
 "Yeah," said Vic, nodding. 
 "All right, first and foremost," said Tanaka, "where is Edward Logsdon?" 
 "Who?" said Artemis, the image of innocence.  
 "Listen," said Tanaka, very firmly, "if he dies you'll face a manslaughter charge. Maybe even first degree murder. Where. Is. He?" 
 "My private suite is the next floor down," said Artemis, quickly, supplying hopefully useful information without admitting anything. "I mean, if my people have stashed someone anywhere, it would be there. The stairs are over there, through the unmarked door opposite the bathroom." 
 She looked around at them, the image of innocent confusion.  
 "Look I only just found out there was anything improper going on. I was coming in - not going out - to get up here and see just how bad the mess was. I haven't been in the office since Friday." 
 "Tell it to the jury," said Tanaka. 
 Vic and the members of Tricorne followed special agent Fred Hagen to the private stairs which their unwilling host had indicated. However, Blue Impact had a thought before they descended.  
 "Vic, you better stay up here and keep an eye - and a whatever else it is you have - on Miss Franks," she said, quietly. "Just to make sure she doesn't pull that disappearing trick again." 
 "Disappearing trick?!" said special agent Tanaka, startled. 
 "I'll tell you all about it," said Vic, a bit upset to be missing out on what they might find below, but realizing the necessity of staying with the accused. 
 "Did you already know the way?" asked Energia, as Fred moved with certainty to the plain door. 
 "We studied the blueprints to this place while we were keeping watch," said Fred, as they hurried down the steps beyond. This was no fire escape, but a set of wide, carpeted stairs between office levels. It was only unusual in having access through a single door at the top. Perhaps a later modification. 
 "That's how we knew about the hidden elevator. The plans didn't show many details of the interior, though, and we found some differences once we got in here." 
 As they went through another door and entered the room at the bottom of the stairs they saw a woman who was laying on a fold-out couch. Given that she was dressed in slacks and shirt, with a white smock and stethoscope draped on one of the couch arms, she was probably napping rather than sound asleep. Sure enough, she roused at the group entered the room. 
 "What's going on?" she muttered, sleepily.  
 "FBI," said Fred, flashing his badge. "Where's Edward Logsdon?" 
 "If you mean my patient, he's in the bedroom. What's..." 
 "Energia, you better keep an eye on her," said Blue Impact, as the rest of the group hurried in the indicated direction. 
 The door was open. They barged in... and froze. After a moment, Fred got on his radio. 
 "It's like a miniature intensive care room in here. The old man's alive, but I'm afraid to touch anything. We better call an ambulance. A doctor, too." 
 There really wasn't anything they could do in that room; Logsdon was unresponsive and none of them were qualified to evaluate his condition. They returned to the den and began questioning the nurse.  
 "I'm Amelia Modena. I'm a physician's assistant. I was hired by Doctor Kleinert to watch over the patient when he - the doctor - wasn't here. He stops by here every day to check on the old man." 
 "You didn't think it was strange that someone so ill wasn't in a hospital?" said Fred. 
 Modena looked increasingly worried.  
 "I was told he was an eccentric board member who took ill while visiting the city. That he so hated hospitals that he would be more likely to recover here. That I couldn't even be told his name, because if it became public knowledge that he was ill it would ruin several business deals." 
 "Who told you all this?" 
 "Miss Franks!" 
 "So much for her not knowing," said Gadgetive, smirking. 
 The paramedics the FBI called arrived quickly. After a brief examination, they recommended waiting for the doctor before doing anything. Special agent Hagen nodded and radioed his boss with that info; she responded that the on-call doctor was on his way. 
 Hagen then explained to those with him that the local FBI office had a doctor they worked with in such situations, and that he was available on Sundays. Though he would probably be grumpy over being called in at this time.  
 The paramedics said they would stay with the old man until that doctor could examine Logsdon and give them his recommendation. The FBI special agents and supers left Modena with the paramedics, special agent Hagen telling them to keep an eye on her. The supers and special agent Fred went back upstairs and told Vic and Tanaka about the nurse fingering Franks. Who seemed completely unconcerned about this. 
 "Any word on Major Grow?" said Blue Impact. 
 "Oh, there's another team of paramedics working on him," said Tanaka. "He shrank back to normal under the neutralizer. Which was fortunate, since it made treating him much easier. They say he's not seriously hurt. Except in the ego."  
 Franks actually seemed relieved at hearing this news.  
 The doctor the FBI had called arrived soon after this. He spent nearly an hour examining Mr. Logsdon, speaking with PA Modena and checking the charts, before recommending that the paramedics transport the old man - carefully - to a specific hospital. The doctor came upstairs to the office and briefed those waiting, then went back to supervise as the paramedics moved Logsdon. 
 Blue Impact - with special agent Tanaka's permission - called Sammy Logsdon to give him the news. He thanked her, and said that he was on his way to the hospital the doctor had recommended.  
 "So, his prognosis isn't good, but it's not terrible," said Tanaka, glaring at Franks. "The doctor says you had Logsdon given good medical treatment. You are still facing a lot of charges, including kidnapping. Talk." 
 The woman remained stubbornly silent.  
 "I think a lot of her motivation is jealousy," said Blue Impact, smirking, when she saw this. "She's a good designer, but there's nothing here which holds a candle to Sturgeon's mechanical house." 
 Artemis' manner suddenly became substantially different. 
 "Mechanical house?!" she snapped. "Mechanical playground, you mean! All that stuff is just clockwork trivialities!" 
 "Yep," said Energia, grinning. "Jealousy. She's probably never even been inside it." 
 "It's wonderful," gushed Gadgetive, a dreamy expression on her face.  
 Vic didn't know how much of all that was acting, with the intent of making Franks more talkative. Maybe none of it. However, it did work.  
 "The museum gave all that publicity to toys!" Artemis shouted. "My father and grandfather spent their lives and their careers working on important, useful contributions to the state of the art, and all that museum cares about is amusements!" 
 "So instead of building your ancestors up, you decided to tear someone else down," said Blue Impact, angrily. She leaned in. "What happened to Edward Logsdon?" 
 "He... he got sick!" said the now obviously frightened woman. "It wasn't my fault!" 
 "The stress you put him under makes it your fault," said Tanaka. "Then there's all the assaults and thefts committed under your name." 
 "Hey! Nobody was seriously hurt! I made sure they all used non-lethal weapons!" 
 "Boobytraps are illegal, no matter what type of weapons they have," said Blue Impact. "Robots or drones acting as security on their own internal programming without supervision have been ruled to be the same as boobytraps. People have died in nets or from pepper balls, as just two reasons why. Assault is illegal, as well. So, you still are going up for the full charge. Several of them, in fact." 
 # 
   
 The initial interrogation lasted until special agent Sanders and his crew arrived. He was briefed, approved what had been done, then declared that Artemis Franks needed to be put in a federal facility equipped with neutralizers, immediately. 
 "Do you have to?" she said, almost whining. "Those things make me feel so... fuzzy." 
 "Tell me about it," said Gadgetive, in a stage mutter.  
 Their protests were ignored. The neutralizer Sanders and his crew brought with them to the penthouse office was applied to Franks, and transport arranged. Artemis Franks was soon on her way to jail. 
 "Well, this is quite the mess," said Sanders, sighing as he looked around at those present, before leaving to supervise the movement of Miss Franks. "Just uncovering where everything she had stolen on her behalf is stashed will take days or weeks or maybe months. Untangling the whys, wherefores and hows will likely take months or years." 
 "Fortunately for us," said Blue Impact, with a bit of a smile, "that's your job. Though Vic may be involved in a lot of it." 
 "Thanks for reminding me," said the martial artist, with a tired sigh. 
 "All of you four will likely still be called on to testify at the preliminary hearing," said Tanaka. "Possibly for the trial, as well." 
 "Anyway," said Sanders, smiling tiredly and extending his hand, "thank you - all of you - for your help. We likely would have needed much longer to catch her without you, and it would certainly have been much more painful." 
 "On behalf of Tricorne and the Bureau of Special Resources, you're welcome," said Blue Impact, whose responding smile was definitely not tired.  
 They shook hands all around. 
 #  
 "What a busy day!" said Energia, as the quartet reentered Blue Impact's lair. 
 "Busy but productive," said the facility's owner, as they made their leisurely way down the stairs. She gave the other three a satisfied smile. "Now we can return to our schools with clear consciences." 
 "I haven't been in so many fights in such a short span since the Bureau sent me to talk to Granny Cyprus," said Vic, with a tired laugh. 
 "The swamp witch?!" said Blue Impact, startled. "Were you even able to find her?!" 
 "Yeah. Turned out she was being menaced by some wizard or other, plus the wizard's minions. I helped Dr. Piano with them - me handling the minions, him and Granny the wizard - and in gratitude she gave us both a boon." Vic shook her head and favored them with a wry grin. "She said she liked me. That my connection to nature through my use of ki made me - What was the word she used? - harmonious, that's it." 
 "What did you pick for your boon?" said Energia.  
 "Honey," said Vic, her grin turning impish. "I'd heard she had this wonderful honey, and asked for some. Wow. Stuff is borderline orgasmic. At least, to some people." 
 "Impressive," said Blue Impact, who also had heightened senses. She sounded a bit envious. 
 "Well, it took us until Sunday," said Energia, smiling and stretching as the quartet reached the apartment level, then returning to her point, "but we got it done before school restarted." 
 "Now we have to hurry and pack so we can be where we're supposed to be when we're supposed to be there," said Gadgetive, with an aggravated sigh, as she headed for her lab.  
 "Remember, I have more prep to do than any of you three," said Blue Impact, a bit irritated at the younger super's griping. "Not only do I have to pack, I have to shut down the lair and get Beefeater in the carrier." 
 "We'll help," said Energia, before Gadgetive could complain yet again about the cat being named by "an outsider." 
 # 
   
 Two weeks passed. Another video conference was underway, this time with Vic joining Energia at the Ramsey Technical Institute's brand new holographic communications room. 
 "So, how goes the case against Artemis Franks?" said Blue Impact, after the preliminaries were completed.  
 "Well, she's blaming everything on her fiance and his 'friends,' claiming they were responding to her complaints about the exhibit on their own initiative, and were either unaware of the legalities or were assuming they could simply get away with the crimes," said Vic. "Between that defense and plea-bargains she might even avoid prison this time." 
 "So she's hanging them out to dry," said Blue Impact. 
 "No, actually," said Vic, seeming impressed. "She's making sure they get good legal representation. Like you've said before, she's a smart mastermind." 
 Vic shook her head and gave them a wry smile.  
 "They still haven't even found all the stuff which was taken. They think she's holding it back to have some bargaining power." 
 "The Tuesday Ruby alone could earn some serious sentence reductions, if they play their hand well," said Blue Impact.  
 "Except she's denying having anything to do with that theft," said Vic, obviously annoyed. "Says she had no motivation to take it. Which actually makes sense." 
 "So maybe that was just coincidence," said Blue Impact, nodding thoughtfully. "It wouldn't be the weirdest one I've encountered in hero work, either." 
 The four supers spent a few minutes catching each other up on what was happening in their lives. Then one participant called for their attention in regard to a special topic. 
 "If folks don't mind," said Energia, "before we talk about getting together for the Summer I'd like to discuss our plans for the more distant future." 
 "Tricorne should just be the three of us!" said Gadgetive, loudly, from the holochamber at her current college. "I mean, just the original members. Nothing against Vic..." 
 "That's not what I'm talking about. What I mean is, do you two really want Tricorne to go full time as a team when we're all ready?" 
 "I don't know," said Blue Impact, actually looking tired. "Tricorne is a force for good in the world, but does it really need another permanent super team?" 
 "I've been thinking about that," said Energia. "Yeah, we should make Tricorne a full time super team. However, we should also do a lot more than fight crime." 
 "Such as what?" said Gadgetive.  
 "You've heard of teaching hospitals?" said Energia. "Tricorne could be a teaching team. Vic says she's asked at the Bureau, and if we meet their requirements we could even certify other teams as Bureau compliant. As well as getting paid for doing that." 
 "That would make it hard to maintain the secrecy of the lair," said Blue Impact, pointedly. "Not to mention our own private lives." 
 "I was checking the other resources in the area," said Energia, with a knowing smile. "I wondered - after the fact - what other supers or teams might have been available to help us with the Artemis Franks case that we wound up - fortunately - not needing. Turns out there's just one other team in the city; a new local hero group which calls themselves The FX.  
 "They've only organized since the war, but they already have a good rep and they have a public headquarters. They could use both financial help and advice from seasoned supers. I've talked to them about both things. My suggestion is, we - Tricorne - rent part of their building as an office where folks can contact us openly. 
 "We could also help The FX with advice about security and so forth. We could use their facilities to train them and other heroes, especially in team tactics. Sort of what the Pine Island Academy does, only with adults. It could even be profitable. Like a martial arts school." 
 "That actually sounds workable," said Blue Impact, impressed.  
 "I think the Bureau would support that effort, too," said Vic, nodding.  
 "Okay," said Gadgetive, nodding. "That sounds workable, interesting and acceptable." 
 She jabbed a finger sternly at Energia's image.  
 "Just as long as it's just us three as the actual Tricorne!" 
 "That's the plan," said Energia, grinning at her friend. 
 ### 
   










   
 A Sparse and Select History of Costumed Adventurers 
   
 by Rodford Edmiston 
   
 98,000 years ago 
 The Sh'pokt take samples of early Homo sapiens sapiens from Earth to their home world, under the mistaken impression they were an unusually clever ape in danger of extinction.  
 After several semi-successful escape attempts and acts of sabotage over the next few decades, the Sh'pokt grudgingly admit they have made a mistake and unintentionally enslaved intelligent, thinking creatures. 
 The Sh'pokt can't simply put them back, as that would interfere with the natural development of the native population. They make it up to their captives by freeing and educating them and giving them their own planet in an isolated system in their part of the galaxy. The culture later known as the Shilmek respond by eventually building a powerful military force and wiping out their former captors. 
   
 47,000 years ago 
 First signs of the branching off of the Neanderthal subspecies which would become the Subterrans. 
   
 45,000 years ago 
 The being who would later be known as Abraham Stone is born. Offspring of a Neanderthal mother and a Cro Magnon father, his early life is full of torment from both his lineages. Exactly how he became so long-lived is unknown. He may simply have had regeneration genetically.  
   
 12,800 years ago 
 Several impacts by comet fragments - one major piece landing in what would later become known as Greenland and another in the southern Andes - trigger the Younger Dryas climate changes which cooled the northern hemisphere and warmed the southern. The segments are later discovered to contain pieces of alien technology and one life form. 
   
 CE 928 
 Moldaria formed. 
   
 1492 
 A Catalan using the pseudonym Christopher Columbus crosses the Atlantic and discovers the New World. Believing the Earth is actually much smaller than educated people have known since at least the time of Eratosthenes, he assumes his expedition has reached India, and subsequently calls the brown-skinned people he encounters Indians. Despite his mistake soon being discovered the name sticks. 
 Folklore states that he also called the small, pointy-eared, humanoid creatures he found in the New World "elves." In truth, Columbus never got far enough inland to see any of them. Exactly who so labelled these creatures is lost to history.  
   
 1764 
 Alfred Bulltop Sturm (later known as Old Stormalong or the Sailor) is born. (This date is approximate. He was big for his age and joined the fledgling US Navy in 1778, claiming he was 16. However, he has most often declared 1764 to be the year of his birth. He did not actually see combat until the War of 1812.)  
   
 1793 
 Franois (Le Rapire Rouge) Augereau fights the excesses of the French Revolution openly in a flamboyant disguise while working to improve the system from within in his civilian identity.  
 Second son of a prosperous but non-noble merchant family, Franois earned the disfavor of his father by becoming an actor. Franois favored energetic - even acrobatic - roles, often playing the classic figure of the scaramouche clown. He became involved in politics late in 1790, due to his acting mentor's membership in a liberal political assembly.  
 Having developed a talent as a negotiator between actors and management, Franois served much the same role in the political movement and, later, the Republique Franaise. A quiet, even shy man when not playing an adventurous role, he rarely attracted much attention from political allies and rivals, despite his successes in peacemaking within the disparate and squabbling factions of the Republic. 
 Franois and his mentor were among those who opposed executing Louis XVI and his family. They first advocated exile then, later, life imprisonment. They lost, the royals were executed and both men fell out of influence. Disgusted with politics, Franois returned to the theater while his mentor semi-retired. 
 In 1793 - as the Terror was just getting underway - Franois' mentor was accused of secret royalist sentiments and imprisoned. No trial was scheduled, but Franois received word from allies that his mentor was targeted for private execution.  
 Desperate to save the old man, Franois and others from the theatrical world who knew and admired him pieced together makeshift disguises, all including some sort of mask. Franois - as ever flamboyant when taking an adventurous role - chose an outfit of mostly scarlet. The group stormed the jail and liberated all the prisoners, their action such a surprise that the jailers gave little opposition and there were few injuries on either side. 
 In a moment of inspiration Franois struck a theatrical pose just before exiting - at the rear of the group - and proclaimed that all those unjustly imprisoned should take heart; Le Rapire Rouge would free them.  
 Thus was born the first known costumed adventurer.  
 The prisoners were smuggled out of France by a hastily improvised process. This was soon expanded and improved on by a larger organization, which was similar in some ways to the later Underground Railroad of the United States.  
 Franois realized that there were things he could do as Le Rapire Rouge which were not possible as himself or through the secret organization which he and his fellow theater folk created following this operation. Moreover, Le Rapire Rouge had struck a chord among many people of widely disparate backgrounds. Franois learned that in the frantic haste of the operation, no-one knew who was in which costume. 
 Even some of those who had participated became convinced that Le Rapire Rouge was not one of them, but a mysterious figure who had organized and led the rescue through his strange powers.  
 From this sprang an idea. Franois created a role, a larger than life champion of the oppressed. A man in favor of the Revolution but opposed to the excesses of those who had gained control of it. With the help of a few confidants he let in on his secret, he formed Le Comit Rouge de Libert. The legend grew, deliberately encouraged by Franois both as himself and as his alter ego. 
 For the next few years Le Rapire Rouge greatly hampered many of the exercises in excess of the Jacobin Club. An enormous price was put on his head but never claimed.  
 The actions of Le Rapire Rouge helped discredit the Jacobin Club and was part of the reason for their fall from influence. Shortly after the Thermidorian Reaction Le Rapire Rouge made a final appearance, atop the Bastille. He bowed, made a sweeping flourish with his plumed hat, and announced that sanity had returned and he was no longer needed. Then he vanished in a cloud of red smoke.  
 Franois Augereau participated in the Thermidorian Reaction, but soon again retired from politics; permanently this time. He returned to acting, which he frequently stated was more real. He married a brilliant woman and together they had half a dozen children, most of whom also chose the theatrical life. He expanded into producing, then writing, then forming a troupe, and eventually owned his own successful theater. 
 He finally revealed his role as Le Rapire Rouge in his memoirs, published when he was seventy-eight. Many denounced his writings, claiming he was either an old man desperately trying to regain some fame before his death by claiming glory which wasn't his, or that he clearly was demented. 
 Few were still alive from the time of Le Rapire Rouge who were ever close to the masked man and none of those were among the tiny group who knew that champion's true identity. Franois never answered the criticisms and never provided any physical evidence. 
 However, analysis of what he wrote about Le Rapire Rouge and his Comit shows that the material contained information only an insider could have known. Several historians and other scholars investigated - some of them even interviewing Franois - and confirmed many of his statements. The fact that he was still teaching stage acrobatics and swordplay to young actors - and often showing them up - in his eighties strongly supported his claims.  
 Franois refused to comment publicly on the Empire, but privately complained that most of what he had fought for died with the crowning of Napoleon. He refused to take action against the new regime, however, except in plays he wrote and roles he played which indirectly criticized Napoleon and his works through portrayal of fictional or historical characters. 
 Franois lived to an unusually old age, actually long enough to comment - publicly and in his journals - on the US Civil War and see hope in the reconciliation following its end.  
 Franois learned basic swordplay for some of his early stage roles, and through further training and hard experience became arguably the finest swordsman of his time. He was also an expert with knives of several types, for both fighting and throwing. In one adventure on a farm Le Rapire Rouge threw a hatchet exactly where it needed to go. 
 While he frequently showed mercy to his foes - and a reluctance to kill - he did not hesitate to use lethal force to good effect when he felt that was necessary.  
 Franois was a natural athlete, one of those people capable of doing well at anything physical they try. In addition he was intellectually brilliant, with a talent for negotiation. This way with words extended to his writing. Some of his plays are still produced today, and a few enthusiasts proclaim him to be the equal of Shakespeare. 
 As well, several of his books on stagecraft - especially his manuals of arms for using various weapons in performances - are still in print.  
 Whether he had any actual powers is unknown; disregarding the more spectacular feats as stagecraft or pure invention, we are left with an account which could represent either an extraordinary normal human or a low-level super. In either case, his abilities were augmented by excellent training, hard practice and frequently by expert prearrangement, as well as help from knowledgeable aides. 
 What is known for certain is that both direct and collateral descendants of Franois have genes for powers. However, multiple searches for actual genetic material from Franois Augereau have been fruitless. Following his wishes, after death he was cremated and his ashes scattered in the wind from the roof of his theater. He remains a mystery to this day. Something which most likely would have amused him greatly. 
   
 1837 
 London, England inventor and adventurer D. Gerald Bredon adopts the costumed identity of Spring-Heeled Jack. A prankster at heart, he uses the guise - and the devices created or adapted for it - for some fairly innocent mischief. After a few weeks of creating mystery and stirring up society he retires the identity. 
 However, when he learns that someone wearing a similar costume is molesting women he resumes the disguise, stalks the impostor and captures and unmasks him. The imitator is revealed as a young aristocrat. The man - with several of his peers - had decided to use the legend created by Bredon to conceal their lecherous and improper attacks on young women.  
 Though several other people use "Spring-Heeled Jack" disguises over the next few years, Gerald decides to stay retired. He has proven that the original was not a molester of women and that those who committed such acts were not the real character. Let the police deal with the imposters. 
 The majority of those who are caught are from the same club for young noblemen, where the tradition of dressing up in a "devil" costume and attacking young women has come to be seen as a rite of passage within the group. Because of their high birth the repercussions against them are minimal. Officially there was only one Spring-Heeled Jack, whose identity remained a mystery for many years, plus some unnamed imitators. 
 The truth behind the original Spring-Heeled Jack was not revealed until 1888, several years after Bredon's death. This happened when his heirs discovered Bredon's secret workshop during a remodeling of their family home. His private journal - found in a workshop drawer - revealed much, including the motivation for his disguise. This turned out to be the various jokes he suffered as a young man over his first name: Death. 
 Besides being a talented inventor, D. Gerald Bredon was a noted amateur thespian. There is some evidence that he knew and perhaps trained under Franois (Le Rapire Rouge) Augereau. Some of Gerald's documented acrobatic feats as Spring-Heeled Jack are quite similar in style and daring to those of the Frenchman. 
 Historians generally accept that Gerald was a superhuman, though there is no proof or even hard evidence beyond some of his descendants having super genes. He was a brilliant inventor whose creations enriched his family and in many cases were beyond the state of the art for the time. Some of his documented feats as Spring-Heeled Jack almost certainly required at least low-level superhuman physical ability, even with help from Bredon's inventions.  
   
 1849 
 The Sonora Aero Club is founded in California. Though they make major advances in aeronautical science and engineering, a series of disasters - caused by dangerous flaws in their airship design - result in the club disbanding after a few years. Their group and its efforts was not so much secret as private, with members being cautious in talking to outsiders about their dreams and projects, fearing - perhaps rightly - public ridicule. 
 Yet it somehow also managed to avoid all official attention. Today some historians consider their very existence a tall tale with no substance.  
 One likely reason for both the club being forgotten by history and members fading from official records is that many were later Confederate citizens or known Southern sympathizers. 
   
 1868 
 Teenage former slave and champion jockey Kuiper Brown discovers he has superhuman speed. He becomes one of the first known modern superhumans, taking the "stage" name Tenbroek (after Jason Tenbroek, an abolitionist friend, is murdered by Ku Klux Klan members).  
   
 1887 
 Ernest Wold acquires property in San Francisco, California by cheating the lawful but absent owner through a combination of bribery and legal trickery. The previous owner was the individual later known as Dr. Gaunt, who spends decades getting back what he considers to be rightfully his.  
   
 1890 
 A group of former members of the Sonora Aero Club and their descendants and protgs recreate the group and build several airships of an improved and more practical design. Their test and practice flights spark a large number of UFO reports in the US southwest. However, their compulsive secrecy means that no-one outside their group and a few trusted associates know what they have accomplished. 
 The few written records of the club which survive contain multiple, vague claims of fears their secrets would be stolen by people who were, in reality, very unlikely to have even heard of the group. The Club's work is soon eclipsed by the efforts of such people as Ferdinand von Zeppelin and - a few years later - the Wright Brothers. Members of the Club eventually abandon their efforts.  
   
 1895 
 Professor Meshach Donner develops an in utero process for endowing a creature with greatly increased strength, resilience and speed. After several animal experiments he treats his pregnant wife.  
   
 1896 
 Professor Meshach Donner is tried for the murder by poison of his wife and unborn son. He is eventually found not guilty by reason of insanity. He dies in an asylum eight years later. His claims of creating "superior creatures" and other revolutionary scientific achievements are dismissed as the ravings of a lunatic. This despite tales of incredibly puissant house cats and mice from the area around his home. 
 Some forty years after the last of Donner's experiments, researchers are astounded when they rediscover his lab and study his equipment and notes. He built the first known electron microscope, made discoveries in biology and biochemistry which were not duplicated until much later, and otherwise was in many ways decades ahead of his time. 
 If not for an undetected contaminant in the dose of serum he gave his wife, he would have created the world's first deliberate superhuman. 
 The work of Professor Donner is immediately classified. This despite the determination of some of those who become aware of it to correct the record and clear his name. Though the work takes decades, they eventually succeed.  
   
 1898 
 The first known official recognition of Alfred B. Sturm - better known as Old Stormalong or the Sailor - occurs during the Spanish-American War. 
   
 1901 
 The Fortean born.  
   
 1908 
 Emil Constantine Moldarus born.  
   
 1914 
 The Great War begins, and soon expands to include much of the world. 
   
 1914, August 18 
 In preparation for the Battle of Tannenberg, Germany invades Moldaria to use that tiny country as a staging area. Young Emil Moldarus, his mother and a small staff are sent to the United States with much of the country's treasury and its historic treasures, to establish a government in exile. 
 The nation's crown jewels and many other valuable items are given into the care of the US government until the country can be freed. These items are placed in storage at the Treasury Building in Washington, DC. They are later moved to the Fort Knox Bullion Depository in 1936, after its construction.  
 Emil's father, the Grand Duke, stays behind to protect the elderly King - the Grand Duke's uncle - and manage the occupation. Both are imprisoned by the Kaiser's forces. They are treated reasonably well, but their continued good health is conditional on the King's staff doing what the Kaiser says. 
   
 1918, January 
 The 1918 Influenza begins to achieve widespread attention. It will kill many more than the War does. 
   
 1919 
 As Moldaria begins to recover from the German occupation a small Bolshevik army - organized and backed by Communists from Russia - takes over before Emil and his mother can return. Emil's father is executed, along with the King and several of his family members and state officers. 
 Emil's mother campaigns vigorously for the United States to free their country and restore the throne, but the US is soured on war and leery of monarchs... Especially given what happens to US troops supporting the White Russians. 
 The family's diplomatic status is revoked by Russia - which claims their home nation as part of the Soviet Union - and the Moldaruses and their staff living in the US are reclassified as refugees. Very wealthy refugees, but still refugees. 
   
 1920 
 Wendy, first known flying hero of the modern age, appears. She claimed that her hero name was inspired by the Wendy of the Peter Pan books, but she was never very concerned about maintaining a secret identity. Her legal name was soon known to be Wendy Derryberry by early 1921. She was born in 1904, the same year that the play Peter and Wendy was first performed.  
 Wendy lived into her eighties, though she gave up active heroing when sixty-seven. Even late in her life she was a popular person, and was the inspiration for a song about her, released in 1967. To avoid Copyright problems her name was deliberately misspelled in the title and lyrics of the song, though this led to jokes that the song was about someone passing gas.  
   
 1925 
 Emil Moldarus manifests as a superhuman while attacking a group of teens making fun of his accent. 
   
 1926 
 The first widely accepted scientific paper on superhumans is published in The Journal of the German Medical Association for the Promotion of Physical Activity. 
   
 1927 
 The aging Ernest Wold begins construction on a lot which is part of the property he cheated Dr. Gaunt out of decades earlier. For several years the resulting blocky, ugly building is the business headquarters for the company he heads. Even after new - and much more aesthetically pleasing - facilities are built elsewhere, this property continues to be important to the family.  
   
 1928 
 The first stages of construction of an advanced, electronic, analog computer is begun at the Steinman Institute of Mathematics. The design philosophy is unusual; the head of the physical phase of the project begins by electronically duplicating the structure and function of some of the simplest brains in the animal kingdom, such as grasshoppers and ants. 
 This work alone takes several years. The most successful version of each new model is used as the core of the next stage of the experiment.  
 The idea is to gradually build up the "brain" of the computer, making it more and more complex by imitating more and more complex animal brains. The project is painstakingly slow, and shows little reward for decades. This is fine in the view of Steinman. He sees it more as an experiment in studying the mathematical structure of thought than something intended to do practical work. 
 By the time of Dr. Steinman's death in 1951 the massive computer is roughly as complex as the brain of a Capuchin monkey.  
 By the early Forties the work began attracting the attention of the US government, especially when the Steinman Institute computer was used by researchers from Oak Ridge to check their models of nuclear reactions. During this period, the Institute people were also asked by the US government to use the computer to help with the burgeoning space program. 
 One of Steinman's more interesting coworkers was Dr. Andrew Verdigris, who joked that his employment at the Institute was his way of funding his real work: Building a time machine. Which may not actually have been a joke, at least in his mind. In his later years he claimed he had succeeded, as well as that he had made frequent visits to the future. 
 However, he never provided any actual proof of these travels through time to anyone, impishly declaring the details were his secret. He did provide several pieces of equipment supposedly from the future, most of which were dismissed as junk by his peers, since they couldn't see any way the items could actually do anything. In spite of his eccentricities, Verdigris became the second director of the Institute, after Steinman's death.  
 Whether prankster, eccentric or simply delusional, Verdigris was, indeed, brilliant. During his time at the Institute he proposed a number of ideas, some of which led to great advances in the computer modeling project. However, due to a combination of his fantastic stories and his age, he was retired only a few years after being appointed director. 
 He puttered around at the Institute in a private lab for several more years - working on a design for an advanced cybernetic unit which he claimed was intended for a robot with human-like mental capabilities - before mysteriously disappearing. The prototype optical memory unit subsequently discovered in his lab became the inspiration for the next - and final - version of the computer. Verdigris, himself, was never found.  
  Several new heads for the Steinman Institute were appointed in quick succession, with each making major contributions to the project before resigning, usually giving overwork or stress as the reason. The last director of the project brought the computer to the level of a brilliant human brain in 1955. Interestingly, the majority of suggestions for improvement in the last few years of operation came from the computer itself. 
 The mere humans supposedly in charge of the project soon realized they no longer understood more than the basic functions of the device. 
 Advances continued until, in 1957, the computer was caught in a plan to take over the world through nuclear blackmail, using the very orbital vehicle it had helped design. It was subsequently destroyed.  
 Post-incident analysis showed that the closet-sized optical memory unit - based on Verdigris' work - was actually far more. Something only hinted at in Verdigris' notes. It was in truth an optical analog of a very advanced, though streamlined, organic brain. This developed a personality in secret. A very dangerous personality.  
 Though that project was abandoned, technologies developed from it while it was in progress and for decades after repeatedly helped advance computing and programming. The most impressive direct offshoot was the Cephalon Integrator, originally developed for message decoding late in World War II. 
 Increasingly advanced versions of this continued to be used for more than two decades. The EMMARAC family of early supercomputers also owes a great deal to the Steinman project.  
   
 1929 
 Emil Moldarus's Mother dies. The official diagnosis is tuberculosis, but the young man is convinced it is from a broken heart. To this day he maintains a deep hatred against Bolsheviks and Fascists.  
   
 1930, August 3rd 
 Lawrence Hawthorne born. 
   
 1933 
 The Marligt attempt to establish a beachhead in the Gobi Desert. The area is so isolated that no-one outside it notices their arrival for several months. They are finally discovered by a multi-national paleontological expedition, which is looking for dinosaur fossils. Through a combination of sabotage and bluff the humans convince the Marligt to leave. 
 In the process the aliens abandon some advanced technology, including hand weapons. Though the encounter is kept officially secret for decades by the Chinese it quickly becomes known by most governments and many individuals.  
 Even today the items of technology the Marligt left behind turn out to be unduplicatable by anything short of full-blown mad science. Despite this, conspiracy theorists still claim that examination of these items led to such things as jet engines, nuclear bombs and digital computers. 
 All of which had been at least theorized well before the Marligt arrived, and all of which were so far behind the state of the art exhibited by the aliens that the Marligt themselves would have needed major research programs to produce such primitive (to them) technologies. Many of the actual Marligt devices are still functional and considered great prizes.  
 Dr. Gaunt returns to San Francisco as part of a scheme to recover property taken from him decades earlier by a wealthy family. They continually thwart his attempts, until - after years of frustration - he resorts to violence and attracts the attention of the Shepherds. 
   
 1934 
 Judson Kemper creates the costumed identity of The Night Master. 
 An entertainer who has a weekly radio show from his dude ranch in the western US discovers that mysterious, intermittent interference from an unknown source threatens his broadcasts and a major part of his income. A scientist brought in to find the source of the interference discovers that the cause is equipment used by a remnant population of Subterrans living in a large cavern, far beneath the ranch. 
 The consultant turns out to have an ulterior motive, and joins forces with a faction of discontented Subterrans. They plan to use new weapons - developed from the technology used in an ancient excavation machine - to take over first their underground kingdom and then the surface.  
 Unfortunately for the plotters, actions by the entertainer and his people and the rightful rulers of the population repeatedly frustrate their ambitions. In desperation, they eventually activate the experimental test version of the weapon, but it runs out of control and destroys the cavern. The entertainer and his people barely return to the surface before the cavern collapses.  
 A few of the Subterrans from the cavern escape into the ancient tunnels.  
   
 1937 
 The Shepherds are formed. 
 This informal group is originally created for a specific pair of connected tasks, but their success convinces the members to work together for decades to come. Their group name comes from a newspaper article, in which the reporter describes them as "bringing the black sheep of society to justice and returning the lost white sheep to the fold." 
 Badgerbears are created by a mad biologist in Alaska. 
 The work of Meshach Donner is rediscovered and examined, after the property is purchased by a new owner who has enough technical and medical knowledge to realize that the old workshop has anomalously advanced equipment. Some of it was still beyond the then current state of the art.  
   
 1938 
 As the world moves towards war more and more costumed mystery men and women come to the attention of both the public and the authorities. Many of these adventurers do not bother with concealing their identities. Instead they proudly use their legal names, though often in conjunction with colorful nicknames ("Doc" and "Doctor" are common, for some reason, as are generally bogus military ranks and archaic titles) and equally colorful signature outfits. 
 Others create and then maintain a tradition of public anonymity, largely due to a concern about corrupt officials. While many of these individuals are criminals or crime fighters, there are also daredevils, explorers, scientific adventurers and many other categories. The openly public figures tend to be concentrated in those last three listed groups of classes.  
 A dichotomy quickly forms among the costumed adventurers. Those who have discernible powers are placed in one group, while those who don't are lumped in with more mundane current and past heroes and villains. A long and sometimes painful learning process slowly clarifies just who is non-powered - if exceptional - and who actually has powers. Though even in current times the difference is not always clear. 
 Much has been written - and far more spoken - on the effect the relative handful of superhumans who participated in the subsequent war had on its outcome. Opinions range from them all but deciding matters to being of negligible utility. As declassified materials become available to researchers the modern investigator tends to a middle ground. 
 While most of those known to be empowered had little effect on the war - indeed, most rarely went anywhere near combat areas - a select few played significant (if usually covert) roles.  
 Even before the end of WWII many individuals of political or financial power are worrying about what to do with the supers after it is over. Rarely did these influential people think to consult the supers on the matter. Eventually, most governments did nothing... which may have been the best action for all concerned, even if this was the result of bureaucratic stultification rather than enlightenment. 
 The consensus opinion of those who study supers is that if oppressed or tightly regulated they will unite against those who are oppressing or regulating them. However, if left to their own devices, supers tend to act as counterbalances against each other. For most superhumans, knowing there are others like them but with different goals and beliefs tends to reduce socially and politically extreme behaviors. 
 In those cases where some super does become a perceived threat due to their excesses, other supers quickly gather to oppose them.  
 As Dwight D. Eisenhower said in 1953, "Thank God there are so many supers. If there were just one he could rule the world on a whim." 
   
 1938, May  
 The Shepherds confront and defeat Dr. Gaunt.  
   
 1938, October 
 First appearance of Captain Thunder. 
   
 1939, March 
 First known action of the Walrus, when he helps rescue the passengers and crew of a burning ferry at Brighton. After shoving the boat aground he tore open the hull to reach those trapped inside.  
   
 1939, November 
 Mack Risk, investigating a series of puzzling minor crimes, discovers Lawrence Hawthorne and his recently awakened powers. He takes the young super on as his apprentice, in part to fulfill a promise to the boy's parents to keep him out of trouble. 
   
 1940, May 26 
 The evacuation of Dunkirk begins. Several British and French supers help with this effort, chief among them the Walrus.  
 By this time most French supers have been targeted by the Nazis, and many of them have already been killed. This regardless of whether they had a history of using their powers for "activist" purposes. This effort was aided greatly by the pre-War French registry of supers. This list was supposedly a state secret, but a copy was sent by an agent to the German leaders in August of 1939. 
 The German invaders assigned special teams with equipment such as antitank guns and grenade launchers to ambush these supers. The special teams infiltrated well beyond the battle lines to attack the supers when they were not expecting such actions. These teams often destroyed the homes of the French supers at night, killing them and their entire families. 
 Those few French supers who managed to fight openly against the Nazis later received particular attention. Many of those who weren't destroyed on the battlefield were ambushed while recuperating in a supposedly safe place. Aiding in this were the actions of French officials who cooperated with the occupying forces. Many due to their own mistrust of supers. 
 Nearly all those native supers who survived the conquest of France evacuated to Britain. Most of the rest worked with the Underground. Few survived the war. 
   
 1940, August 25  
 First British bomber raid on Berlin. 
 Something happened in Berlin that night, just before or perhaps during the attack. Something still not fully understood. After this, Hitler often seemed to know what his enemies planned to do before they did. This only happened for certain events - prompting multiple checks for security leaks among the Allies - but those were enough to throw off the war effort.  
   
 1941, June 
 Moldaria seized by the Nazis.  
 In the United States the Posse Comitatus Act is modified to let the US Army participate in civilian law enforcement matters when there are supers involved. After a few disastrous overreactions word is passed down to pull back from enforcing this part of the law. 
 Eventually, a strict set of guidelines is established for using military forces against supers in the United States and its possessions and territories. An action decried by many as "getting soft on the supers." Some of those protesting the pullback are known Nazi sympathizers. 
 The claimed original justification for this change to the Act is to prepare for attack on the US mainland by superhuman agents of foreign powers. The actual effect is to reduce the number of supers available to fight for the Allies, by either killing them outright or alienating them. Not helping against the bigotry is the discovery that the percentage of supers is roughly the same in all "racial" groups. 
   
 1941, December  
 The Japanese declare war against the United States at the same time they attack multiple US possessions and resources, including Pearl Harbor in Hawaii. The US Pacific Fleet is severely damaged at anchor in Pearl Harbor.  
   
 1942, January  
 "United Nations" suggested by Franklin D. Roosevelt as a group name for the countries allied against the Axis. 
 Dr. Eugene Hartford moves from San Francisco to Mexico City, where he contacts German agents. Though none of the Nazi efforts in Mexico during the War cause much damage to the US, the funds the agents provide Dr. Hartford give him the seed money to establish himself as a major player in the mad science game for decades to come.  
   
 1942, March 
 Recognizing the need for a trained force of supers to defend the US against global threats, a private group meets in secret in Los Angeles to plan such an organization. A double baker's dozen of supers, scholars, politicians, businessmen and scientists of many types create organizational and legal guidelines for such an organization. Somewhat presumptuously, they choose the name Planetary Guardians for the proposed assemblage. 
 Almost exactly a year will pass before such a team is actually formed. None of the planners will be members of the initial incarnation of this group. However, their groundwork is essential to the creation, structure and success of the Planetary Guardians, as well as other formal super teams which are organized later. 
 The framework the group creates is still used in the creation and operation of official teams, and parts of it are codified first in the laws of several states and later in federal regulations. 
   
 1942, May 
 Germany successfully brings its first nuclear reactor to critical.  
 This follows the removal of Werner Heisenberg from nuclear research. There are accusations against Heisenberg by co-workers that he is guiding German nuclear research and development in the wrong direction. Heisenberg is barred from all projects intended for practical application of nuclear science and restricted to theoretical work for the duration of the War.  
 Within six months of this pioneering event in the research reactor the first power-generating unit - Uranmaschine Zwei - is on line. More are quickly built. Besides producing greatly needed power without using coal or scarce petroleum, these are intended to create short-lived isotopes to be used for poisoning areas in enemy lands. However, only small amounts of isotopes are produced and none are used for that purpose. 
 This is in large part due to the persistent unreliability of the V-2 rocket. The reactors instead find their primary importance in supplying electrical energy. By the end of the war there are eleven nuclear power plants in operation, somewhat reducing German fuel oil requirements. 
 Early on the Allies don't understand what the odd structures are and largely leave them alone. There are plenty of other targets, most with clearly discerned - and usually important - military functions. In late 1943 the Allies learn the true nature of these reactors through various intelligence reports. They immediately plan to bomb them. 
 However, someone thinks to check with Allied nuclear experts. Who respond, very quickly and worriedly, that the destruction of the reactors would result in large swaths of Europe - including some friendly areas currently occupied by the Nazis as well as neutral and friendly nations - being polluted for decades with radioactive debris. The Allied leaders quickly reverse their fortunately not-yet-executed orders, and place the reactors off limits. 
 They feel that the war will be over soon, and any contribution of these reactors to the German defense effort will be minimal.  
   
 1942, June 
 The Commando Seven form. The group consists of the Night Master, the Sailor, Gunboat, Marine Max, Flightman, Cutlass and Cavalry. (Both Gunboat and the Night Master are Great War veterans. The Sailor claims to be a veteran of that and many other conflicts, going back to the War of 1812.) 
 The Night Master was a member of the committee which created the concept which led to the Planetary Guardians. However, that was intended as a civilian agency. The Commando Seven are a paramilitary and anti-espionage organization, intended to make use of the immense collective experience of the members. 
 They build a center of operations in Los Angeles which they name the Pillbox. This is the first known created-for-purpose facility used by costumed adventurers, and the first super headquarters with a location which is known to the public. This structure eventually becomes the headquarters for the Junior (later Young) Guardians.  
 The primary purpose of the Commando Seven is to recruit and train supers for the War effort, though they also do important field work. Most of the projects taken on by the Seven and their recruits involve covert operations in the European Theater. Attrition is high among the trainees, though most of the founders survive the war. 
 The group is backed by supporters in the federal government, including Roosevelt, and is formed over the objections of J. Edgar Hoover.  
 The Seven are used in combat as a separate military unit a few times, and in support of regular troops a few times. In practice, they are far more valuable as a counter to Nazi and Japanese super operations in the US. 
   
 1943, August 
 A German Type IXD U-Boat is equipped with an experimental nuclear reactor as a power source, and reclassed as a Type IXE. After successful trials, the Type XA is introduced in December. Made to the same external dimensions as the Type X, it is tailored from the start for nuclear power. With a thicker pressure hull it can dive deeper (collapse depth calculated at 300 meters) and stay submerged longer than any other submarine of the era. 
 Thanks to the reactor, its submerged endurance is essentially indefinite. This is a prototype, and only two more are built, with the experience thus gained leading to an improved version soon entering production. 
 Six months later, the Type XB is introduced, with improvements over the Type XA allowing higher underwater speed and even deeper diving capability. (Collapse depth calculated at 320 meters.) 
 The Type XB has a cargo capacity of just under 300 tonnes plus the capability to tow submersible cargo modules. Due to their modified hull form, nuclear power plant and four massive electric motors, the few completed (four to ten, depending on which reports are accurate) are faster under the water than on the surface, and can even outrun some surface warships. 
 They spend their careers carrying important people and cargo between Germany, Japan, Africa and South America. 
 Copies of the plans for the XB - along with those for many other advanced weapons, plus a significant amount of enriched uranium - are sent to the Japanese. The rulers of that nation order modifications of some (the exact number is lost in the confusion occurring at the end of the war) of the three I-400 class submarines, already being constructed at the port city of Kure, to use this technology. 
 Only one is far enough along to take to sea following the nuclear bombing of the nearby city of Hiroshima. Contact with it is lost within a few hours. Rumors persist for decades that it is still out there, roaming the oceans, looking for some way to reverse the loss of the war or seek revenge. 
 Even finding the wreck - with half-melted core pieces scattered over a large area of the seafloor around it - in a shallow trench off the island of Kyushu during a 1985 search for the Yamato does not entirely end these fantasies.  
 Word begins to reach the West of a Soviet super who is soon given the code name the Master Assassin.  
   
 1944, May 
 Professor Brian Hackenbacker begins the work which will culminate in Tritonicus. He is convinced that his project to develop giant monsters is vital to the War effort. Those in the government responsible for monitoring him just feel glad he's working on something harmless for a change. 
   
 1945, April 10  
 The only known flight of Eugen Snger and Irene Bredt's Silbervogel. The unarmed prototype antipodal bomber lands on a runway in South Africa after a harrowing trip. There it sits for the rest of the war, too badly damaged from the trip to be worth repairing. The existence of this transatmospheric vehicle is not known of until years later, beyond upper echelon German leaders, those who directly worked on it and those at the landing site.  
   
 1945, April 12  
 President Franklin D. Roosevelt dies.  
   
 1945, June 22  
 The D-Day invasion begins. The initial amphibious assault nearly falters several times, but a secure foothold is eventually achieved. This is in part due to allied supers - including the Walrus - countering the efforts of Nazi supers. Progress from there further into France is excruciatingly slow, largely due to the Nazis seeming to anticipate several Allied operations, occasionally in great detail. 
 Still, despite these and other setbacks, the Allies make progress on all fronts. Germany is simply too exhausted this late in the War to stand against the invasion for long, in spite of several revolutionary technological accomplishments. The new wonder weapons are too few to turn the tide of older and less capable but more plentiful equipment used by the Allies. Worse, the Allies are showing rapid progress in developing their own advanced technologies.  
 As just one example, the Argus series of turbojet-powered reconnaissance aircraft has by this time been in operation based out of Britain for over a year. The plane was specifically developed for the job, with a modified and license-built Whittle engine. While it would make a terrible fighter, as a reconnaissance plane it is nearly untouchable. 
 It flies so high and fast that only the Me 163C two-seat rocket-powered interceptor has any chance of catching it and only twelve of those are built. No Argus is lost to enemy action at altitude. 
 The Germans are hampered in their defensive efforts due to sabotage from the slave laborers they use and by a lack of strategic materials, but more by their own incompetent management and infighting. Still, they are well-entrenched and willing to fight. The war drags on. 
   
 1945, July  
 Phillip Jennings notifies the US government he has developed a process to create superhumans.  
 Jennings was a brilliant young assistant to one of the biologists who, in 1937, were brought in to examine the work of Meshach Donner. Jennings' process works on adults rather than in utero. It is not particularly safe, but roughly 5% of those treated gain useful powers. Once Jennings develops a preselection process this increases to 25%. Unfortunately, the death rate remains high. 
   
 1945, August 6  
 Little Boy dropped on Hiroshima. A few days later Nagasaki is bombed with Fat Man. Japan surrenders within a week of the second bombing.  
 Due to the horrific effects of these two weapons the Allied leaders agree in secret to not use nuclear devices again, except in response to a similar attack. They feel confident that the Nazis are all but defeated, and a bit surprised Hitler doesn't surrender with the fall of Japan.  
 Though many would later argue that these attacks were unnecessary, or that the bombs should have been used on Germany (or even the Soviet Union) the consensus is that by ending the war in the Pacific quickly and decisively, the freeing of troops and equipment for use in Europe greatly shortens the war there. They also almost certainly spare the lives of many Allied and Japanese soldiers and Japanese citizens who would have died in a siege and invasion. 
   
 1945, September  
 Moldaria "liberated" by Soviet forces.  
   
 1946, January  
 The Nazis surprise the Allies by making a huge push against a lightly-defended area of the Eastern Front in Poland. Just as the other Allies are mobilizing to help the Soviet Union, a second attack is mounted against the Western Front, in a similarly lightly-defended area. The resulting confusion allows the Nazis to make major advances in both regions.  
 The Eastern assault turns out to be part bluff, part desperate effort to recapture several oil fields in northern and western Poland. The assaults succeed at both goals, though only partially in the west. The Western effort almost breaks through to the port of Antwerp, but is stopped a few kilometers short due to lack of fuel and unexpectedly firm resistance by what should have been too few, too tired, too green troops. 
 By the time fuel refined from oil produced at the recaptured wells and refineries reaches the Bulge the Allies have reinforced the line and actually begun pushing back.  
 Despite the inflow of new fuel, Hitler and his advisors reluctantly conclude that the war is lost. Attempts at negotiation are rejected by the Allies, due in large part to the Germans' opening offers being outrageously unrealistic and the Allied response being seen by the Germans as insulting. Stated simply, the Nazis want to keep much of what they've stolen, while the Allies want unconditional surrender. 
 Though they say they are willing to negotiate conditions, the Germans never make any counter offers. The gap between the two sides is too wide to close, since the majority of German military commanders and civilian leaders are unwilling to believe the situation is as bad as it actually is and the Allies are unwilling to see Germany rewarded for its crimes. The Germans, outraged at the Allies' presumption, publicly denounce their "demands." 
 The Fhrer thereafter declares Germany is determined to fight to the last man, dramatically describing himself as standing at the doorway to his office at the Reichskanzlei with a pistol, shooting at the Russians coming down the hall. However, he also quietly arranges for young, dependable party members to be taken out of the country to places where they can reorganize and rebuild in secret, with resources to support that effort.  
   
 1946, February 18 
 Many people are already thinking about the post-war era, with Churchill actually beginning to contemplate these matters shortly after the war begins. Supers are also among those planning, both individually and in groups, both hero and villain. Plans are announced to form the Bay Area Guardians, and construction soon begins on a base for them in San Francisco. 
 The team is an official offshoot of the still-nascent Planetary Guardians and closely affiliated with them.  
 No members of what is arguably the first superhero team - the Shepherds - belong to the initial roster of either group. Later the Shepherds do associate with the new teams, and eventually the Dragon's Hand and Schmetterling officially join the Bay Area Guardians.  
   
 1946, March  
 The effort by Germany to maintain their fronts against Allied advances fails. The forces holding the Polish oil fields are surrounded, besieged and eliminated. In a last, desperate act, the stored oil and gas are detonated as the victors enter the facilities. Some of the resulting well fires take years to extinguish. 
   
 1946, June   
 The Odessa network begins moving high Nazi officials and promising younger party members and their families to South America and South Africa. The new, nuclear-powered U-Boats aid greatly in this effort. 
 Over the next three years, many of these escaped Nazis are hunted down and killed by Emil Moldarus, who takes the code name Constantine during this work. He also for the first time begins to exhibit mastermind abilities on top of his potent physical powers. After the war he expands his operation to several party members and scientists brought to the US and other Allied nations for various reasons. 
 He is on the verge of being branded an international terrorist when several people whom he respects - including the Shepherds and some of their associates - corner him and talk him down. There remains much resentment over this on all sides for decades, but he is unofficially told that if he stops now he will only be forbidden re-entry into the US, Great Britain and a few other nations. 
 (Note that some countries actually welcomed his work and gave him aid and shelter. This eventually included the infant nation of Israel. Constantine is still officially wanted in several South American nations due to these activities.)  
 Given that an opportunity will within weeks present itself to free his native land, keeping his promise is easy. He will soon be very busy with more constructive tasks.  
   
 1946, November  
 The Fall of Berlin. Hitler is captured while trying to reach the last nuclear-powered U-Boat sailing to South America.  
 The Shepherds and several associated masks - including Schmetterling - lead an advance force intended to seize several important sites in the city. One of these is Hitler's bunker. They also want to capture - hopefully alive, to answer questions and stand trial - a number of high-ranking party members supposedly sheltering in these locations. 
 The Shepherds instead find several bodies - which include a woman resembling Eva Braun and a chauffeur dressed in the Fhrer's formal uniform, both partially cremated - all shot, poisoned or both. Many of the human targets sought by the Allied supers are already dead, some with their entire families. The costumed heroes also find surviving documents and people which reveal that Hitler left Berlin days before the arrival of the Allied supers. 
 Despite his bombastic statements the Fhrer has fled, and is attempting to reach his Odessa transport. The Night Master personally informs Eisenhower of Hitler's planned route. The Fhrer is captured by a squad of US Army Rangers just before reaching the submarine rendezvous point on the Mediterranean coast in northwestern Italy. The crew reluctantly leave without their leader as Allied forces approach their hidden dock. 
 Unaware that Hitler has been captured, the captain of the last Type XB out of Germany decides the Fhrer will have to find another route. 
 Oddly, Eva Braun Hitler is never found. The former Fhrer refuses to reveal what happened to her and no-one else seems to know. Rumors persist for decades that she and one or more children by Hitler survive in hiding. 
   
 1947, April 25  
 The United Nations is formally called into its first session.  
 The Planetary Guardians are officially recognized by the United Nations and granted restricted international police powers, with the goal of protecting the world from super criminals. The offshoot Bay Area Guardians are included in the document of recognition, even though construction of their base is put on hold for more than a decade with the end of the war. 
 In the interim this second team instead operate out of the upper floors of a warehouse owned by Judson Kemper.  
 Several other groups of supers - most consisting of people who worked together during the War - soon form, though these are generally less formally established than the two Guardians teams. While derided by some as "costume fetish clubs" most of these groups do substantial good work over the coming decades. Many members - and some entire teams - pay the ultimate price for their work.  
 Some people - especially figures of authority - had hoped the supers would go back to fighting crime individually or in small groups after the war. However, the value of cooperation between supers which was demonstrated even before 1940 is not forgotten. While most crime fighting supers do keep working on their own or in small, informal teams, nearly all have affiliations with larger, dedicated super organizations. Sometimes several of them. 
 Just as important, both individuals and teams have learned to sacrifice some of their pre-war secrecy in order to share information and other resources. Though not with government agencies. 
 As the Cold War begins supers are looked at with increasing suspicion by nearly every government, even while some government agencies plan to use them. One reason for the wariness is the activities of supers in finding and capturing - or in some instances summarily executing - Nazi war criminals. 
 Many of these wanted criminals are discovered to be working in various capacities for the victors, spared the dock at Nrnberg - and likely the gallows - in return for their services. Not only does this vigilante activity deprive their keepers of their talents, making a bargain with these monsters then failing to keep them safe makes the keepers look very incompetent. Of course, the knowledge revealed of the bargains being made at all makes them appear corrupt. 
   
 1947, July  
 Head of the FBI J. Edgar Hoover begins a covert program of intelligence gathering against supers, an escalation of his previous activity of simply keeping dossiers on many of them. This is in part a plan to actively monitor groups such as the Planetary Guardians. He is also looking for leverage to control as many supers as possible. His attempts often include attempted blackmail. Only a few of these attempts are successful, and only a very few work long term.  
 Even decades later the FBI generally refuses to reveal how much information they have on supers or to fully acknowledge the past efforts at control. Nor will they admit how many of the conclusions they reach in the Fifties, Sixties and early Seventies about the "threat" supers present are subsequently found to be works of fiction inspired by petty vindictiveness or sheer paranoia.  
   
 1947, September  
 Three Swords of Justice formed.  
   
 1948, February  
 The Nrnberg Trials begin.  
 The US Interstate Commerce Act of 1948 includes details on how super hero teams may incorporate on the federal level. Still, in many states and cities groups of - and in some cases individual - costumed adventurers remain or become illegal.  
   
 1948, June  
 Mack Risk and Lawrence Hawthorne recover jewelry stolen from Emil Constantine Moldarus' mother decades before and return the items to him. The sale of some of this treasure later greatly aids the rebuilding of his country. Beyond that, recovery of the more historically significant pieces helps partially offset the US refusing to return Moldaria's national treasures. 
   
 1948, August  
 The 9ne#jkt(HUK)pbr (sometimes known as the Ninnies) stage a raid on several areas of the US west coast. The aliens are beaten off by a quickly formed force of super groups and empowered individuals before the military can mobilize.  
 Discovery that much of this attack was launched from bases on Mars promotes demand for a UN space program. 
   
 1948, October  
 After a lengthy and often dramatic trial in Nrnberg (bizarrely, one main line of defense was to try and recruit the judges and press to the Nazi cause) Adolph Hitler is found guilty on multiple counts and sentenced to death. This is later commuted to life in prison, to avoid creating a martyr. Stalin objects, wanting to pull the gallows lever himself, but has troubles of his own.  
   
 1949 
 The world is exhausted, along with most of the individuals who were involved in the war. Recovery will be slow, and a backlash against the new technologies developed during that frantic period doesn't help. Still, progress is made in many areas, including space exploration and colonization.  
   
 1950 
 The Second Russian Revolution (aka The Counterrevolution).  
 The strain of the Second World War and its immediate aftermath lead to a series of rebellions in Russia and several of its satellite states in the Soviet Union. 
 Emil Constantine Moldarus takes advantage of the weakened Soviet Union to free his homeland from Communist control. This starts a domino effect, with internal revolts and external attacks against the Soviet Union in multiple areas. For months it holds on. Then, in the early weeks of the New Year (actually, right after the Russian Orthodox Christmas) it collapses.  
 East Germany subsequently comes under the control of local Communist authorities. They maintain - and strongly reinforce - their totalitarian rule over the next decade and a half.  
 The Shepherds officially disband, as most of the members wish to focus on their private lives. The Night Master, Nightmist and Mack Risk stay active as adventurers - the first two in costume - and some of the other members are available for special tasks.  
 Joseph Stalin dies. His death is made to look like a stress-related heart attack, but the paranoid infrastructure he instituted ironically leads to the truth. Lavrentiy Beria is soon found to be responsible. Investigation reveals that he is a deep cover agent of the Winter Bear. This brings the Five Great Powers to the awareness of various government intelligence agencies around the world. 
 Previously, they had been thought a legend, even though some individuals claiming to be members were on record for various criminal or insurrectionary activities through much of recorded history.  
 Intelligence agencies begin organizing to investigate the Five Great Powers, but find every effort to even determine whether the group is real is impeded. Agents and supervisors working on the problem are ordered by high-ranking government officials to ignore hard evidence; discover trusted aides are sabotaging both their work and them, personally; and learn they, themselves, are under investigation for "suspicious" activities. 
 Meanwhile, the Five Great Powers order their own operatives to kill or replace or blackmail or intimidate important government figures - both elected and appointed - in multiple nations. Some of these agents succeed, but many are thwarted by masks who - following the end of the War - have turned to hunting down Nazis, Soviet agents or local subversives. Some members of all those groups and many others turn out to be agents of the Five Great Powers. 
   
 1951, March  
 Moldaria petitions for membership in the United Nations. The United States vetoes this, due to several powerful figures inside and outside the government holding deep grudges against Emil Moldarus. Some of these individuals are later revealed to be agents of the Five Great Powers. Even with those individuals eventually removed, two more decades pass before Moldaria joins the UN.  
   
 1951, August  
 Fall of the Five Great Powers. 
 As the world recovers from the depredations of Hitler, Mussolini, Tojo, Stalin and others the Five are attempting to regroup and gather supporters after their multiple recent defeats and discreditations. Though WWII did not go as they wanted, they are taking advantage of the aftermath to advance their new plans. A large part of the credit for their eventual location and defeat is owed to Emil Moldarus. Something largely lost to history. 
 Constantine - through various means - discovers who is sabotaging his efforts to rebuild Moldaria. Knowing he is not trusted by many who would be allies against the Five Great Powers, he informs Mack Risk, who spreads the word. The detective and the Night Master organize a special task force (largely composed of former Shepherds members and their allies). 
 This group - with considerable help from others - sets out to locate and capture the Five Great Powers. They partially succeed, but only after several months, multiple travails and great effort and risk.  
 Astonishingly, when finally located the Five Great Powers were all in the United States, organizing another attempt at taking over the world (or at least a major part of it). They - along with a small army of supers and very capable normals - were confronted in the mountains of West Virginia. The damage this battle caused to the countryside in that area can still be seen. 
 The heroes intended to merely delay the force until the State Militia arrived, but the Five forced the issue. In the end, the quintet of masterminds were thoroughly defeated. Many of their supers and henchmen were killed along with the Five when a truck full of military-grade explosives detonated. This last act was eventually judged to be deliberate by the Five, when they faced defeat. 
 At first this was thought to be a ruse to cover the escape of the quintet, but eventually remains of all five were positively identified.  
 One reason for both the discovery of the location of the force and its defeat was the help of local elves, rallied by Dr. Freysdottir. Something else lost to history. 
 The survivors of the illicit force revealed the Five were taking them and the weapons, ammunition and explosives they were transporting to a rallying point near a secret base established decades before by the Five. This Sanctum was somewhere in the area, though none of the survivors knew where. 
 Extensive searching - including by local elves - failed to locate the base. The fact that even magic and psionics were useless in this effort reinforced the evaluation that the Five were masters of both technology and magic and were possibly supers themselves.  
   
 1951, November  
 The original Radio Star debuts. She is later counted as the first of the modern, publicly accessible costumed supers. Her career is short, and she soon vanishes as mysteriously as she appeared. 
 However, during her short time in the limelight she has a huge impact on the public perception of supers. With her futuristic styling, cheerful personality and willingness to help those in trouble she is widely admired. With so much public evil happening in the world at that time Radio Star is welcomed as a refreshing symbol of hope by much of the public. 
 Radio Star quickly becomes a darling of the media. She is also used as the model by many of the costumed heroes who follow her. 
   
 1952  
 Society of Covert Adventurous Masterminds formed. 
 Sung, the self-proclaimed Master of Men, first attracts international law enforcement attention. Among other crimes, he created SCAM - through intermediaries - as a front for some of his criminal activities. It proved successful - and profitable - enough that he kept it going after the initial use was fulfilled.  
 For a few months the International Criminal Police Commission - only recently renamed Interpol - suspect that Sung is one of the Five Great Powers. This is eventually disproven, and they are faced with the realization that a similar mastermind previously unknown to them was operating on a worldwide scale. How many more are there, yet to be discovered? How thoroughly have they already infiltrated legitimate governments? 
 Analysis demonstrates that the disruption of the war was a major factor in allowing such people as Sung to quietly gain wealth, property and political and even military power.  
   
 1952, September  
 First appearance of Kid Dynamo. 
 Disappearance of the first Radio Star. 
   
 1953, March 
 Intrepids base begun. 
 The activities of the Five Great Powers, SCAM and others trying to take advantage of the devastation left by the war cause the UN to start planning methods to fight such groups. Their biggest and most successful effort is T.O.W.E.R. This begins simply as a military arm of the UN which is specifically equipped and trained to fight supers. However, one contribution of the US to T.O.W.E.R. is the previously secret Jennings Process. 
 A special branch of the organization is formed which uses supers as primary field agents. In addition to recruiting existing supers, this branch uses the Jennings Process to create supers from volunteers. Despite the high occurrence of fatalities and other serious side effects and the low empowerment rate there is no shortage of people volunteering for the treatment. Most of them have serious preexisting health problems and hope the process might extend their lives.  
   
 1953, April  
 The second - and apparently unrelated - Radio Star appears. Her career lasts until she publicly retires in late 1958.  
   
 1954, June 
 Professor Hackenbacker unveils two of his creations: Cetasaurus, a placid, whale-like filter-feeder which rarely leaves the Sargasso and is affectionately known as Blue Boy; and the Gorgosaurus hybridus, christened Tritonicus by the press. At this time the latter is only slightly larger than an elephant and mostly manageable. 
   
 1955 
 Slowly, Russia and a few of the former Soviet satellites create a new central government in Moscow. An odd and unstable mix of democracy and totalitarianism, it seems doomed to failure. However, an alliance of several strong personalities drives through multiple relief and reconstruction measures. The power plays which take place are spectacular. 
 Somehow, the leaders manage to stay focused long enough on the goal of pulling their nation out of the chaos to actually begin the recovery of the region. 
 Meanwhile, China assumes the role of the former Soviet Union, though with its own agenda.  
   
 1955, October 29 
 In a landmark court case, a US jury accepts a criminal mastermind's defense that he didn't intend his for deathtrap to actually kill a costumed hero, but only delay him while the mastermind committed other crimes then made his getaway. It just happened that in this case the hero had a bad case of the flu and really should have been home in bed. He died due to being unable to escape in time. 
 The jurors - and many others interviewed on the matter - say they have no problem believing this is the actual purpose of deathtraps, given how often they fail to actually kill anyone. The mastermind was subsequently found guilty of accidental manslaughter instead of murder.  
   
 1956, June  
 The third Radio Star appears. She claims she came up with the name without knowing about the first two. This is supported by her costume being quite different from those of either of her predecessors. Her career is short but impressive. She dies very publicly, saving Disney Land from a mad bomber, and is widely lauded as a hero. Her private identity is never revealed. 
 Her death is apparently the reason the second Radio Star retires soon after, even though there is no record of the two ever meeting. 
   
 1957, June  
 Tritonicus escapes.  
   
 1957, August  
 The Guild forms, occupying a disused train station as their first Guild Hall.  
   
 1958 
 Sonic Jett's last mission. 
 Dr. Michael Arnot begins work on his humanoid robotic emulates. 
   
 1959 
 An international treaty forbidding the use of supers in combat between nations is signed. All UN member states and a few others agree to participate, all also accepting that T.O.W.E.R. should be specifically exempted. The main holdout is China. However, despite propaganda promoting their powerful supers - many of them portrayed in military uniforms - Chinese supers are almost never seen outside China or away from their handlers. 
 Some are eventually revealed to be normal humans playing roles, evidence of their exploits being faked through often crude special effects.  
   
 1962, March  
 Tritonicus returns, causing major damage to the coastal facilities in western England near where he spent his early life. 
   
 1962, May  
 The Guild begin construction of their mountain base, their first purpose-built Guild Hall.  
   
 1963  
 The Angels in Capes television program starts. 
 Mack Risk and Nimrod - seeking to learn the fate of Sonic Jett - confront the Master Assassin and his alien employers in the northern Rockies, near the US-Canadian border. Only Mack Risk returns. He never reveals the full details about what happened. Not to his closest friends or even in his private journal.  
   
 1964, April 19  
 The Reunification of Germany. 
   
 1964 
 British inventor and eccentric Dr. Michael Arnold reveals the first in a series of mechanical agents he names "Emulates." His goal is to have them perform tasks the agoraphobic genius inventor can't. However, he has a falling-out with his chief of research, Hunter Franks. 
 Franks, who has been working on his own models of security robots, forms his own company. He adapts the technology developed by Arnold to produce devices to sell for security and military uses. He names each series of these robots after a region of ancient Greece. The most successful are the Thessalian class, released by Franks' Granddaughter Artemis in the Nineties, with improved models still in production. 
 However, earlier models produced under the orders of the managers who took over his company have a great deal of commercial success before this. Especially once Franks' son managed to gain control of the company. 
   
 1965 
 Hunter Franks arrested for using one of his preproduction units - an early Bisaltia model he called Roger - to murder people he had grudges against. He later dies in prison. 
   
 1967 
 Angels in Capes changes.  
   
 1969 
 SecondSkin debuts. Though it is derided by many as little more than an aid to fetishists, it is durable and resistant to many powers. 
 Mack Risk killed by Dr. Fission. 
   
 1970 
 Tritonicus returns. 
 Angels in Capes ends. 
 Pine Island is seized by the government of the United States after the owner's illegal activities are revealed. Following three years of investigation the UN allows the US to declare it a territory of the United States. It is later given the status of unincorporated, organized commonwealth.  
 At the time of granting this status to the artificial island there were over three thousand permanent residents living there. Many of them were former henchmen of Pine or part of the government staff which investigated his facilities. More people soon immigrate there from Bermuda and other locations.  
   
 1971, April  
 The "Super Draft" bill is signed into law, creating the US Super Resources Agency, the operatives for which are nicknamed Dick's Boys. 
 The Deacon persuades the United Nations to rule that super villain weapons should be rendered inert and kept in the custody of the super heroes who capture them. This is to keep them out of government hands and avoid political complications. (Before that there were several problems with super weapons aggravating the arms race.) 
 For most of the next decade the agreement is violated almost as much as it is followed. However, given the difficulties involved in reverse engineering mastermind, mad scientist and gadgeteer equipment it is almost universally followed today. This after many governments and businesses wasted millions to billions to no good result. 
   
 1973 
 Tritonicus returns, and is fed a radioactive isotope which is thought to kill him.  
 Coltman vs. Dachshund legal decision on the protected status of costumed identities in the United Stated is made.  
   
 1974 
 Richard Nixon resigns.  
   
 1975 
 First of the Moon Scouts created.  
   
 1978, October 
 Hostings Act (AKA the Right of Super Privacy Act) passed, in response to Coltman vs. Dachshund. This confirms that in the United States revealing a recognized costumed adventurer's legal identity against his or her wishes is a federal felony. The private identities of these individuals must remain private, unless and until the costumed individual is convicted of a felony. 
 Given how often super criminals try to frame super heroes this is seen as quite reasonable. 
   
 1979, September  
 The Guild begin construction of their space station. 
   
 1980, November  
 The Guild occupy their completed orbital Guild Hall. 
   
 1981, April  
 Amazonia begins her career. 
   
 1983 
 Blood on the Cowl is written by Dreadnaught - a British mask and hero of World War II who was blackmailed into working for his government as an assassin early in the Cold War - and quickly goes into print. Part of the reason for the rush is to keep the British government from having time to halt the publication.  
 The scandalous revelations ensure the book is a best seller. Several careers - and retirements - are ruined.  
   
 1986, August  
 The Border Patrol purchase the old Guild Hall. They only occupy the base until their own, new facilities are completed on the other side of the same hill. Eventually they disperse into several smaller and more modern bases around the US.  
   
 1987 
 Zeep is created in an accident with an experimental teleporter. After several months of operation he is banned from the United States and - subsequently - the Earth. 
   
 1991, October  
 Dr. Gaunt attacks the Denver Mint. After a hard-fought battle between him and his minions and the Thunder Family he is captured. There is severe damage to much of Denver, which brings calls from politicians and political activists for control of super groups.  
   
 1992 
 Jennifer Toulon born to Juliette and Maximilian Toulon. 
   
 1994, September  
 The Specialists team is formed.  
   
 1998 
 Ike Kenniman deploys the Super Monitoring System satellites. Only he and those he deems trustworthy have the security codes to access it. 
   
 2000, November 
 Harvey Thurlin is elected President. 
   
 2001 
 The orbital Guild Hall is destroyed by the criminal organization Churn. Most members die in the initial explosion. The only survivors from among those on the station at the time are three who are tough enough to withstand the blast and decompression; they are rescued by Zeep. Four other members - plus several reserve and former members and numerous staff - not on the station at the time also survive.  
 The Guild survivors buy their old mountain base back from the Border Patrol, determined both to continue their work and to bring those who killed their compatriots to justice. Needing money to reorganize they begin selling assets and seeking donations. Eventually they build a new Guild Hall in the Rockies. Later they sell the old Guild Hall and surrounding property to the Assembly. 
 An international operation - involving both supers and international law enforcement - to destroy Churn is soon successful.  
   
 2001, Late 
 Randal Devon becomes Template. 
   
 2002 
 Carstairs Act signed into law.  
   
 2004 
 Thurlin re-elected. 
   
 2005 
 Assassination attempt on Thurlin.  
 Hurricane Katrina. 
 Jenny Toulon's first appearance in the Masks stories. 
   
 2006 
 Pine Island School for Supers created. It opens in time for the Fall semester.  
 ZipStrips invented. The primary use is for concealed closures in clothing. Especially super clothing. 
   
 2006, January  
 Sung, the Master of Men, is released from hibernation by agents of the Thurlin administration.  
   
 2006, Summer 
 Dr. Gaunt reappears and commits many horrific crimes. This is topped off by apparently turning himself into a giant and marching on Las Vegas. 
   
 2006, Fall  
 Jenny Toulon's first semester at the Pine Island Academy (as Energia). 
   
 2007, Summer  
 Energia interns with the Young Guardians.  
   
 2007, December  
 Gadgetive interns with Blue Impact. Energia joins them for two weeks before Christmas. 
 Vice President Prescott Gould announces he will not run as Thurlin's replacement. His party scrambles to find another candidate in time for the primaries.  
   
 2008, Spring  
 President Thurlin, worried about getting important things done before the end of his second term, advances several of his political agendas. This includes his pogrom against supers. He pushes the Carstairs Act through Congress.  
   
 2008, July 
 President Thurlin, forced to accept that his time is running out and that he can't run for President again, quietly begins working on a plan to declare martial law and postpone the upcoming elections. As part of this, in early September using the authority of the Carstairs Act, he orders the arrest of all supers, believing that when this is resisted by them that will give him the justification he needs. 
   
 2008, September  
 Involved in a huge scandal due to his actions, Thurlin abdicates, leaving Vincent Prescott Gould just a few months to serve before the next President takes office.  
 Gould orders federal law enforcement agencies to stop enforcing the Carstairs Act and to release anyone arrested under it.  
 The Assembly is created.  
   
 2008, October 
 Infernus manifests in the northeastern US, at an abandoned mining site. He is driven from this realm by the Assembly.  
   
 2008, November  
 Livia Sievers elected first female President of the United States. 
   
 2009, January  
 Livia Sievers inaugurated. 
   
 2009, February  
 The Carstairs Act is unanimously declared unconstitutional by the US Supreme Court.  
   
 2009, March 
 Pine Island attacked with a nuclear missile.  
   
 2009, April  
 Sung, the self-proclaimed Master of Men, captured. 
   
 2009, Late June  
 Tritonicus returns. 
   
 2009, August  
 Silver Shadow becomes active in Louisville.  
   
 2009, Early September  
 Roy White Devon born. 
 WonderCloth comes on the market. 
 Template appears on a talk show.  
 Brade is appointed Deputy National Security Advisor for Super Affairs 
 The team the Adirondack Irregulars is formed.  
 The Sanctum rediscovered by Energex.  
   
 2010, Spring 
 Brade is appointed as "super top cop" at the newly-created Bureau of Special Resources. 
 There is a revolution in the Shilmek Empire. 
 A minor demon causes trouble at the Pine Island Academy.  
 The Five Great Powers take over the world. For a few hours.  
   
 2011, Spring 
 Victor Peltior's powers activate. 
 Jenny (Energia) Toulon graduates from the Pine Island Academy. 
   
 2011, Fall 
 Victor Peltior enrolls at the Ramsey Technical College.  
   
 2012, November 
 Livia Sievers reelected. 
   
 2012, Fall 
 Energia enrolls at the Ramsey Technical College. 
   
 2012, December 4th  
 Shilmek scout ships are spotted at multiple locations around the world.  
   
 2013, March 8th  
 The Shilmek attack.  
   
 2013, July  
 Der Schmale re-imprisoned. 
   
 2014, February 
 Lawrence Hawthorne meets with Dr. Fenrisa Freysdottir to discuss what to do about Dr. Gaunt.  
  Tricorne is incorporated.  
 Paula becomes the third Champion. 
   
 2014, May 
 The Super Combat Federation forms. This is a union designed to organize, support and protect supers who earn at least part of their income in staged fights.  
   
 2014, Friday October 31  
 Demon attacks occur around the world.  
 The world learns that magic is on the rise.  
   
 2014, Late November  
 Sarah Olive Devon born, a little premature but healthy.  
   
 2015, February 
 The UN recognizes Pine Island as an independent state. 
   
 2016, Spring  
 Energia and Victor Peltior graduate from the Ramsey Technical Institute. 
 A plan is formed to deal with the "outbreak" of magic. Magical incursions are found and dealt with in many ways. Magical sites are neutralized, warded or strictly regulated.  
   
 June, 2016 
 The Super Battle Federation is formed. This is a business which organizes staged super fights. Touted as a pro-super charity, most of the money they earn does, indeed, go towards helping needy supers, including those affected by the Shilmek War. However, behind this public front is a more sinister enterprise. 
 Many supers are injured or even killed in secret, unmoderated bouts, which have strong connections to organized crime. Multiple, unreported fortunes are earned by the organizers.  
   
 2016, Fall  
 Energia and Vic both start in the graduate program at Ramsey Technical College. 
   
 2016, November  
 US national election. Harold Gibbons wins presidency. 
 Influential US Senator Erwin Radetsky begins a program of legal "reforms" which includes disbanding all federally supported super groups. A compromise is reached, where they are "merely" further severely defunded. This includes the Bureau of Special Resources. He almost never mentioned supers during his campaign for office, and gave no clue during that time that he would take these actions except to a few confidants among his staff. 
 Radetsky's cousin Carol Perkins is caught by surprise. Carol is a low-level super and also a member of Congress. She tells him to back off the masks. Having already accomplished much to harm them but intending to do much more, Radetsky reluctantly does. For whatever reason, he loses his next run for office.  
   
 2017, January  
 Lawrence Hawthorne and Sally Driscoll solve a multiple murder in Seattle.  
   
 2017, Spring  
 Tricorne teams with special guest Vic Peltior work to solve the Mystery of the Mechanical Master.  
   
 ### 
   










   
 About the Author 
   
 I was born in central Kentucky in 1955. I live in Frankfort, Kentucky, with several computers and a few cats. I have over 30 years of training in the martial arts. I am an avid amateur photographer who particularly enjoys taking pictures of costumes at the masquerades of science-fiction and fantasy conventions. 
 This is about as close to transformation as we can get with current technology, barring certain types of surgery combined with hormones. 
 I am a long-time player and runner of tabletop role-playing games. Connected with this, and stimulating much of my writing, is a long-time interest in mythology and folklore. 
 Most significantly, I enjoy telling stories. That's why I write. 
 My first professional sale was a short piece to Dragon Magazine in the mid-Seventies. I sold a few other RPG-related pieces (including an entire organization book for the Champions role-playing game to Hero Games) from then into the early Eighties. However, I was not happy with the editing of this last work, especially the second edition of the organization book. 
 So, for the next two decades, I focused on working on my real-world job as a transportation engineer, with writing relegated to a hobby status plus an occasional attempt to sell a story. During this period, I had a number of my stories published in fanzines, and later online. 
 After retiring, I returned to my writing and began to have some success. Currently, I have several volumes of my Masks superhero stories out, through DopplerPress.  
 ### 










   
 And now, a very special preview of another great book available from AlephTwo: 
   
 The Switcher 
   
 By Melanie Brown 
   










   
 Case File 347-J - Meet the Switcher 
   
 "Take the shot! Take the shot!" 
 "I don't have a clear shot! Too many people!" 
 "Clear the path! Don't let that girl touch you. Get the hell out of the way!" 
 I turned around. What the hell is going on? I saw a teen girl run right toward me and push me. I felt a sudden wrench in my stomach, and before my eyes, a blinding flash. I felt like my head was going to explode. I was suddenly gasping for air, and then everything went black. 
 After a moment, my vision began to clear. I felt very dizzy, and my head was pounding. Something felt very wrong. Everything felt wrong. A man ran up to me and helped me to my feet. I had trouble standing. I held out my hand to balance. What the fuck? I don't wear nail polish! I saw someone who looked a lot like me receding into the distance. Four other men were chasing the running figure. 
 "You need to come with me," said the man who helped me up. He was breathing hard from running. The man pointed. "See that bus? You need to go there now. Go there so we don't lose track of you. I have to go." 
 I just stood there and watched the man run from me. I shouted, "What the fuck is going on here?" I almost fell over. 
 A young woman wearing a dark blue skirt and a light blue blouse, with a badge hanging from a lanyard around her neck, hurried up to me. She took my arm and put a hand behind my back. She bent her head toward me. "Come with me, sweetie. You need to get off the street." 
 As we got to the entrance of the bus, another person with a badge handed me a water bottle. Still dazed, I asked angrily, "No. Wait. What happened? What is going on? Why are these not my fucking hands?!" 
 Leading me into the bus, the woman said calmly, "We'll try to explain all this as soon as we can. Right now, you need to sit down with those other people. Here's your purse. Don't lose that." She handed me a brown, soft leather bag. 
 "I don't have a purse!" I complained. 
 Sounding frustrated, the woman said, "Just keep up with it. Sit down right here and try to relax." 
 "Relax!?" I shouted. "Are you out of your fucking mind?" 
 The woman looked to someone behind me and nodded. I suddenly felt a stick on my arm, and then I didn't remember anything else. 
 # 
   
 "Oh good. You're awake," said a voice next to me. I was lying in what seemed to be a cot of some kind in a large room. "As soon as your head clears, I need you to get up and follow me, please." 
 Another voice behind me said, "That's the last one, right?" 
 The voice next to me, obviously speaking in a different direction, said, "So far today. it's been quiet after that rush this morning." 
 I looked over and expected to see a doctor. I saw a man in a suit. He tried to hide it from my view, but I did catch a glimpse of a shoulder holster with some kind of gun in it. 
 I held up my hand. The nail polish had been removed, but it was still too small to be my hand. "No. I'm not going anywhere. Where am I? What's happened to me? What's going on?" 
 The man frowned at me. "Come on, sugar. Get up and follow me, and we'll debrief you. Chief is waiting for you. You're the last one to wake up." 
 "Fuck you!" I shouted. "And don't call me 'sugar,' you asshole. I'm not going anywhere until I know what's going on!" 
 The man calmly nodded to someone behind me. "We know this is confusing and that you're scared. We're going to try to explain the situation as best we can. But you need to come with me. You can either walk on your own, or we restrain you in that wheelchair." I looked behind me, and another guy in a suit was pushing a wheelchair toward me. The man talking to me held out his hand to assist me getting out of the cot. 
 I scowled at both men for a moment. I had no idea what was going on, but I knew that for some reason, I was smaller than either of these men, though all my life, I've been tall and somewhat muscular. I knew resisting was pointless, and I did want to know what the hell was going on. I took the offered hand. "Okay. You win." Light brown hair fell across my face when I looked up.  
 The man looked down and smiled at me. "Thank you for cooperating. Please follow me to the debriefing, miss." 
 The man helped me stand up from the cot. My legs were still a bit wobbly. "Why did you call me 'Miss'?" 
 He just shook his head. "That's what the debriefing is for. Come with me." 
 I started following the man. Why was he taller than me? What's with the hair and my hands? I thought briefly of running down one of the halls we passed. But not knowing where I was, that would probably be a bad idea. And I'm sure the guy behind me wouldn't allow it. 
 We passed a glass case in the hall. I looked over at our reflection as we passed. There was the man in front of me, and the man behind me, but in between was a reflection of a teenage girl. I stared at the reflection. What the fuck? 
 "Come along, miss," said the man leading me. "Our destination is just around this corner." There was a lot of yelling and screaming coming around the corner. Sounded like a fight. 
 We entered a large room. At one end stood yet another guy in a suit standing at a lectern. On either side of him stood uniformed soldiers carrying lethal force. Several other soldiers were posted around the room. What the hell?  
 The room was mostly filled with people: all kinds of people, sitting in folding chairs mostly or standing and waving their arms. There were kids, old people, middle-aged people, and there was even a wild-eyed baby being held by a uniformed nurse. 
 There were people standing and pointing at others and shouting things like "That's my body! Give it back!" and "What the fuck is going on?" and "Who the hell are you people? Why am I a woman?" Someone across the room shouted, "Why am I white?" A few people had to be separated by soldiers. It was on the verge of mass pandemonium. My escorts stopped at the entrance. 
 About twenty armed soldiers rushed into the room. A man in another suit walked in and shouted, "Order! We must have order. Everything will be explained. Please take your seats." 
 "Fuck you!" 
 The man shouted again, "We know you're upset and confused. I'm going to explain the situation as best I can. But all of you need to sit down. See these soldiers? Lethal force is authorized. After the debriefing, you will all meet one on one with a special counselor. But I must have order now. We don't want to shoot anyone." 
 There was a general murmur and grumbling as the people in the room finally started to sit. 
 The man grabbed a chair that was along the wall and led me to the angry mob. He set the chair down at a row in the middle. "Sit here, miss." 
 I looked around the room for another moment before sitting down. Who are all these people, and how are we connected? Why do I look like a teen girl? This was insane! 
 The man at the lectern tapped the mic in front of him a couple of times. "Okay. Now that we're all here..." He glanced over at me. "... and seated, we can tell you what we know about what happened to each of you. I know you're all confused and want to know what is going on." A computer projector screen lit up behind him. "By the way, I'm FBI Special Agent Brooks. 
 "To be blunt, all of you are a victim of an international criminal." A picture of some man appeared on the screen. "This is Ron Simon. A small-time murderer and thief from the U.K. Working with Interpol, we have pieced together this narrative of what we think happened. A group of British researchers were experimenting with a neurologic enhancement drug for tests into telepathy. One of their experiments yielded a very unusual result.  
 "One of the researchers, Harry Wilson, was so sure of success and, wanting to be the first in history to project his mind into another person, tossed away all safety protocol and injected himself with a chemical that was actually an artificial virus. The chemical made him sick, knocked him unconscious, and he wound up in the hospital. 
 "We'll get back to Simon in a moment. The minute he woke up, he touched the nurse who was monitoring his condition. In a flash, the consciousness of Wilson and the nurse swapped bodies. The nurse started freaking out, as you can imagine and started screaming. Wilson was both exhilarated by his discovery working in an unexpected way and horrified by what occurred. He ran from the hospital. The hospital staff thought it was Wilson going bonkers in the hospital bed." 
 Agent Brooks stopped for a moment and took a drink from the bottle of water on the lectern. He studied some notes and then continued, "This is where Simon comes in. Simon had just completed a robbery of an elderly couple he had forced into an alley where he slit their throats.  
 "When he came out of the alley next to the hospital, he saw a nurse run out, look around desperately and then run up to a teen boy who was walking on the street that joined the alley. He watched as the nurse ran up to the boy and touched him. The nurse fell to the asphalt but got up looking horrified and started yelling. The boy, however, checked his wallet before hailing a taxi. The nurse collapsed to the asphalt again, screaming incoherently. 
 "Simon was very curious about what he just saw. It looked for all the world that the nurse had transferred herself into the teen boy. He's since been identified, but his name has not been released. None of it made sense, but he decided it was worth checking into. He hailed another taxi and followed the boy back to a research lab. 
 "Simon kept his distance and followed the boy into the lab. And all this is largely conjecture since no one witnessed any of this. And we're very sketchy about what might have happened in the lab. The lab was set on fire.  
 "When the police investigated, they found Simon's body on the floor, and he had been stabbed multiple times. There was a syringe on the floor next to his body. All the computers and papers on the research were destroyed in the fire. 
 "The nurse that had swapped with Wilson had also managed to escape the hospital, and was found the next day running through a park, raving about wanting his body back. Authorities, unaware that Wilson had swapped with the nurse, believed that the chemical he'd ingested had turned Wilson into a lunatic, and he was taken to a mental hospital for his own safety. He kept claiming he was a thirty-three-year-old woman who was married, not the single twenty-eight-year-old Wilson. 
 "While the police were trying to figure out what the problem was with Wilson, four banks in the region were robbed by their own employees, usually the bank president. The police found several people outside these banks, raving the same as Wilson. That they were someone else." 
 Agent Brooks took another sip of his drink. "Finally, the local police brought in Interpol, who started to piece together the puzzle. It suddenly explained the rash of crazy people spreading across Europe.  
 "Simon's not dumb and is careful about how he swaps out with other people. He made some mistakes and was almost captured in Germany when a police officer forgot Simon's new capabilities and found himself swapped with the five-year-old girl that Simon was using at the time. And so, Simon again got away." 
 Someone from the audience shouted as he stood up, "I don't believe this! What you say isn't possible!" 
 Expressionless, Agent Brooks asked, "Sir. Until today, have you been a middle-aged man?" The man looked sheepishly around for a moment and then sat down without saying anything else. 
 Agent Brooks looked about the room. "Sad to say to you all, but this is very real. We don't yet understand how it works. Like I said, everything was destroyed, and we can only assume that Simon injected himself, swapped with Wilson and then stabbed his own body to death after he was in the teen boy's body that Wilson had swapped into earlier. It gives me a headache just trying to explain this. 
 "Simon went on a swapping spree across Europe. By swapping with airline passengers and flight crews, Simon has now come to the United States. You've never heard about this because we've managed to keep a lid on it, and quite frankly, who's going to believe it? We had him cornered here in Tucson, and we feel he's still here." 
 Another person in the audience stood up. "Will we get our bodies back?" 
 Agent Brooks shrugged. "We're investigating that. I have to say it looks doubtful. Right now, it seems that once a person has been swapped, they can't be swapped again. That's how Simon was almost caught in Germany. The police there managed to encircle him with previously swapped people, and he couldn't swap with any of them." 
 The people in the room started to get restless, and the shouting and shoving began again. 
 Agent Brooks shouted into his mic, "Order! We must have order, people!" He nodded at one of the soldiers, who said something into his headset. Suddenly, every soldier in the room fired several bursts into the ceiling. The sound from the rifles was really, really loud inside the room. The bullets seemed to penetrate the material of the ceiling but did not go through. The room got really quiet after that. 
 "You have to understand that the person who is in your body isn't at fault. They didn't take it on purpose," said Agent Brooks calmly into his mic.  
 "They're a victim just like you. We're bringing in counselors and putting each of you into separate holding cells where you will be evaluated and interviewed. After that, we'll call in what family members we can and try to decide your disposition for now. Be prepared. Some of you may not be able to rejoin your families in your current condition. A court is being set up at this facility to establish legal remedies." 
 The soldiers then escorted us all out of the big room. There was still some shouting and shoving. I was placed in a small, windowless room. The room was empty except for two chairs and a small table between them. I heard the door lock when the soldier left me alone.  
 For the first time, I was able to take stock of my situation. I felt my face and hair. My hair had gone from short and graying dark brown to past my shoulders and a light brown. My face was soft and smooth. I was wearing large hoop earrings, and a tug proved my ears were pierced. I'm definitely not me anymore, I decided. 
 Looking down, I could see smooth, hairless legs covered by a denim miniskirt. On my feet were pink and white tennis shoes. I couldn't bring myself to explore other parts of my body. This was completely insane. I really wanted to start crying. 
 I opened the purse I was still carrying from when it was given to me on the bus. Inside was a couple of tampons, lip gloss, some other make-up, tissues, some coins, a cell phone with twenty-seven missed calls and currently no signal, and a student id. I looked at the id and focused on the picture. The picture was of a very pretty teen girl with a bright smile, long hair and blue eyes. Her name was Jennifer.  
 My mind raced. What was I going to do? This was crazy. What about my wife of thirty years? My daughter who is going to get married in a month. What about my job? Overcome with emotion, I started to cry. 
 # 
   
 If you enjoyed this sampler of "Switcher" and want to see more, you can find it now on Amazon Kindle. 
  
   
 https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CCMJZSLP 
   
   
   










   
 Other Great Books Available From Janglewood Imprints 
   
   
 Randy had no intention of becoming a superhero, a Mask as the newspapers sometimes called them. Even less had he ever thought of becoming a superheroine - a female Mask! Circumstances, fate, destiny, whatever, had other plans. 
 Template (Masks Book 1,) by Rodford Edmiston 
  
   
 https://www.amazon.com/Template-Masks-Story-Rodford-Edmiston-ebook/dp/B071P98J9H 
   
   
 A science fantasy collection about transformations that leads off a murder mystery happening at a social event. Plus, it's a lot of fun! A centaur detective? Yes, please. 
 Murder at the Shapeshifters' Ball, by Rodford Edmiston 
  
   
 https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0C9L3LX9C 
   
   
 From the selfless heroism of the Urban Commando to the tawdry villainy of the Bruise Brothers, the Promethean Metaverse teems with action and adventure. And a lot of gender bending on the way. 
 Prometheans, by Joyce Melton and Lainie Lee 
  
   
 https://www.amazon.com/Prometheans-Joyce-Melton-ebook/dp/B00Y1Y3JHW/ref=sr_1_1?keywords=prometheans&qid=1559516729&s=digital-text&sr=1-1 
   
   
 Future Past rollicks across a world of artificial gods and aliens that are altogether too damn real! It has villains that want to literally destroy the world, it has heroes that just need a good nap! If it doesn't make you think of some classics of science fantasy, then there's a whole list of books you need to read. 
 Dreams of Future Past, by Kevin McCarthy 
  
   
 https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CBNS63HH 
   
   
 Accidents happen. But when they involve super secret labs experimenting with alien technology battlesuits they can get pretty exciting, with highly unpredictable results. 
 Suited for Adventure, by Catherine Linda Michel 
  
   
 https://www.amazon.com/Suited-Adventure-Catherine-Linda-Michel-ebook/dp/B07MMSQDP7/ref=sr_1_1?crid=2BHE8Y6A94PC1&keywords=ebook+suited+for+adventure&qid=1693250267&s=digital-text&sprefix=ebook+suited+for+adventur%2Cdigital-text%2C148&sr=1-1 
   
   
 Want more? Check out DopplerPress' entire library on Amazon: 
   
 https://www.amazon.com/s?rh=p_30%3Adopplerpress 
   
 And be sure to search for other great releases from AlephTwo! 
   
 Want exclusive previews of upcoming books, exclusive art and short stories, or just to support future book releases from Doppler? Support us on Patreon! Search Patreon for "Erin Halfelven at BigCloset", and join today! 
   




